June 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s public spaces take precautions before opening post lockdown||As Bengaluru begins the long march to normalcy, with a lot more businesses and public spaces, like restaurants, malls and even religious institutions, among others, opening up on Monday, everyone involved in their running has a big task at hand. Ensuring their establishments are spic and span, following all mandated guidelines, and ready to welcome patrons back. On Saturday, when the Bangalore Times lens went across town, the scene at most of these places was about ensuring the highest hygiene and safety protocols. 1. Uru, Bannerghatta Road Restaurant staff were seen cleaning and disinfecting all nooks and crannies, which they will repeat regularly 2. Vidyarthi Bhavan, Basavanagudi To ensure adequate social distancing of guests, some restaurants have plexi-glass partitioned tables 3. Jain Temple, Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy joined BBMP workers as they cleaned and disinfected the Jain temple in Jayanagar 4. St Mary’s Basilica, Shivajinagar The church gets a thorough cleaning ahead of the reopening 5. Forum Mall, Koramangala Staff at this city mall clean all possible customer contact points, like escalators, for instance, while also marking alternate step usage on it 6. Venkateshwara Temple, Rajajinagar Pujaris with masks and thoroughly disinfected idols are only a start 7.  Venkateshwara Temple, Rajajinagar Thermal checks for pujaris and devotees with strict social distancing will be the norm at temples 8. 1Q1 - Kitchen and Bar, Queens Road Frequent sanitation of the kitchen is a protocol that all restaurants need to follow Watch Bengaluru restaurants gear up for the new normal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-public-spaces-take-precautions-before-opening-post-lockdown/articleshow/76239131.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||BMC receives complaints of suspected gas leak from parts of Mumbai||MUMBAI: The BMC disaster control room received several calls of foul odour from some parts of the city in Easter Suburb, but there is no confirmation about the source of the smell till going to press. Mumbai fire brigade said: “We have received a couple of complaints of suspected gas leak, from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai..” "The fire brigade was also informed about some gas leakage in Pant Nagar area of Ghatkopar, and fire vehicle sent to the spot to examine the details,” said chief fire officer P S Rahangdale. We have received a couple of complaints of suspected gas leak, from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vi… https://t.co/xrk9M1KUcz— माझी Mumbai, आपली BMC (@mybmc) 1591467305000All concerned agencies have been mobilised to check the source of the foul smell being complained of by several re… https://t.co/9HnN0oTFrg— माझी Mumbai, आपली BMC (@mybmc) 1591468209000Please don’t panic or creat panic. 13 fire appliances to monitor situation situation have been activated as a preca… https://t.co/qmcRNbZjOs— माझी Mumbai, आपली BMC (@mybmc) 1591468968000Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “With regards to the foul odour across some parts of Mumbai, as of now the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been activated with its SoPs. I appeal to all to stay indoors, not panic. Close your windows. @mybmc is actively monitoring this situation.” With regards to the foul odour across some parts of Mumbai, as of now the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been activated wi… https://t.co/pogd82E0kU— Aaditya Thackeray (@AUThackeray) 1591468679000Chief fire officer P S Rahangdale stated that protection needs to be taken by wet towel or handkerchief as mask to cover nose, If any severe complaint of inhalation of gas same shall be reported to the fire brigade. Officials from Mahanagar Gas Limited said it has nothing to do with MGL. “MGL has been receiving complaints of gas smell from various parts of Mumbai since around 10pm. Our emergency teams have spread out to the sites from where such complaints were received. We are checking our pipeline systems but have not come across any breach which could result in leakage of gas,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-receives-complaints-of-suspected-gas-leak-from-parts-of-mumbai/articleshow/76239871.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Zoo all set to reopen post lockdown||After being closed for over two-months due to the lockdown the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden is all set to open for public from Tuesday, June 9. But following all precautions, the entry into the zoo premises will be with permitted only after all the necessary conditions are met by visitors. Sharing the guidelines for reopening of the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden, RK Singh, the Director says, “We are excited as well as cautious in welcoming back the visitors. This time tickets will have to be bought online from our website as the tickets windows at the premises will be closed for safety reasons. Also, the timings for entry will be divided into three parts with two-hour each to allow the sanitization process to take place in between the next set of visitors. The total number of persons who can take entry at a given time has been limited to 500.” (BCCL) From taking routine preventive measures like thermal scanning, making wearing of mask mandatory and allowing only water bottles inside the zoo, the zoo authorities are taking all measures to ensure a safe and happy time for the visitors to the zoo. “The toy train, battery operated vehicles, food court, canteens, souvenir shop, nocturnal house and other covered areas will remain closed for the safety of the public for the time being, but the animals will be there for all to see and enjoy,” shares Singh. However, what may come as a disappointment is that due to the fear of the Coronavirus, entry of the elderly aged 65 and above, children below 10 years and pregnant ladies will not be allowed in the zoo as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-zoo-all-set-to-reopen-post-lockdown/articleshow/76238369.cms||Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
June 7, 2020||Delhi||No-contact policy, Mandatory masks, frequent sanitisation: Delhi markets gear up for post-lockdown era||Earlier this week, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced that all shops in the city's markets will be open, and not on an odd-even basis. Though some of the city’s popular markets, such as Janpath, Khan Market and Sarojini Nagar, have resumed function, they're mostly deserted, a far cry from their usual buzz. With shopkeepers waiting for their regular customers to return, they share how the shopping experience will change. No-entry, No-Contact policy at shopsShopkeepers are maintaining a no-contact policy with customers. "We aren't allowing customers inside the shop. They stand outside, tell us what they want, and we show it to them. If they do enter, which is rare, they have to get their temperature checked and wear a mask. We’ve also started home delivery," says Mukesh Goyal, who owns a shop in Khan Market. Shopkeepers take safety precautionsThough it may take some time before markets get back to their usual business, shopkeepers are hopeful the situation might improve as Metro services resume. Vinod Sharma, President, Old Mini Janpath Market Association, says, "I don’t think we will have large numbers in CP until the Metro services resume. As far as precautionary measures are concerned,we have sanitisers, are maintaining social distancing and covering our faces all the time." Some shopkeepers will also not let customers try out clothes like before 'Not letting people touch or try things like before'Most shops aren’t allowing customers to touch or try items. Sunny, a shopkeeper in Janpath, says, "We aren't letting people touch anything. We ask them to browse through things from a distance. After selecting a piece and bargaining the price, we give them a new piece from our stock." Sourav Monga, who has a handicrafts shop in the market, shares, "We sanitise our customers' hands when they enter, and provide them with a mask if they aren't wearing one. We are not letting people touch anything. If they accidentally do touch something, we sanitise the product. Once they’re done shopping and are leaving, we sanitise their hands again." More wait time At shopsShopkeepers say that while some of them are not letting customers inside shops, others are ensuring there are not more than three-four people inside at a time. Santosh, a shopkeeper from Sarojini Nagar, says, "People will have to wait to enter shops now. And one thing I’ve noticed is that if customers want something, they enter one shop and try to get everything on their shopping list from there." There are many precautions that shopkeepers in these markets are taking||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-contact-policy-mandatory-masks-frequent-sanitisation-delhi-markets-gear-up-for-post-lockdown-era/articleshow/76238150.cms||Riya Sharma
June 7, 2020||India||Tiger gets life behind bars for killing 3 human beings||BHOPAL: It’s wandering days are over. The nomad tiger from Maharashtra, which made headlines in 2018 for the longest dispersal in the quickest time in the country, may have to spend the rest of its life behind bars for three human kills. It was tranquillised in Kanha National Park and shifted to Van Vihar in Bhopal on Saturday, where it’s likely to be kept in solitary confinement, say sources. Officers say the tiger was given many chances to survive in the wild but it kept straying into human habitation. The authorities declared it “dangerous” to human life in compliance with the 2019 NTCA guidelines and decided to keep it in an enclosure. The tiger being tranquilisedThe five-year-old, 180-kg male had wandered 510km, from Chandrapur in Maharashtra to Palaspani in MP’s Betul — killing three humans on the way — in search of new territory between August and December 2018. It was captured by Satpura Tiger Reserve officials from near a fly-ash pond in Sarni area on December 10, 2018 and shifted to Kanha, where it was kept in an enclosure for around 45 days. Van Vihar will now be its new home. Van Vihar currently houses 14 tigers, but only four are on display. The others are either “dangerous” or were rescued as orphans and are kept in separate cages away from the tens of thousands of visitors. “The Kanha team arrived at around 10.30am. It will take some time for the tiger to adjust and ease its aggression. CZA will decide if it will be put on display. We will write to them,” Van Vihar director Kamlika Mohanta told TOI. The tiger’s first human kill was reported in Maharashtra’s Mangrul Dastagir on October 19, followed by a second one on October 22 in Anjansingi. Both attacks took place in Amravati district of Maharashtra. It continued to prey on cattle as it prowled close to human settlements. The third kill was reported near Satpura Tiger Reserve (STR), about 200km from Bhopal. “It was captured from Betul twice. There was barely 500m between the first and second locations. We gave it a chance to adapt to the natural habitat but it was found moving towards human habitations. It may be because it was born close to Chandrapur power station (in Maharashtra), which is surrounded by human habitations,” said Kanha’s field director L Krishnamurthy. It was shifted to STR on January 31, 2019, where it was radio-collared and released into the wild on February 1. Forest officials monitored it 24x7 and scrambled to intercept it when it moved out of STR territory and got close to human habitation on February 22, 2019. It was captured and taken back to STR. It kept straying out and the authorities decided it was safer to keep it in an enclosure. The tiger was tranquillised in Kanha at around 5pm on Saturday and transported to Bhopal, around 440km away. Forest officials are monitoring it closely here. Watch Nomad tiger fails to settle in the wild, may spend life behind bars||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tiger-gets-life-behind-bars-for-killing-3-human-beings/articleshow/76240158.cms||P Naveen
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa is home away from home for arbiter Anandh||Panaji: International arbiter VL Anandh Babu was satisfied that his Goa assignment ended successfully with the successful completion of the ninth and final online blitz chess championship, organised by Queens Chess and Cultural Club. Though his online work with Goa comes to an end with lockdown restrictions being eased everywhere, it will be some time before normalcy returns and online tournaments could be the new normal. "During lockdown, I was busy throughout. My love and affection for Goa will always be there. That's the reason why I spoke to Goa Chess Association secretary Kishor Bandekar and offered my services to conduct online tournament to keep Goa players busy," said Anandh, who worked as AICF appointed deputy chief arbiter-cum-live in charge during the Goa Grandmaster Chess Tournament last year. During the national lockdown, Anandh woke up early in the morning everyday and worked till late in the night. The lockdown proved to be the most exciting and gruelling period of his life. "We cannot have a classical format for online tournament. Blitz is the only format we can conduct as it doesn't give players a chance to cheat, not that players didn't cheat online. It reduces chances of malpractice," he said. From entries to drawing players, monitoring games, running anti-cheating software and then finally deciding who is true winner is a tedious work. Anandh, though, relishes such challenges. "For the love of the game, I gave up my other passion. I worked in hotel industry and was associated with art department in South Indian film industry. For the last 10 years, chess has been my profession," said the 34-year-old. For Anandh, Goa remains first choice for work. He has been to the state for the last 10 years and has officiated various national and international tournaments, including a 56-day shift for the second edition of Goa Grandmaster Chess last year. "We had world class players coming to Goa. It was a big scale tournament," said Anandh. The Tiruchirappalli resident has worked in all Grandmaster tournaments in India and featured in various tournaments in Nepal, Bangladesh and Thailand as well. "It was challenging as there would be so many games going on and we had to keep an eye on every game. In normal tournaments, we watch players. Online poses much more challenges," he said. Kishor Bandekar was all praise for his work. “We can say that he is one of us. Goa has a special place in his heart,” said Bandekar. With the third edition of Goa GM being called off, Anandh will have to wait for his next visit to Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-is-home-away-from-home-for-arbiter-anandh/articleshow/76240168.cms||Paresh Mokani
June 7, 2020||India||Last resort: Gujarat Congress packs 65 MLA in hotels after 3 resignations||AHMEDABAD: A desperate Gujarat Congress has packed its flock of 65 MLAs into three resorts and hotels to keep them together ahead of the crucial Rajya Sabha polls. With eight Congress MLAs resigning ever since RS polls were announced — three, namely Akshay Patel (Karjan), Jitu Chaudhary (Kaprada) and Brijesh Merja (Morbi), resigned in the past two days — the beleaguered party, yet again, packed off its remaining 65 MLAs to three resorts near Ambaji, Rajkot and Vadodara on Saturday. Congress leaders confirmed that the 65 MLAs have been housed at Neel City Resort in Rajkot, at Wild Winds Resort in neighbouring Congress-ruled Rajasthan, and at Aries Riverside Farmhouse near Vadodara. Sources in the party said about 40 MLAs have been housed at Neel City in Rajkot and the remainder at the two other locations. Neel City resort is owned by Congress leader Indranil Rajyaguru, who contested against CM Vijay Rupani in the 2017 assembly polls. The move came amid sources insisting there was a strong possibility that two more Congress MLAs, who are disgruntled with the leadership, might resign before the June 19 RS polls. Congress spokesperson Jayrajsinh Parmar said that there is no restriction on the MLAs moving out of the resorts but the step had been taken to ensure BJP did not use coercive means to poach Congress MLAs. "There will not be any more defections now. The MLAs will go through training sessions on how the RS election is held and how they will be supposed to cast their votes," he said. It appeared a desperate measure in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic as Congress MLAs were seen standing in close proximity to each other, many not even wearing masks. State BJP president Jitu Vaghani said the Congress’ move to shift its MLAs to safe locations was an internal matter of the party. "Going by the resignations, it is clear that not just the people of Gujarat, but even elected MLAs have lost confidence in the leadership. Congress does not have the numbers to get two candidates elected, while BJP is comfortably placed to ensure the victory of all its three candidates," Vaghani said. This is the third time in less than three years, and the second in three months, that Congress has had to move its Gujarat legislators to safe locations to prevent defections. While the party airlifted its MLAs to a resort in Karnataka before the 2017 Rajya Sabha election which senior party leader Ahmed Patel won by a whisker, this year, in March, the Congress flew its MLAs to Rajasthan in the wake of five MLAs resigning. The RS poll was deferred because of the pandemic and the party lost three more MLAs in the past three days after the announcement of June 19 as the new date for the Rajya Sabha election. BJP has 103 MLAs and Congress has 65 in the 182-member assembly. Ten seats are vacant because of resignations and court cases, while BTP has two MLAs, NCP has one and one MLA is an Independent. A candidate will require 35 first-preference votes to secure an outright win in the June 19 Rajya Sabha election. Shaktisinh will win easily, Bharatsinh’s fate hangs in the balanceThe Gujarat Congress made it clear on Saturday that national spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil will be the first choice of the party for the June 19 Rajya Sabha election. This implies that the second nominee of the party, former Union minister Bharatsinh Solanki, is in a precarious situation. A candidate requires 35 first-preference votes to secure an outright win in the election. The first 35 MLAs of the Congress will cast their first-preference votes for Shaktisinh Gohil, ensuring his win. The remaining 30 will cast their first-preference votes for Bharatsinh Solanki, but he will still be short of votes to secure an outright win even if lone independent candidate Jignesh Mevani casts his first-preference vote in favour of Solanki. The present strength of the Congress MLAs in Gujarat is 65. Amit Chavda, GPCC president said on Saturday, "Shaktisinh Gohil will be the first preference candidate of the party in the Rajya Sabha election."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/last-resort-gujarat-congress-packs-65-mla-in-hotels-after-3-resignations/articleshow/76240258.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Business||Debt recovery tribunals not functional, bank moves SC||NEW DELHI: The banking industry has sought relief from the Supreme Court from the double blow dealt to it by Covid pandemic. First, it depressed financial activities and second, Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRTs) have remained shut for more than two months due to lockdown, seriously impeding recovery of dues. Kotak Mahindra Bank, through senior advocate V Giri, told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy on Friday that non-availability of DRTs and Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunals (DRATs) during lockdown denied the banking and financial institutions the essential forum for recovery of their dues under Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 and Securitisation and Recovery of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interests (SARFAESI) Act, 2002. The bench issued notice to the Centre and asked the bank to give a copy of the petition to solicitor general Tushar Mehta. “We want to know about the functioning of DRTs and DRATs,” the bench asked the Centre. The bank’s petition also raised the issue of snail-paced process in the DRTs and DRATs because nearly half of the presiding officers’ posts are lying vacant. “At present, 18 of the 39 DRTs across the country do not have permanent presiding officers, and also lack competent quasi-judicial and judicial staff,” it said. The bank said while the SC, high courts and even district courts have provided for video-conference hearing of urgent matters to mitigate hardship in the absence of regular judicial forums, DRTs and DRATs have made no provision for facilitating e-hearing of urgent debt recovery matters which the banks want to be adjudicated. It said though e-filing facility has been provided at only five DRTs at Delhi, Kolkata, Dehradun, Mumbai and Chennai, no facility is being given for urgent hearing of these matters, thus preventing the banks and financial institutions from getting interim relief. “Adjudication of debt recovery cases by DRTs and DRATs are critical for the stability of banking and financial institutions and, by extension, the economic health of the country,” it said. The petitioner feared that absence of urgent adjudication of debt recovery cases could lead to an increase in the number of NPAs in the books of the bank. "Because of delay in disposal of matters, the value of the mortgaged assets held by the petitioner bank rapidly deteriorates resulting in a drastically reduced recovery. Extremely delayed recoveries of debts adds to the problem of liquidity and reduces the lending capacity and/or willingness to lend,” Kotak Mahindra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/debt-recovery-tribunals-not-functional-bank-moves-sc/articleshow/76240300.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 7, 2020||India||Border talks: Chinese mouthpiece warns India against US, asserts Beijing won't give up 'any inch of territory'||BEIJING: Chinese Communist Party mouthpiece Global Times warned India on Saturday “not to be fooled” by the US. In a piece, it said China won’t give up “any inch of territory” and also warned that if India “nibbles away at China’s territory”, then China will take strong countermeasures. "We believe India knows very well that China will not be at a disadvantage in any China-India military operations along the border area," the editorial published on Friday in the Chinese government mouthpiece said.  "India should not be fooled by the US," it said, adding that the US supports India every time China and India have conflicts to encourage New Delhi's confrontation against Beijing and to hype new border disputes.  "China does not want to fall foul of India. Good-neighbourly relations have been China's basic national policy over the past decades, and China firmly adheres to a peaceful resolution of border disputes. We have no reason to make India our enemy."  "The US and its allies have established various contact mechanisms with India, making India falsely believe that it is well-supported. But for major powers like China and India, external factors will not substantially affect their relations," it added.  The Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps of the Indian Army Commander Lieutenant Gen Harinder Singh will meet his Chinese equivalent Maj Gen Liu Lin, who is the commander of South Xinjiang Military Region of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) today to address the ongoing tussle in Eastern Ladakh between the two countries over the heavy military build-up by the People's Liberation Army along the LAC there.  The two sides have held close to a dozen rounds of talks since the first week of May when the Chinese sent over 5,000 troops to the LAC.  On Friday, officials of India and China interacted through video-conferencing with the two sides agreeing that they should handle "their differences through peaceful discussion" while respecting each other's sensitivities and concerns and not allowing them to become disputes in accordance with the guidance provided by the leadership.  In the last few days, there has not been any major movement of the People's Liberation Army troops at the multiple sites where it has stationed itself along the LAC opposite Indian forces.  India and China have been locked in a dispute over the heavy military build-up by the People's Liberation Army (PLA) where they have brought in more than 5,000 troops along with the Eastern Ladakh sector. The Chinese Army's intent to carry out deeper incursions was checked by the Indian security forces by quick deployment. The Chinese have also brought in heavy vehicles with artillery guns and infantry combat vehicles in their rear positions close to the Indian territory. Watch Ahead of key talks, Chinese govt mouthpiece cautions India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-border-talks-chinese-mouthpiece-warns-india-against-us-asserts-beijing-wont-give-up-any-inch-of-territory/articleshow/76240305.cms||---
June 7, 2020||India||Legal aid widened as domestic violence rises amid lockdown||NEW DELHI: The National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) has decided to open online legal assistance services by a panel of women lawyers in each district to come to the aid of victims of domestic violence and child abuse, which saw a major spike during the lockdown triggered by coronavirus outbreak. Nalsa chief and senior-most SC judge, Justice N V Ramana, said, "One of the critical areas which came to our notice was the rising incidents of violence within the family itself. We also saw increasing instances of child abuse. During such times, when the victims cannot reach us, it is imperative for us to reach them." Acknowledging the urgency and criticality of reaching out to victims of domestic violence and children who have been abused, Justice Ramana said, "Nalsa has collaborated with state and district legal services authorities to establish 'one stop centres' (OSCs). Persistent efforts have been taken to provide legal assistance, through tele-services of female panel lawyers in every district." Addressing a nation-wide web-conference of officials from the three-tier legal aid services, the SC judge said, "Unfortunately, even though three months have passed, the situation is still not under control. Pursuant to the lockdown, thousands of people have lost their lives and livelihood, large-scale migration has taken place. The lockdown has itself created psychological issues and violence within the family. Women have been burdened with more work; children are unable to go to schools. Adding to that, working at home has also had its impact on family life." Justice Ramana flagged another important aspect of lockdown fallout - massive reverse migration of workers from workplaces to their homes in various states. “Massive reverse migration will invariably lead to increase in poverty, inequity and discrimination. The pandemic has also affected rights of women, children and senior citizens," he said adding that this would require a more focussed approach of legal services authority personnel. "This calls for a persistent and target orientation action plan, which we all have to work out together," he said. The legal services authority has achieved significant success in getting the Supreme Court's order for release of undertrial/convicts not accused of heinous offences on parole to decongest overcrowded jails during the pandemic to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among prison inmates. Justice Ramana said state legal services authorities have assisted the SC-mandated high-powered committees to ensure release of nearly 80,000 prisoners - 58,797 undertrial prisoners and 20,972 convicts - on parole. "Legal aid and assistance have also been provided in 1,559 domestic violence cases to women, 16,391 convicts, 1,882 labourers and 310 tenants among others. Toll free National Legal Helpline 15100 remains fully functional so that no person in need of justice is denied the same," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/legal-aid-widened-as-domestic-violence-rises-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76240313.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 7, 2020||India||Pregnant woman with Covid symptoms not admitted by 8 hospitals, dies in ambulance||NOIDA: A 30-year-old woman in the eighth month of her pregnancy died on Friday evening in an ambulance after eight hospitals either referred her to another facility as she showed symptoms of Covid-19 or cited lack of beds. The woman and her family were on the road for 13 hours when she breathed her last. The episode jolted the Noida administration, which ordered a probe on Saturday and, in a subsequent meeting with all hospitals representatives on treatment protocols during Covid-19, instructed them not to turn away any patient from the emergency. Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for Covid-19 response in Noida, admitted this was a growing concern. Neelam Kumari, a resident of Ghaziabad’s Khoda Colony, and her family shuttled from one hospital — first in an auto and then an ambulance — beginning around 6am on Friday. When she began experiencing labour pain, Neelam’s husband Bijendra, who works in the maintenance department of a media firm, his brother Shailendra Kumar, an auto driver, and his wife Sushma rushed her to ESIC Hospital in Noida’s Sector 24. For this, they used Shailendra’s auto. Neelam, who worked at a wire manufacturing company, had an ESI card. “ESIC hospital took her in for some time and gave oxygen, and then referred her to the District Hospital in Sector 30. But the staff there didn’t admit her and told us that since we had come from Khoda, which is a containment zone, we should return and get treatment there. They did not even examine her,” Shailendra told TOI. The family then took Neelam to Shivalik Hospital in Sector-51, which said she was serious and should be taken to a ‘better hospital’, Shailendra claimed. “No referral slip was given,” he added. Around 11am, Neelam’s family took her to Fortis Noida, but again hit a wall. “The staff said they did not have a vacant bed and a ventilator, and asked us to take her somewhere else as her condition was serious, Shailendra said. They next went to Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128 but could not get her admitted there either. Pointing out that Neelam had Covid-19 symptoms and should be taken to Sharda Hospital or Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, both designated Covid facilities, the family claimed the hospital sent them away. “We drove to Sharda since it was closer than GIMS. There, we were told she needed to be tested for Covid first. They charged us Rs 4,500 for it, but even before the test, referred her to GIMS, saying they did not have a vacant bed. We tried to call an ambulance through 108 but did not get any. We hired a private ambulance for Rs 5,800 since Neelam required oxygen support and took her to GIMS,” Shailendra told TOI. But GIMS, he added, claimed it did not have vacant beds. On the brink of losing hope, the family said it took Neelam to Max Hospital in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali, which also allegedly refused admission. They headed for GIMS again, but by the time they reached, Neelam had expired in the ambulance. “When she did not respond, we asked the staff to at least check whether she was alive. They declared her dead around 7.30pm,” Shailendra said. “What has happened to our family should not happen with anyone else. We will write to the chief minister about this,” Shailendra added. With the Noida administration initiating an inquiry by ADM (finance and revenue) M N Upadhayay and chief medical officer (CMO) Deepak Ohri, statements of the woman’s family members and some of the hospitals were taken. Ohri said Neelam had been undergoing treatment for hypertension at Shivalik Hospital for the past four days. She was discharged from the hospital on June 4, and the next morning, she went to ESIC hospital. “From here, she went to multiple places and was not admitted by anyone. A committee has been formed and action will be taken against anyone found guilty,” he said. Dr Ravi Mohta, owner of Shivalik Hospital, said that they received a call from ESIC hospital enquiring about the history of the patient around 9am on Friday. “She arrived here after one hour and since she required critical care and ventilator support, we asked them to take her to a higher centre (sic). We are a non-Covid hospital and do not have ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) facility. Since the patient was from Khoda and usually the administration does not take patients from Ghaziabad these days, we suggested they take her to Santosh Medical College in Ghaziabad,” he said. In a statement, Fortis Noida said doctors advised immediate resuscitation to stabilise the patient. “Due to unavailability of room in the ICU isolation ward, she was provided oxygen and nebulization in the waiting area. The husband of the patient was counselled by doctors about the need for transfer to another hospital in an advanced cardiac life support ambulance without any delay. However, he refused resuscitation and ventilation support. He also declined strong medical advice to transfer her to another hospital in an ACLS ambulance. The patient was taken out of our hospital in an auto,” the hospital said. A spokesperson for Jaypee Hospital said Neelam was referred to GIMS as Covid was suspected and the administration had advised hospitals to send such cases to the designated hospitals. Ajit Kumar, spokesperson for Sharda Hospital, said while the facility is a Covid hospital, all beds are occupied, which is why Neelam was sent to GIMS. “The hospital is under the district administration now,” he said. A Max Vaishali spokesperson said as per their records, no such patient was registered in their emergency. Brigadier Rakesh Gupta (retired), director of GIMS, said, “The patient’s attendant had come in the evening seeking admission, but did not mention the seriousness of the case. We are overflowing with cases even in emergency and suggested that the patient be taken to another hospital if it was not serious. The patient came in later, around 7pm, in a very serious condition. We immediately took her in and tried to resuscitate her, but she could not be saved. If we knew about the situation earlier, there was no chance that the doctors would refuse her.” This is not the first time patients have found themselves being turned away by hospitals in Noida while Covid-19 protocols are in place. On May 24, a pregnant woman was allegedly denied treatment by the Sector 30 district hospital and told to go to a hospital in Ghaziabad, as she lived in Khoda, which is sealed. In another case the next day, a newborn died after failing to get admission in an NICU for seven hours, even as his father went to at least four hospitals, including the District Hospital. “We have asked all hospitals to not deny any patient at their emergency, which is a growing concern. Even if they are Covid suspects, they have to be treated in quarantine accordingly. The district hospital is the primary point of contact for patients from where they can be referred if required. Action will be taken against the hospitals if any reports are received regarding patients being denied treatment,” said Bhooshan. (With inputs from Snehil Sinha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pregnant-woman-with-covid-symptoms-not-admitted-by-8-hospitals-dies-in-ambulance/articleshow/76240346.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 7, 2020||Varanasi||Three looters held, ganja, gold recovered||VARANASI: Sigra police on Friday busted a gang of looters and arrested three of its members including the kingpin who carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. Large quantities of ganja, looted gold and a stolen motorcycle were also recovered. According to reports, Sigra SSP Prabhakar Chowdhary had engaged police teams to investigate recent incidents of chain snatching and road hold-ups in the city. Acting on a tip-off about the movement of a gang of looters on Lahartara-Manduadih Road, the police teams raided the place and managed to nab two members of the gang. The two arrested were identified as Manoj Shukla, who was wanted in 28 criminal cases and carried a reward of Rs 25,000, and his aide Lalu Thathera alias Bala Lakhandar. The police recovered 21.4 kg ganja and a stolen motorcycle from them. During interrogation, the duo revealed the name of the third gang member, after which Raju Seth alias Sohanlal Seth, resident of Ausangang locality in Jaitpura area, was also arrested. Raju used to melt the golden ornaments stolen or snatched by Manoj and Lalu. Five pieces of gold prepared after melting the golden chains were recovered from him. SSP Chowdhary announced a cash prize of Rs 25,000 for the Sigra police team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-looters-held-ganja-gold-recovered/articleshow/76239417.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vadodara||52-year-old man’s body fished out from Sayajipura pond||Vadodara: After locals who spotted a body floating in a pond opposite Sayajipura water tank, the police and fire brigade fished out the body of a 52-year-old man from Juni Ghadi area on Saturday morning.“The identity of the person was known from the identity cards found from his pocket and we informed the family members,” said a cop. “The deceased’s son did not want any legal procedure to be done and so we handed them the body without conducting the post-mortem,” the policeman added. The son told cops that his father, who worked as a newspaper vendor, could have accidentally slipped and fell into the pond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/52-year-old-mans-body-fished-out-from-sayajipura-pond/articleshow/76238253.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Surat||Blast in Olpad paper mill boiler injures four workers||Surat: Four workers at the Rama Paper Mill at Barbodhan village in Olpad taluka sustained serious burns following a blast in the boiler equipment on Saturday morning. Police stated that the victims with around 60 percent burns were immediately rushed to the BAPS hospital in Adajan, where the condition of three victims — Surendra Jadav (35), Manoj Yadav (32) and Brijesh Mukhya (28) — is said to the critical.According to the police, the fourth worker in the incident had received minor injuries and was discharged from hospital after preliminary treatment only.The incident took place at about 8 am at the boiler section when the workers were filling the chamber with coal. The pressure inside the chamber increased and it blast throwing hot coal on the workers standing near the boiler section, said cops. Police inspector of Olpad, DR Chaudhary, told TOI, “Four workers sustained burns of whom three are critical. We are awaiting the visit of the Forensic Science Laboratory (FLS) experts after which we will file a complaint when we receive their report. We have taken statement of the victims,” Chaudhary added. Deputy sarpanch of Barbodhan village, Dixant Patel, told TOI, “There was a huge blast in the mill and all of us rushed to the site. However, the authorities did not allow us to enter into the premises. Even the police was not given access till about half an hour of the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/blast-in-olpad-paper-mill-boiler-injures-four-workers/articleshow/76239328.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 cases cross 2,000 mark in the city||Surat: While cases are spiralling in the diamond city, there is also a silver lining as majority of the freshly infected patients are with co-morbidites, said municipal commissioner Banchanidhi Pani. He said that as they have no serious conditions, they can be treated with primary care only.Pani informed that eith 77 fresh cases recorded on Saturday, Covid-19 cases crossed the 2,000 mark in the city. Limbayat and Katargam continue to remain the hotspots with 19 and 18 cases detected respectively from the two areas. “Analysis of cases from the last couple of days has suggested that most cases are detected among the prisoners and criminals after the court ordered compulsory testing for them, and also among pre-operative surgery patients and pregnancy-related surgeries cases,” said Pani. Pani also highlighted that the definition of super-spreaders in the city has now changed post ‘unlock 1.0’. “After the vegetable vendors, we are now getting more cases among bus drivers, xerox shop owners among the like,” he said. The SMC has increased overall active surveillance across the city with the deployment of 1,692 health teams, 55 fever clinics and 20 on mobile testing vehicles. Pani said that SMC will get 20 more mobile testing vehicles from the state government to increase surveillance and test on people to immediately start primary treatment. “We want to detect cases in the early stages,” he said. According to Pani, APX survey of the co-morbid patients and aged patients have started in the Athwa zone. The doctors have been asked to give patients information on the Gemini application. “We have started home-based treatment from Rander at Dr Samir Gami’s clinic. Not all positive patients needs to be hospitalised. Only those will oxygen issue will be admitted,” said Pani. Pani informed that the civic body is actively involving with the housing society presidents in Katargam and East zone-B for getting their support in spreading the awareness. Meanwhile, two Covid-19 positive patients including a 78-year-old woman from Limbayat and 63-year-old man from Katargam succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Box Surat Covid-19 metre Total Positive cases: 2,035 Total death: 80 Total discharged: 1,282 BOX: Zone-wise Covid-19 cases in Surat Zone Cases Limbayat 661 Katargam 367 Central: 283 Udhana 262 Varachha (A) 247 Rander 101 Athwa 68 Varachha (B) 46||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-cases-cross-2000-mark-in-the-city/articleshow/76239352.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Patna||Patna hotels to ‘unlock doors’ from Monday||PATNA: Hotels and restaurants in the city are gearing up to throw open their doors for customers from Monday. While hotels were shut, restaurants were open only for home delivery and takeaways during the lockdown. All hospitality services were shut since March 22. According to hotel owners, customers and tourists are going to have some new hospitality experiences, including buffets and online check-ins, while facilities such as swimming pool and spa will remain suspended. The food and beverages manager of a private hotel at south Gandhi Maidan told this newspaper that customers will have to undergo thermal screening at the entry point and enter the hotel through a disinfectant tunnel. “Customers will also have to submit their luggage for sanitisation at the entry point,” said Vivekananda. He added, “At the café and the eating joint, we will prepare the table as per requirement and maintain 5-6 feet distance between each tables. There will be no table cloth or napkin, instead we will use paper rexine for tables and paper napkins. Besides, we will use Teflon cloth on bed sheets and pillow, so that we can dispose it off after use,” Vivekanand said. Supriyo Dhali, the general manager of a private hotel on Exhibition road, said the guidelines of the Centre for sanitisation and social distancing will be followed properly. “After check-out, we will not allot that room to another customer for at least 72 hours. The room will be properly sanitised by sodium hypochlorite,” he said. He added: “Hotel employees and chauffeurs will be provided headgear, face mask, gloves and boots. We will only use our in-house workers to carry out routine work.” Hotels are going to use hand-free sanitisation machines, rooms will be stocked up with hand-wash and hand-sanitizers and there will be no curtains, table cloth or normal bed sheets. The banquet halls will allow only 50 people at a time. BD Singh, the general manager of a five-star hotel near South Gandhi Maidan, said there would be no spa or swimming pool facilities. “Picking up customers from airport, check-ins and check- outs, everything is going to be contactless. The whole concept of servicing our guests is going to change,” Singh said. Akhil Kochhar, vice-president of a private hotel at Beerchand Patel Marg, said, “Hands-free sanitization machines are placed at every point. Sanitisation of rooms and hotel premises is an ongoing process. We will strictly follow the Centre’s protocol for safety of our customers.” He added, “For the dine-in area, we have made private dining facility. Nine separate cabins have been prepared for people to have family dine- in. We will encourage our guests to order food in their rooms.” Restaurant owners said they are all set to welcome guests after more than two months. Vishal, the hospitality manager of a restaurant in Rajvanshi Nagar, said sanitizers and temperature screening measures will be in place at the entrance. “We have decided to sanitize the table and chair after a guest leaves. Besides, proper sanitization of kitchen will also be done on a daily basis,” he said. Saurabh Kumar, operations manager of a restaurant near RPS Mor said the management is making guidelines and SOPs to give a safe and hygienic experience to customers. “We will resume dine-in from Monday for which we are making certain rules that are mandatory for everyone, be it customers or staff to follow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-hotels-to-unlock-doors-from-monday/articleshow/76237796.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 7, 2020||Patna||Ghost of waterlogging returns to haunt Patna||PATNA: Heavy rain and overcast skies on the last few days brought back memories of the waterlogging nightmare in the city last October. Several low-lying areas in Patna witnessed waterlogging on Friday after the city received 60mm rainfall in the last two days. The combat cell of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) received as many as 12 complaints from several locations, mostly from Kankarbagh and Patliputra Colony. Tanuja Sharma of Patliputra area said the streets remained waterlogged after Friday rain for almost nine hours. “Whenever it rains like this, it brings back the memory of our marooned home for 20 days last year. We had struggled for food and drinking water,” she recalled. Anuj Shanker of Thakurbari road, who works in a private insurance company, said after rain, the sanitation workers opened the manholes to drain out water. “Sometimes, the manholes gush out dirty water in the locality. The civic body needs to properly clean the drainage pipes,” he said. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Saturday conducted a review meeting with the officials regarding waterlogging in the city on Friday. He instructed the PMC officials and executive officers of each circle to inspect all the waterlogged areas and find out the major causes behind it. “The problem needs to be immediately tackled by the authorities concerned. The executive engineer of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (BUIDCO) has to deploy sufficient manpower at the sump house near Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna,” Agarwal said. He directed the BUIDCO executive engineers to install cameras and biometric devices at all sump houses to ensure the presence of the pump operators. He also ordered for construction of temporary sump house near Patna Canal, Digha area. Agarwal said with the construction of a sump house at Digha, the water would easily drain out from eastern parts of Patna without obstructions. “We have also asked the power department for diversion of electric poles from Badshahi Paine and translocation of trees from Digha Nullah for proper drainage cleaning,” Agrwal said. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the civic body has purchased around 100 motor pumps to drain out water from streets. “We will get these motors in next 5-6 days,” he said. “I inspected the major areas and found waterlogging at a few places like Ram Lakhan Path, New Patliputra (street 2-3) and near Khetan Market. The motor pumps will be helpful in draining out water from these areas. Besides, desiltation of all major drains have completed except Bakerganj Nullah, which would be completed in next four days. Cleaning of small drains would be done by June 15,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-brings-memory-of-last-years-woes/articleshow/76238905.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 7, 2020||Patna||A shout-out to team's efforts to keep your society safe in Patna||PATNA: During tough times, people come together. And nowhere does this spirit come to life more than in our very own Patna, a city that is a melting pot of several communities and is home to people from across the country. It is the people that enrich this city and give it a cosmopolitan vibe. Over the past two months, when all of us have been trying to adjust to the uncertainties of a post covid-19 world, we have sought to find ways to keep ourselves enthusiastically and cheerfully occupied. And most importantly, to stay safe. Patna has a lot of societies that are home to working women and corporate professionals, teachers and doctors, entrepreneurs and social workers, the young and the old. And since the start of the nationwide lockdown, residents of the city have endeavoured to do their bit to have each other’s back, by raising collective spirits and ensuring that safety measures are being followed by everyone, for everyone’s physical and emotional well-being. From balconies being transformed into concert stages, to gardens turning to playgrounds; the covid-19 pandemic has united residents during the tough times. Manoj Kumar, the secretary of a residential society in Khagaul Nahar Road said the working professionals in the society, who have been working from home for the past two months, have found ways to stay connected. “We mostly video call each other. The ladies have a different group and children use the balcony to chat or sing every evening,” he said. People of Patna have stayed united by staying at home, and have shown unity in adversity. And we at TOI recognise your efforts during these difficult times, and would like to celebrate them. Which is exactly what #MySocietyPride intends to do. So, tell us about the welfare measures that your society has implemented during the lockdown and we will feature the best ones in the Times of India. Visit Toi.in/mysocietymypride to share the details. And we would all be thrilled to welcome back the Patna we know and take pride in – a hub of the best religious and cultural experiences, a shopper’s delight and a foodie’s heaven. Still, the city’s societies can draw on the lessons of the past two months and prepare for a future that can be as happily eventful as our past, for a Patna that can be as lively as the one we love.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-shout-out-to-team-efforts-to-keep-your-society-safe/articleshow/76237812.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Places of worship go into huddle after ban on idol-touching, prasad & choirs||KOLKATA: At Kalighat temple, hundreds queue up for hours just to get a chance to enter the sanctum sanctorum, touch the idol and blessed by the priest. The new guidelines by the Centre have now not only put a brake on idol-touching but also say that distribution of prasad or charanamrito or even choir singing will not be allowed in religious institutions for the time being. Temples like Kalighat and Dakshineswar, that were preparing SOPs for themselves for a re-start, have again gone into a huddle to draw up fresh plans to negotiate this hurdle. Churches, which had already opened their doors on June 1, say that corporate worship or Mass on-site are not happening for the moment and live choirs are not being called on to the church premises. At Dakshineswar, idol-touching is not a problem because devotees get darshan from a distance and are not allowed to enter the garbha griha. However, handing over flowers and dry sweets to the priest for puja, which are then handed back to the devotee, will now be an issue. Both Kalighat and Dakshineswar have decided that the priest will not put the sindoor dot on the devotee’s forehead, keeping new social distancing norms in mind. “Now even serving the charanamrito, or the holy water that is collected in pots after washing the feet of the idol, that the devotees are allowed to partake, will become an issue. Prasad has been banned, will flowers also be an issue? We are now saddled with so many questions,” said Bidyut Haldar, vice-president of the Kalighat temple committee. The temple has just given orders for the sanitization tunnels that will be set up at six entry points and is likely to open on June 15. The Dakshineswar temple had already drawn up a detailed SOP for the trial run on June 8-10. “We are re-working everything keeping the new points in mind,” said Kushal Chowdhury, spokesperson of the temple trust. Both the temples had already instructed the prasad and flower sellers in the arcades about new guidelines. The snacks shops have been instructed not to pack food for devotees to carry back,” Chowdhury added. The two churches — Roman Catholic Church and Church of North India — are allowing just 10 worshippers inside the church premise between 10am and 6pm. Kissing the priest’s hand, confessions or keeping holy water in pewters outside the churches are not being allowed for the time being. Both the churches will hold their first post-lockdown on-site mass on Sunday with just 10 worshippers. “On Monday, archbishop Thomas D’Souza will hold a review meeting, keeping the new circular of the Centre in mind,” said vicar general Dominic Gomes of the archdiocese of Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/places-of-worship-go-into-huddle-after-ban-on-idol-touching-prasad-choirs/articleshow/76239137.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Need of Covid hour forces Kolkata cop rethink, but no long-term change in cycle rules||KOLKATA: Lalbazar has asked all traffic guards to allow cyclists to use major arterial roads to a “large extent” for now, purely on “humanitarian grounds”. However, it ruled out any possibility of changing its cycle policy in the long run. Cops said that while no one has been fined till now, those openly flouting signals will be challaned from next week. Their cycles, too, can be seized. However, the usual fine of Rs 100 that is charged for cycling on any of the 120 roads where it is banned, will remain “suspended” in certain pockets for the next few days. The development comes amidst reports from certain traffic guards, like Howrah bridge and Shyambazar, which have reported thousands cycling to work from Kolkata’s immediate suburbs, especially Howrah and North 24 Parganas. This crowd depended on local trains for commute. With trains not operating and buses numbering only a few, a huge section of these men and women coming to Burrabazar, Posta, BBD Bag and Shyambazar are now depending on cycles. “We have reported how cycle movement has become a major accident headache for us on Howrah bridge, CR Avenue, MG Road and Sealdah. Lalbazar is aware that several of them are not sticking to their lanes. Public transport is yet to normalize and the average speed — even on stretches like CR Avenue — is on the higher side. Cyclists need to be careful and we need to come up with a temporary solution,” said an officer. “We have taken a practical approach. But any vehicle going under 30km/hr and using the main roads can potentially cause chaos on the road,” said an officer, adding that unless dedicated tracks are created, a major policy change “will need to wait”. “All those cycling on the road must wear masks and stick to the extreme left. Any traffic rule violation can become a traffic hazard,” he added. Ekta Kothari Jaju from NGO switchON that has been advocating for cyclists and their rights for years cited the example of her employee who is now cycling for 1.5 hours each day from his home in South 24 Parganas to her office. “He is relieved not to have to wait for buses. The cycle is the poor man’s best financial option now when social distancing is the norm. The government needs to frame rules in tune with the requirement of the present times,” said Jaju. Mahendra Singh from Liluah, who cycles to Burrabazar from home every day, said the cycle has helped him save his job. “I hope that police realize that most of us are cycling to work out of necessity,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/need-of-covid-hr-forces-cop-rethink-but-no-long-term-change-in-cycle-rules/articleshow/76239130.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 7, 2020||Patna||Religious places all set to reopen in Patna||PATNA: As all religious places, such as temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras, are set to reopen for devotees from Monday, the shrine management committees said measures were being taken to reduce the number of visitors. From sanitising the premises to making new rules, such as allowing people to enter the premises alphabetically, the committee members have taken a slew of measures to keep Covid-19 at bay. Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary Kishore Kunal said the temple management committee has fixed time slots for ‘darshan’. “Those whose names start with A,B,C,D and E will visit the temple on Sunday, the ones with F,G,H,I and J on Monday, K,L,M,N and O on Wednesday, P,Q,R,S and T on Thursday and U,V,W,X,Y and Z on Friday. The temple will be open to public from 6am to 9pm,” he said, adding the online delivery of ‘naivedyam’ will also begin from Monday. Maulana Shibli Al Quasmi, general manager of Imarat-e-Shariah, an Islamic religious body, which has its jurisdiction over Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, has asked the administration of mosques to remove mats, curtains and sanitise the floor after each prayer services. “Limited number of people will be allowed inside the mosques to offer prayers. Devotees will have to perform ‘wudu (ritual purification)’ at home before coming to mosques,” Quasmi said. Arrangements are being made at the gurdwaras too for the reopening. Takhat Shri Harmandir Gurudwara Committee’s secretary M S Dhillon said additional measures are being taken to regulate the crowds from Monday. “Even though our langar halls are quite huge, we have decided to maintain a distance of few feets in between two devotees,” he said. As far as churches are concerned, not all will reopen on Monday. The Bishop House, St Joseph’s Pro-Cathedral Church and Queen of the Apostles church will remain closed. Fr Suresh Xaxa, OFM, Parish Priest of Padri Ki Haveli in Patna City, said the final decision of reopening of church gate for devotees will be taken on Sunday after a brief meeting with the members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/religious-places-all-set-to-reopen/articleshow/76237838.cms||Archi Rani
June 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Missing girl returns home after 4 months, probe begins||PATNA: A 19-year-old Patna girl, who had gone missing from the city on January 25 and returned home on Thursday night, recorded her statement before a judicial magistrate on Saturday. The girl had left for her home from a college near Rajendra Nagar Terminal to bring her admit card before she went missing. An FIR for kidnapping was lodged with the Patrakar Nagar police station on the basis of a written complaint submitted by the girl’s father on the same day. SHO of Patrakar Nagar police station Pramod Kumar said police were awaiting copy of the girl’s statement recorded before judicial magistrate. “We are investigating the matter from all angles, including human trafficking and love affair,” he said, adding the girl’s medical examination would be conducted on Monday. According to police sources, the girl told her family members that she had fallen unconscious after eating ‘prasad’ given by a woman on January 25. “The girl also told her family members that she was held captive and kept inside a room in Uttarakhand where a woman used to visit her. She was being given medicines and injectable drug. The girl had attempted to escape earlier too, but failed,” sources said. They said the girl somehow arrived at Lucknow from where she reached Patna with the help of some people. Investigating officer of the case Bhagwan Ram said the girl’s last known location was traced at Patna City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/missing-girl-returns-home-after-4-months-probe-begins/articleshow/76237774.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Patna||Fissures in RJD-led Mahagathbandhan?||PATNA: Fissures emerge in the Mahagathbandhan as RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha and Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) have demanded unanimous decision by all the constituents of the opposition Mahagathbandhan on its CM face. RJD has projected its chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the CM candidate in case of the Mahagathbandhan’s victory in the state assembly elections due in October-November. Kushwaha, Manjhi and VIP chief Mukesh Sahni met in Patna late Friday evening and the RLSP chief was to leave for Delhi. RLSP’s national secretary general Madhav Anand said the party is of the opinion that Congress should take the lead and resolve the issue through common dialogue. “We understand that RJD has announced its CM face, but the alliance should unanimously agree on it. We don’t have any issues with Tejashwi’s candidature, but it should have everyone’s consent. It is the RJD’s responsibility to get all allies on the same page or Congress should resolve the matter as it is the largest constituent of the alliance at national level,” Anand told TOI over phone from Delhi. He said Kushwaha is likely to meet senior Congress functionary in Delhi and hold deliberations on various poll-related issues, including seat-sharing. Manjhi, the former Bihar CM, has also been saying Tejashwi’s name as the CM face of Mahagathbandhan has been proposed solely by RJD, but it should come through a coordination committee comprising all allies. “I have been demanding a coordination committee, but unilateral decisions are being taken by RJD,” Manjhi said on Saturday. Manjhi also invited Bihar CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar to join the Mahagathbandhan. “If he (Nitish) is ready to part ways with the ruling alliance, we will welcome him. I think he is not happy with the BJP’s ideologies and way of functioning,” the HAM(S) chief told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fissures-in-rjd-led-mahagathbandhan/articleshow/76238887.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 7, 2020||Surat||Woman booked for abusing police control room cops||Surat: A 40-year-old woman was booked on Saturday for allegedly abusing cops in the control room. Police said that the woman, Jaya Solanki, used to call police control room multiple times and talk in abusive language with the personnel who answered the call. Amroli police said that Solanki made multiple calls at police control room on Friday and harassed the cops there. According to police complaint, the cop at the control room could not understand why the woman was making calls and continued to abuse them. Following repetitive calls cops at police control room prepared a report and submitted it to Amroli police station to take actions against the woman. Preliminary police investigation revealed that the woman had a fight with her neighbours and out of anger she made calls to the police control room. “Instead of providing details about the issue she used abusive language with cops,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-booked-for-abusing-police-control-room-cops/articleshow/76239285.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Surat||Dahej police yet to register complaint||Surat: Even three days after the major blast at the Yasashvi Rasayan Private Limited in Bharuch’s Dahej industrial area that killed 10 people and injured 52, the Dahej’s Marine police is yet to register a FIR in the incident.Talking with TOI, Vipul Gagiya, police inspector of Dahej Marine police station said, “We are yet to complete the investigation into the case. We are still recording the statements of the injured admitted in the hospital and other investigations are going on to find out the exact cause of behind the blast.”Gagiya added, “Preliminary investigation has suggested that there was a blast in the storage tank containing ODBC chemical.”Meanwhile, all plants of the Yashashvi Rasayan in Dahej have been issued the closure notices jointly by the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). NP Vaghela, deputy director of DISH told TOI, “The chemical company is under closure already. However, DISH has started detailed analysis of the incident with the help of experts from the FSL. As far as the police complaint is concerned, we have no role to play.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dahej-police-yet-to-register-complaint/articleshow/76239322.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Restaurants ready with glass partitions and virtual menu||KOLKATA: Restaurants are ready with various innovative measures to ensure social distancing when they reopen on Monday after a two-and-a-half-month closure. These include glass partitions between tables, an option to place order on phone from the table, virtual instruction cards to inform guests about the new norms, a marked waiting area for those queuing up at the entrance, quicker delivery of food, disposable crockery and virtual menu. Thermal checks and sanitization of hands and shoes, of course, will precede them. At some restaurants, there will be a token hygiene charge to ‘drive home the seriousness of the measures’. The interior of Mocambo — the iconic Park Street restaurant — will look different with a 5ft glass partition separating tables. Keeping with the norms, 50% of tables will be vacant. “Even though there will be a considerable distance between tables, the glass partitions will act as a shield and make our guests more comfortable. There won’t be a panic even if someone sneezes at the next table,” said owner Nitin Kothari. He added that Mocambo will be taking its last orders at 9pm and serving time will come down by seven-eight minutes to ensure that guests don’t have to wait long. Mughlai chain Oudh 1590 has removed half of its tables and will be offering a set of disposable cutlery and crockeries. Each guest will receive a set of instructions on his or her mobile on arrival. Orders can be placed by calling a number given on the table in case one wants to reduce contact. “Repeat orders, too, can be placed at the same number. Guests will be briefed on safety on arrival and must get their hands sanitized and shoes fumigated. There will be a hygiene charge of Rs 25 each which will make everyone take the safety measures seriously,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury. The restaurant has barred guests from carrying anything other than phones and purses. There will be a marked waiting area for guests at the entrance. “Some of our outlets have a limited capacity waiting space at their lobbies. In case the entrance queue gets longer, guests will be requested to wait in their vehicles. We will also encourage visitors to install the Arogya Setu app,” added Chaudhury. Half the tables have been removed at Song-Hai to ensure a 6ft distance. Disposable crockeries and cutlery will be offered at a price of Rs 30 per guest. But there will be the option of sticking to the regular ones. “Instead of keeping tables vacant, we have chosen to remove them, which will give our guests the feeling of distance,” said owner Sudesh Poddar. Menu cards will be sent on WhatsApp. Some like Mocambo are not willing to use disposable cutlery. “There is no guarantee that the products have been safely produced and sanitized. It is easier to sanitize our own crockeries than deal with a material that is unknown to us,” said Kothari. Almost all restaurants have discontinued mouth fresheners. Some will provide packets of mint and toothpicks on request. Bills will be sent on WhatsApp and a hard copy will be provided to guests who ask for one. It will be wrapped in a disposable paper jacket and guests must discard it after payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restos-ready-to-open-doors-with-new-norms/articleshow/76239117.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Chirag Paswan’s tweet creates ripples||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan created ripples within the NDA in Bihar on Saturday saying BJP will decide the ruling coalition’s CM face in the coming assembly elections and LJP will agree to whatever decision it takes. “Being the largest constituent of NDA, BJP has to decide who will the lead or be the face of the coalition in Bihar assembly election. LJP will support any decision taken by BJP in the interest of Bihar and our alliance,” Chirag tweeted on Saturday. बिहार चुनाव में एन०डी०ए० का चेहरा या नेतृत्व कौन करेगा यह फ़ैसला गठबंधन में सबसे बड़े दल भारतीय जनता पार्टी… https://t.co/Fjo0HujUEs— युवा बिहारी चिराग पासवान (@ichiragpaswan) 1591431289000The Lok Sabha MP from Jamui told reporters in New Delhi that his entire focus is on good performance of NDA in the upcoming elections. “Most candidates of the NDA should win, including candidates fielded by LJP. We are working for the victory of NDA in the elections,” he said. The Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) took strong exception to Chirag’s statement. “There can be difference of opinion on some issues in a democratic setup but if it becomes a trend, then it is unfortunate. NDA’s top leadership has already decided that upcoming assembly elections in Bihar will be fought under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar Ji. He has been a performer, delivered in the past 15 years and he is a guarantee for the victory of the ruling alliance in the elections. People of Bihar have faith in the alliance, thus such statements hold no relevance,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad told TOI. BJP functionaries too ruled out any differences in the alliance on the issue of leadership. “We understand what Chirag is saying but it has already been announced by BJP national president J P Nadda and his predecessor and Union home minister Amit Shah that NDA will go to the election under the leadership of JD (U) chief Nitish Kumar. Thus, there is no confusion on this issue,” BJP’s Bihar unit vice-president Devesh Kumar told TOI. Opposition parties, however, have taken a dig at the NDA after Chirag’s statement. Congress MLC Prem Chand Mishra said such statements indicate that all is not well in the ruling coalition. “Such a statement by Chirag shows all constituents of NDA do not want to go to the polls under the leadership of Nitish. It clearly shows that things are not good within the NDA,” Mishra told reporters. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari, on the other hand, said Chirag’s statement does not hold much relevance. “Such statement could have more weightage, if it was said by Chirag’s father,” he said. Chirag had criticised the performance of Nitish government earlier. During his “Bihar First, Bihari First” Yatra, which he had to cancel due to Covid-19 pandemic, Chirag questioned the state government on various issues, including health facilities, law and order and lack of industries in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirags-tweet-creates-ripples/articleshow/76237760.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 7, 2020||Patna||Shopping malls to take precautions in Patna||PATNA: Owners of shopping malls were making necessary arrangements for reopening their establishments on Monday after over two months of shutdown. They have to make arrangements for temperature screening at the entrance and maintain social distancing among the visitors. Wearing mask or a face cover has been made mandatory. Ankur Chopra, marketing head of a mall on Fraser Road, said maximum 300-400 people will be allowed inside at a time to maintain social distancing. “Entry will be permitted from only one gate to keep a check on the number of people,” he said and added that sample testing of make-up products will be prohibited. “Customers will also be asked to make limited use of trial rooms,” he said. “Cash payment will be our last option for people who are unable to use digital mode of payments,” he added. Abhishek Raj, who owns a shopping mall near Saguna Mor, said the Centre’s standard operating procedures would be followed. “We will allow only 33% of the staff to come on duty. The sanitization work is going on. The staff and workers have been trained to work accordingly,” he said. Meanwhile, cinema hall owners expressed disappointment for remaining closed even in Unlock 1.0. Vishal Boobna, the owner of a multiplex at Hajipur, said the situation is quite difficult as their income has stopped. “Moreover, the food establishments that used to run here are also jobless and struggling. The government should also think about reopening of cinema halls with certain precautions,” he said. Sharing views were expressed by Ajay Sinha, who runs a cinema hall in the city. “The reopening will help the employees, who are jobless for more than two months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shopping-malls-to-take-precautions/articleshow/76237829.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Air quality monitoring station at TMBU soon||BHAGALPUR: An air quality monitoring station (AQMS) is likely to be set up in the postgraduate department of physics on the premises of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) here soon. The AQMS will monitor and give data on concentration of different pollutants in the air as well as some weather elements. TMBU vice-chancellor (incharge) Ajoy Kumar Singh has sought the reasons for delay in setting up AQMS from the university officials. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between TMBU and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, in February 2017 for setting up the AQMS for supporting scientific researches in the fields of air pollution, climate monitoring and weather forecast. Sources at the TMBU’s department of physics said AQMS was to be installed in 2017 with an estimated expenditure of Rs 1 crore. They said the project got shelved due to various administrative glitches, including unavailability of required space and lack of three-phase electricity connection. “AQMS is equipped with various devices and gas sensors to measure the level of carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and ozone. It also measures suspended particulate matter in the air, including PM10 and PM2.5,” said Jagdhar Mandal, head of physics department. The TMBU VC said he has sought a status report of AQMS from dean (sciences) A K Thakur and the physics department head. “We will ensure that the AQMS is established soon at TMBU,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/air-quality-monitoring-station-at-tmbu-soon/articleshow/76237734.cms||Kumar Rajesh
June 7, 2020||Patna||Gaya doctors test negative||GAYA: The three doctors of Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH), Gaya, including its superintendent, were discharged from the isolation ward after their test report came negative for Covid-19 on Saturday. They were kept in isolation on Thursday following a Covid patient’s visit to the superintendent’s office. Their samples were collected and the test reports came negative. The woman had returned from Saudi Arabia. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said their discharge from isolation does not mean that the issue of allegedly recommending home quarantine to the Saudi-returned woman, instead of sending her in mandatory institutional quarantine, stands closed. “Action will be taken against the doctors who violated the standard operating procedure (SOP) mandated for foreign returnees,” he said. Singh said the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also been requested to address the genuine concerns of those needing medical assistance during this crisis period by recalibrating the private treatment cost, including consultation and other charges. On Friday, the Gaya chapter of IMA had slammed the isolation of three doctors. The medical body demanded the isolation of a senior district official, who allegedly was also present when the infected woman, a resident of Darbhanga, had met the superintendent in his office. Asked why the official concerned was not quarantined or kept in isolation, the DM said only those who were within the social distancing norm of 2 metres from her were put in isolation. “The IMA need not feel offended on the issue,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-doctors-test-negative/articleshow/76237718.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man held with pistol, three rounds||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths on Saturday nabbed Azharuddin alias Kabutar 24, a resident of Juhapura with a country made pistol and three live rounds. Assistant commissioner of police Bhagirathsinh Gohil said during primary interrogation it came to light that the accused had brought the weapon from Farrukhabad district of Uttar Pradesh a year and a half ago. “The accused is being questioned about whether the weapon has been used in any criminal activity or if he has other illegal weapons or has sold such weapons to others. The case has been handed over to Inspector J N Chavda and PSI S P Gohil. We sent the accused for Covid-19 tests before making a formal arrest” added ACP Gohil. The accused has been caught earlier in two offences of assault registered at Vejalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-pistol-three-rounds/articleshow/76239247.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nadu-Nedu: 59 municipal schools in Visakhapatnam to get facelift||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 59 municipal schools in the GVMC limits will get a facelift under Nadu-Nedu (Now-Then) programme with about Rs 18 crore. Nearly Rs 12 crore worth of work has begun at various schools. GVMC commissioner G Srijana, additional commissioner Thameem Ansariya and other officials on Saturday inspected ongoing work worth of Rs 64 lakh at a few schools, including RBM Municipal School and KDPM schools. The commissioner asked the officials to complete the work on time. Before proposing certain work under the programme, the district officials conducted a survey on the infrastructural need in every school. They captured videos and photos of each school. Once the renovation of the schools will be over, the fresh photos of these institutions will be taken again to put them for public auditing. The state government has decided to limit the programme only to schools in the first phase of the programme. And it will be extended to junior colleges and degree colleges in the second phase and polytechnic colleges, industrial training institutions and welfare hostels in the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nadu-nedu-59-municipal-schools-to-get-facelift/articleshow/76238542.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Virtual diamond trade show is the new normal post Covid-19||SURAT: Now, the sparkling diamonds manufactured in Surat will reach virtually to its customers across the globe in times of coronavirus pandemic that has put travel restrictions across nations. To extend the limits of diamond trading in the new normal, industry’s first virtual diamond trade show has been organised by Surat-based Dharmanandan Diamonds Private Limited (DDPL) where the buyers will get a unique experience of viewing and inspecting the diamonds through virtual remote product inspection mode, which will give buying experience similar to buying physically. According to the company, this is the new technological development with the sole aim to upgrade retailers and revolutionise the way diamonds are purchased in the post-Covid 19 world. In the virtual trade show to be held on June 22, the company will allow the buyers in any part of the world to inspect each and every diamonds virtually from 360 degree angles. The technology, which is developed in-house, allows the buyers to view all minute details about the diamonds including the inclusions, carats, weight etc. The firm will use high resolution cameras to provide high definition quality video to the buyers sitting anywhere in the world. Talking with TOI, Vipul Sutariya, director of DDPL said, “This virtual trade show is first in the world and will open the new horizon in virtual diamond trading. The coronavirus pandemic is rewriting the future of the diamond business and we are changing accordingly.” Sutariya added, “International travel is not recommended in most of the country and the physical trade shows and business meetings are uncertain for a longer period.” The global pandemic has taken sheen out of Surat’s diamond industry as many potential diamond consuming countries including US, UAE, UK and China are still in the grip of the deadly virus. Diamond industry analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide said, “Only technological innovations is the answer to change the way diamonds are traded. This virtual trade show will change the way industry is operating.” Hitesh Patel, managing director of DDPL told TOI, “The virtual trade show will have features of one-to-one interaction and seminar sessions as well on the current scenario of diamond trade in the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-diamond-trade-show-is-the-new-normal-post-covid-19/articleshow/76239295.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Final decision on restarting temples at Mardol meeting||MARGAO: Amid the rising number of cases of Covid-19 in the state, the managing committees of most of the temples in Goa are averse to the idea of reopening the temples anytime soon. Most of the Saraswat temples in the state which are affiliated to the Partagal mutt are likely to go by the Swami’s diktat that no utsav will be celebrated in the temples until December 2020, though public may be allowed to have darshan of the deity with strict restriction on access to the temples. A meeting has been convened of representatives of the managing committees of nine major temples at Mahalsa Devasthan, Mardol, on Sunday, to deliberate over the issue and take a considered decision. Ramnath Devasthan, Mahalsa Devasthan, Nagesh Devasthan, Mahalaxmi Devasthan, Devki Krishna Devasthan, Kamaxi Devasthan, and Ramnath Damodar Devasthan, all affiliated to the Partagal mutt, besides Shantadurga Devasthan and Mangeshi Devasthan affiliated to the Kavlem mutt, are the temples whose representatives will meet on Sunday. “The Partagal swami has given clear directions over the issue. While rituals may be held in the temples with strict restrictions, any utsav or event that attracts large crowds will be cancelled or deferred as per the swamiji’s order. We will deliberate over the issue and take a collective decision,” Pravas Naik, president of Ramnath Devasthan said. Shree Datta Padmanabh Peeth, Tapobhoomi, Kundaim, headed by Sadguru Brahmeshanandacharya Swami, however, has already taken a decision to reopen the temple from Monday for the public in accordance with the government norms and guidelines, Tapobhoomi sources said. “All events (utsav) will be celebrated with limited disciples. We are already holding our weekly satsang of Dattaguruvar (Thursday) online. This will continue to be held online until further orders,” Subhakshan Naik, general manager, Tapobhoomi, told TOI. All precautions like social distancing and thermal screening, besides of use of sanitisers, hand wash and face masks will be strictly implemented for visitors to Tapobhoomi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/final-decision-on-restarting-temples-at-mardol-meeting/articleshow/76239958.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Shaktisinh Gohil may clinch Rajya Sabha berth||AHMEDABAD: In a significant announcement, the Gujarat Congress made it clear on Saturday that national spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil will be the first choice of the party for the June 19 Rajya Sabha election. This implies that the second nominee of the party, former union minister Bharatsinh Solanki, is in a precarious situation. A candidate requires 35 first preference votes to secure an outright win in the election. The first 35 MLAs of the Congress will cast their first preference vote for Shaktisinh Gohil, ensuring his win. The remaining 30 will cast their first preference vote for Bharatsinh Solanki, but he will still be short of our votes to secure an outright win even if lone independent candidate Jignesh Mevani casts his first preference vote in favour of Solanki. The present strength of the Congress MLAs in Gujarat is 65. Amit Chavda, GPCC president said on Saturday, “Shaktisinh Gohil will be the first preference candidate of the party in the Rajya Sabha election.” Sources said that the national leadership conveyed its decision to state leaders that Shaktisinh Gohil will be the first choice of the party when voting takes place on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gohil-may-clinch-rs-berth/articleshow/76239167.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Surat||Case filed in NGT over blast in Dahej chemical unit that killed 10||Surat: The Aryavrat Foundation, an NGO working for environment protection, has filed a case against the Dahej-based Yashyashvi Rasayana Private Limited (YRPL) with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for the gross negligence that resulted in death of 10 people and caused injury to over 50 others Bharuch early this week. According to the case filed by the president of Aryavrat Foundation, AR Mishra, the YRPL reopened after the lockdown relaxations without ensuring adequate compliance to safety protocols and environment norms. On June 3, there was a blast in the storage tank of YRPL causing major fire in the factory. The fire not only released tonnes of toxic fumes and gases in the environment, but also claimed lives of 10 innocent workers and resulted in injury to 52 others. The extent of toxic gases released in the environment was so severe that two neighbouring village had to be evacuated to prevent further loss of life, stated the complaint. The complain stated that post the gas leakage in the chemical factory of LG Polymers in Vishakhapatnam, Telengana, a circular was issued from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on May 8, wherein all state pollution control boards were asked to ensure that proper safety and hazard audit is undertaken before reopening of units. Despite of this, incidents of such grave nature occurred at YRPL, the petition added. “The GPCB has grossly failed in implementing the CPCB circular in the hazardous industries across the state before they reopened after lockdown,” alleged the petitioner A R Mishra. According to Mishra, the hearing of case has been scheduled through video conferencing by the NGT’s Pune bench on June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/case-filed-in-ngt-over-blast-in-dahej-chemical-unit-that-killed-10/articleshow/76239311.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New Market traders go digital to connect with shoppers||KOLKATA: Marketing and selling on social media, video calls to finalize sales, pictures via WhatsApp…shopping has taken a whole new dimension in New Market post lockdown. While eagerly waiting for customers to return to their favourite haunts, the shop owners have lost no time in using today’s communication technologies to connect with clients and these are showing positive results. A large number of shop owners, across products, have come together on a New Market Kolkata page on Facebook to advertise their products and inform shoppers about discounts. Customers can visit the page and enter the virtual stores via links provided and make their choice. That apart, each store is also sending bulk messages to connect with customers, who are happy at this novel personalised shopping experience that they never got from their favourite shops at New Market so long. Rituparna Ganguly, a Salt Lake resident, has been shopping for her saris from Bombay Silk Store for 25 years and was extremely happy when she was connected via video conferencing by Vinay Mangalani, owner of the store. “She made her choice via a video call and then we sent her WhatsApp images from where she picked up printed tussars. She was our first such remote shopper on the second day of re-opening,” Mangalani said. Sharmila Ghosh, a resident of Kankurgachhi, bought six sarees the next day the same way. “I shortlisted 10 from a video call and these were sent to my residence from where I selected six, all pending Poila Boishakh gifts,” she said. Shops selling silver jewellery, crockery and dress materials said they have been able to digitally connect with shoppers and sales have picked up already. “We have touched base with our loyal customers through Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp and the response is very encouraging. They are pleasantly surprised when we are asking them to choose from a wide range of pictures that carry details of weight and pricing, including rebates on making charges, plus doorstep delivery,” said Vinayak Barwani, a jewellery trader. Customers are encouraged to make payments via UPI, net banking or Paytm. Some shop owners are even tying up with food aggregators for home delivery, as is the case with Kombination, a store for bed linen. Sachin Gupta, the owner of the store, said that since the food business has been slow, a large number of delivery boys were sitting idle. Hence, the tie-up was readily done with aggregator Swiggy. Shop owners have also started negotiating with others now. Some stores have started talking to social media marketing professionals to start online promotions of their items in a more systematic way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-mkt-traders-go-digital-to-connect-with-shoppers/articleshow/76239125.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 7, 2020||Patna||Migrants to be major poll issue in Bihar||PATNA: Migrant workers are to emerge as major issue in state assembly elections, which are likely to be held on scheduled time in October-November this year. Chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa said all migrants eligible to vote will be included in the voter list during its update. The CEO, on June 2, asked all DMs, SSPs and SPs to initiate special summary revision of the voter list for the upcoming assembly elections. “The process of updating the voter list is underway. Efforts will be made to add the people who have returned to the state but don’t have their names in the voter list,” Srinivasa told TOI on Saturday. As per official figures, more than 20 lakh people, mostly migrant workers, have returned from other states by special trains since May 2. Besides, more than five lakh more are estimated to have returned by road. As per state disaster management department, more than 29 lakh people had registered to avail the benefit of Mukhyamantri Vishesh Sahayata Yojana. JD(U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday slammed other states for mistreating the people from Bihar working there and also raised objection over the use of term ‘pravasi’ (migrant) for them. The state government has made several claims related to the migrants’ welfare, including providing livelihood opportunities in ambitious schemes, such as MGNREGS or state government’s seven resolves programmes. As per a disaster management department statement issued on Friday, Rs1000 per ration card holder is being paid as ‘corona sahayata’ to people of Bihar stranded outside the state. A total amount of Rs1454.20 crore has been paid to 1,45,42,000 ration card holders till Friday, the statement read. Meanwhile, stepping up the ante against state government on the migrants’ issue, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav personally put up a poster at the party headquarters here on Saturday. The poster has a controversial letter issued and later recalled by the police headquarters, asking SPs and DMs to remain watchful as there could be rise in crime in the wake of large influx of migrants. Tejashwi asked CM Nitish to reply as to why migrants were considered as criminals and gangsters and why the government was not giving them employment. On Friday as well, Tejashwi lashed out at Bihar government for not making any road map to help the migrants. Senior Congress functionaries have also claimed that migrants will be a main poll plank in Bihar. “The state government as well as the Centre have miserably failed in tackling the migrants’ issue. First, they faced hardships in returning to Bihar and then suffered due to poor arrangements at the quarantine centres. The anger is palpable among the majority of migrants and it will be reflected in the election,” Congress’s Bihar president Madan Mohan Jha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-to-be-major-poll-issue-in-bihar/articleshow/76238838.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 7, 2020||Surat||Runaway Bihar teen unites with family after lockdown in Surat||SURAT: After almost three months, Subhash Sah (15) met his father Pankaj at a children’s home in the city on Saturday. The misadventure to run away from home has put Subhash in crisis due to the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. Subhash, a resident of Hariharpur in Bihar, was speechless after crying for few moments when he met his father after a long gap. “I have nothing to say. I want to go back home now,” Subhash told TOI. Subhash told his father that he ran away from home in anger after being scolded. “He ran away on being scolded by family members. But we all were worried about him and we are lucky that we have found him,” said Pankaj. Employed in an industry at Vareli in Surat district for 22 years, Pankaj returned to his native around 10 years ago. He believes that Subhash must have come to Surat since he heard many things about the city from him. He left home out of anger after being scolded by his mother and fight with siblings in March. He reached Ahmedabad in train and then came to the city in a truck for vegetables. He was found by a woman in Palanpur Jakatnaka area, who took her to his home on March 23. She took his care during the first lockdown but she asked Subhash to leave when the second lockdown was announced. Later, Subhash was spotted by Manu Jain, volunteer of Friends For Women and Child (FFWC), on the footpath on April 16. She took her to police and then the boy was admitted in the children’s home. FFWC volunteer Piyush Shah and Jain collected details of Subhash’ native and they contacted the local police in Bihar. They also contacted his father Pankaj and informed him about the rescue. FFWC is an initiative of the women’s cell of CID Crime started by Anil Pratham, additional director general of police. “The father came to the city today and he was happy to find his son. Subhash is lucky that he could unite with his family despite adverse situations like lockdown,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/runaway-bihar-teen-unites-with-family-after-lockdown-in-surat/articleshow/76239336.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh allows MNREGA even in unapproved projects||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government had allowed unemployed rural persons willing to work on their land under MNREGA, even if the work was not in the approved shelf of projects approved by gram sabhas. While presiding over a review meeting of rural development and panchayati raj department on Saturday, he said a total expenditure of Rs 859 crore had been incurred, generating 260 lakh person days during last financial year. He added Rs 54 crore had been spent and 22 lakh person days generated under MNREGA during this financial year. Thakur said the department had also issued instructions regarding maintenance of PWD roads under MNREGA and tranches of Jal Shakti Vibhag. He said to ensure transparency in the works of MNREGA, the department had implemented ‘SECURE’ software. He said 100% payments regarding works under MNREGA had been implemented through direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme. He said a protective face cover, soap and water were being provided to MNREGA workers. He said 12,835 MNREGA workers registered with Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board had completed 90 days. He said the department had created a quality control cell under MNREGA to improve the quality of works. He said an ombudsmen had been appointed in six districts — Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla and Solan — and would be appointed in others too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-allows-mnrega-even-in-unapproved-projects/articleshow/76239965.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Bumper sighting of leopards, hyenas & bulls at Nahargarh||JAIPUR: Volunteers savoured the bumper sighting of leopards and other wildlife in Nahargarh wildlife sanctuary as the weather remained clear during the 24-hour waterhole census, which concluded on Saturday. Other than some hiccups due to the flash flood, the waterhole census went on smoothly. As per the department records, there are five leopard cubs and 10 adult leopards, including three females and seven males in the sanctuary encompassing an area of about 52sq km. Hope and Beyond chairman Dr Joy Gardener, who participated in the census, with his team said, “It is a good sign that leopard population is steadily increasing in the sanctuary. However, there is dire need to protect the forest as it is degrading at a rapid rate due to villages inside. The forest department with limited resources is struggling to prevent human disturbance”. Environmentalists also demanded that ‘project leopard’ should be initiated at Nahargarh wildlife sanctuary. Other than the leopard, the department recorded porcupine (35), hyena (30), fox (5), blue bull (248), peacocks (1,440) and mongoose (50) at Nahargarh. While the census does not give an accurate count, it does indicate the trend in the wildlife population, claimed officials. Though rain played a spoilsport and waterhole census was cancelled at Jhalana reserve, officials claimed that this park was becoming a nursery for leopards. This year has seen a rapid growth in leopard population at the Jhalana Leopard Safari Park. The most recent sighting was of leopardess Jalebi with a cub captured on trap camera, the official added. This is the fifth leopardess to give birth in the park since January and now the population stands at 22 adults and 10 cubs, according to the forest officials. Increase in the number of leopards also comes as an affirmation to the wildlife department’s efforts which launched the country’s first ‘Jhalana Leopard Reserve’ under ‘Project Leopard’ initiated by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bumper-sighting-of-leopards-hyenas-bulls-at-nahargarh/articleshow/76239254.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Increasing backlog of Covid-19 samples at BHU a worry for officials||VARANASI: Owing to the delay in testing Covid-19 samples piling up at the BHU-IMS lab, the district administration has sought the intervention of the university’s vice chancellor in streamlining the same. It also urged BHU VC to enhance the lab’s capacity in order to meet the requirement of Varanasi and surrounding districts. The administration initiated this move in view of worries of not only Varanasi but also surrounding districts where the pandemic has begun to spread significantly due to the return of migrants in huge numbers. The delay in testing has led to delay in test reports which in turn has hindered immediate treatment. Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We were faced with an alarming situation on May 5 when report of a person, who had died on May 1, confirmed that he was Covid positive. Officials from neighbouring districts also contacted us for delayed release of reports. that is why, we have asked BHU VC to intervene and stramline arrangements by appointing any nodal officer who can efficiently coordinate with microbiology department laboratory, mortuary, isolation ward and other departments of IMS.” “Reports of 580 samples of Varanasi alone is awaited from the lab, which has been testing only 1,000 samples per day,” said DM Sharma. “Samples from other districts linked with the lab have been arriving in large numbers and piling up. The university has testing machines available in other departments of IMS as well as at IIT-BHU. The officials concerned have been asked to increase the number of tests per day to clear backlog and enable the districts initiate timely action,” added the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/increasing-backlog-of-covid-samples-at-bhu-a-worry-for-officials/articleshow/76239477.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: SEB seizes liquor worth Rs 20 lakh smuggled from Punjab||VIJAYAWADA: Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths raided a place at Manthena village in Kankipadu mandal under Vijayawada police commissionerate limits on Saturday and seized 5,162 bottles of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) bottles. The bottles, which were smuggled from Punjab into the state, were hidden inside a haystack. SEB special officer Moka Sathibabu led the operation under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) V Harshavardan Raju. The main accused, Veeranki Venkata Ramana of Manthena village, hatched the plan to smuggle NDPL from Punjab and contacted lorry owners Kondapalli Anand and Sheik Rafi, both natives of Nidamanuru, and lorry broker Sheik Subhani, a resident of Krishna Lanka. The liquor was concealed under corn bags in a lorry which was supposed to go to Arunachal Pradesh, but the lorry owners brought it to AP through West Bengal and Odisha. The liquor stock was unloaded at Manthena village and hidden under the haystock. The liquor was meant to be sold in nearby villages illegally. The value of the stock is estimated to be around Rs 20 lakh. In another incident, task force officials intercepted a truck near Kanaka Durga Varadhi and seized gutka products worth Rs 26.8 lakh. The truck was headed to Ravulapalem from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-seizes-liquor-worth-rs-20l-smuggled-from-punjab/articleshow/76238551.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Labourer hit by vehicle dies, brother injured||GHAZIABAD: A 24-year-old youth was killed after vehicle allegedly hit him from behind in Sihani Gate on Friday when he was waiting for an autorickshaw to return to his rented accommodation from work. Police said the deceased, Dinesh Yadav, was waiting with his elder brother who also got injured in the accident. Both worked as labourers in a factory in Sihani Gate and lived in Khoda. They are natives of Bihar. “The accident took place around 8pm. Some passerby informed the police about the accident and a team soon reached the spot. The brothers were rushed to a nearby hospital, however, Dinesh succumbed to his injuries during treatment while his brother Naresh is out of danger,” said Dilip Singh, the SHO of Sihani Gate police station. Naresh told TOI his younger sister was supposed to get married in April this year, but due to the lockdown the brothers could not go home in Bihar. “N ow, even my brother is no more,” he said breaking down. Based on a complaint filed by Naresh, an unknown person has been booked under IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (causing death due to negligence). “Police are trying to trace the man and scanning footage from CCTV installed near the spot,” SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/labourer-hit-by-vehicle-dies-brother-injured/articleshow/76239934.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
June 7, 2020||Ajmer||After 2 years, Ajmer records spotted beasts||AJMER: The yearly wildlife census in the district conducted by the forest department culminated on Saturday morning. Interestingly, leopards were spotted at Raigarh, Anderi Devari, Masuda, Jawaja and nearby places which were off radar for the last two years. For the first time, pictures of animals and their footprints were taken on mobile phones. The census was conducted throughout the district and 78 points were created near waterholes. Official sources said things were different this time. “I have been conducting yearly census from the last 15 years and for the first time voices of animals were heard the whole day,” said a forest official. He said because of the noises it was hard to sleep as we feared attacks. Sharing his experience, a forest department personnel said he sat on the same place as last year, but this time the area was dense and there were lot of mosquitoes due to humidity. Small animals were seen during night. Sources added that leopards were seen easily during night. “There was a pair roaming freely near the water spot near Jawaja water hole,” added a source. Foxes, rabbits, deer, weasels, snakes and birds recorded in the census, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/after-2-years-ajmer-records-spotted-beasts/articleshow/76239257.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh sees highest single-day spike of 210 cases, tally 4,460||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh recorded its highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases with 210 new infections on Saturday, taking the cumulative tally to 4,460. It is for the first time that AP has reported more than 200 Covid-19 cases in a single day. No deaths were reported on Saturday. Foreign returnees, people coming in from other states and Koyambedu-linked infections have contributed to nearly 1,100 cases in the state. There are currently 1,786 active cases in Andhra Pradesh, with 2,601 recoveries and 73 deaths. The state tested 12,771 samples between 9 am on Friday and 9 am on Saturday, the highest single day tests. While the Covid-19 outbreak was predominantly limited to the urban areas of AP until about a month ago, rural areas of Andhra have also started witnessing a spike in the cases in the last few weeks. The outbreak in East Godavari continued to surge despite the strict containment measures. The super-spreader related cases further increased to 123 in Pedpapudi mandal alone. The Covid-19 cases have spread to several new mandals in the last two days in East Godavari, including Gollaprolu, Ainavaili, Anaparthi, Rayavaram and Gandepalli. Similar is the case in Guntur district, with new cases surfacing in Bapatla, Vinukonda and Rajupalem mandals. In Visakhapatnam district, Anakapalli has been virtually sealed after 14 cases reported from the town on Saturday. After Guntur and Kurnool, Krishna district also crossed the 500 cases mark. Cases continued to increase even in Vizianagaram district, with it now touching the half century mark. West Godavari is also not an exception as the district is witnessing a wave of infections in new mandals. Meanwhile, seven flights have arrived in Vizag and five in Vijayawada since May 19, airlifting Indians stranded in foreign countries following the suspension of all commercial flights about two months ago. While 882 foreign returnees reached Vizag in these flights, Vijayawada airport saw 802 foreign returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-210-cases-tally-4460/articleshow/76239262.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Soon, get real-time data on Gurugram’s hospital beds||GURUGRAM: After receiving several complaints of unavailability of beds at private hospitals for Covid-19 cases, the GMDA will provide real-time data to keep the patients and their families updated. The data, which will be posted on GMDA’s OneMap portal, will have list of hospitals, names and contact details of doctor and nodal officer and the numbers of beds available for Covid patients. “An online portal for hospitals has been created where details about beds and occupancy will be made available on real-time basis,” said Sonal Goel, who is supervising the management of beds and ventilators. She is also the CEO of GMCBL. Vivek Kalia, estate officer 2 of HSVP (Gurugram), said the portal will go live soon. “The hospitals will be inspected and their services regularly monitored. Separate counters at each hospital have been designated to attend to Covid patients,” he added. Officials said 925 beds have been reserved for Covid patients at 23 designated hospitals in the city. As of Saturday, 670 of these were available. “We are augmenting the capacity. A total of 3,399 hospital beds are available in the district,” said an official. Many people have alleged they faced problems in getting admission at private hospitals. Last month, a pregnant Covid patient was referred by a city hospital to Faridabad, where her two-day-old child, who also tested positive, died. The district administration had issued notices to three hospitals — Park, Paras and W Pratiksha — after they refused treatment to Covid patients citing lack of beds. GMDA CEO VS Kundu warned private hospitals of legal action if they refused treatment to any pregnant Covid-19 patient. “Criminal action will be taken against the hospital,” he said. On June 2, Dr Joyeeta, co-founder of Doctors Hub, had posted on Twitter: “There are not enough beds, try getting someone admitted.” She said while there had been a sharp rise in cases in Gurugram, no beds were available for Covid patients at several leading hospitals, and some of them were denying admission. A senior official said the administration has issued protocols for home isolation for asymptomatic patients. “All Covid patients do not need hospitalisation,” he said. Officials said Gurugram has also strengthened its ambulance service 108 and has increased the number of operators from one to 12. Haryana chief secretary Keshnai Anand Arora held a meeting with the district magistrates of Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat, Jhajjar and Sonipat, the five districts that have reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, to create dashboards to give real-time information about availability of beds, ambulances and testing capacity. “They were told to increase their capacities in terms of hospital beds, infrastructure and human resources,” said Yashapal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad. (With inputs from Vishakha Chaman)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/soon-get-real-time-data-on-gurgaons-hospital-beds/articleshow/76239857.cms||Bagish Jha
June 7, 2020||Faridabad||Soon, get real-time data on Gurugram’s hospital beds||GURUGRAM: After receiving several complaints of unavailability of beds at private hospitals for Covid-19 cases, the GMDA will provide real-time data to keep the patients and their families updated. The data, which will be posted on GMDA’s OneMap portal, will have list of hospitals, names and contact details of doctor and nodal officer and the numbers of beds available for Covid patients. “An online portal for hospitals has been created where details about beds and occupancy will be made available on real-time basis,” said Sonal Goel, who is supervising the management of beds and ventilators. She is also the CEO of GMCBL. Vivek Kalia, estate officer 2 of HSVP (Gurugram), said the portal will go live soon. “The hospitals will be inspected and their services regularly monitored. Separate counters at each hospital have been designated to attend to Covid patients,” he added. Officials said 925 beds have been reserved for Covid patients at 23 designated hospitals in the city. As of Saturday, 670 of these were available. “We are augmenting the capacity. A total of 3,399 hospital beds are available in the district,” said an official. Many people have alleged they faced problems in getting admission at private hospitals. Last month, a pregnant Covid patient was referred by a city hospital to Faridabad, where her two-day-old child, who also tested positive, died. The district administration had issued notices to three hospitals — Park, Paras and W Pratiksha — after they refused treatment to Covid patients citing lack of beds. GMDA CEO VS Kundu warned private hospitals of legal action if they refused treatment to any pregnant Covid-19 patient. “Criminal action will be taken against the hospital,” he said. On June 2, Dr Joyeeta, co-founder of Doctors Hub, had posted on Twitter: “There are not enough beds, try getting someone admitted.” She said while there had been a sharp rise in cases in Gurugram, no beds were available for Covid patients at several leading hospitals, and some of them were denying admission. A senior official said the administration has issued protocols for home isolation for asymptomatic patients. “All Covid patients do not need hospitalisation,” he said. Officials said Gurugram has also strengthened its ambulance service 108 and has increased the number of operators from one to 12. Haryana chief secretary Keshnai Anand Arora held a meeting with the district magistrates of Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat, Jhajjar and Sonipat, the five districts that have reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, to create dashboards to give real-time information about availability of beds, ambulances and testing capacity. “They were told to increase their capacities in terms of hospital beds, infrastructure and human resources,” said Yashapal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad. (With inputs from Vishakha Chaman)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/soon-get-real-time-data-on-gurgaons-hospital-beds/articleshow/76240591.cms||Bagish Jha
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist reports 3 new cases||Coimbatore: Three people have tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 158. The have been admitted to the ESI Hospital. While two others have also tested positive for the virus, they are yet to be included in the list. According to district collector K Rajamani, at least 29 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in the city. Out of the five positive cases, four are from Mumbai and one is from Bengaluru. The patients comprise a 34-year-old man from Nehru Nagar, who returned from Bengaluru; a 63-year-old man from Narasimanaickenpalayam, who returned from Mumbai; A 50-year-old man and his 48-year-old wife from Kalyan Road in Thane; and a 29-year-old man from Goregaon East in Mumbai. Two of them are symptomatic, with complaints of cough. There are a few undeclared cases also, including a woman from Venkitapuram, and they are people who have come from Chennai. “The cases may have been added to Chennai’s list or they may be declared later,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-reports-3-new-cases/articleshow/76239260.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Shimla||No power tariff change in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (HPERC) has decided not to increase the electricity tariff for financial year 2020-21. The tariff applicable for all categories of consumers has been kept same level as the past year. The decision has been taken keeping in view the difficulties being faced due to Covid-19 lockdown. The commission also earmarked Rs 50 crore for meeting any additional financial liabilities, which may arise in the current financial year due to uncertainties prevailing because the pandemic. With respect to agricultural consumers, under irrigation and drinking water pumping supply (IDWPS) category, the energy charges shall be Rs 0.50 per unit. These energy charges on the account of government subsidy would only be applicable for agricultural and allied activities and which are paid for by individuals and user groups and load of upto 20 kW, but shall not be applicable for government supply. In order to promote generation from the renewable energy sources, HPERC has decided that wheeling charges payable by the small hydro projects covered under renewable energy sources shall be comparable to the wheeling charges for the extra high tension category of open access consumers that is 26 paise per unit. However the renewable energy generator shall have to bear the transmission losses as per the actual connected voltage level. The regulator has determined the additional surcharge for the consumers availing open access as 60 paise per unit which is a marginal decrease of 01 paise per unit. For new industries starting production after June 1 this year, the energy charges shall be 10% lower than the approved energy charges for the respective category for a period of 3 years. For existing industries which have undergone expansion in the financial year 2018-19 onwards or shall be undergoing expansion in financial year 2020-21, energy charges shall be 10% lower than approved energy charges for a period of three years for quantum of energy consumption corresponding to proportionate increase in contract demand. Provided that such expansion if undertaken during July 1 last year to May 31 this year, the energy charges shall be 15% lower than approved energy charges for the respective category for a period of three years for quantum of energy consumption corresponding to proportionate increase in contract demand. The rate of late payment surcharge (LPS) has also been reduced to 1.5% from existing 2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/no-power-tariff-change-in-himachal/articleshow/76239967.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Varanasi||Four new Covid-19 cases in Kashi||VARANASI: Alarming rise in figures of Covid-19 positive cases continued in Varanasi and surrounding districts on Saturday. The district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed detection of four new positive cases in the district after, which number of total Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached to 236. Three new persons tested positive had been infected by an infected person, he said adding a woman working with a finance company engaged in providing loan against gold, also tested positive. Earlier, on Friday the officials had confirmed only four cases till evening but by late night 14 more persons were found infected. Sharma said, among 14 new cases reported on Friday night six family members were infected by coming in contact with already infected persons of Badi Piyari hotspot. Other six were migrants returned from Surat, Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. A security agency owner of Imlak Colony area and a police constable also tested positive. Apart from Varanasi, 15 new cases in Jaunpur, nine in Bhadohi, six in Azamgarh, four in Mau, two in Ballia and one more was detected in Chandauli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/4-new-covid-19-cases-in-kashi/articleshow/76239500.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Many species seen at Desert National Park||Wildlife census was completed at the Desert National Park (DNP), at the 132 and 51 water points in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts, respectively. The census was started on Friday and ended on Saturday morning. As many as 44 water points are located in DNP and 65 are in the canal area of Jaisalmer. Forest department officers believe that due to scorching heat, the animals come to drink water at these points, where they can be captured in the cameras set up there. At all 44 waterholes made at DNP in Jaisalmer district for the census, a technical employee and a local rural enumerator was deployed, who continuously counted animals for 24 hours. Many species like the desert fox, chinkara, GIBs, etc., were sighted. Deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal said that total 132 waterholes in Jaisalmer were identified. These waterholes were made at Myazlar range, Pokhran range and in Jaisalmer range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-species-seen-at-desert-natl-park/articleshow/76239265.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||Youth held for rape attempt on 12-year-old girl||BAREILLY: A youth was arrested for attempting to rape a 12-year-old girl in the cantonment area of Bareilly on Saturday. The girl was returning to her house in the village on Friday night when 18-year-old Vinay Kumar tried to drag her to an abandoned place and rape her. Fortunately, she managed to escape. After reaching home, she informed her parents about the incident. An FIR was lodged against Vinay under sections 354 (attempting to outrage the modesty of a woman), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Pocso Act. Station house officer (SHO) of Bareilly Cantonment police station Dharmendra Singh said, “After the FIR was registered, the girl was sent for a medical examination. In her statement, she narrated the entire incident and thereafter we arrested the accused and sent him to jail. He is a school dropout and lives in the same village.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-held-for-rape-attempt-on-12-year-old-girl/articleshow/76238559.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Help man stranded in Dubai come home’||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Nilgiris MP A Raja has shot off a letter to Union external affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar, seeking help to bring an Ooty man, who is stranded in Dubai, back home. In his letter, Raja said P Surya Prakash, a permanent resident of Ooty, was employed with a restaurant in Dubai and that he was rendered jobless following the Covid-19 outbreak. “He is suffering there without any monetary support and keen to come back to Ooty.” Raja requested the ministry to make arrangements for Surya Prakash’s return on compassionate grounds. Raja, who is back in the Nilgiris nearly after three months, is in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/help-man-stranded-in-dubai-come-home/articleshow/76239268.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Locusts strike in Barmer and Jalore; big attack in July likely||JAISALMER: Locusts on Saturday attacked Barmer city, many other parts of the district and Jalore district. Farmers and cattle rearers in Jaisalmer and Barmer have been adversely hit due to the locust attacks and the locust warning organization has warned of a bigger attack by the pests in July. According to the locust warning organization officers, the first consignment of 30 sprayer machines of the 60 machines ordered from micron company in Britain, is expected to reach India on June 15. The locust control department has also tied up with the Indian Air Force for spraying pesticides by helicopters in case of a big locust attack. In last four to five days, huge swarms of locusts have entered India from Pakistan. Only 8-10 vehicles of agriculture and locust control departments are being used to destroy locusts, which are proving to be insufficient. There has been information of locust attacks in Barmer city and in Chauhatan, Gadra, Balotara and other areas of the district. On Friday late evening, locusts had attacked Sanawada, Sadulanion ka Tala, Moodon ka Tala, and other villages, increasing farmers’ worries. Farmers had sown seeds due to the good rains for last 3-4 days and locusts ate the saplings. The locusts have now spread to 23 districts in Rajasthan and around 43 districts in five states of Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, UP and Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-strike-in-barmer-and-jalore-big-attack-in-july-likely/articleshow/76239267.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Shimla||Hoteliers find Himachal Pradesh CM’s quarantine tourism idea ‘unsafe’||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s proposal to develop Himachal Pradesh as a “quarantine tourism” destination has met with opposition from a section of hoteliers. They said going ahead with the proposal at this stage will put hotel employees, properties and most importantly, residents in towns and villages at risk. Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood said to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s borders were closed for the tourists, which resulted in huge losses for the sector in the peak tourist season. “We should not open our borders for any kind of tourism now, leave aside quarantine tourism, as we know that cases are going to increase manifold in June and July,” he said. Since cases are on the rise in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Punjab etc, the state government should not consider opening hotels till at least end of August or September. Sood said instead of promoting Himachal as a quarantine tourism destination now, the government should aim to give a boost to tourism in later in the year by marketing the state’s potential for wellness tourism, adventure tourism, environmental tourism, cultural tourism, heath tourism, religious tourism and culinary tourism. He suggested that the government should join hands with the state’s hotel associations to conduct road shows, exhibitions, dinners with popular travel houses in all metros and cities of India to showcase Himachal Pradesh as a safe destination for all to visit and enjoy the beauty of the hill state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hoteliers-find-cms-quarantine-tourism-idea-unsafe/articleshow/76239982.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Industries resume, then face lockdown aftershocks||AHMEDABAD: Even though industries have resumed operations since over a fortnight in Gujarat, production has mostly failed to cross 50% of installed capacities across sectors. Shortage of labourers, triggered by the mass exodus of migrants from Gujarat, coupled with decline in demand from export as well as domestic markets, have hampered growth in production across industrial units. 30% textile processors resumeAt Narol industrial estate, which houses a majority of the textile processing houses in Gujarat, barely 30% of manufacturing units have resumed operations. “Barely one-third of the units could resume operations in the textile processing sector since a week and that too at 40% production capacity. Even though industries were allowed to resume operations, most of their order-books have been affected by lack of demand. Industrial units will initially focus on clearing their existing stocks and then focus on fresh production,” said Nitin Thaker, president, Ahmedabad Textile Processors’ Association (ATPA). Thaker said that restricted movement of people from other states to Gujarat due to the ongoing pandemic will also be a deterrent for demand and it is uncertain as to when these units will resume. Dyes and chemicals fulfil pending orders; demand bleakSimilar is the situation with the dyes and chemicals sector, which is marred by dwindling demand from both export as well as domestic markets. “When the lockdown was relaxed, industrial production resumed partially to fulfil pending export commitments. Thereafter, industrialists continued to convert raw materials into finished products. However, since the past one week, production has gone down by 50% of what it was when the industries resumed,” said Shailesh Patwari, chairman, Naroda Enviro Projects Limited. Patwari attributed the decline in production to lack of demand as other sectors have also not picked up production. Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA), also mentioned that export demand has completely taken a hit. “The domestic industries have not started functioning full-fledged, even as the lockdown has been eased. For instance, textile sector is yet to resume business wherein reactive dyes are consumed. At the same time, even export demand has taken a hit, with export orders either getting cancelled or renegotiated. We are still supplying the stock at lower prices to keep the business going but such orders are not in humungous volumes and thus, production at industrial units is pretty limited,” said Parikh. More units working, but capacity utilization remains low in MorbiWith some migrant workers from Gujarat’s bordering states such as Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh returning to Morbi, the ceramic industry now has 250 tile factories operating, the number was just 120 two weeks ago. Morbi has around 900 ceramic tile producing units. “Following exodus of migrant workers, around 25,000 workers were left in Morbi. However, workers have slowly started returning to work. As a result, 250 units have been able to resume,” said Nilesh Jetpariya, president, wall tile division, Morbi Ceramic Association (MCA). The units are still operating at 20-25% capacity due to lack of demand from domestic and export market. “The situation is far from being normal. There has not been much improvement,” he added. Production hit in engineering, packaging sectorsIn the engineering sector, demand has taken a hit from automobile and auto-component sectors. Many manufacturing units for engineering goods are situated in Sanand Industrial Estate as well as Odhav Industrial estate, where units are operating barely at 30% capacity, said industry sources. “As far as engineering is concerned, the demand is down as automobile manufacturers haven’t ramped up production. Moreover, purchase of new machinery has also got impacted because expansion plans and fresh capex investments have been stalled due to the lockdown. As a result demand is impacted,” said Prerak Patel, secretary, Odhav Industries’ Association. The packaging sector, which is highly dependent on migrants, is also facing similar issues. “The migrant labourers have left the industry crippled despite good demand in market. As a result, some units have either not resumed or else are operating at a production capacity as low as 5%,” Patel further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industries-resume-then-face-lockdown-aftershocks/articleshow/76239271.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 7, 2020||Pune||In 6 days, Lohegaon gets double the June rain quota||Pune: The rainfall during the first six days of June in Lohegaon has been almost twice the normal volume of showers for the entire month, thanks to the effect of severe cyclone Nisarga. Shivajinagar, too, has so far received 71% of its normal precipitation for the entire month. The catchment areas of the four dams supplying water to the city have also recorded triple-digit rain since June 1 as Nisarga gave consistent rain to parts of the state while moving from the Maharashtra coast to inland regions of north Madhya Maharashtra and gradually to northwestern parts of Vidarbha and adjoining Madhya Pradesh. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “The city got good rain in the beginning of June because of the severe cyclonic storm Nisarga, which continued to give rainfall to parts of the state, especially Konkan, areas of Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada, even after it began weakening.” Pulak Guhathakurta, head, climate application and user interface, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, said, “According to the modified monthly rainfall normal for June of IMD, Shivajinagar’s normal precipitation is 152.9mm. The location has already received 108 mm rain in the last six days. Lohegaon, meanwhile, has received a staggering 195.1mm rain against the entire June normal of 101.4mm.” Kashyapi said the city had been receiving rain on and off from June 2. Pune has not been receiving much rainfall in the first few days of June over the years. “Pune is in the leeward side of the Sahyadri range. Therefore, the normal quantum of monsoon rain from June to September for Pune is not that much. The recent severe cyclone gave Pune some good spells of rain during the initial part of June this year. Though the modified new normal onset date of monsoon in Pune district and the city is around June 12, it has been noticed that monsoon arrival to the city has been getting delayed even up to June 20 during some preceding years. Hence, the city usually received meagre rainfall in the first two weeks of June in the past few years,” said Kashyapi. The severe cyclone triggered moderate to isolated heavy rain in and around Pune district for a couple of days, which helped fulfil a major part of the normal quantum of rain for the month of June, said Kashyapi. “Even while moving inland from Maharashtra towards Madhya Pradesh, the remnant of Nisarga ensured that enough moisture was being pumped into the state. At the same time, southwesterly and westerly wind pattern settled over the Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast and mainland. Moisture incursion has been continuously taking place over the state because of this wind pattern, which resulted in rain even after the severe cyclone weakened,” said Kashyapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-6-days-lohegaon-gets-double-the-june-rain-quota/articleshow/76239970.cms||Neha Madaan
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Elderly men, 2 boys held for making impoverished girl, 8, expose body||MADURAI: Kanyakumari police have arrested two minor boys and four men, aged between 50 and 75 years, near Thengapattanam for sexually harassing an eight-year-old girl taking advantage of her impoverished condition. Police said the accused made her show her private parts in return for money. District superintendent of police N Sreenath said no physical attempt was made on the girl. Inquiries revealed that the girl’s father was rendered jobless due to the lockdown. He lived with his mentally-ill wife and the victim – their only child – in a rented house. The harsh conditions forced the girl to ask for help from people in the locality which led to her exploitation. In a video clip, the girl says she was offered Rs 50 by a couple of them and asked to expose her body. Subsequently, she narrates how she had to repeat the act in front of all the accused one after the other at different places. Her father came to know of it two days ago when she told him how she got help from the neighbours. He took up the matter with the local elders who recorded the statement in a video and brought it to the notice of top police officers. Based on the complaint lodged by the victim’s father, Colachel all-woman police arrested all the accused on Friday evening. They were identified as Muhammed Noogu, 75, who runs a provisional store, Sahaya Dasan, 52, Zaheer Hussain, 53, Abdul Jaffar, 66, and two boys aged around 15 years. They were booked under sections 9(m), whoever commits sexual assault on a child below twelve years, 11(i) sexual harassment by uttering any word or sound or making any gesture, or exhibits any object or part of body with intention that such word or sound shall be heard, or such gesture or object or part of body shall be seen by the child and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. After subjecting them to Covid-19 test, the men were lodged in the district sub-jail in Nagercoil. The boys were lodged in the home for children in conflict with law in Tirunelveli. SP Sreenath warned of stringent action against those circulating the video of the girl narrating the abuse. He said those forwarding it will be booked under Pocso Act. The girl will be given counselling to help her come out of the traumatic events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elderly-men-2-boys-held-for-making-impoverished-girl-8-expose-body/articleshow/76239983.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Reintroduce Asiatic cheetah in Rajasthan, MLA urges CM||KOTA: Excited over the growing population of big cats with tigress MT-2 giving birth to two cubs in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), Sangod Congress MLA Bharat Singh has urged chief minister Ashok Gehlot to take the initiative to bring the Asiatic Cheetah to Rajasthan from Iran to breed the species classified as ‘critically endangered globally’ which was declared extinct from India in 1952. Wildlife enthusiasts in Hadoti are hopeful that the birth of two cubs would give a fillip to tourism in the region. The cubs were spotted by forest officials on Monday evening. MT-2 was relocated to the 82sq km enclosure at Darrah range in MHTR from Ranthambore National Park (RNP) in December 2018. In a letter to CM on World Environment Day on June 5, Singh drew the government’s attention towards Union government’s approval for conservation of cheetah in country and expression of interest by state governments to take initiative in this regard. “Indian government has granted permission for conservation of cheetah. The forest department of the state government should avail the opportunity………..Rajasthan government should initiate to Indian government on Cheetah conservation. In the time to come, it is associated with the development and promotion of tourism in Rajasthan,” Singh wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reintroduce-asiatic-cheetah-in-raj-mla-urges-cm/articleshow/76239270.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Over 100 may have come in contact with 1 patient||VISAKHAPATNAM: With around 25 cases reported this week, Anakapalle is likely to emerge as the next Covid-19 hotspot in Visakhapatnam district after Dandubazar in Vizag city and Golla Mamidada village in East Godavari district, where over 120 villagers contracted the virus from one super-spreader. Fourteen cases were registered in this suburb of Vizag city on Friday and two cases were reported on Saturday. At Anakapalle, the virus is said to have spread from the owner of an electrical shop who had in the last week of May imported some goods from other states. While contact tracing has begun, it is surmised that the infected person had come into contact with at least 100 people, directly or indirectly. Chintavari Street, where the shop is located, has been contained and cluster containment is being carried out following the spurt of cases. Speaking to TOI, Dr PV Sudhakar, special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal Andhra Pradesh) and principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) said, “The electrical shop owner did not have a travel history but he had recently imported some goods from other states and took the help of some interstate labourers to handle and unload the goods. Possibly he contracted the virus in the process. The shopowner’s family, staff working at his shop and many others who came in contact with him also tested positive and they are all being treated in Vizag. Through primary and secondary contacts, the virus may have spread and health staff are tracing all those who visited the shop.” Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in Visakhapatnam district as of June 6 stood at 164, with 70 active cases, 93 discharges and 1 death. With the easing of the lockdown and commercial establishments reopening in many areas, crowds started to throng shops, leading to fears of a rise in cases. Shops in Jagadamba and Dabagardens will remain closed for a fortnight due to the number of cases around the area, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-100-may-have-come-in-contact-with-1-patient/articleshow/76238586.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 7, 2020||Pune||Solapur deputy mayor gets anticipatory bail in cheating case||Pune: The court of additional sessions judge R G Deshpande on Saturday granted anticipatory bail to the deputy mayor of Solapur Municipal Council, Rajesh Kale, in a cheating case involving sale of an apartment at Sangvi in 2018-19.The court order said Kale in the event of his arrest would be released on a personal bond of Rs20,000 with one or two sureties of the like amount. The court in its order observed that the sale deed of the complainant was executed and prima facie the case was of a civil transaction. The court directed Kale to cooperate with the investigation officer. He was asked to report at the Sangvi police station every Sunday between 1pm and 4pm till the filing of the chargesheet.Kale moved the district and sessions court seeking anticipatory bail fearing arrest after he was summoned by the police for questioning on May 28 and 29. Defence lawyer Prashant Jadhav pleaded that Kale’s custodial interrogation was not essential because the construction firm in which he was one of the partners had legally sold the flat.Sindhu Chavan from Kondhwa in an FIR lodged with the Sangvi police had said that the flat purchased by her son was illegally sold after his death without seeking consent in 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/solapur-deputy-mayor-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-cheating-case/articleshow/76239984.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Allahabad||Special court allows govt to withdraw case against DyCM||Prayagraj: The special court (MP, MLA) has allowed the Uttar Pradesh government’s application to withdraw a hate speech and assault case pending against state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and four of his supporters lodged at Kotwali police station of Kaushambi in 2011. Special judge Bal Mukund passed the above order after hearing prosecution counsels and others. An FIR was registered against Maurya, then a leader of Bharatiya Janata Party and others on September 1, 2011 at Manjhanpur Kotwali of Kaushambi district by the police station in charge, alleging that they delivered a provocative speech during an agitation. Maurya’s supporters were booked for allegedly assaulting a youth from another community and making derogatory remarks against him. Subsequently, the state government had on August 19, 2018, passed an order to withdraw the case. An application was accordingly moved in the court concerned in this connection. Later, in an order passed on June 5, 2020, the court allowed application moved by the government to withdraw the case in which Maurya and four others were accused. All accused persons are on bail. According to district government counsel (criminal), Gulab Chandra Agrahri, during an agitation against the then governments actions and policies in September 2011, the accused had allegedly made derogatory remarks on a youth while he was passing through the area. Perturbed over the remarks, when the youth raised objections, the accused allegedly manhandled him. However, the matter was resolved at one point of time, when a police team arrived and rescued the youth. Subsequently, an FIR was lodged against Maurya and four others under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/special-court-allows-govt-to-withdraw-case-against-dycm/articleshow/76239544.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman held for stealing brother-in-law’s cash & ornaments, accomplice booked||PUNE: The Bibvewadi police on Saturday arrested a woman and booked her accomplice for stealing Rs1.5 crore and gold ornaments, collectively worth over Rs1.74 crore, of her brother-in-law between June 2019 and May 31. The woman will remain in custodial remand till June 9. Her brother-in-law, a businessman, had lodged an FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code on Friday night. The complainant, his younger brother, the latter’s wife (the arrested woman) and others reside together in a flat. Senior inspector Kumar Ghadge from the Bibvewadi police said, “The woman and her accomplice were friends for long. After her marriage with the businessman’s brother, the woman stopped interacting with her friend. But later, she again came in contact with the friend. The woman, allegedly on her friend’s advice, started stealing her family members’ cash and ornaments from June 2019, but her acts went unnoticed.” Ghadge said, “The incident came to light sometime in May after the businessman found his bag of cash and ornaments missing. Initially, he did not suspect the involvement of any family members. Later, the woman’s body language led the businessman to suspect her involvement in the theft. The woman admitted to her involvement in the theft after her family members took her into confidence. She told her family that she had committed the crime at the behest of her friend.” A police team has been fanned for arresting her accomplice on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-held-for-stealing-brother-in-laws-cash-ornaments-worth-over-rs-1-74-crore-accomplice-booked/articleshow/76239985.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Migrant tries to kill self fearing 'ghost' at quarantine centre||VIJAYAWADA: The Kosigi quarantine centre in Kurnool town was vacated and shut down on Friday, a day after a migrant worker attempted suicide, fearing the presence of ghosts. On Thursday morning, a 47-year-old migrant worker tried to hang himself from a window frame in his room using a piece of cloth. Upon hearing the sounds of a windowpane breaking, the migrant worker’s fellow roommates and medical staff rushed to stop the suicide attempt. Officials shifted the 47-year-old to Adoni Government Hospital. He was discharged on Saturday and sent home for 14 days of home quarantine. Health officials said the worker had previously approached them and claimed that the centre was haunted and requested he be sent home. His request, however, was turned down with officials citing the reason as ‘absurd’. Officials said the quarantine centre has 113 migrant workers and rumours of it being haunted soon spread amongst them. The migrant worker had been placed in quarantine after his wife tested positive for Covid-19. N Keerthi Priya, in charge of the Kosigi quarantine centre, said that around seven patients have been shifted to the Viswabharati Covid-19 hospital, while other migrant workers have been quarantined for 14 days. Medical experts have drawn attention to the need for clinical psychologists in quarantine centres, citing a rise in cases of depression as people are being forced to stay in isolation. Medical experts have drawn attention to the need for clinical psychologists in quarantine centres, citing a rise in cases of depression among those isolated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-migrant-tries-to-kill-self-fearing-ghost-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76239279.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 7, 2020||Vadodara||72-year-old man first nCov casualty in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: Chhota Udepur district registered its first Covid-19 related death on Saturday after s 72-year-old man died during treatment at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital.The septuagenarian patient from Sankheda taluka was admitted on June 1, district administration officials confirmed. With two more persons testing positive on Saturday, the total number of cases in the district have increased to 38.Details of the deceased, however, will only be known only on Sunday, as nobody in the district was aware about the man getting admitted in Vadodara until Saturday. “Our team went for containing the area in Sankheda. His house was locked. All we have known is that the patient had complained of asthma,” said an official from health department.Meanwhile, district collector Sujal Mayatra said that a 31-year-old woman from Sankheda and a 27-year-old man from Naswadi tested positive on Saturday. “We are currently investigating for the source of their infection,” he said.Health officials said that there are currently 15 active cases. “One patient has been admitted at Ahmedabad, two are in Vadodara and the remaining are undergoing treatment at hospitals in Chhota Udepur,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/72-year-old-man-first-ncov-casualty-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/76238269.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Allahabad||Unlocking temples in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: With just two days left before places of worship could reopen amid the lockdown, temples in Prayagraj have started making arrangements to ensure that devotees can offer prayers while observing standard precautions in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. These temples could reopen on Monday after being shut for 75 days due to the lockdown. The district administration, however, have called a meeting with the management of different temples before finalising any guidelines or reaching out to a decision of reopening for these places of worship. ADM (city) AK Kanojia said, “We have received the guidelines from the state government on Saturday evening and consequently called a meeting with the priests of prominent temples of the city and their management on June 7 (Sunday) following which we could decide how and when to reopen the temples or which safety norms they are supposed to follow to check the threat of spread of novel coronavirus.” The absence of any official guidelines aside, management of various temples like Bade Hanuman Temple have gone ahead with the preparations to welcome devotees after 75 days, while ensuring social distancing. “We have divided the entire premises of the temple in four buffer zones and 25 circles have been marked in each of them so that devotees can stand while maintaining distance. Besides, two canopies have been set up at the two entry points of the ‘garbh grah’ (the section where idol of lord Hanuman is placed) and these canopies are fitted with sanitiser sprinklers. The sprinklers would sanitise every devotee entering the temple,” said mahant Anand Giri, one of the office-bearers of the Bade Hanuman temple. “The authorities have put up several placards and notices on the premises to urge devotees to wear masks and not to touch the iron railing, bells or the idol,” he added. He said that no devotee would be allowed to offer flowers or prasad within the temple. They will enter the temple empty-handed once he/she goes through the sanitising canopy. At the Kali temple in Kydganj, an automatic sanitiser machine has been installed at the entrance. “We have put up a sanitising machine and a washbasin along with soap. The washbasin is for those devotees who prefer washing hands to using a sanitiser,” said Alok Mishra, a local corporator. The Hanuman temple in Civil Lines, the Durga temple in Attarsuiya and the Kalyani Devi temple are among the other temples who are busy with preparations to welcome back devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/unlocking-temples-in-prayagraj/articleshow/76239573.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||Biometric verification snags delay online rental agreement process||Pune: Two months since the online registration of rental agreements started in the state, the process is far from smooth. Technical glitches — primarily problems in authenticating fingerprints — is causing a delay in the process, especially in cities like Pune and Mumbai. At the moment, 475 of the 516 registration offices in the state are operational.For instance, it took three days and several attempts for 70-year-old R Vedak to get his biometrics authenticated and renew his leave and licence agreement through an authorized service provider at his doorstep. “These providers visit the applicants’ homes with biometric devices and camera, but in many cases, fingerprint authentication for Aadhaar verification has failed unless there was an 80% match,” Mahendra Gandhi, founder of the state Authorized Service Providers Association, said. “With repeated unsuccessful attempts, our account gets locked for 24 hours and there is no recourse,” he added. A senior citizen from Kondhwa faced this problem and was unable to renew the rental agreement with his tenants. ‘The procedure was due in March, but was put off due to the lockdown. “Now, these devices are delaying the process,” he said.Earlier, just a 20% fingerprint match was enough, “I think there are stricter norms now, with the 80% requirement. This is a problem for senior citizens, especially those given power of attorney by their children,” he said. State IGR Omprakash Deshmukh told TOI that the issue would be addressed next week. “I will talk to the National Informatics Centre to check whether any alternative solutions can be worked out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biometric-verification-snags-delay-online-rental-agreement-process/articleshow/76239987.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE announces time table for remaining board exams||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) on Saturday announced the time table for the remaining board exams of Class X and XII students. Exams for Class XII students will be held on June 20, 21, 22, and 23. Similarly, Class X students will appear for exams on June 20, 22, and 23. The exams will take place in two shifts — morning and afternoon. Exams for Class X students will be held from 9 am to 12 pm and those for Class XII students will be held from 2 pm to 5 pm. The students will have to report an hour before their exam time. On June 20, Class X students will have their Mathematics exam and Class XII students will have Sanskrit, Urdu, and Punjabi language papers. On June 21, Class XII students will have Mathematics and Sociology papers. Then on June 22, Class X students will have their Urdu language paper while Class XII students will appear for Biology, Agricultural Maths and Agricultural Chemistry papers. And on June 23, Class X will have their Punjabi, Bengali, and Sanskrit language papers while Class XII will have their Geography and Geology papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-announces-time-table-for-remaining-board-exams/articleshow/76238618.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||RI, SI in ACB net for taking bribes||Hyderabad: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Saturday trapped the revenue inspector (RI), raided the residence of Shaikpet tahsildar and nabbed the sub-inspector (SI) of Banjara Hills. RI Kandala Nagarjuna Reddy was caught while accepting a bribe of Rs 15 lakh from Syed Abdul Khalid. The latter was directed to the RI by tahsildar Ch Sujatha. SI A Ravinder was arrested for accepting Rs 1.5 lakh from complainant Khalid from Miralam Mandi area. Ravinder demanded money for clearing two encroachment cases against the victim. According to ACB, Abdul filed a petition in the High Court after his 4,865 square yard land in Rd No.14 Banjara Hills was declared as a government land. While the matter is sub-judice, two encroachment cases were booked by the tahsildar in the Banjara Hills police station against Khalid. “When the complainant met the Shaikpet tahsildar she directed him to meet RI Nagarjuna Reddy, who demanded Rs 30 lakh bribe to solve problems linked with the revenue authorities,” said a press note issued by the ACB. Acting on the complaint, ACB laid a trap and caught Nagarjuna Reddy red-handed near Shaikpet tahsildar office. SI Ravinder, who demanded Rs 3 lakh and accepted Rs 1.5 lakh, was also caught. The SI and RI were arrested and produced before the special judge for ACB cases. Following this, ACB raided the residence of Sujatha and found cash worth Rs 30 lakh, gold and other valuables. Investigation is still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ri-si-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribes/articleshow/76239993.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||Tigress on highway, PTR officials warn motorists to drive slow||PILIBHIT: An adolescent tigress that has strayed out of Mala range is giving Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities sleepless nights. The two-and-a-half-year old tigress has developed a tendency of moving about on a stretch of Pilibhit-Madhotanda highway that passes through the core forest area of Mala range for the past three days, especially in the evenings. The PTR authorities fear that some day it will be run over by a passing vehicle. Forest staff has been deployed on the road to warn vehicle drivers about the tigress and to strictly keep to the speed limit of 30km per hour. "We have placed a series of boards warning motorists to keep to the 30kmph speed limit but they drive at over 70-80 kmph," said H Rajamohan, field director of PTR. Cyclists and pedestrians are being advised to choose alternative route for their own safety, the PTR official said. The tigress was seen moving on the road on Thursday evening and on Friday morning. It was also spotted on Saturday. “As the tigress is growing to adulthood, it must be needing to form its independent territory. As Mala range is full with tigers, the tigress may not have found adequate area for its exclusive territory. This can be one of the prime reasons for its straying,” said Rajamohan. PTR officials said this is the same big cat that strayed into an agricultural field at Richhaula village a few days ago and was seen drinking water filled in the field mixed with fertilizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tigress-on-highway-ptr-officials-warn-motorists-to-drive-slow/articleshow/76238579.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cancer hosp to set up more units||Visakhapatnam: The Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in the city is planning to set up peripheral cancer care units in the north-west and south-east regions of the state. The main hospital building of the cancer centre, at Aganampudi on the outskirts of the city, is nearing completion and is likely to be commissioned in a couple of months. The Rs 550 crore project is being funded by the department of atomic energy through Tata Memorial Centre (TMC), Mumbai. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cancer-hosp-to-set-up-more-units/articleshow/76238615.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rain leaves farmers jittery over crop loss in Alwar district||JAIPUR/ALWAR: Mild to moderate showers continued at many places in the state on Saturday which guided the mercury to take a dip. However, Churu remained hottest place where a maximum temperature of 40.9°C was recorded. Rain flooded farms in Alwar which left farmers jittery as they had recently sown Kharif crop. The worst-affected was cotton crop which was submerged in the water at villages like Baroda Meo, Laxmangarh, Govind Garh and Ramgarh area of the district. Jaipur witnessed drizzle in the morning. The city witnessed a minimum temperature of 24°C. Partly cloudy sky would be witnessed and mild to moderate showers are expected on Sunday and Monday in western and eastern parts of state, Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-leaves-farmers-jittery-over-crop-loss-in-alwar-dist/articleshow/76239277.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||Three murders in a day rock Bareilly||BAREILLY: Political rivalries ahead of the upcoming panchayat election in Uttar Pradesh claimed two lives, including the life of a six-year-old boy, while a youth was found murdered in a separate incident in Bareilly district on Saturday. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey has, meanwhile, ordered station house officers in the district to intensify patrolling to deal with any untoward situation. The first murder was reported from Barsair village in Sirouli area, where the mutilated body of a six-year-old boy, who boy had been missing since Friday evening, was fished out from a pond on Saturday morning. Police said there were several injury marks on the face and his testicles were missing, too. Family members alleged that the boy was killed by their political rivals in the village. The autopsy report, meanwhile, confirmed that the boy died due to excessive bleeding after his testicles were chopped. An FIR has been registered at Sirouli police station under section 302 (murder) and 120b (criminal conspiracy) against Vishnu Kumar, a local, and five others. The accused were absconding, said police. The second murder was reported from Bithri Chenpur area, where the body of a 24-year-old man, Kamal, a resident of Baradari area of Bareilly city, was found dumped in a crop field. Kamal was missing since Friday evening, said police, adding that they impounded his e-rickshaw from Satellite bus stand. Police said there were several injury marks on his body and face, which suggest that he was tortured by the killers. Police said an FIR was registered and they were trying to nab the killers. The third murder was reported near Rasuiya crossing in Bithri Chenpur area where Vijnesh Yadav, a farmer from Ayyapur village, was allegedly murdered by political rivals Ashok, Jeetu, Parshuram, Satyendra and Santosh. Police said Yadav was on his way to market to sell his produce when the accused first attacked him with swords and later shot him dead. Yadav died on the spot. Police said an FIR was registered and they were looking out for the accused. The SSP told TOI, “Police are investigating the cases and the accused will be arrested soon. I have instructed the SHOs to intensify patrolling and revisit all cases related to election rivalry and take necessary action to prevent any untoward situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-murders-in-a-day-rock-bareilly/articleshow/76238587.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 7, 2020||Pune||Spate of burglaries in lockdown period||Pune: Thieves have taken advantage of the lockdown period to steal valuables from locked flats in Katraj, Hadapsar and B T Kawade Road. As many as five flats have been burgled in these areas with valuables collectively worth Rs3.22 lakh stolen. According to Bharati Vidyapeeth police, unidentified thieves stole gold ornaments and cash, worth Rs3.04 lakh, from a locked flat at Katraj sometime between March and May 19 this year. Police inspector Vishnu Tamhane of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station told TOI, "Flat owner Jyotiram Durude (38) from Katraj had gone to his village in March after the lockdown was announced. He returned only after the restrictions were relaxed. On returning, he found the locks of the front door broken and cupboards in the bedrooms open. Cash and valuables worth over Rs3.04lakh were stolen from the flat." Tamhane said, "In March, Durude had gone to his village when the nationwide lockdown was announced. He got stuck in his village and his flat was burgled in the ensuing period." Three flats at Caprivilla Society on B T Kawade Road were also burgled during the lockdown period. All the flats were locked as their occupants had gone to their hometowns in other states, Mundhwa police said. "All the three flats were rented out. One of the tenants, Pratik Maheshwari, called up his landlord, Kunal Kamalnath (26) of Mundhwa, and urged him to take a look at the flat. Kamalnath visited the building at B T Kawade Road and found the flat burgled," Mundhwa police said. On checking the entire building, it was revealed that two other flats were also burgled, police said. "The actual amount of valuables stolen from the three flats can only be ascertained after the flat occupants return to Pune," police said. Another flat located at Hadapsar was also found burgled. Flatowner Yogesh Nagawade (35) lodged a complaint with the police saying that unidentified persons broke open the locks of his flat and stole cash and valuables worth Rs19,000 in the last one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spate-of-burglaries-in-lockdown-period/articleshow/76239992.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Spiti highway transferred from BRO to PWD, locals protest over job loss||MANALI: A large number of residents of Spiti valley on Saturday took out a protest march and started an indefinite hunger strike at Kaza, administrative headquarters of Spiti, over the transfer of the strategically important Sumdo-Gramphu highway from Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to public work department (PWD). Over 500 workers from Spiti who used to work with BRO and have been left jobless after the 209km highway was transferred to PWD a few weeks ago. The residents of entire Spiti valley said they were happy with the BRO. As many as 213 workers who have lost their jobs have now formed a BRO Workers Union. They first took out a protest march at Kaza, shouted slogans against Centre and Himachal Pradesh government, and then sat on an indefinite relay hunger strike outside the additional district magistrate office. Union president Pritam Singh said they had written to the chief minister and Union minister Nitin Gadkari to stop acquisition of the highway by PWD. “We informed them about the large number of locals who work with BRO. We did not get any response from anybody. We had no option other than to sit on an indefinite hunger strike, for which we were granted permission by the administration,” he said. One of the members of the union, Premjeet, said hundreds of families of Spiti, from Sumdo to Gramphu, were dependent on BRO for livelihood. “How will we survive now? Everybody knows the geographical condition of Spiti where people do not have much livelihood option. Our agitation will continue until our demands are heard,” he said. The residents said the highway was under PWD for over 50 years, but it failed to improve its condition. They said the highway is strategically important which connects Manali-Leh highway with Hindustan-Tibet highway. The protesters also red-flagged the move as it took place amid mounting tension between India and China. They said BRO had even stopped snow clearance midway. “It will be a disaster,” said Premjeet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/spiti-highway-transferred-from-bro-to-pwd-locals-protest-over-job-loss/articleshow/76239991.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||Constable, aide held in bribery case||Pune: A constable posted at the Warje police station and his aide were arrested late on Friday night for demanding and accepting a bribe Rs12,000 from a shopowner. The constable, Vilas Mohan Toge (39), had threatened the shopowner (40) of arrest in a case recently registered against the latter. A team headed by deputy superintendent of the police, Pratibha Shedge, laid a trap near the Warje police station and arrested Toge as well as his aide, Balasaheb Chavan, following a complaint by the shopowner. According to the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths, a team of the city police crime branch had recently raided the complainant’s grocery shop after finding that he was selling commodities at a higher price during the lockdown period. A case was registered against the shopkeeper with the Warje police in this regard, but he was not arrested. “Toge called up the shopkeeper and threatened to arrest him in the case unless the latter paid him Rs50,000 as a bribe,” an ACB officer said. “To avert the arrest, the shopkeeper first gave Rs38,000, but Toge kept on demanding the remaining amount of Rs12,000,” the officer said. The officer added that Chavan accepted the bribe at the behest of Toge and was nabbed while accepting the remaining amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-aide-held-in-bribery-case/articleshow/76239996.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||Social forestry dept begins proceedings to arrest killer of peacock||PILIBHIT: The divisional forest officer (DFO) of social forestry division began the proceedings for arresting an unidentified person who ran his speeding truck over a peacock, ultimately killing it. The incident took place on the Basti national highway 730 near milestone 17 in Pilibhit on June 4. The driver of the car fled the spot. Forest officials have registered a departmental case in the matter – owing to the fact that peacock is the national bird of India and is enlisted in Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act. According to DFO Sanjeev Kumar, the car registration number – belonging to Himachal Pradesh – was noted by a commuter, who then provided it to the department. “We will trace the car’s owner with the help of the registration number and will serve a notice to him with directions to appear before the office within a week’s time. If he fails to comply, we will seek help from the police for his arrest,” Kumar said. The department has booked the accused under sections 9 and 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act. “As the killing of peacock is not a compoundable offence, the offender will be arrested and sent to jail,” he added. The peacock was buried after an autopsy was conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/social-forestry-dept-begins-proceedings-to-arrest-killer-of-peacock/articleshow/76238598.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Allahabad||MNNIT researcher develops low cost tele-ECG device||PRAYAGRAJ: A research scholar in the department of Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), has developed a low-cost tele-cardiology portable ECG device that can generate a real-time ECG report. The device, developed by Roshini Srivastava, promises cardiac care of the patients within minutes. The most interesting thing about the device is the fact that the auto-generated report can be immediately shared with the doctor, thus saving on the time it takes to transport patients from their location to the nearest cardiac unit. “The device can be a game-changer for people living in rural India who have access to only a few cardiac experts,” says Roshini. “The device is great in helping a doctor assess high risk and low risk cardiac patients using the readings made available by it as all it needs is the patient attaching a three-lead sensor to his chest when experiencing chest pain or other trouble and his doctor can receive real-time ECG report on his mobile phone within seconds,” says Basant Kumar, an associate professor in MNNIT’s ECE department. The doctor can then give correct advice on intervention needed, he explains. Roshini has developed this device under the supervision of Prof Kumar.  Having successfully developed the low-cost prototype costing hardly Rs 5,000 after working on the mission for over two years, efforts have now been started to make it available in the market after receiving all necessary certifications and validations.“Now that we are satisfied with the working of the device, we will finish the packaging and send the same to some of the best hospitals of the city and neighbouring areas, get its tested on volunteers and after getting the inputs of the experts, we will send it for getting patent,” said Prof Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mnnit-researcher-develops-low-cost-tele-ecg-device/articleshow/76239598.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Truck movement restricted around Meenakshi temple||MADURAI: Madurai city police have banned trucks in the busy streets around Meenakshi Amman Temple such as Avana Moola, Masi, Veli and Marret Streets during day time to ease traffic congestion in the wake of the Covid-19 spread. The move will help prevent loading and unloading of goods from the trucks, mostly coming from other states, during the busy hours. Earlier, trucks were allowed between 11 am and 3 pm and 10 pm and 8 pm. Police have also restricted slow moving vehicles in the busy streets. Tricycles will be allowed in the streets only between 8 am and 2 pm and light goods vehicles between 2 pm and 5 pm. Deputy commissioner of police, Madurai city (traffic), K Sugumaran told TOI that the move has been successful in easing traffic congestion. “Apart from this, ban on trucks help reduce the risk of Covid-19 spread,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Joseph Nixon said that ever since the lockdown was eased, a large number of vehicles started entering the congested streets. “Vehicles often create snarl-ups as smart city works are underway in Veli Street. Now the situation is better and vehicles can move easily,” he said. S P Jeyaprakasam, president of Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association, said that there was no need to ban truck during day time in the streets. It could have been restricted only where smart city works are underway, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/truck-movement-restricted-around-meenakshi-temple/articleshow/76239998.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Lost tribal girl reunited with parents in Andhra Pradesh||RAJAHMUNDRY: Child rights officials on Saturday launched an investigation into reports that a four-year-old tribal girl had spent two days deep in the jungles after she lost her way at VR Puram in East Godavari district on June 1. She was reunited to her parents on June 3. As per preliminary probe, the girl, Kunja Manju, wandered in the forests for some time but was soon found by tribals of a nearby habitation, who took her to their village where she was given food and shelter. She was later brought her home. A team of officials will visit the forest area on Sunday to further verify the facts. Officials intervened after the Agency area was agog with news that the girl had spent two days in forests without food. The incident happened in the forest abutting the Papikonda hills, which has several carnivorous animals, including leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lost-tribal-girl-reunited-with-parents-in-ap/articleshow/76239287.cms||Samson Raj
June 7, 2020||Kanpur||9 new Covid-19 cases in city||Kanpur: For sixth day in a row, industrial city continued to report new cases of Coronavirus. On Saturday, nine new Covid cases were reported, which took the tally to 504. The only relief being that the Covid cases on Saturday did not surge like Friday when 57 cases were reported by the district health department. In last six days, 78 corona positive cases have been reported. Also one person succumbed to the virus. This was 15th death due to Covid in the city. People who came in contact with the deceased have been quarantined. Six persons who were earlier infected with Coronavirus recovered completely and were discharged on Saturday. So far out of 504 patients, 316 persons have been discharged. Now there are 173 active corona cases and these people are being treated at the hospital. Of six, five people who recovered from Covid-19 were discharged from Covid-19 hospital Rama Medical College. One was discharged from LLR hospital of GSVM Medical College. Also 254 samples were collected for tests, the results of, which would arrive soon.  The new cases have been reported from Dudwa Jamoli, Shakar Mill Khalwa, Gwaltoli, Pheelkhana, Kakwan, Hoolganj. The areas where most covid cases have come, have already been sealed. This has been done to avoid spread of the diease. The health department is busy identifying people who came in contact with those who have tested positive on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/9-new-covid-19-cases-in-city/articleshow/76239616.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 7, 2020||Pune||Cyclone severely damages 725 houses across district||Pune: As many as 725 houses were severely damaged by strong winds and heavy rains accompanying Cyclone Nisarga that hit Pune district on Wednesday. The gusty winds also blew away sheets on 4,511 houses. Maximum houses were affected in Junnar (222), Maval (165), Mulshi (137), Khed (113) and Velhe (57) tehsils. Houses in some areas of Bhor, Purandar and Haveli were also damaged according to a Pune Zilla Parishad report. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI, “We have started conducting tehsil-wise panchanamas of all damaged properties in the affected area. We will give compensation to families according to the May 2015 government resolution (GR).” As per the resolution, the state government gives Rs6,000 to repair partially damaged house while Rs92,500 is given for the repairs of completely damaged house. “The decision regarding the special compensation package on the lines of Raigad district will be taken in the coming days. The additional money will also be disbursed to affected families accordingly,” Mahisekar added. A senior official from the district administration said, “We have told the administration in each tehsil to expedite the panchanama process and submit the report at the earliest so that affected families will get compensated quickly and they can repair their houses.” About 7,874 hectare farmland across 371 villages has been affected due to the cyclone. Over 300 polyhouses were also damaged, the district administration confirmed. On Friday, deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar and senior district officials visited affected villages in Maval, Khed, Ambegaon and Junnar tehsils. Pawar gave a cheque worth Rs8 lakh to a family that lost two members, including a 65-year-old woman, to a wall collapse at Wahagaon village in Khed tehsil on Friday. Satyavan Navle, former gram panchayat member of the village, said, “The government should give the compensation amount early so that people can repair their homes before the monsoon sets in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyclone-severely-damages-725-houses-across-district/articleshow/76240008.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||DTR on alert over security of elephants||BAREILLY: In a bid to protect both wild and camp elephants, field director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve Sanjay Pathak has directed all forest officials and residents of villages situated on the fringes of the reserve to be alert against any suspicious activity. The caretakers of camp elephants have been ordered not to allow any outsider to feed any pachyderm. The range officers have been instructed to ensure the safety of wild elephants and give priority to resolving all incidents of man-elephant conflict. The power supply department has been advised to repair all low hanging power lines passing through the forest area to prevent electrocution of wildlife. Pathak told TOI, “There were instances when people fed poisoned vegetables to elephants after their crops were damaged by the wild ones. Though these incidents happened a long time ago, we have to be cautious and protect our pachyderms. We are sharing information with villagers to keep a safe distance from elephants and inform the forest department instead of trying to push them into the forest using their own ways. We are also conducting elephant census in the reserve, which will include both camp and wild elephants."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dtr-on-alert-over-security-of-elephants/articleshow/76238627.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Carcass of whale shark washes ashore in Palk Bay||RAMANATHAPURAM: The carcass of a male whale shark washed ashore at Aatrangarai in Ramanathapuram district on Saturday. “The 21-foot-long whale shark is estimated to be aged around 35 to 40 years and could have died three days ago as the carcass started to decay,” Ramanathapuram forest range officer, S Sathish said. The carcass had a circumference of 11.8ft and weighed nearly 1.5 tonne. “It did not have external injuries. So the possibility of a boat hit or hunting is ruled out,” he said. Palk Bay wildlife warden A S Marimuthu inspected the carcass. Postmortem performed on the carcass by veterinarian Nizamudeen in the afternoon revealed that the whale had suffered internal haemorrhages possibly after hitting a rock. The carcass was buried in a pit after bleaching powder and acid were sprinkled on it. Whale shark, which is considered the biggest fish species, is a Schedule I species protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Officials said there are only around 7,000 whale sharks in the world. The filter feeder primarily preys on planktons and fish egg. An Adult lives up to 70 or 130 years. Dots pattern on individuals vary like stripes of a tiger. This is said to be the fourth incident of a whale shark beaching on the Ramanathapuram shores in as many years. The three other incidents were at Mukundarayar Chathiram in Mandapam range, below Pamban Bridge (with plastic in the carcass) and at Vedalai. There was also an incident of a sub adult being rescued and released to sea at Vedalai in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/carcass-of-whale-shark-washes-ashore-in-palk-bay/articleshow/76240004.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T electricity engineers oppose Centre’s power bill amendments||Hyderabad: After the state government expressed strong objection to the proposed amendments in the Electricity Bill by the Centre, the Telangana Electricity Engineers’ Association (TEEA) has opposed the amendments as well. TEEA has urged the Centre to drop the proposal saying they are detrimental to the interests of states and power utilities. TEEA president N Sivaji and secretary legal K Sravan Kumar Gupta wrote letters to the Centre. saying that the proposals go against the federal spirit. “It appears to safeguard the interests of private power producers and dump the state power sector. The underlying objective of the amendment is privatisation of the energy sector,” they said. On the private distribution licensing system, the association said previous experiences in the country had proven to be a failure. Private power distribution licences in cities like Gaya, Ujjain, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Jamshedpur and Ranchi were not successful. They argued that the power sector should be with the government in the best interests of the common man. TEEA also found fault with national renewable policy, which mandates certain portion of power generation from renewable energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-electricity-engineers-oppose-centres-power-bill-amendments/articleshow/76239302.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||CBI has no record of probe into disappearance case against Sumedh Singh Saini||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police have moved the CBI court here and sought the central probe agency’s preliminary inquiry record of a case against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with the December 1991 disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, an former IAS officer’s son. The FIR registered by CBI into the case had been quashed by Supreme Court on technical grounds. Punjab Police’s plea before the CBI court came up for hearing on Saturday and the CBI, in its reply, said it did not have any record of the 29-year-old case as it had weeded out the record as per its policy. The next hearing is scheduled for Monday, when arguments would take place. In its application, Punjab Police mentioned that the record of preliminary enquiry conducted by CBI should be handed over to it as it was again investigating the case and wanted to dig out certain information. In its reply, CBI special prosecutor K P Singh said the agency had registered an FIR in the case in 2008, on directions from Punjab and Haryana high court. He said the CBI had collected documents and information from departments concerned, but the FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court in 2011. CBI mentioned that it kept a record of old cases for five years and weeded the documents out as per policy after 5 years. The high court had directed the CBI to investigate the 1991 abduction and disappearance, and the probe agency had registered an FIR on July 2, 2008. The Supreme Court quashed the FIR on December 7, 2011, saying the complainant was at liberty to take recourse to fresh proceedings permissible under law. It was only on May 6 this year that a new FIR was registered against Saini in Mohali’s Mataur police station on a complaint by Balwant’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani. The Mohali court has granted anticipatory bail to Saini and investigation is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-has-no-record-of-probe-into-disappearance-case-against-saini/articleshow/76240003.cms||Neha Sharma
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||District magistrate manages demarcation of land for industrial hub||PILIBHIT: District magistrate (DM) on Saturday inspected around 2,000 acres land in village Bhara Pachpeda under Amaria tehsil situated at the border of Uttarakhand and managed its demarcation for handing over a major part of it to UP State Industrial Development Corporation for setting up an industrial hub. “The establishment of the industrial hub will certainly prove like a milestone in the direction of outstretching the intensive network of agro-based industrial units in Pilibhit which will also pave the way for farmers to go for the comprehensive diversification of agricultural activities”, said DM Vaibhav Shrivastav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-manages-demarcation-of-land-for-industrial-hub/articleshow/76238634.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s worry: With 40.7 cases a day, Covid resurging in Unlock 1.0||CHANDIGARH: After witnessing a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases in Lockdown 4.0, following the peak recorded during previous two lockdowns, Punjab is hit by another worrying trend — a significant jump in the number of people testing positive every day since commencement of Unlock 1.0. In first six days of Unlock 1.0, 40.66 cases per day have been reported. In all, 244 people have tested positive in this period, accounting for about 10% of total cases. Most of these cases are contacts of positive cases or people returning to Punjab. Also, six people have succumbed to the virus during this period. The virus has so far infected 2,515 people and claimed 50 lives. The latst surge has worsened Punjab's doubling rate, which is the number of days it takes for cases to double. After going up to 102 days on May 24, doubling rate has come down to 43. Things were apparently under control during the first lockdown. In the 23-day period, seven cases per day on average were reported. But, things went downhill during the next two phases of restriction as 51.57 cases per day on average were reported during the second lockdown and 58.14 cases per day in the third lockdown, which lasted for two weeks each. In all, 1,794 people were infected during the second and third lockdown. Of them, 1,129 were pilgrims who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. In fourth lockdown, which had 14 days, the average per day number of cases fell to 22. Health experts said the number of cases is expected to increase at pace due to lifting of restrictions and practical difficulties in keeping social distancing, especially in populated areas. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the government was focusing more on increasing testing, so infected people could be isolated at earliest. To increase the capacity of sample collection, the government is set to start give special training to community health officers, staff nurses and pharmacists for collection and packing of swabs for RT-PCR COVID-19 testing. At present, samples are collected by medical officers. The government is also in process of setting up four more testing laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-worry-with-40-7-cases-a-day-covid-resurging-in-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76240007.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Brain-dead auto driver’s organ donation benefits three||PUNE: The doctors at Sahyadri hospital in Deccan conducted cadaver liver, kidney and combined kidney-pancreas transplants on Saturday, which benefited three patients battling end-stage conditions. An autorickshaw driver (37) was declared brain-dead at the hospital on Friday because of a blood clot in his brain. His vital organs were harvested after his family gave their consent. This was the fourth organ donation in the city, which led to successful transplant surgeries during the lockdown phase. “The man’s liver was transplanted into a 45-year-old man suffering from end-stage chronic liver condition at Sahyadri hospital. His pancreas-kidney were transplanted into a 52-year-old man with kidney and pancreas failure at the same hospital. The other kidney benefited a patient of renal failure at Jehangir hospital,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), an apex body that allocates donated organs as per the norms and waiting list. The donor and recipients were tested for Covid-19 and the reports were negative. “We then started the transplantation process, where the standard procedures to avoid Covid-19 infection were followed with extra precautions and minimum staff. Both the recipients are now stable,” Bipin Vibhute, Sahyadri hospital’s liver and multi-organ transplant surgeon, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-dead-auto-drivers-organ-donation-benefits-3/articleshow/76240002.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||22-year-old shoots self, probe underway||RUDRAPUR: A 22-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by shooting self in the head with a country-made pistol in city’s Defence Colony under ITI police jurisdiction on Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Pradeep Kumar Yadav, a native of Samastipur in Bihar, who worked in a factory in Kashipur. According to the victim’s father Ram Lakhan Yadav, Pradeep was in depression for the past few days for unknown reasons. “It was probably because of an unknown person who was calling Pradeep for the last few days. He shot himself when only his mother and sister were at home. He was rushed to the hospital but was pronounced dead by the doctors,” he said. The police said that a country-made pistol and two mobiles have been recovered from his room. The police are scrutinising the call details to ascertain the reason behind his extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/22-yr-old-shoots-self-probe-underway/articleshow/76238681.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||Five held in Bazpur petrol pump loot case, police to issue guidelines||RUDRAPUR: Five accused were held by Udham Singh Nagar police on Saturday for looting a petrol pump in Bazpur on June 1. The police recovered Rs 3.15 lakh cash, three country-made pistols, and two motorbikes from the possession of the accused. According to the police, the kingpin of the gang is the brother of the staffer who was injured during the loot. He hails from Kanori village of Bazpur. The other four are residents of UP’s Rampur. District SSP also announced a prize of Rs 2,500 for the police team which nabbed the accused. “We have changed the case from robbery to dacoity as five accused staged the crime. They have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC,” said SSP Singh. Notably, Inder Singh Hooda, brother of former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, owns the petrol station where the crime took place. The robbers had decamped with Rs 7 lakh cash after thrashing a staffer of the petrol pump. Meanwhile, SSP Singh has informed that police are conducting a security audit across all petrol stations in the district and guidelines for keeping miscreants at bay will be issued soon. “We have scrutinised the vulnerable areas and have prepared an action plan accordingly. Moreover, the district administration has ordered curfew from 7 pm to 7 am during the ongoing “unlock phase 1” and thus, criminals cannot escape our radars as we are keeping a tight vigil,” SSP Singh added.  Earlier, SHO of a police station in Bazpur had issued instructions that masked customers will have to show their face before a CCTV camera before buying petrol during night time. However, SSP Singh said that he isn’t aware of any such order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-held-in-bazpur-petrol-pump-loot-case-police-to-issue-guidelines/articleshow/76238668.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 7, 2020||Pune||Vaswani mission serves hot meals daily to slum dwellers||Pune: The Sadhu Vaswani Mission has kicked off a programme to serve 500 meals daily to residents of Pimpri's Indryani Nagar slums affected by the lockdown and heavy rains that lashed the city recently. The organisation has teamed up with the Attukal Devi Trust and the Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajam for setting up a kitchen at a temple in the area. "The trust members reached out to us and told us of the need for meals in the slums of Indrayani Nagar in Pimpri. Although we agreed immediately, the logistics of delivering piping hot meals daily from Pune to Pimpri seemed difficult. We, therefore, suggested that a kitchen be set up at the temple. The trust immediately agreed and volunteered to prepare meals daily. Altogether 10 volunteers from the trust are engaged in cooking. We provided them with cooking essentials, dals, pulses, rice, spices and condiments. On the first day, dal rice was prepared. The trust plans to serve south Indian delicacies to the slum dwellers," said a mission official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaswani-mission-serves-hot-meals-daily-to-slum-dwellers/articleshow/76240014.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Dalit man, son beaten to death by neighbours over property dispute||BAREILLY: A 52-year-old Dalit man and his 22-year-old son were allegedly beaten to death by neighbours over a property dispute in Moradabad’s Hanuman Nagar locality on Saturday. According to police, 10-15 people barged into the victims’ house and attacked the family members, killing the father-son duo on the spot. Police said the father’s body was found inside the house, while the son’s body was found abandoned 200-metre away from the house. Two accused were arrested in this connection, said police, adding that the post-mortem reports were awaited. The victims have been identified as Kishan Lal and his son Rajesh. In her complaint, Lal’s 27-year-old daughter Gudiya, who visited her parents’ house a few days ago, stated that neighbours used to spar with her parents over their house. On Saturday, a mob of 10-15 people barged into her house and attacked her brother Rajesh, who was mentally unstable, and her father, who was unwell and very weak, she said. Majhola police station SHO Rakesh Kumar Singh said, “The accused had fled the spot before police reached there. The bodies have been sent for postmortem.” Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police Amit Anand said, “The father-son duo died after they were repeatedly attacked with bricks. An FIR has been registered under section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and The Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Police have arrested two accused — Moti Ram and Sanjay — while they are on the lookout for other accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-man-son-beaten-to-death-by-neighbours-over-property-dispute/articleshow/76238645.cms||Maria Khan
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||13 Gurugram hotels for free isolation of milder coronavirus patients||GURUGRAM: With the number of asymptomatic Covid patients on a rise in Gurugram, the district administration has converted 13 hotels into free isolation centres, especially for those who can’t afford to pay for quarantine. Currently, a total of 655 rooms are available in these hotels, of which 30 have already been occupied. Officials said that unpaid facilities have been created as there are hardly any takers for 165 rooms that have been reserved in two hotels as paid isolation centres. And with a new team of officers taking over the charge to supervise the isolation centres, there are plans to reserve 2,000 more rooms in various hotels across the district as both paid and unpaid quarantine facilities. “As soon as we receive information from the health department about an asymptomatic person, we inform the hotel staff and share the details of the patient. The meals are provided to the patients. We have also given PPE kits to hotel staff and our team of doctors visit them regularly,” said a senior official. “We are going to reserve at least 2,000 more rooms in other hotels as paid and unpaid isolation facilities since the cases are increasing. Patients who can afford to pay for paid isolation centres can go to the paid centres and those who cannot are being sent to the unpaid facilities, and the government is bearing the cost. These are all asymptomatic patients since those with symptoms are admitted to the hospitals,” he added. These hotels have been directed to ensure that their staff wear protective gear and masks as well as regular sanitisation of their premises. Their thermal scanning also has to be done since these patients are asymptomatic and in case they develop symptoms, they have to be shifted to hospitals for treatment, officials said, adding that one doctor has been deployed at each isolation facility. “We have been given strict directions to make sure that our housekeeping and other staff wear gloves, masks and PPE kits. We leave food outside the rooms for the patients. As soon as we receive a call from the authorities, we keep rooms ready,” said Sachin Gujjar, a staff member of Him Jyoti hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/13-gurgaon-hotels-for-free-isolation-of-milder-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/76239788.cms||Vishakha Chaman
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana took 90 days to cross 3,000 Covid-19 cases||CHANDIGARH: A total of 14 cases were recorded in Haryana on March 5, when the reporting of Covid-19 cases started. Initially, for almost one month, the daily increase of one to maximum nine cases was witnessed in the state. The state, however, witnessed sudden surge in the cases on April 4, when 26 cases were reported in a single day. Thereafter, the spike in cases continued from April 6 to 8, when 20, 33 and 24 cases were reported respectively. It was the time when a large number of persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event held at Delhi, had entered Haryana. While the first 100 cases were recorded almost after one month on April 6, another 100 cases were reported in just 15-days on April 15, when the total cases in the state were recorded 204. The state received another spike in cases from April 30 and continued till May 25 when cases from 20 to 75 in a single day were reported in the state. The first 500 cases in the state were recorded on May 4 and the figure of 1,000 was touched on May 21. However, the highest ever increase of around 2,500 cases witnessed in the past 15 days (from 1,030 on May 21 to around 3,500 on June 5). It was the time when lockdown was lifted and various sectors were opened in the state. During this time a large number of people from abroad and other part of the country also entered the state. Not a single death was reported in the state in March. First deaths due to Covid-19 in the state were reported on April 6, when two persons had died. In April, a total of four persons died in the state due to the viral infection. A total of 16 deaths were reported in May and four deaths have been recorded in June so far. As far as recoveries are concerned, a total of 24 persons recovered in March from the infection, 211 persons were discharged in April, 813 in May and around 100 has been discharged after treatment in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-took-90-days-to-cross-3000-cases/articleshow/76240020.cms||Ajay Sura
June 7, 2020||Kanpur||SDMs asked to open bank accounts of migrant workers of Kanpur district||Kanpur: District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Saturday asked the sub-divisional magistrates to get opened bank accounts of migrant workers belonging to Kanpur who do not have bank accounts. He said the bank accounts must be opened in a day or two so that under the financial assistance scheme, Rs 1000 could be deposited in their accounts. This fund would be transferred in their accounts by RTGS. He directed the officials to assess the losses caused under Bilhaur tehsil due to the natural calamity. The assessment should be made on a war-footing, he said. In another direction to the SDMs, the DM asked them to conduct a survey in their jurisdiction about 100 years old trees, make their list and send the details to his office. They have also been asked to conduct a block-wise survey of ponds and wells. At another meeting, he asked the officials to make self dependent temporary cow protection houses. He said they should be developed on the lines of Kanpur Gaushalas Society for keeping stray animals. He said as the cow protection houses would be raised in all panchayats, therefore, the SDMs should identify the land for that purpose and convert them into protection houses. These houses should be surrounded by deep trenches, and in trench saplings of banyan and peepal trees should be planted, he said. Suresh Gupta, secretary, Kanpur Gaushala Society said the society prepares as many as 36 products from cow dung and cow urine. The DM asked the officials to follow the technique of the Gaushala Society. During the meeting, an SPCA member said that SPCA was providing free treatment to stray cattle but people also bring their pets for free treatments, therefore some fee should be fixed for the treatment of pets. Giving his consent to the suggestion, the DM asked the officials to make a few industrial houses and commercial associations the members of the society so that some funds could be generated from their annual subscription. Chief development officer Sunil Kumar Singh, district veterinary officer and SPCA members were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sdms-asked-to-open-bank-accounts-of-migrant-workers-of-kanpur-district/articleshow/76239647.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: SCB Covid-19 survey moves at snail’s pace||SECUNDERABAD: A survey on primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive cases in Secunderabad Cantonment is going at a snail’s pace due to lack of paramedical staff. Currently, a total of three medical officers and 10 ANMs (paramedical staff) are working under Telangana government’s medical and health department, covering the entire Secunderabad Cantonment, which has a population of 3.5 lakh. Though the SCB maintains the dispensaries for Cantonment residents, it does not have a network of ANMs. As a result, the SCB is depending on Telangana government’s medical and health department. New Covid-19 positive cases are being registered at several areas in the Cantonment after lockdown was relaxed. Immediately, paramedical staff were sent to conduct door-to-door surveys within one-kilometre radius of the location of the Covid-19 patient to identify primary and secondary contacts and people with symptoms. “Special teams are deputed to do surveys. The teams are covering nearly 70 to 90 houses in a day and collecting data of every household. Sometimes, these teams have to skip the survey and go to other areas, from where positive cases are being reported. As a result, the survey has been running at a snail’s pace,” said a medical officer. In some instances, these special teams face problems during the survey, as members of some households refuse to reveal their whereabouts. In many instances, the houseowners do not permit the staff to speak with them due to fear of spreading the virus, said the medical officer. “It is our duty to do thermal scanning for every household and note down the reading for record purposes. Few households are cooperating with us while others are replying that they are healthy and do not require thermal screening. But we are taking the help of local police to do our job,” a senior paramedical staff told STOI. Meanwhile, on Saturday, a new positive Covid-19 case was registered near Arya Samaj in old Bowenpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-covid-19-survey-moves-at-snails-pace/articleshow/76240035.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Man murders mother after quarrel with her||SIVAGANGA: A 32-year-old man, who was under the influence of alcohol, murdered his mother after a dispute with her. The incident took place in Sivaganga district on Friday night. The accused has been identified as Jayachandran, a daily wage labourer and a widower with two children. According to police, Jayachandran went out on Friday evening and returned home later at night under the influence of alcohol. As he could not find his two daughters, he asked his mother M Muniyayi, 60, about their whereabouts. When she told him that she was not aware of them, Jayachandran picked up a quarrel with Muniyayi and beat her up. In a fit of rage, he strangled her to death and left the house. Police said that his wife had committed suicide by immolating herself in 2017. Based on her dying declaration, a case was registered against Jayachandran under IPC section 306- abetting suicide and a trial was underway. The Manamadurai Sipcot police have registered a case under IPC 302- punishment for murder. He was produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-murders-mother-after-quarrel-with-her/articleshow/76240023.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand mulls home isolation for asymptomatic Covid patients||Dehradun: Keeping in view the steady spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, the state government is now planning to allow home isolation for patients who are either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, with strict adherence to the Centre’s guidelines. State health secretary Amit Negi said that the final decision on offering home isolation would be taken only after consulting all stakeholders and that too only if the necessary standards are met. “With cases rising each day, we have already started Covid Care Centres to ease the load on government hospitals.” The state has 203 such centres at present with a capacity of 17,000 beds. The government medical colleges in Dehradun, Rishikesh, Srinagar and Haldwani are dedicated for critically ill patients. Haridwar’s Mela hospital is also being upgraded for handling critical cases. With the increasing number of cases in Dehradun, district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava has allowed asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to avail hotel isolation where doctors are also deployed to take care of them. “We have started keeping asymptomatic people in Covid Care Centres. The facility is available for a nominal charge,” he added. Based on the order, Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) has shifted over 24 patients in the last couple of days to such centres. Dr NS Khatri, Covid-19 nodal officer at GDMC, said, “This has come as a respite to us. We have also started discharging non-symptomatic patients in 10 days and ask them to opt home isolation.” Chief medical superintendent of Susheela Tiwari Medical College, Dr Arun Joshi, also confirmed that the hospital, which was accommodating over 250 patients last week now barely has 20 Covid-19 patients. “We have moved most cases to Covid Care Centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-mulls-home-isolation-for-asymptomatic-covid-patients/articleshow/76238687.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 7, 2020||Pune||4 held for killing youth||Pune: Four men were arrested on Saturday for assaulting an 18-year-old youth to death on the previous evening. An officer from the Wakad police said the four men and the deceased youth had an old rivalry. A team headed by senior inspector Vivek Muglikar arrested the suspects. The youth’s cousin lodged a complaint with the Wakad police. The police said the four men caught the youth off-guard on Friday evening and assaulted him with sharp weapons and stones and fled. But, the police searched the area and arrested them. In another development, the Pune city crime branch arrested two youths from Karvenagar for their role in a murder case registered with the Umarga police station in Osmanabad. Police said the two youths and their accomplices had killed a man on May 21, following which they fled to Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-held-for-killing-youth/articleshow/76240024.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bareilly||‘Do wudu at home and offer only farz namaz at mosques’||BAREILLY: Ahead of most religious places being reopened to the public from June 8, sajjadanasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri, on Saturday, has appealed to community members across the country to maintain social distancing while visiting mosques and dargahs. He asked the people to visit mosques only for ‘farz namaz’ and offer ‘sunnat and nafil namaz’ at home. He has advised people to do 'wudu' at home and avoid using toilets in mosques. Nasir Qureshi, media coordinator, Dargah Aala Hazrat, said, "Sajjadansheen Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri has appealed to people that they should not stay at religious places without any valid reason and should go to mosques only at the time of namaz. Take extra precautions while exiting the mosque. Avoid gathering of people near mosques and dargahs."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/do-wudu-at-home-and-offer-only-farz-namaz-at-mosques/articleshow/76238655.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 7, 2020||Pune||Defamatory posts against MP||Pune: The Narayangaon police on Saturday filed a case against three persons for issuing threats and uploading defamatory text targeting Shirur MP Amol Kolhe on a social networking site. Narayangaon resident Sagar Shashikant Bhujbal lodged a police complaint. Assistant inspector Arjun Ghode-Patil of the Narayangaon police said the case had been registered against a man from Shirdi in Ahmednagar district, a person from Pandharpur in Solapur district and a youth from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/defamatory-posts-against-mp/articleshow/76240030.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai reports 1 death as Covid-19 cases climb||Trichy/ Madurai: A 72-year-old woman from Mela Anuppanadi in Madurai who died on Thursday was reported Covid-19 positive on Friday. However, her death is yet to be officially declared in the medical bulletin even on Saturday. The woman was suffering from Influzena-like illness (ILI) and had co-morbid condition of diabetes mellitus. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded the death of an 84-year-old man and 24 more new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 992 on Saturday. In southern districts, 50 more Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday taking the tally to 1,745. On Saturday, seven more Covid-19 cases were recorded in Madurai district. The seven cases included a 26-year-old man from CISF Unit Line at Madurai airport. Apart from the seven cases, four close contacts including three family members and a personal security officer of a 57-year-old Madras high court judge from Madurai bench also tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. However, these four cases are yet to be included in the medical bulletin. Thanjavur reported two cases, Tiruvarur district four cases and Nagapattinam six on Saturday. Karur district added six more cases to its count, which included a one-and-half-year old baby. Ariyalur reported five new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Pudukottai district recorded a positive case with a Chennai-returnee. In Trichy, a 25 year old Covid-19 positive man from Bangladesh was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Friday. Booked in a criminal case in Chennai, he had been lodged in Puzhal prison and later shifted to the special camp in Trichy central prison recently. Tuticorin reported 14 more indigenous cases. Kanyakumari on the other hand reported as many as 10 new cases. Fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported on Saturday in Sivaganga (2), Tenkasi (2), Tirunelveli (2), Virudhunagar (4), Ramanathapuram (4) and Dindigul (5). In Theni district, as many as 32 samples of contacts of the two Covid-19 patients who tested positive on Friday have been sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-reports-1-death-as-covid-19-cases-climb/articleshow/76240028.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||With new 355 Covid-19 cases, Haryana hits 3,952||CHANDIGARH: In yet another bad day for Haryana, the state recorded another record high of 355 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. At 3,952, Haryana is set to cross psychological barrier of 4,000 cases on Sunday, if recent trend is any indicator. On Saturday, 71 patients were discharged. Now, Haryana has total 2,648 active cases. The count suggests that the state recorded at least 14 cases every hour in the past 24 hours. The current Covid positivity rate is 2.89%. The state has witnessed 24 deaths from Covid-19 so far. The sharp jump up has brought down the overall recovery rate, while shortening the doubling rate in the state. The doubling rate in Haryana has come down to six days. With total 1,280 patients discharged till Saturday, the recovery is down to 32.39. Gurugram remained the hotspot in Haryana with maximum 129 cases, where total count has gone up to 1,692, with 1,345 active patients. Sonipat too recorded its second highest rise so far with 89 cases. There were 39 cases in Faridabad. In Rohtak, the figure was 23 and 19 in Palwal. The bulletin said 10 cases each were from Karnal and Yamunanngar, nine from Kaithal, eight from Fatehabad, five from Panipat, four each from Hisar and Ambala, three from Jind, two from Kurukshetra, and one from Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/with-new-355-cases-haryana-hits-3952/articleshow/76240039.cms||Manvir Saini
June 7, 2020||Kanpur||Corona positive people in hotspot Shivnagar found asymptomatic||Kanpur: The Shivnagar area of Barra has emerged as the biggest hotspot of Kanpur South as around 50 corona positive cases have been reported there in the last three days. The health authorities are facing problems because several positive persons were found asymptomatic of the virus. Most of the infected persons, when tested, were found corona positive but had not depicted any symptoms of virus which pos a big challenge before the health authorities. A corporator of Barra area after returning from Gorakhpur fell ill. He was accompanied by a representative, who is a resident of Shivnagar. The corporator, after getting himself tested, was found corona positive. His representative, who had freely roamed in the locality also tested positive. During history tracing and tracking, people who had come in his contact too were found infected. Surprisingly, among them, 19 are women. The residents of Shivnagar, who had tested positive but were asymptomatic s, offered resistance when the health teams went there to fetch them for treatment. Vice-principal of GSVM medical college Prof Richa Giri said if a person does not show any symptom, it means that his/her immune system is good. “But it doesn’t mean he/she should be let free as any carelessness will prove deadly. They must come forward and cooperate with the medical teams for their treatment”, she said. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla said after unlocking 1.0, Shivnagar emerged as a red zone. “Surprisingly, the residents, though tested positive, do not have symptoms due to which it becomes difficult to ascertain whether they should be sent for treatment or not”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/corona-positive-people-in-hotspot-shivnagar-found-asymptomatic/articleshow/76239676.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 7, 2020||Madurai||At 82, veteran Tamil writer struggles to make ends meet||MADURAI: He was once celebrated for his literary works in Tamil, but for 82-year-old Madurai-based veteran writer P Karnan, now poverty-stricken, every day is a struggle to survive. Yet, he still aspires to write more and contribute to Tamil literature. “I first started writing in 1958 for a daily called ‘Kaveri’ with short story essays. By 1962, I contributed around 500 short story essays and essays on freedom struggle for various dailies and weeklies like Anandha Vikatan, Kalki, Kungumam, Thamarai, Semmalar and Udhayam. I did not look back since and writing has always been a passion,” said Karnan with a smile. In 1964, his first book of short stories, ‘Kanavupparavai’ was published. He followed it up with around 50 books including novels, poems, short story series, biographies of Tamil leaders and writers, and historical accounts from freedom struggle. “I have had the rare chance to exchange ideas with three generations of writers,” says he. He has written eight books of historical accounts on the freedom struggle and seven biographies of leaders and writers. Most recently, he documented the historical account of freedom struggle in Madurai between 1908-1947 in a 320-page book, ‘Mounathin minnal. Karnan said he was half way through writing his next book on freedom fighters in Madurai who do not get pension, ‘Ivargal illadha naam’, when the pandemic hit. With no regular income, the poverty-hit writer resides in his rented house at Sellur along with two sisters, who are deaf and dumb, and a grandson. His wife P Ranjitham died eight years ago after which he was left abandoned by his children. “My youngest brother helps me make hospital visits if needed but otherwise I have to manage on my own. I get Rs 3,000 per month from the government under a special scheme for literary writers. Since I am polio-afflicted, it has become even more difficult to walk,” said Karnan. Recognised for his work in Tamil literature, Karnan has had the chance to interact with prominent Tamil writers and political leaders, including the late chief minister M Karunanidhi. In 2005, his book on historical account of freedom struggle, “Avargal yenge ponargal”, was awarded by the state government as one of the best books of the year. In 2008, the ministry of information and broadcasting awarded him a grant of Rs 20,000 for his work. In 2012, ‘Kavithai Uravu’, a Chennai-based Tamil literary organisation, honoured Karnan and his books with a lifetime achiever award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/at-82-veteran-tamil-writer-struggles-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76240031.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||NIA makes one more arrest in Visakhapatnam naval espionage case||VISAKHAPATNAM: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested an alleged terror funding conspirator from Mumbai in the 2019 Visakhapatnam espionage case involving Pakistan-based spies who had honey-trapped some junior level Navy personnel via social media for collecting sensitive information about Indian naval ships and submarines. The accused was identified as Abdul Rehman Abdul Jabbar Sheikh (53). His wife, Shaista Qaiser, one of the accused, was arrested earlier. During searches at Jabbar’s house on Saturday, NIA sleuths seized a number of digital devices and incriminating documents. Further investigations are on. The Andhra Pradesh police and central intelligence cops had arrested Indian Navy personnel involved in the espionage case in the second week of November 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nia-arrests-one-more-from-mum-in-naval-espionage-case/articleshow/76239315.cms||Siva G
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Migrant tries to kill self in ‘haunted’ centre||Vijayawada: The Kosigi quarantine centre in Kurnool town was vacated and shut down on Friday, a day after a migrant worker attempted suicide, fearing the presence of ghosts. On Thursday morning, a 47-year-old migrant worker tried to hang himself from a window frame in his room using a piece of cloth. Upon hearing the sounds of a windowpane breaking, the migrant worker’s fellow roommates and medical staff rushed to stop the suicide attempt. Officials shifted the 47-year-old to Adoni Government Hospital. He was discharged on Saturday and sent home for 14 days of home quarantine after his sample tested negative. Health officials said the worker had previously approached them and claimed that the centre was haunted and requested he be sent home. His request, however, was immediately turned down with officials citing the reason as ‘absurd’. Officials said the quarantine centre has 113 migrant workers and rumours of its being haunted soon spread amongst them. The migrant worker had been placed in quarantine after his wife tested positive for Covid-19. His wife, meanwhile, is under treatment at a Covid-19 hospital. N Keerthi Priya, in charge of the Kosigi quarantine centre, said that around seven patients have been shifted to the Viswabharati Covid-19 hospital for treatment, while the other migrant workers have been sent for 14 days of quarantine. Medical experts have drawn attention to the need for clinical psychologists in quarantine centres, citing a rise in cases of depression with people being forced to stay in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/migrant-tries-to-kill-self-in-haunted-centre/articleshow/76238685.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab starts move to check job losses, help||CHANDIGARH: With economic activities taking a beating due to Covid-19 outbreak, resulting in a high rate of unemployment, the Punjab government has initiated a move to evaluate the damage caused by the pandemic on employment and help jobless youth – the worst-hit section — in getting their lives back on track by facilitating employment opportunities. To contain the spread of coronavirus, the state government was forced to impose restrictions, bringing economic activities to a grinding halt for almost two months, which pushed a large number of people out of work. To work out a strategy and ascertain the actual level of unemployment, Suresh Kumar, chief principal secretary to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, has shot off a questionnaire to all deputy commissioners, asking them to suggest possible solutions. Through the questionnaire, the government is trying to know changes in the labour and employment market due to the pandemic. The government is identifying sectors and employers that had no impact, or minor and major impact on employment potential. Each DC will share the total number of employees with such employers in their districts and number of new workers needed by these employers. DCs have to come up with a strategy to reach out to employers to know and access their vacancies and facilitate jobseekers to get placed against available vacancies. They also have to suggest procedures to be followed for registering employers, their vacancies and jobseekers. They also have to look at how to bring both employers and jobseekers on one platform. Since coming to power, Capt Amrainder Singh-led government has been organising job fairs to bring jobseekers and providers under one roof and ensuring easy loans under self-employment schemes. So far, five such job fairs have been organised at a total cost of over Rs 5 crore. With little possibility of organising these fairs in near future due to Covid-19, the government is exploring alternatives to job fairs. Emphasis is also being laid on making district bureaus of employment and enterprise (DBEE) more effective. Punjab secretary, employment generation and training, Rahul Tiwari said the government has initiated a move to find out the actual impact of Covid-19 on employment and to devise a strategy to overcome the problem. “A questionnaire has been circulated among all deputy commissioners and their feedback will be helpful in making a comprehensive action plan,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-starts-move-to-check-job-losses-help/articleshow/76240032.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Punjab deaths hit 50, count crosses 2,515||BARNALA/AMRITSAR: The Covid-19 death count in Punjab hit 50 on Saturday as two more people died of the virus. The state recorded 54 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,515. A 30-year-old constable posted at Mehal Kalan police station in Barnala district was among those who tested positive. The constable had come in contact with a person from Malerkotla, arrested by Mehal Kalan police on May 23 in an NDPS Act case. When the accused tested positive on June 4, 50 cops — including Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel, SP (investigations) Sukhdev Singh Virk, ASP Pragya Jain, chief judicial magistrate Vineet Kumar Narang and some other judicial officers — were asked to quarantine themselves. “The constable has been shifted to the isolation ward of Barnala civil hospital and other cops are in home quarantine,” said civil surgeon Dr G B Singh. In the meanwhile, a man who returned from Delhi tested positive in Bathinda. Also, a 65-year-old woman tested positive in Fazilka. In Amritsar, the Covid-19 graph continued to rise with 28 positive cases. According to an official release, one case each case of influenza-like infection (ILI) was reported from eight different places. In addition, 20 other cases reported were contacts of Covid-19 patients from different places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-deaths-hit-50-count-crosses-2-5k/articleshow/76240042.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Meerut||7 UP districts alerted over 'flood situation' after water release from dam in monsoon||Bijnor: Expecting early onset of monsoon this year, the Ramganga dam administration has sounded alert to seven districts of Uttar Pradesh against impending floods after the authorities release extra water to prevent overflowing of the dam. “Monsoon is arriving early this season because of which the dam administration may release great volumes of water that can lead to a flood-like situation in the region. Hence, preemptive measures should be put in place,” stated the letter that the dam authorities shot off to the administration of seven UP districts — Bijnor, Amroha, Rampur, Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Moradabad and Farrukhabad. A tributary of the Ganga, Ramganga river originates from the Shivalik ranges of the Himalayas in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand and enters the plain in Kalagarh village of Pauri Garhwal after traversing a 158-km stretch, said RK Agarwal, superintendent engineer, Ramganga dam.“The dam, about 3 km upstream of Kalagarh and is located within Jim Corbett National Park, stores water in monsoon season, which is released for electricity production and irrigation purposes later. The dam can store water up to 365.3 metres of height, but the administration starts releasing water as it touches the 355-metre mark,” said Agarwal. According to the dam officials, sudden release of water from the dam causes flooding of the plain. Floods had wreaked havoc in the plain in 1998, 2000 and 2010, they added.Agarwal said, “We have alerted the administration of seven UP districts through which the river passes. There is a strong possibility of early monsoon this year and the dam has a limited capacity to store water. After the water level rises, we will have to release water and it may cause damage in the plain. We have suggested the administration to make villagers aware of the situation. Besides, hindrances (encroachments) in the path of the river should be removed so that the river flows with full current and destruction can be averted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/7-up-districts-alerted-over-flood-situation-after-water-release-from-dam-in-monsoon/articleshow/76238721.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||As cases spike in U’khand, testing dips||Dehradun: Even as the Covid-19 tally in the state has crossed over 1,300, the total number of samples being tested has come down drastically — from around 800 to 1,000 daily to hardly 500 a day. According to data released by the health department, around 800 to 1,000 samples were collected daily between May 22 and June 2. However, the sample testing has seen a sharp dip to around 500 a day for the last three days, even though the number of Covid-19 cases being reported is in double digits daily. While 587 new samples were collected for testing on Saturday, the number was 566 on Friday and 571 on Thursday. Health watchers claimed that this is a worrying sign as testing aggressively is the need of the hour especially with fears that the infection has reached the community transmission stage. The state’s Covid-19 tally has seen a steep rise from 111 cases on May 19 to 1,300 on Saturday — a period which is just a little over a fortnight. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based research organisation, Social Development for Communities Foundation, said, “The health department was testing over 1,000 samples regularly between May 22 and June 2. As many as 1,588 new samples were collected on May 31, which is highest so far. However, while cases are rising, the testing has gone down.” “While Uttarakhand, with a population of over 1 crore, has collected 36,638 samples so far and tested 28,172 of them, neighbouring Himachal, with a much lesser population, has collected around 44,500 samples and managed to test 43,671 of them,” he added. Nautiyal further said that Uttarakhand’s sample testing is far lesser than Himachal despite having more labs than the latter. While Uttarakhand has five government labs, a private lab in Dehradun and a tie-up with a Chandigarh-based facility, Himachal has only five government labs for testing Covid-19 samples. Meanwhile, state health secretary Amit Negi said that both testing and sampling are being done regularly in the state. “We are regularly testing 1,000 cases and collecting equal number of samples. The sample collection numbers have dipped in the last two to three days just to clear the backlog. Our target is to test at least 1,500 people everyday. This will pick pace by next week,” he added. Meanwhile on Saturday, 89 people tested positive for the virus. With this, the total number of Covid cases has touched 1,300. Also, 79 patients recovered from the infection the same day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 423.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-cases-spike-in-ukhand-testing-dips/articleshow/76238710.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 7, 2020||Vadodara||East emerges as Vadodara’s latest coronavirus hotspot||Vadodara: Covid-19 seems to be tightening its grip around the eastern parts of the city with 11 of the 34 new cases registered in Vadodara since Friday evening from that part of the city.Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) sources said nine were from the rural areas of the district. Six cases each were reported from the north and south zone, while west zone registered only two cases. The worst-affected north zone has witnessed 18 deaths out of its 533 cases, while 15 died of the 406 cases in the east zone.In all, 140 samples were tested since Friday night. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Vadodara now stands at 1,270. The VMC did not confirm any more deaths ensuring that the death toll stood at 47 even as it might be much higher in reality.With 26 more being discharged in the city, the total number of persons who have been discharged so far stood at 767. The total number of admitted patients stood at 456 including 37 on ventilator and BIPAP machines.The top brass of the state government handling Covid-19 in the city held a meeting for planning for the coming week. Officer on special duty Vinod Rao, district collector Shalini Agrawal, municipal commissioner Nalin Upadhyay, district development officer Kiran Jhaveri and other officials remained present at the meeting. Rao also visited the GMERS, Gotri Hospital after complaints regarding the quality of food there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/east-emerges-as-vadodaras-latest-coronavirus-hotspot/articleshow/76238299.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bhopal||After spurt in cases, CM orders removal of Rajgarh CMHO||BHOPAL: After six new positive Covid-19 cases were reported from Rajgarh district on Saturday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordered removal of the district’s chief medical and health officer. During a review of the Coronavirus situation in the state Chouhan was told that of the total 20 cases in Rajgarh 11 were active. He said special attention should be paid to contact tracing of positive patients to identify people who may have come in their contact. He said patients should be surveyed and fever clinics must be strengthened. During the review of Bhind district, it was found that out of 84 Corona patients, 51 were active. The recovery rate is good, but new cases are also coming up. Chouhan said all measures should be taken to prevent infection. About 11 out of 20 patients are active in Rajgarh district. There have been 3 deaths. Instructions were given to remove Rajgarh CMHO. Referring to the migrant workers in the state, Chouhan said that so far 13.67 lakh migrant labourers of the state have been mapped under the Rozgar Setu Abhiyan to provide employment according to their skills. This includes migrant labourers and their families. Chouhan said people need to be made aware that they should not hide about the disease, should come to the hospital and seek treatment immediately. Corona can be fatal if one delays visiting the hospital. During the review of Ratlam district, it was informed that 2 Corona patients could not be saved due to their late arrival to the hospital. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, additional chief secretary health Mohammad Suleman, principal secretary Sanjay Shukla were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-orders-removal-of-rajgarh-cmho/articleshow/76239319.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Meerut||With UP's panchayat polls in mind, three men desecrate idol; one arrested||MEERUT: With political stakes already high ahead of the likely December panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh, work on the ground to woo voters or even polarize them have begun. In one such move, an idol at a temple in a Shamli village was found desecrated recently by a certain group of men with the sole aim to polarize voters. Notably, Tana is a Hindu majority village, but is surrounded by other Muslim villages. Here, Arun Kumar and his two accomplices purportedly chalked out a well thought-out plan of damaging an idol – and they kept on raking up the issue for over a month. On Saturday, Shamli police – after closely watching their actions for almost a month – finally arrested Kumar for allegedly damaging the idol on May 11 while two of his accomplices manage to escape. "They have been charged under section 295 (injuring or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of the IPC", said Sandeep Balyan, SHO Garhi pukhta police station. Police sources said all of them were trying to help Kumar contest the pradhan elections and needed a viable political subject to garner enough support. Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal said, "On May 11, an idol was damaged in Tana village that comes under Gadhipukhta police station of Shamli district. After a thorough investigation, we found three men to be closely associated. Further investigations revealed the three were consuming liquor when Arun Kumar showed his desire to contest the next panchayat polls and become Pradhan. Notably he already has a criminal background and is murder accused who had allegedly killed a woman to rob her of ear rings in 2012. Arun has been arrested. The other two are on the run." As per Kumar's confession, on the night of May 11, while all three were consuming liquor, it was decided that Arun Kumar would contest the forthcoming panchayat elections and he would stand as candidate for pradhan. However, they needed a polarizing subject to garner support. So, all three thought of desecrating an idol of a village temple. After committing the crime, they carefully studied the impact and were trying to constantly read the mind of the villagers. The panchayat elections were due early this year, but due to Covid-19 outbreak, it has been - as of now - postponed to December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/with-ups-panchayat-polls-in-mind-three-men-desecrate-idol-one-arrested/articleshow/76238726.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||Tutor arrested for raping minor in Rishikesh||HARIDWAR: A 20-year-old tutor has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl. The matter came to light after the student attempted suicide by consuming a poisonous substance. She was rushed to Civil Hospital on Saturday, where doctors managed to revive her. A case was registered against the accused Krishna, alias Vasu, a resident of Sheesham Jhadi, under section 376 (rape), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) act. Station house officer (SHO) Muniki Reti RK Saklani told TOI, “On May 7, the accused allegedly lured the girl, promising to tutor her and then forced her to watch objectionable content, before raping her. He threatened the girl to keep quiet. When she tried to tell her mother about the ordeal, relatives of the accused intimidated her. Backed into a corner, the girl then consumed poison. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO act.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tutor-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-rishikesh/articleshow/76238719.cms||MS Nawaz
June 7, 2020||Kanpur||Inspector suspended for taking bribe in Kanpur||KANPUR:The Kanpur Dehat district superintendent of police suspended Derapur police station incharge after a brick-kiln owner made a complaint accusing him of taking bribe from him in lieu of allowing him to run tractor-trolley involved in transporting mud to his unit for producing bricks in Ladpur Paid village of the district.  A police officer on Saturday said, “A complaint in this regard was made by brick-kiln owner Sanjay Kumar Gupta on May 26, wherein he had accused inspector Derapur Neeraj Kumar Yadav of asking him to pay a bribe of Rs 70,000 for securing release of a tractor-trolley seized by him earlier”. Along with the complaint, the brick-kiln owner also handed a video and an audio recording with regard to his allegations, which he had made in his complaint against inspector Derapur. Following which, a probe was ordered by SP. “Taking cognizance of the complaint supported by evidences, the SP after the probe, has suspended the Derapur police station incharge with immediate effect on Saturday and also ordered to book a case against him,” said the officer. Superintendent of Police, Anurag Vatsa, while confirming the suspension, said following a complaint by brick-kiln owner- Sanjay Kumar Gupta, a probe was ordered and report submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/inspector-suspended-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/76239693.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Boulders fall on KK line, rains delay repair||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following rains in the Agency area on Saturday, boulders disloged from the hill and fell on the Kothavalasa-Kirandul line, damaging it once again. The rains also delayed restoration work that disrupted train services. Railway officials identified boulders on the railway track between Chimidipalli and Borra Caves railway stations near Araku Valley. “This disrupted four train services. We started the restoration work with 100 men and three earth movers, but the rains in the forest area interrupted the restoration work. We will be able to restore the situation by Sunday,” said a senior railway official to TOI. The four trains took the Koraput-Rayagada line to reach their destinations. The disruption of train services gains in significance given that only three to four trains are being operated on the line owing to the lockdown as opposed to the 10 to 15 trains, which usually run. Meanwhile, IMD has forecast light to moderate rains for the next few days in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/boulders-fall-on-kk-line-rains-delay-repair/articleshow/76238717.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 7, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Punjab deaths hit 50, count crosses 2,515||BARNALA/AMRITSAR: The Covid-19 death count in Punjab hit 50 on Saturday as two more people died of the virus. The state recorded 54 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,515. A 30-year-old constable posted at Mehal Kalan police station in Barnala district was among those who tested positive. The constable had come in contact with a person from Malerkotla, arrested by Mehal Kalan police on May 23 in an NDPS Act case. When the accused tested positive on June 4, 50 cops — including Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel, SP (investigations) Sukhdev Singh Virk, ASP Pragya Jain, chief judicial magistrate Vineet Kumar Narang and some other judicial officers — were asked to quarantine themselves. “The constable has been shifted to the isolation ward of Barnala civil hospital and other cops are in home quarantine,” said civil surgeon Dr G B Singh. In the meanwhile, a man who returned from Delhi tested positive in Bathinda. Also, a 65-year-old woman tested positive in Fazilka. In Amritsar, the Covid-19 graph continued to rise with 28 positive cases. According to an official release, one case each case of influenza-like infection (ILI) was reported from eight different places. In addition, 20 other cases reported were contacts of Covid-19 patients from different places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-deaths-hit-50-count-crosses-2-5k/articleshow/76245491.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Meerut||UP: Groom, father booked for taking out baraat in hotspot area||MEERUT: A bridegroom, his father and his uncle were booked for violating social distancing norms in Bulandshahr on Friday. An FIR has been lodged against them for taking out baraat from a ‘hotspot’ area in Bulandshahr to Siddique Nagar in Meerut. Police came to know about the incident after marriage was solemnised and baarat had already returned. Even as the lockdown norms are being gradually eased, containment zones, where Covid-19 cases have been found, are still under strict monitoring of health and local administration. There are strict lockdown measures in place to prevent further spread of the virus. The baarat had left from containment zone, Chauhatta under Khurja police station jurisdiction, on June 4. Later, the FIR was registered against the bridegroom, his father and uncle at Khurja police station under relevant sections of Epidemic Act on June 5, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/groom-father-booked-for-taking-out-baraat-in-hotspot-area/articleshow/76238703.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Amaravati||Ecologists appeal to govt to conserve Eastern Ghats||AMARAVATI: A group of ecologists has appealed to the state government to initiate urgent measures for the conservation of Eastern Ghats. Increased mining and exploration activities are causing irreparable damage to the environment and also affecting the unique flora and fauna of the area, they noted. “The total area of the Eastern Ghats in AP has shrunk by nearly 16 per cent — it has dipped to 27 per cent from the previous 43 per cent. The erosion of Eastern Ghats is going to cause massive damage to the environment,” said NV Sarath Chandra, a research scholar. Covered with hills, slopes, water falls, streams, vast green cover and millions of varieties of flora and fauna, the Eastern Ghats play the role of a saviour to AP’s climate and the degradation can severely impact the ecological balance of the state, he added. Drastic depletion of various kinds of pollinators, especially several kinds of bee species like honey bees, dragon flies and butterflies might spell doom for the future, said Dr Teki Sandhya Sri, assistant professor of zoology at Andhra Loyola College. “About 2/3rd of bee species have vanished and it has become very difficult to spot even a known butterfly. There is often a misconception that tiny creatures have no role to play. This is false. In reality, bee species play a significant role in natural crop pollination, increasing tree cover by seed displacement which in turn provide food security to billions of people across the planet,” Sandhya Sri added. She said extreme heat, particularly in Vijayawada region, has aggravated the ‘bee crisis’ as bees are no more in a position to procreate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ecologists-appeal-to-govt-to-conserve-eastern-ghats/articleshow/76238731.cms||Samdani MN
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Min conducts meet with dist officials||Hyderabad: In view of the sixth phase of the Telangana Ku Harithaharam, which will commence on June 20, Telangana minister for environment and forests Allola Indrakaran Reddy conducted a video conference with the forest department officials of all districts on Saturday. The minister discussed district-wise measures for plantation and also sought condition of saplings planted earlier. Reddy also sought the progress of Beedi leaves collection. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-conducts-meet-with-dist-officials/articleshow/76239326.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bamboo car by engineering students wins int’l honour||Thiruvananthapuram: A team of mechanical engineering students of Government Engineering College, Barton Hill, won the ‘circular economy’ award & prize money of $3,000 in Shell Eco Marathon competition held in Singapore. They received the award in continental Asia level for an innovative bamboo-made vehicle designed by them. The team Pravega comprises 15 mechanical engineering students of the college. They used bamboo as building material for a prototype vehicle named ‘Senna’. The team developed the bamboo body with the help of Bamboo Research Centre at the college and Bamboo Pecker, a Bengaluru-based company. The on-track event scheduled at Malaysia was called off due to Covid-19 pandemic and off-track awards were announced by Shell Asia based on the development work of selected teams. The team had sent a report and video of their work for the competition. “The marathon focuses on ultra-fuel-efficient vehicles in different categories. We made vehicle body and structure using treated bamboo fabric combined with glass fibre. It is designed as an eco-friendly vehicle. We had made a prototype with an IC engine last year, which we had planned to convert to electric energy to make it an eco-friendly vehicle. But due to lockdown, we could not complete the work. So, we applied for the circular economy award category which focuses on maximum material reuse,” said team lead Abhinav P Sekhar, fourth year, mechanical engineering student. “We named our team Pravega, meaning to accelerate, as it was a marathon competition. And the prototype was named Senna as a tribute to famous F1 driver Ayrton Senna,” added Abhinav. Assistant professor Anish K John was the mentor and the team was supported by college principal Dr K Suresh, former head of the department K Jayaraj and head of the department Bijulal and workshop faculty of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bamboo-car-by-engineering-students-wins-intl-honour/articleshow/76238742.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Two men end lives in Bapatla after quarrel with their wives||Visakhapatnam: Domestic squabbles with their wives led to two men to killing themselves, in two separate incidents, at Bapatla town in Guntur district on Saturday. Both the men took their lives by hanging to death. Coincidentally, in both cases, wives of the deceased had left homes. In the first incident, Bapatla Town police said that 30-year-old Munna, who lived in Kondal Rao Street, had a quarrel with his wife on Friday night. Initially a petty squabble, the couple soon started hurling abuses at each other. Eventually, Munna’s wife walked out of the house to go to her mother’s place. After this, Munna hung himself to death on Saturday morning. In the second incident, which took place in Vijayalakshmipuram, the deceased, 37-year-old Koki Durga Reddy had a quarrel with his wife on Friday night. Later, Durga Reddy hung himself to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-men-end-lives-in-bapatla-after-quarrel-with-their-wives/articleshow/76239320.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Agra||62-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Agra, 8-year-old boy infected in Bareilly||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: A 62-year-old man, who tested positive for Covid-19, died while being treated at SN Medical College in Agra on Saturday. Also, at least 12 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, taking the district tally to 957. There were at least 13 cases reported in Meerut on Saturday, taking the tally to 503 which included one positive in Kanpur - surpassing the 500 mark. In Agra, according to the health department, the resident of Hariparwat locality was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and died due to comorbid conditions. Furthermore, two patients were discharged on Saturday. Out of the 957 cases, 84.95% have recovered and discharged. There are 95 active cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, "So far, 813 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checks of the people in hotspot areas." Moreover, in Meerut, a 45-year-old man from Dhabai Nagar died late on Friday, taking the death toll to 33. "As many as 13 cases were found positive in Meerut on Saturday, thereby crossing the 500 mark. These include residents of Sunderji Enclave, Harvansh Vihar, Milak Mandhaiya village, Shastri Nagar, Lalkurti Road, Phoolmandi and Adarsh Nagar," said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut's district surveillance officer. Three more people tested positive in Bijnor district, taking the tally to 147. Of them, 81 are active ones. According to Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav, the patients are from Nagina area. Family members and contacts of patients are being quarantined. In Bareilly, an eight-year-old boy tested positive on Saturday. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "The boy’s parents had tested positive earlier this week when they had come from Mumbai to Bareilly’s Faridpur. The boy is asymptomatic." The Bareilly tally rose to 65, with 28 active cases, 35 discharged and two deaths. In Pilibhit district, a 28-year-old youth of Barha - on the outskirts of Pilibhit city - was tested positive on Saturday. He had come from Delhi on June 3 and had been kept in home quarantine. The tally has now gone up to 51, with seven active cases and 44 discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/62-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-agra-8-yr-old-boy-infected-in-bareilly/articleshow/76238705.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bhopal||230 beat Covid as state tally breaches 9,000 mark||BHOPAL: With 232 more people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the tally of positive patients in the state crossed the 9,000 mark. So far, a total 9,228 people have tested positive across Madhya Pradesh. Apart from the new cases, 15 casualties were also reported. Districts where the deaths were reported include Indore (4 deaths), Ujjain (3 deaths), Ratlam (2 deaths), Rajgarh (2 deaths) and 1 death each in Burhanpur, Khargone, Dhar and Sheopur districts. With these 15 new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state increased to 399 in Madhya Pradesh. Of the 51 infected districts, new cases were reported from 27 districts on Saturday. Districts where new cases were reported in double digits include Bhopal (51), Indore (35), Shajapur (20), Neemuch (18), Burhanpur (15), Bhind (14), Ujjain (12) and Gwalior (10). On the brighter side, 230 patients, who were admitted to different hospitals across the state, recovered and were discharged from hospitals. With these patients recovering, a total 6,108 people have recovered so far in the state. This is more than double of the total 2,721 active patients who are admitted to hospitals across the state. So far, reports of more than 2 lakh samples have been received in the state. Of these, 9,228 people have tested positive. Thus, on an average, a little more than 4.6 people out of every 100 tested or 9 out of every 200 tested have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Overall, 66% of the 9,228 patients who have tested positive so far, have recovered from the deadly disease in Madhya Pradesh till now. Meanwhile, the administration has announced 1,037 localities across 51 districts as containment zones and movement of locals in these zones is strictly prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/230-beat-covid-as-state-tally-breaches-9k-mark/articleshow/76239327.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Family gives shelter to three stranded students||Mangaluru: Badruddin Kalai decided to shift his family to his mother-in-law’s house for a brief period in the second week of April, to accommodate three physiotherapy students from Kerala, who were studying in Mangaluru, who were in distress during the lockdown. One of the stranded girl’s father, a member of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), reached out to the local SDPI office in Mangaluru, seeking help. Badruddin said, “We received information that a girl was staying at a paying guest (PG) accommodation on MG Road. We visited the place and found that there were two others, and that the girls hailed from Pallakad, Thrissur and Kozhikode. The rest of the students staying close by had already left the PG. The owner of the PG had also requested the girls to leave,” he said. Since they hailed from Kerala, there was no one willing to welcome them. “They were surviving on oats and instant noodles. I decided to arrange an accommodation for them,” said Badruddin. Badruddin hails from Bantwal and stays in a rented house in Kudroli with his wife Shabnam, a schoolteacher, and three children. “I decided to shift my family to my in-laws house near Alake, and initially my wife would cook for them. We left the house as it is for them. Since one of the girl’s was a Muslim, she wanted to be home for Eid, as soon as the Kerala government started issuing travel passes in the second week of May, they decided to leave. All the girls have returned home. However, their luggage is still in my house, and they can collect it once college resumes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/family-gives-shelter-to-three-stranded-students/articleshow/76238747.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Case against Sabarinathan for vandalising govt office||Thiruvananthapuram: Police have booked MLA K S Sabarinathan on vandalism charges after a group of Congressmen created a ruckus in the office of Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) at Nedumangad on Friday afternoon. Police also arrested five men on Saturday and they were released on bail. According to police, the incidents related to the case took place when Sabarinathan visited the ITDP office to collect data of tribal students who lack facilities to attend the online classes of the government so that the Congress party at Nedumangad could provide them help. They reached around 2.30pm. But, ITDP officer A Rahim, who was in charge of the office, was not present there as a result of which the MLA had to wait for nearly an hour. Once the officer returned, the MLA and others got agitated and gheraoed him by locking the office door. The officer told them that he was away to attend a programme by the district panchayat to distribute televisions to school children of underprivileged families. They also resorted to vandalism, damaging a phone and desktop computer. Police registered a case based on the complaint filed by ITDP officer Rahim. Nedumangad police station-house officer inspector V Rajesh Kumar said the case was registered invoking section 353 of IPC for attacking a government servant and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act for damaging articles inside the government office. On Saturday, police arrested five men —Nedumangad municipality opposition leader Arjunan, ward councillor K J Binu, party workers Mahesh Chandran, Hashim and Siddique. They were produced before Nedumangad Judicial First Class Magistrate court in the afternoon as the charges invoked were non-bailable. The magistrate, however, granted them bail. “We have not yet taken any action against the MLA as it needed more detailed probe to find out whether he had personally engaged in vandalism. His followers might have went out of control and got courage to resort to violence as they are accompanied by the MLA himself,’’ the inspector said. The LDF activists on Saturday staged a protest at Nedumangad demanding strict action against the MLA. This is the third case being registered against Sabarinathan in the recent past by Nedumangad police. During the first phase of the lockdown, police had booked him twice for taking part in a protest march and a public event violating lockdown rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/case-against-sabarinathan-for-vandalising-govt-office/articleshow/76238762.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Three days after ‘normal death’, four of family coronavirus positive||JALANDHAR: Four members of a family of an astrologer, who died during the intervening night of June 3 and 4 without any symptoms of Covid-19, on Saturday tested positive for the virus. Deceased Neeraj Tiwari, 51, had several clients in official, political and other prominent circles, was not tested before or after his death for the virus, as he had all signs of cardiac arrest when he was rushed to the hospital. It is learnt that he was not well for the last few days and taking medicine from a doctor in the Model House area where he lived. Sources close to the family said he was being treated for typhoid and on June 3, he also visited another hospital where doctors did not suspect that he could be having coronavirus infection. His wife, two kids — eight and five years old — and a sister were shifted to an isolation centre here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-days-after-normal-death-4-of-family-ve/articleshow/76240047.cms||IP Singh
June 7, 2020||Agra||UP: First of ‘25 Anamikas’ arrested; woman claims she had paid Rs 2.5L for job||AGRA/LUCKNOW: Two days after TOI broke the story about a full-time science teacher, named Anamika Shukla, found working at 25 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) schools throughout the state and having drawn over Rs 1 crore in salary in the past 13 months, at least one 'Anamika Shukla' was arrested from Kasganj district on Saturday. But, she turned out to be one Priya from Farrukhabad, making cops believe that it could be possible that multiple candidates used credentials and 'eligibility' of Anamika Shukla, who remains elusive. It could be possible that it's a handiwork of a well-entrenched gang, they say. “No officer, employee who connived with this teacher in providing her job at KGBV and subsequently hiding it, will be spared,” basic education minister Satish Dwivedi told TOI. The minister said that it was very shocking that a teacher who was appointed in KGBV, which is a residential school, continued on rolls even when she remained absent. According to officials, after receiving an alert from the state capital about the fraud, they had detected one teacher, who went by the similar name, working at Faridpur KGBV in Kasganj district. Kasganj Basic Siksha Adhikari Anjali Agrawal said, “On June 4, we served her notice asking her to present all her documents for verification. After forming an investigative committee, on Friday, we found that documents furnished by the teacher were forged. Her salary account was immediately frozen.” “On Saturday, the accused teacher went to the bank to withdraw her salary. Once she found the bank account frozen, she went to the school to collect her belongings and later came to my office to submit her resignation. We had informed the police beforehand and she was handed over to them,” the BSA said. She was booked for cheating and forgery under IPC’s sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating). According to police, the woman claimed that she had paid Rs 2.5 lakh to a Mainpuri-based man to get this job. She used Anamika Shukla’s credentials to get the job while her real name is Priya, daughter of Mahipal, who is resident of Lakhanpur village of Kayamganj police limits in Farrukhabad district. Soron station house officer Ripudaman Singh said, “During interrogation, the accused initially claimed to be Anamika Singh, daughter of Subhas Singh. However, her documents are in the name of Anamika Shukla, daughter of Subhas Chandra Shukla. The accused claimed that she paid a hefty amount to a Mainpuri-based man for the job and was posted in Faridpur KGBV since August 2018.” According to the UP government, five more Anamika Shuklas have been found working in KGBVs in Ambedkar Nagar, Baghpat, Aligarh, Saharanpur and Prayagraj districts. Teachers in KGBV, a residential setup for girls from weaker sections of the society, are appointed on contract and are paid approximately Rs 30,000 per month. Each block in a district has one Kasturba Gandhi School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-first-of-25-anamikas-arrested-woman-claims-she-had-paid-rs-2-5l-for-job/articleshow/76238734.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 7, 2020||Meerut||UP: Smack worth Rs 4.5 crore stuffed in watermelons seized from Chandigarh-bound truck||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Acting on a tip-off, Shamli police seized 4.5 kg of smack — worth around Rs 4.5 crore — stuffed in watermelons from a truck that was on its way to Chandigarh from Bareilly. Police arrested the truck driver and helper, who claimed to have received Rs 50,000 for delivering the consignment. Police are hopeful that further information could lead them to the drug traffickers active in the region. According to police sources, the truck was caught near Bidoli check post on Saturday morning where a team from Jhinjhana police station was conducting a search operation. Sensing something wrong, the police stopped the truck carrying watermelons. During investigation, they found the watermelons stuffed with smack. Truck driver Shavez and helper Danish were arrested and brought to Jhinjhana police station. Both the arrested men have revealed that the consignment was handed over to them by two men who are residents of Bareilly. They were asked to deliver the consignment to Chandigarh. According to police sources, both the arrested men were given Rs 5,000 each for the job. This was not the first time the duo was on their way to deliver an illegal consignment. Shamli district SP Vineet Jaiswal said, “Jhinjhana police has recovered 4.5 kg of smack worth around Rs 4.5 crore from the international market. Further investigation is on. Action will be taken accordingly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/smack-worth-rs-4-5-crore-stuffed-in-watermelons-seized-from-chandigarh-bound-truck/articleshow/76238733.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mild earthquakes point to need for safety steps, says experts||NEW DELHI: With 13 earthquakes in less than two months, the National Capital Region (NCR) has shown an unusually high seismic activity. On April 12, a 3.5-magnitude temblor struck with its epicentre being in Delhi. Since then, a series of mild earthquakes have followed, all with epicentres in either Delhi, Faridabad or Rohtak, data from National Centre of Seismology (NCS) showed. The strongest of these was a medium-intensity earthquake, 4.5 on the Richter scale, on May 29 with the epicentre in Rohtak, which has recorded four earthquakes in quick succession. Historically, the region has seen earthquakes measuring 6 and above in magnitude, with the strongest in recent times being of 6.8 on the Richter scale at Mathura in 1803, seismologists said. An expert explained that agencies could use these earthquakes as an indicator that the region was active and better preparation was required for buildings, a majority of which weren’t capable of handling a seismic zone IV (severe) or zone V (very severe) earthquake. A K Shukla, former head of NCS, said that while there was no mechanism to forecast an earthquake, the mild ones could indicate that a local fault was active. “This can be taken as a warning to proactively initiate mitigation measures to make buildings more resistant. While the exercise of retrofitting buildings began a few years ago, it isn’t being done any-more,” he added. The entire NCR falls in seismic zone IV, with parts being in zone V. There are several fault lines, like Moradabad, Panipat and Sohna. “Delhi is likely to see an earthquake of 6.5 magnitude in the future, but we don’t know when. If a strong earthquake hits the Himalayas, the impact on Delhi can be severe, so one needs to be prepared,” Shukla said. A 2014 seismic hazard micro-zonation study found that almost 30% of the capital fell in zone V, making it vulnerable to tremors. “Several buildings are not even built according to the building code of seismic zone V, let alone zone IV. This means we urgently need modifications in the existing building code,” said Shukla. Since 1700, Delhi has recorded four earthquakes with a magnitude of 6 or greater.Dr Anshu Sharma, co-founder, Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society, an NGO, said these frequent earthquakes call for better preparedness. “Local earthquakes come from local fault lines, of which we have seven in Delhi-NCR. But there are lower chances of them triggering a mega earthquake. The major event waiting to happen will in all probability come from a different fault line in the Himalayas. We must immediately start implementing strict enforcement of the standards in all new construction. Critical and lifeline buildings and infrastructure, including hospitals, schools, fire stations, bridges and power and communication infrastructure must be retrofitted on priority,” said Sharma. J L Gautam, head of operations at NCS, told TOI that while the activity was unusual, it was non-linear and couldn’t be linked to another earthquake in the future. “One month may record four earthquakes and the next may not see even one. We cannot forecast an earthquake, but this can certainly allow agencies and the government to be better prepared and create awareness,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mild-quakes-point-to-need-for-safety-steps-experts/articleshow/76240328.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||Four nurses test Covid-19 +ve||Dehradun: Four staff nurses of a private hospital tested coronavirus positive on Saturday. The nurses supposedly got the infection from a pregnant woman who tested positive after her demise on May 25. They were moved to Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). Dr NS Khatri, Covid-19 nodal officer at GDMCH, said, “The district surveillance team is conducting contact tracing of these patients. Subsequently, it would be decided if other staffers of the hospital are to be quarantined.” He further informed that eight staffers of GDMCH have tested Covid-19 positive in the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-nurses-test-covid-19-ve/articleshow/76238753.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||After SIT, Amarinder Singh sets up excise reforms group||CHANDIGARH: A day after he announced an SIT to thoroughly probe the matter, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday further “tightened the noose” on illicit liquor traders in the state with the constitution of an ‘excise reforms group’ to break the nexus between producers, wholesalers and retailers. The five-member group has been asked to submit its recommendations on destroying any such nexus within 60 days, thus paving the way for elimination of illicit liquor trade and maximisation of the state’s excise eevenue, according to an official spokesperson. The group will comprise cabinet ministers Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Vijay Inder Singla, in addition retired IAS Officer D S Kalha, advisor financial resources V K Garg and secretary school education Krishan Kumar. Working in parallel with the SIT, which has been tasked with investigation into all aspects of the illicit liquor trade in the state, including complicity of excise department officials, the group will identify the gaps leading to revenue losses for the state due to such complicity. The group will come out with its suggestions on long-term legal and administrative reforms, after due diligence and consultations with the stakeholders. In this process, the reforms group may consider the suggestions/reports received earlier from finance minister on his visit to West Bengal and also from the previous local government minister. The spokesperson said the department of excise & taxation would provide requisite information and other assistance to the group to facilitate its functioning. The CM said despite various policy changes and measures by the excise department, the inadequate increase in excise revenue as well as illicit liquor trading remained a matter of concern. The outcomes of these measures had not been on expected lines, thus necessitating deeper examination of the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-sit-capt-sets-up-excise-reforms-group/articleshow/76240051.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal malls set to reopen to catch up on lost business||BHOPAL: Shopaholics stuff your wallets as city malls get ready to receive you from June 8. Even as their staff and managers were busy giving last-minute touches to ensure they don’t miss out on any safety norm, district collector, Tarun Pithode, held a meeting with top managers of the malls on Saturday to apprise them of the SOPs. While the mall operators are excited as they get back to business almost after two months, at least two of them are expected to remain shut. “We are not opening the mall on Monday, said manager of a Hoshangabad road-based mall, Sanjeev. Though another mall located in Misrod is expected to open a day later, from June 9. “We are very excited that it is finally opening up and have made all the preparations. However, many of our retailers have not come back yet. It is essential that all the stores are sanitised before they open for the shoppers and therefore we have delayed opening of the mall by a day,” said general manager Rahul Kumar.  The malls will be taking a number of measures like temperature check of the visitors at the entrance gate, allowing a limited number of people in common areas. Also, circles would be drawn to ensure social distancing. Even at the washrooms, alternate toilets would be allowed to use. Common spaces, stores entrance and exits would be well equipped with sanitisers. Mask is compulsory or entry will not be given. If anyone is checked with a higher body temperature, they shall not be taken in. Stickers and markings are also being made to create awareness among people and take all precautions. Sitting space in food courts has been reduced by half. New norms are in place for the the parking lots as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-malls-set-to-reopen-to-catch-up-on-lost-business/articleshow/76239345.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Agra||Officials, NGO come forward to rehabilitate Hazaribagh teen rape survivor||AGRA: Two days after a TOI report on a 14-year-old girl from Jharkhand, who was allegedly raped multiple times before finally escaping her tormentor by walking along with a group of marching migrants for three days and sometimes hiding in forests, the Hazaribagh district child protection unit and an NGO stepped in to provide financial, medical and legal aid to the survivor. The girl had crossed the Uttar Pradesh-Rajasthan border on May 30 along with her brother, sister-in-law and another Hazaribagh girl who was sold and raped multiple times before reaching Fatehpur Sikri and seeking police help. The Hazaribagh district child protection unit (DCPU) and NGO Breakthrough India have now come together to rehabilitate the teenager and fight her case. The Hazaribagh police also filed a zero FIR on Saturday and recorded the survivor’s statement before a magistrate. “My sister is still under severe trauma. She is reluctant to talk to anyone and refuses to stay alone. But we have decided not to return to Bharatpur under any circumstances,” the girl’s brother added. Hazaribagh DCPU officer Sanjay Prasad told TOI, “We will provide financial, medical and legal aid to the survivor. In such cases, we have to ensure that the best possible help should be provided to the victim.” Alok Bharti, the incharge of NGO Breakthrough India’s Jharkhand unit who coordinated with Jharkhand and Agra police for safe return of the three women, including the teenager, said, “We will also keep a constant tab on the teenage survivor. After the TOI report, people are coming forward to fund the girl’s education too. We are ready to provide every possible help to the girl even after she attains the age of 18.” Hazaribagh superintendent of police Karthik S, said, “The zero FIR and medical report of the victim will be sent to Kumher police station in Bharatpur district for further investigation, as the rape was committed there. We have got the survivor’s statement recorded in front of a magistrate.” The accused, Hardev Sharma, his wife Rekha Devi and Nandlal Yadav, have been booked under IPC’s section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/officials-ngo-come-forward-to-rehabilitate-hazaribagh-teen-rape-survivor/articleshow/76238758.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||MGM hospital reports first Covid-19 death||WARANGAL: MGM hospital reported its first Covid-19 death on Saturday. According to MGM hospital superintendent Dr Srinivasa Rao, a resident of Katrapally village in Huzurabad mandal of Karimnagar district, K Venkataiah, 65, was admitted to the severe acute respiratory infection ward on Friday night. His samples were collected and sent to Hyderabad tested positive. He died in the hospital on Saturday. MGM hospital officials instructed Karimnagar DMHO to take the body and carry out last rites, in keeping with government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mgm-hosp-reports-first-covid-19-death/articleshow/76239333.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||For paddy crop, Punjab farmers walk that extra mile to bring labourers back||BARNALA: Purnia, Motihari, Chapra and many other districts of Bihar may be far off places to an average Punjabi and many here may not be able to even correctly pronounce their names, but when it comes to getting migrant workers for paddy transplantation, anything is in the realm of Punjabi farmers. They are going all the way to these districts and spending lakhs on bringing them back. Similar is the case with districts like Pilibhit, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, etc in Uttar Pradesh, where the farmers are going to get the migrant workers back. A bus to any district of Bihar to bring back 35-40 persons costs between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.20 lakh, while those to relatively nearer districts of UP charge Rs 65,000-75,000. On arrival of some such buses in the villages of Barnala on Friday evening, the returning migrants were given hero’s welcome. At present, nearly a dozen buses from various villages of the district are in Bihar and UP. Immediately after their arrival, the migrant workers are tested for Covid-19 and they are not allowed to work or go to any locality till the report is out. They are kept at isolated motor rooms in the fields. Only after they test negative they would be allowed to work. Paddy crop, including basmati, is expected to be transplanted in 27 lakh hectare and a major part of it is to be transplanted manually. But, since migrant labourers have returned to their native places and not much means of transportation is there for their return, the farmers have started sending buses. BKU Lakhowal’s Barnala district president Jagseer Singh told TOI, “We have brought 65 migrant workers in two buses from Motihari in Bihar and Pilibhit in UP. Tests of all 65 workers were conducted at Barnala on Saturday and we will get reports on Monday. Till then they will stay in motor rooms in the fields.” Farmer Gurpreet Singh of Patti village, speaking to TOI over phone from Purnia, said half a dozen farmers have sent three buses to take back migrant workers and they are expected to start return journey on Sunday morning. Asked why they do not go for direct seeding of rice (DSR) instead of going to Bihar to bring labourers back, Gurpreet said, “DSR is not a good option for us. It gets much lesser yield. We also don’t have reach to machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/for-paddy-crop-punjab-farmers-walk-that-extra-mile-to-bring-labourers-back/articleshow/76240059.cms||Neel Kamal
June 7, 2020||Agra||CM Yogi Adityanath inaugurates power substation at Fatehpur Sikri||AGRA: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday morning inaugurated a 132/33 kilovolt (kV) power substation in the Fatehpur Sikri block of Agra district. The inauguration was done via video-conference. Later, the state government-owned discom Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitram Nigam limited (DVVNL) transferred the load to the substation. District magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh said, “The power station was developed by the Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL) with an investment of Rs 67 crore. It will improve electricity supply for over 1.5 lakh households in Fatehpur Sikri.” DVVNL staff officer SK Baghel said, “Earlier, the power supply in Fatehpur Sikri block was dependent on the Kirawali substation. Due to overloading, people were suffering from inadequate power supply. The new substation inaugurated by the CM will significantly improve the power supply in not only Fatehpur Sikri but also other areas connected to the Kirawali substation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cm-yogi-inaugurates-power-substation-at-fatehpur-sikri/articleshow/76238773.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Laid off, teacher sells bananas to make ends meet||NELLORE: At Vedaayapalem and other busy areas in Nellore town, Pattem Venkata Subbaiah ekes out a livelihood by selling bananas on a push cart. Till recently, the 43-year-old was a teacher of Telugu and Sanskrit at a corporate school. Speaking to STOI, Subbaiah said he was forced to carry out a petty trade to meet his family’s needs. Once the lockdown was imposed, the management of the corporate school where he was employed paid him 50 per cent of his salary till April and told him to bring in at least six to seven candidates for admission for the next academic year in order to be paid his salary for the next month and to continue in the same post after the lockdown. “Last year I was able to get the new admissions for my school apart from being employed in my regular service as a teacher, but this time I failed due to Covid-19 fear as nobody would allow me into their homes. The management then told me to discontinue my service from May. Having no other option, I started selling the bananas from May 20,” the former teacher said. Subbaiah, who lives with his wife and their two children, said he had 15 years of experience as a teacher and two postgraduate degrees. “I got a monthly salary of Rs 16,080 as a schoolteacher till recently. But now I am not able to earn even Rs 200 per day by selling bananas. Life has become bitter. I am ready to serve in any government work on a contract basis,” Subbaiah said, adding that he had borrowed Rs 3.5 lakh from a private financier for his son’s medical treatment.The loan requires him to pay a monthly interest of nearly Rs 8,000. When contacted, Nellore district educational officer M Janardhanacharyulu said “The issue has been brought to our notice. We will conduct a detailed inquiry into it. We have also instructed managements of private schools to pay salaries to staff without fail for the duration of the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/laid-off-teacher-sells-bananas-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76238776.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana issues SOPs for temples, malls, eateries||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Saturday released broad guidelines ahead of the opening of religious places, malls and restaurants from Monday across the state, barring Gurugram and Faridabad districts as well as containment zones. In view of a large number of positive cases being reported in Gurugram and Faridabad every day for the last 10 days, it was decided that no such activities would be allowed in the two districts. According to the guidelines for religious places, only individual prayers will be allowed and no physical offerings like prasad or distribution or sprinkling of holy water, etc will be permissible inside such places. It was decided that the community kitchens/ langars/ ann-daan, etc at religious places would be allowed, but physical distancing norms would be a must while preparing and distributing the food. Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services in the state have been allowed with generic preventive measures. Restaurants and hotels will have only 50% occupancy and no buffet service will be allowed. Only à la carte (ordering individually on the menu) services will be allowed and bars in the restaurants cannot operate. Room service or takeaways for dine in rooms will be also allowed. Banquet halls will also be able to operate with maximum of 50 guests at a time while following the formula of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-issues-sops-for-temples-malls-eateries/articleshow/76240060.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||TPF district chief held for Maoist links||WARANGAL: Warangal Urban district operations wing police on Saturday arrested TPF (Telangana Praja Front) district chief G Praveen Kumar and three others for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist party.  TPF state general secretary B Ramadevi and local leaders approached MLA V Sateesh Kumar regarding the TPF workers. The MLA contacted Kazipet ACP Ravinder and enquired about the arrests. TPF leaders urged that the police and district administration release the TPF workers immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpf-dist-prez-held-for-maoist-links/articleshow/76239348.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Status quo on Downtown project||Thiruvananthapuram: Two years after Technopark signed an agreement with Taurus Investment Holdings (TIH) to set up Taurus Downtown, the project has stumbled upon legal hurdles following Supreme Court order to maintain status quo pertaining to alleged reclamation and filling up of wetland. Taurus Downtown is set up by a venture between TIH and Embassy Property Development Holdings. Taurus Downtown is envisaged to create a world-class business infrastructure in Technopark. On completion, Taurus Downtown is expected to generate about 35,000 direct and 75,000 indirect employment. Supreme Court directed status quo based on petition filed by environmentalist Thomas Lawrence. He highlighted that reclamation and destruction of wetlands were in violation of Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008, as well as Central Wetlands Conservation and Management Rules, 2017, and directions of Supreme Court in M K Balakrishna case. The petition pointed out that Technopark had obtained a permission to convert a 19.75-acre wetland for their expansion activities from Government of Kerala on ostensible reason of “public purpose” of the project. Lawrence said this permission could not have been granted in light of a specific and categorical provision prohibiting conversion of wetlands under Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008. The bench of Supreme Court comprising Justice R F Nariman, Justice Navin Sinha and Justice B R Gavai issued the order of status quo while admitting the appeal filed by environmentalist Lawrence who was represented by senior advocate Anitha Shenoy. Lawrence had initially approached National Green Tribunal in 2018 seeking orders to stop the mass destruction of the Veli-Akkulam Wetland Complex and with a direction to restore and preserve the same. National Green Tribunal in October 2018 had directed district collector to consider the issue and take appropriate action. In April 2019, despite huge public opposition and concerns regarding flooding of the area due to the reclamation of these wetlands, as well as similar concerns of government officials including agricultural officer, Attipra ward council, as well as municipal corporation, no action was taken. This decision was challenged by Lawrence before NGT stating that the same was not in accordance with law as directed by the tribunal in October 2018. However, the tribunal did not consider any of the critical issues raised in the petition and closed the proceedings leaving no other option but to challenge the same in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/status-quo-on-downtown-project/articleshow/76238788.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bhopal||Those in 35 to 55 age group most hit by Covid-19 in Bhopal, reveals data||BHOPAL: A background analysis of active corona-positive cases reveals that Kamala Nagar, Hanumanganj, TT Nagar and Tilajamalpura are reporting a spurt in Covid-19 cases. A report by Bhopal smart city has listed a police station-wise sample to positive case percentage. Koh-e-Fiza and Hanumanganj have a 6% positive ratio for the total number of cases. In Bagh Sewaniya and Mangalwara, 5% of all tested turned out to be positive. “High-risk and so called high-risk people, who have met multiple people, have been generally tested for Covid-19. Where the number of positives is less, the sampling is targeted,” explained Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. He explained that Banganga area under TT Nagar has reported a bulk of the cases. “The situation in Banganga is worrying and measures are being taken to contain the spread. Many people have been relocated to other places,” he said. As for the most the number of cases being in the age group of 35 to 55, Dr Tiwari explained that this is the group which moves out in the open the most. “Overall, the impact of Covid-19 has been to high-risk people. The number of symptomatic and asymptomatic is an indicator. We have found that most people who were positive were asymptomatic,” he added. The district administration has also followed the new containment area periphery guidelines. A containment area, which was earlier a 2km radius, has been rationalised. Furthermore, containment days have come down from 21 to about 10 days, he said. Places like Jehangirabad, Aishbagh and Kotwali, which have reported the most number of cases, have a 4% positive ratio. Talaiya, Kamla Nagar, Ashoka Garden, Eitkhedi, Habibganj, Chunabhatti, Avadhpuri, TT Nagar and Shahjahanabad have a 3% ratio. Of the 1,747 Covid-19 positive cases analysed, the infection ratio among females was 37.32 % while it was 62.68 % among males. Jehangirabad, Aishbagh, Koh-e-Fiza, Mangalwara, TT Nagar, Hanumanganj, Ashoka Garden, Talaiya, Kamla Nagar, Misrod, Shahjehanabad, Bagsevaniya, Kotwali, Nishatpura, Govindpura, Kolar, Habibganj, Tilajamalpura, Gautam Nagar, Station-Bajaria, Bairagarh, Chhola Mandir, Shyamla Hills, Awadhpuri, Piplani, Ratibad, Eitkhedi, MP Nagar, Shahpura, Gautam Nagar, Khajuri Sadak, Chunabhatti, Gandhi Nagar, Berasia, Katara Hills, Sukhi Sewania, Bagh Sewania and Kolar Road have all reported Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/those-in-35-to-55-age-group-most-hit-by-covid-19-in-bhopal-reveals-data/articleshow/76239347.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||Trivendra Singh Rawat calls actor Sonu Sood, lauds him for helping stuck Uttarakhand residents||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had a telephonic conversation with actor Sonu Sood on Saturday. CM Rawat lauded the actor for arranging a chartered flight to ensure return of 173 Uttarakhand residents stuck in Mumbai. CM Rawat also posted a message on Facebook to praise the actor. The CM wrote that the efforts of Sood to help migrant workers return to their own states is praiseworthy. CM Rawat also invited Sood to visit Uttarakhand. The CM further wrote that during the conversation, the actor expressed his interest in shooting a movie in Uttarakhand while adding that the required support would be given to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-calls-actor-sonu-sood-lauds-him-for-helping-stuck-ukhand-residents/articleshow/76238791.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Concerns over cluster spread fade||Thiruvananthapuram: A good percentage of samples collected from containment zones in six panchayats in the district has yielded negative for Covid-19, slightly easing the nerves of authorities. Over 300 samples had to be collected from Nellanad, Pullampara and Vamanapuram panchayats covering over 90 wards after three remand prisoners tested positive for Covid-19. The chance confirmation of all these cases, coupled with an extensive travel history, had raised an alarm over apprehensions of a possible cluster outbreak. All wards in Nellanadu, Pullampara, Pulimath, Manickal, Vamanapuram and Mudakkal panchayats were declared containment zones as part of intensive contact tracing and surveillance. The authorities conducted sentinel surveillance in the area not just focusing on primary and high-risk contacts but also on people who visited primary health centres with influenza-like illness and respiratory infection. The officials said that the samples of high-risk contacts of the patients have been negative and other contacts have also tested negative, nullifying chances of a cluster spread or community transmission. The pattern has been more or less similar for Pothencode where Abdul Azeez had died of Covid in March. When his source of infection could not be traced, the team had embarked on containment and extensive collection of samples from over 230 contacts and none of them tested positive, ruling out chances of cluster spread. The authorities had done repeated swab collection in some cases after five days, considering the time period for onset of symptoms. None of the high-risk contacts had shown any symptoms and their results have also returned negative. In the case of an ambulance driver who tested positive at Navaikulam, the results of primary contacts, including his family members, have been negative. The officials said that the district has been able to check transmission via contacts of positive cases to a considerable extent so far. In March, three persons acquired infection through contact of a positive case and in April, two persons contracted infection through contact. However, there was a strong possibility of false positives in some cases, a reason by which the epidemiological investigation team could not trace the source of infection. So far, six persons have been infected by contact between May and June and in majority of the cases the source remains unknown. While officials are relieved that there are minimal chances of cluster spread, the source of infection among recently-infected cases continues to remain unknown. There have also been reports about doubts over positivity of Father K G Varghese who recently died of Covid. Although there was an equivocal opinion regarding the positivity, confirmatory test could not be carried out since the patient was dead before the first test results were received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/concerns-over-cluster-spread-fade/articleshow/76238827.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 surge continues unabated on Coast||Mangaluru/Udupi: The coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada combined accounted for 145 out of 378 positive cases that Karnataka recorded on Saturday, with Udupi accounting for 121 of those cases. However, there was some good news, as 104 patients were discharged from hospital after treatment, including 101 in Udupi and the rest in Dakshina Kannada. People who returned from Maharashtra contributed to the majority of the cases. Stressing on the discharge of 101 patients in hale-and-hearty condition, G Jagadeesha, deputy commissioner, Udupi, said 120 out of 121 positive cases in Udupi were its residents, and the other case–a person from Dakshina Kannada—has been referred to authorities there for treatment. “None of the patients in the district are critical or in need of ICUs, high flow oxygen or in need of ventilator,” he said, adding that more patients are lined up for discharge in the next two days. The day’s development saw Udupi still on top of the Covid-19 chart with 654 active cases. Jagadeesha said that since the Covid-19 testing laboratory adopted the pool testing method, the lab is still saddled with 422 swab samples, and the results of these will be known on Sunday. “We should see the last spurt of positive cases as far as the district is concerned, once these results come out,” he said. A total 233 patients have been discharged in the district thus far. Dr Prashanth Bhat, Covid-19 nodal officer, earlier at a DISHA meeting that Shobha Karandlaje, Udupi-Chikkamangaluru MP chaired, said an average 100 patients will be discharged daily after treatment in the next 72 hours. In all, 98% of the 889 positive cases were asymptomatic. The district collected 12,258 samples and reports of 10,992 samples were negative. There has been no recorded case of community transmission in the district thus far, Dr Bhat said. On the other hand, Dakshina Kannada district recorded 24 positive cases. These included 11 cases from those who had returned from Maharashtra, seven from United Arab Emirates, and one from Turkey. Authorities are tracing the source of infection of five patients, said Gayathri Nayak, in-charge of the Dakshina Kannada district bulletin. The district that has 167 recorded positive cases, saw 5 deaths due to Covid-19, one non-Covid-19 death and one death due to liver cirrhosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-surge-continues-unabated-on-coast/articleshow/76238790.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Nepal migrants forced to pay up to Rs 8,000 per person to return home||HYDERABAD: The India-Nepal border and state borders within the country that had been sealed for the past couple of months due to the lockdown started to reopen a few days ago, but the plight of migrant workers who were stranded here are far from over. Just on Friday and Saturday, at least 800 migrant workers from the Himalayan country were forced to shell out their life savings to hire buses on the national highway in Telangana to go back to their hometowns. One of them is Madan Poosa (30) from Dhangadhi city of Nepal who worked in a restaurant at Bengaluru. “I have put in all my savings to hire this bus which will take us up to Uttar Pradesh border. I will try to hire a free ride to Dhangadhi from there. We had to wait two months to go back to our country because of the restrictions at India-Nepal border and also Karnataka border. After facing all kinds of difficulties in these two months, I decided it was better to die in my own country in front of my family members than in a foreign land.” Madan, who was travelling with 30 other Nepalese migrant workers, stopped near Perkit junction in Telangana when they spoke with TOI. Also, hundreds who have trudged up to the highway from different parts of Telangana after losing their jobs, and waited hours for a free ride, are finally being forced to pool in up to Rs 8,000 per person to hire a bus on the highway. Speaking to TOI, Bahadoor Nene from Kathmandu who was working in a fast food center in Tirumalgherry said, “The government should have informed us about the lockdown at least a few days in advance. We couldn’t even find seat in the trains which were ferrying passengers up to Nepal border. I had to spend Rs 7,500 for a seat in this bus.” Bahadoor was lucky to get the seat on the bus because he stayed in a friend’s room during the last couple of months and saved the money. He usually pays for renting a room and food in Hyderabad. He said there are at least 600 Nepalese families in Hyderabad alone and many others are still stranded because they have no money to hire transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nepal-migrants-forced-to-pay-up-to-rs-8k-per-person-to-return-home/articleshow/76240072.cms||Moulika.KV
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Immigration fraud: Cops register 19 more cases in Ambala, Kurukshetra||AMBALA/KURUKSHETRA: After the arrival of second lot of deportees from the United States, including 66 natives of Haryana, on June 2 at Amritsar, the Haryana Police has registered 19 more cases of immigration fraud in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts over the last three days. The accused immigration agents allegedly charged Rs 6 to Rs 24 lakh in each case on the pretext of helping people settle abroad. According to information, a total of 66 deportees hailing from different districts of Haryana reached Amritsar from the US on June 2, and currently, they are in quarantine at a facility in Kurukshetra district. Kurukshetra public relations officer Narinder Singh said, "All the 66 deportees isolated at an institute in the district have tested negative for Covid-19 in their first tests." The FIRs were registered based on the complaints of deportees under Section 24 (offences and penalties) of the Emigration Act, and sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC at different police stations in the two districts. In the last week of May, a total of 27 FIRs were registered in these districts and many more elsewhere in Haryana after the arrival of first flight of US deportees from the state on May 19. Haryana director general of police (crime) P K Agrawal said, “These cases are being investigated by the special investigation team (SIT), which is working under the supervision of Karnal Range IGP Bharti Arora.” Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “A total of 11 new FIRs were registered in Ambala district on Thursday and Friday over immigration frauds. They were deported from the US and reached India at Amritsar on June 2.” In Kurukshetra, police PRO Roshan Lal said that eight FIRs have been registered in the district, including five on Thursday and three on Saturday and investigation has been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/immigration-fraud-cops-register-19-more-cases-in-ambala-kurukshetra/articleshow/76240064.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 7, 2020||Shimla||Urban local bodies should create own income: Jai Ram Thakur||SHIMLA: Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur said urban local bodies (ULB) should strive hard to create their own sources of income in order to accelerate the pace of development in their jurisdiction. CM Thakur was presiding over the review meeting of urban development department on Saturday. He said Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) was being implemented by the municipal corporations in Shimla and Kullu, and of the total allocation of Rs 304.52 crore, Rs 166.38 crore have been released for the project. He said the project envisages augmentation of water supply, water treatment plant, sewerage treatment plants, construction of drains, foot bridges, foot over bridges, developing parking, green spaces and parks. The chief minister also said that under the smart city mission, Shimla and Dharamshala, both popular tourist destinations, are being developed. Dharamshala has an outlay of Rs 2,109.69 crore and Shimla Rs 2,905.97 crore. Considering the role these ‘developed’ cities could play in attracting revenue as well as provide jobs during the pandemic times. The chief minister, Jai Ram Thakur, also directed the officers concerned to ensure time-bound completion of the projects. The CM said his government had recently launched Mukhya Mantri Shehri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojna to provide 120 days of assured unskilled employment to every household in urban areas. He also stressed on the need for developing an effective tax collection mechanism that will not only generate revenue to the municipalities, but will also ensure better civic amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ulbs-should-create-own-income-thakur/articleshow/76240061.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Happy that we helped people in their hour of need: Udupi DC||Udupi: From three to 889 Covid-19 cases in 23 days, this has been the rate of increase of the Covid-19 graph in Udupi, yet unfazed by this development, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha is confident that these cases, and the 121 new cases that the remaining 786 samples threw up on Saturday, will be treated, and people will be back in their homes by June 20. The district had recorded only three Covid-19 cases from March 29 to May 14, and saw the curve spike from May 15. With most of the 8,000 samples having been tested, what is your next strategy? The next focus is on family members of Covid-19 patients, who are now their primary contacts and presently under home quarantine. If symptoms emerge in them, they will be sent for institutional quarantine and tested, and if they test positive, then they will be shifted to the Covid hospital. Health workers will monitor primary contacts of 767 positive patients for symptoms, and health authorities will act based on their condition. What is the strategy to contain community spread? We have ramped up surveillance for severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like cases among the population, and even private hospitals have been strictly instructed to report any such case to the health department for follow-up action. Teams have been stationed at three railway stations in the district, and those coming from Maharashtra will be sent into institutional quarantine, and the rest into home quarantine. What is the action plan for next wave of returnees post June 15? We have set up gram panchayat to ward level task forces to handle the same. People coming from outside will be quarantined in their respective village or ward, and the respective task force will be vested with monitoring such people. How has the last week been for you professionally? I have the satisfaction that despite the challenges that the rising number of cases posed, the district administration has been able to give the 8,000-odd people who returned to their home district, especially from Maharashtra, a better quality of life and treatment, which they may not have got had they stayed back. They have propped up our economy in good times, and it is now our chance to help them in their hour of need, which we have done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/happy-that-we-helped-people-in-their-hour-of-need-udupi-dc/articleshow/76238808.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Proposed gathering at schools irks parents||VIJAYAWADA: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise, the school education department has issued a circular directing principals to gather students by Tuesday and collect their shoes sizes. School education commissioner Vadrevu China Veerabadhrudu on June 1 issued circular no. 16021/4/2019, directing principals to ensure students from Classes 1 to 9 came to school between 8 am and 12 noon on June 8 and 9 for having their shoe size measured. Principals were directed to upload the data by June 10. Parents and guardians, however, expressed doubts over sending their children to schools. “Gathering students in huge groups is not advisable as it will increase the risk of Covid-19 infection. We can understand the wish of the government to provide good quality dress and shoes to our children, but we cannot take risks,” said K Narayana, a parent from Aatkur village in Krishna district. State general secretary of Andhra Pradesh Teachers Federation (APTF) Hrudaya Raju told STOI, “We welcome the state government’s decision on improving infrastructure at government schools. But gathering a huge number of students at schools for implementation of schemes is risky for both students and teachers. The school education department should give at least five days’ time to collect the shoe size of students following social distancing.” The state government, with an eye on reforms in the education sector, is revamping government schools under its Nadu-Medu programme. The education department, which is looking to reopen schools from August 4, has decided to give uniforms and shoes to students under the Jagan Anna Vidya Kanuka scheme before the new session begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/proposed-gathering-at-schools-irks-parents/articleshow/76238799.cms||Venu Lanka
June 7, 2020||Patna||Work hard for polls: Chirag Paswan to partymen||PATNA: With assembly elections round the corner, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan held a videoconferencing with state working committee members of the party on Friday. Chirag told the party functionaries to work hard in all the 243 assembly constituencies to ensure victory of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates. JD(U), BJP and LJP are the three NDA allies in the state. The videoconferencing was attended by 115 of 122 members of LJP’s state working committee, including party’s state president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj. “If trends are any indication, the assembly elections are likely to be held in October- November this year without any delay. The LJP had in fact started preparations for the elections on all the 243 seats in the state in November last year for the benefit of all NDA allies,” Chirag said. He claimed that the NDA would form the next government in the state. Chirag had embarked on ‘Bihar First, Bihari First Yatra’ on February 21. The yatra, however, was cancelled in mid-March owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Chirag, the Lok Sabha MP from Jamui constituency, said the LJP has 31 lakh members in the state. LJP’s state president Prince Raj said meetings of various committees of the party have been held as part of assembly poll preparations. “The first round of meetings of various committees has now been completed. Booth level committees have also started preparations for the polls,” he said. LJP’s state minority cell president Ashraf Ansari said party’s patron and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has asked LJP functionaries and workers to make preparations for the assembly polls. “The IT section of the party has also been asked to gear up for digital campaigning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-hard-for-polls-chirag-to-partymen/articleshow/76222580.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 7, 2020||Vadodara||Tiktok video inside Sayajigunj police station: Two held||VADODARA: Two persons were arrested on Saturday for shooting a Tiktok video inside Sayajigunj police station and sharing it on social media. Although the video had been shot on April 16, police got into action only on Friday evening after the video made rounds on Facebook and WhatsApp groups. The accused duo – Salman Khan Pathan and Mohammed Arif Sheikh – was earlier arrested on April 16 on charges of violating public notification during lockdown. Police said that Sheikh had posted the video on his Tiktok profile on Friday evening and one of his acquaintances shared it on Facebook which made the video viral. The video starts with Sheikh standing as an accused in the modus operandi room of the police station and then wearing his shoes outside the lockup. The video ends with Sheikh climbing down the staircases of the police station in slow motion. Throughout the video, police siren is heard in the background. Interestingly, none of the staff members of the police station realized that a video is being shot clandestinely inside the police station despite presence of several CCTV cameras in the building. Police officials said that taking photos or recording video inside the police station without permission is prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tiktok-video-inside-police-station-2-held/articleshow/76238314.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Hill station-like weather in city after hot spell||Nagpur: After the hot spell in the end of May, Nagpurians are enjoying some lovely weather, giving the feel of a hill station. Temperatures have dropped to below 30 degrees Celsius — a deviation of more than 10 degrees. The city has already received 19% of average rainfall for the month of June. According to the officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the city has received around 31.3 millimetres (mm) rain this month till now. The normal rainfall for the city for the month of June is 166.3mm. “The month has just started. More rainfall is expected in the coming days,” officials said. Officials stated that a cyclonic circulation lying over east Vidarbha and neighbourhood, up to 0.9 kilometres above mean sea level is leading to rains. Heavy rains lashed the city on Friday night, and then again on Saturday afternoon. By evening, the city recorded 3.5mm rains. The maximum temperature of Nagpur came down to 35.3 degree Celsius, which was more than 6 degrees below the normal mercury levels. The minimum temperature was 22.8 degree Celsius. The lowest maximum temperature was recorded in Chandrapur at 32.9 degree Celsius. As per RMC’s forecast, cloudy weather with spells of rainfall is expected till June 12. The overall seasonal rainfall is likely to be 103% over Central India. “The beginning of monsoon is not expected before June 10,” officials stated. As per the met department’s forecast bulletin, southwest monsoon has advanced in some parts of interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hill-station-like-weather-in-city-after-hot-spell/articleshow/76240099.cms||Manka Behl
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: With ‘mehendi’ here and ‘sehra’ there, Lajpat Nagar ready to lay out a feast||NEW DELHI: This is a market which was defying a solution to its increasing footfalls and traffic congestion. Pedestrianization, widening of roads, orderly street-side parking and last-mile connectivity from the Metro station finally restored some order a year ago. Today, you could be excused for wondering what the hullabaloo was all about. Central Market, Lajpat Nagar, is now missing that hubbub since it opened on June 1 after complying with government guidelines. On a normal weekday, it used to get a footfall of up to 10,000 which would go up to 20,000 on weekends. Customers are now few and vehicles fewer, despite the Metro being closed, but hope has survived. As normal life resumes around the city, the market is waiting for its elusive customers. The shopkeepers take hope from people like this young couple, Akanksha and Manak, whose wedding in May was postponed to late June. They are at a wedding accessories shop, discussing their requirements with the manager. Manak tries out a sehra and Akanksha is quick to take out her smartphone and capture the moment. They had called the shop before coming. "We hope we can also start afresh soon,” says Amit, owner of the shop. “Right now, there is a lot of fear, and we are not going to the wholesale markets, but life has not stopped. We will continue to fight this pandemic together." The vicious virus has left its imprint everywhere. Row after row, mannequins here now wear face masks. These masks, available in vibrant colours, are a new item in the inventory of almost every garment shop and are displayed prominently. "We started keeping face masks because of the high demand. People who come to buy other essentials end up buying these masks," says Mukesh, manager of a store which deals in men's garments. Every shop – there are 1200, with 400 vendors – is now regularly disinfected, hand sanitisers placed at the entrance, and circles drawn on the pathways leading to the shops to ensure that social distancing is followed. The market, earlier frequented by bargain hunters, has a wide range of wares. Nearly everything is available here – from wedding clothes to utensils, linen to leather and footwear to stationery. The narrow lanes, that twist and turn without warning, are informally divided, each of them specialising in one category of goods. "Our business is not even two per cent of what it used to be earlier. Only regular customers from nearby areas have been coming out to shop. Most of them first call us to ensure that we are open," says Shashank, owner of Palji's, a popular boutique which sells women's clothes. Shashank has kept disposable gloves and face masks at the entrance. "People cannot buy clothes without touching them. But since there is a fear of infection, we have been asking customers to wear gloves if they want to gauge the quality of the material," he says. The itinerant vendors who appeared out of nowhere to offer irresistible deals have disappeared along with the bargain hunters. The edge of the market, which was once a maze of pushcarts, lies empty now. Hawkers who sold mobile phone covers, slippers and other knick-knacks have shut shop and left. The number of henna corners, made up of nothing but wooden boards and plastic stools, has reduced. "We haven’t had a single customer for the past three days. But we are still coming here because the wedding season will start soon and brides who come to shop here may book our services," says Nagendar Bind, who runs Raju Mehendi Corner. Bind, who had four people working with him, now comes to set up his shop alone. "They have all left for their village. It's just me now," he says. According to Bind, there were 22 such stalls earlier, each employing about six people, but only seven of them opened after the lockdown ended. That’s a beginning. A few fast food shops have opened as well. These display the message -- "Only takeaways allowed". But with some persuasion, you can go for a quick bite. The vendors have placed themselves outside a small park, whose benches are used by people to sit and eat. "Now, we even sanitise the currency notes that people hand out to us," says Shyam, who sells chhole kulche, in a persuasive manner. Other food joints, however, have not been so lucky. Chetan Gupta, who ran a 'Chaat Corner' in the middle of the market, has switched to selling children's clothes for now. "People who came to the market would often stop at our shop, but even before the lockdown began, business had slowed down," he recalls. Gupta wants to return to his original business of 35 years. Most of the labourers who worked at his shop have gone back to their villages recently. "We earlier employed 15 people, some for cooking and the others for serving and cleaning dishes. I am still in touch with them and we hope to get them back when swe open the food stall again," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-mehendi-here-and-sehra-there-lajpat-nagar-ready-to-lay-out-a-feast/articleshow/76240333.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Understaffed, spiritless Diu sees no cheer in reopening||RAJKOT: Diu, despite being so near may be in reality quite far for all those revellers who are impatiently waiting for the watering hole to open its gates. Reason 1: Around 1,500 migrant workers in the UTs, mostly from Odisha and Uttarakhand, employed in the hotels and restaurants in Diu have gone home. Reason 2: Diu is open, its bars aren’t as this didn’t get permission to open shutters. Reason 3: A labyrinthine procedure consuming nearly 3-4 hours for tourists to enter the territory. So like Kirit Vaja, a resort owner, many others are echoing same fears: “I believe that for Diu hotel industry it will be a tough time till Diwali!” Meanwhile, hotel owners in the union territory are flooded with booking inquiries after the central government allowed the reopening of the hospitality services from June 8. They rue that despite being paid salaries and providing food during lockdown, the migrant workers, especially the trained-staff of the hotel industry, left after special trains were started. Large number of Nepalis, too, left due to border tension recently. To add to these woes, there is no permission to sell liquor in the prominent watering hole. The owners claim that opening the hotels is meaningless if the bars stay closed. According to the interpretation of the notification of unlock-1, the liquor shops have permission but licensed bars have no permit. Diu being a tourists place all restaurants are combined with bars. Only eight wholesale liquor shops in Diu have permission to open. If that was not all, rules have been tightened for entry post pandemic. A tourist is now required to obtain an e-pass to get entry into Diu. After successful submission of e-pass, the tourist has to stand in a queue at the Diu checkpost for long hours, and, if he or she fails to pass the medical screening successfully, the Diu story ends there unsuccessfully. “April, May and June are the peak months of business and we have lost it. Most of the hotels will not start functioning from June 8,” said Yatin Fugro, president of Diu Hotels Association. The 63 hotels now have nearly 15-20% staff including gardeners, sweepers, pool attendants, but no trained-staff. “It’s not easy to start hotel with staff-shortage. I am getting lots of queries for booking, but I asked them to wait because I don’t know when will I be able to start the resort full-fledged,” said Ramjibhai Parasmani, owner of a prominent resort. According to hotel owners, there are many foreign tourists who prefer to visit Diu and are getting booking for 2021 but not for 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/understaffed-spiritless-diu-sees-no-cheer-in-reopening/articleshow/76238850.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Teacher found dead in stream||Thiruvananthapuram: In an unfortunate incident, a government schoolteacher, who is part of the First Bell programme of state government delivering online classes for school students, was found dead in a stream at Palode here on Saturday. Binukumar, 43, of ‘Atham House’, Payattadi near Pacha, under Palode police station limits is the deceased teacher at Government UP School, Vithura. He had also handled a session on mathematics for class VII, which was telecast on Victers television channel owned by the government. Education minister C Raveendranath expressed condolence over the teacher’s death. According to the police, the body was found in the stream near Palode junction around 7am. The police had registered a case the night before and had been searching for him after his wife filed a man-missing complaint when he failed to reach home. His body was found around 2km away from home. Palode sub-inspector L Samraj said that the teacher could have slipped and fallen into the stream. “The stream flows near his house and one needs to cross a small concrete bridge with no safety railings to reach the residence. It was raining heavily on Friday night and we suspect that he could have slipped and fallen, banging his head against the rocks beneath the bridge,” the SI said. Binukumar was at home on Friday and went out to meet his friend Aji, who owned a tuition centre at Palode. They met at the tuition centre and Aji dropped him at Payattadi around 9:30pm. Aji told police that when he last saw Binukumar he was walking towards the house with the help of his mobile phone torch as it was too dark due to the heavy rain. The body of the teacher was handed over to the family after postmortem. He leaves behind wife Krishnapriya, also a teacher, and daughter Devananda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/teacher-found-dead-in-stream/articleshow/76238912.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu-origin Americans play active role in Black Lives Matter stir||HYDERABAD: Swati Rayasam (29) was among the several Americans of Telugu origin who took to the streets protesting the brutal killing of George Floyd by the Minneapolis police. Rayasam, a public health professional with the University of California, San Francisco, raised slogans such as “South Asians for Black lives” at a protest in Oakland. She helped mobilise at least 50 others through the Alliance of South Asians Taking Action (ASATA). “Our very existence in this country is because of the resistance of black activists,” she said. Rayasam was speaking about the Hart–Celler Act passed in 1965 which abolished the National Origins Formula, allowing many Asians to make the US their home. Gauthami Penakalapati (32) participated in three protests in Oakland. “As a person who is young and able bodied, I felt I could get onto the streets even during the pandemic. There is an anti-blackness in the South Asian community. I have seen people speaking in code around African-Americans, implying they are dangerous, essentially inheriting the biases of past overlords,” she said. Penakalapati’s parents are from Andhra Pradesh and the PhD student from UC Berkley was born there. In New York, Rajesh R (name changed), a student, was at the protest at Brooklyn bridge this week. He had no plans to participate, but once he heard loud chants of “I can’t breathe”, he just went with the swarm of protesters. “This was history in the making that no classroom can teach us,” he said. Though coronavirus pandemic has held back many others, Telugu leaders in the US say a more decisive voice may be heard during the elections later this year. Former Indian-American ambassador Vinai Thummalapally said, “The Indian-American community is known to tilt towards democrats 70:30, but this time I would see this further steepen to 80:20.” Agreeing, Jayant Challa, Board of Trustee, American Telugu Association, said, “While some reports said President Trump’s visit to India may see a shift towards Republican party, with the Covid-19 deaths and the protests there is likely to be continued support for democratic candidates.” The younger generation too is speaking about making informed choices. Thummalapally’s 31-year-old daughter Sharanya said, “There no one-fix solution. It is our duty to be informed so that we can make the right choices at the ballot even at the local level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-origin-americans-play-active-role-in-black-lives-matter-stir/articleshow/76240106.cms||Uttara Varma
June 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Prices likely to fall as fish catch surges in DK coast||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district has recorded an increase of over 11,000 tonnes in fish catch in 2019-20 compared to previous year. In 2018-19, the district had recorded 1,59,852 tonnes of fish catch worth Rs 1,716 crore. In 2019-20 the fish catch was1,71,692 tonnes valued at Rs 2,031 crore. The district recorded an increase of 11,840 tonnes in fish catch in the last fiscal year ended on March 31. The difference in the quantity of fish catch and the value is very large compared to the statistics of nine years ago. In 2011-12, the quantity of fish catch was 1,37,435 tonnes valued at Rs 641crore. The fish catch has increased by 34,257 tonnes and the value jumped to Rs 1,390 crore between 2011-12 and 2019-20. The increase is recorded despite fishing season being not too good for the fishermen, who had to face difficulties due to threat from Okhi, Kyarr, Maha cyclones. However, spread of Covid-19 did not affect the financial year as lockdown began in India only in the last week of March. Officials of the fisheries department expect an ease in the prices of fish due to the increase in the catch. Meanwhile, the central government has reduced the annual 61-day deep-sea fishing ban period to 47 days. Accordingly, fishermen engaged in deep-sea fishing in the Karnataka coast will get additional 14 days for activities. The new ban period along the West coast is from June 15 to July 31. Fisheries department deputy director P Parshwanath told TOI that the increased human efforts combined with technology helped fishing industry see growth in the district. “Fishing effort has increased and the investment in the industry also gone up. Similarly, the number of boats and fishermen also has increased considerably. As a result, fish catch is good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/prices-likely-to-fall-as-fish-catch-surges-in-dk-coast/articleshow/76238852.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Unused funds recalled for want of Centre aid: HM||Chandrapur: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the Centre has failed to provide necessary grants needed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, prompting the state government to take measures like recalling funds unused at district-level. Deshmukh was in Chandrapur on Saturday to review the law and order and Covid-19 situation. The state finance department wide GR May 4 had asked all departments to return unspent money to the treasury. Chandrapur district returned Rs47 crore unutilized for ambitious Chanda to Banda scheme. Data regarding sum returned by other departments in the district are still being gathered. Deshmukh told TOI that that the centre paid no heed to chief minister’s repeated demand for funds during video conferencing held with the Prime Minister. According to the minister, 10,000 inmates have been released from prisons in the state so far. He further said eight jails in the state have been put under total lockdown. On why the district administration failed to allocate funds during initial stages of coronavirus outbreak at gram panchayat level, district collector Kunal Khemnar replied that the GPs were told to first utilize funds already at their disposal. “Now, Rs25,000 per gram panchayat has been sanctioned,” the collector said. After ease in restrictions on movement, 74,755 people have arrived in Chandrapur from other districts of Maharashtra and other states. Most of them are migrant labourers who returned to their native villages under gram panchayats. District administration had distributed all its grants for Covid-19 crises to municipal corporation, municipal councils and Nagar Panchayats, while no funds were given to GPs which faced a tough time arranging for institutional quarantine and other facilities of the returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unused-funds-recalled-for-want-of-centre-aid-hm/articleshow/76240107.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 7, 2020||Mysuru||Chikkamagaluru is Covid-free||Chikkamagaluru: Following the discharge of two patients on Saturday, the last of the 16 positive cases reported in the district, Chikkamagaluru has become Covid-free. Speaking to reporters, Chikkamagaluru DC Bagadi Goutham confirmed that the district has become free of Covid-19 following the discharge of last two of the 16 patients recorded positive in the district. All of the discharged patients have been instructed by the health department officials to remain under home quarantine for seven days, he added. The officials also confirmed two cases — that of a medical official and a pregnant woman — were misdiagnosed and were found to be nots infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chikkamagaluru-is-covid-free/articleshow/76238833.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Two persons killed in separate accidents||Nagpur: Two persons, including a senior citizen, were killed in separate accidents in the city on Friday. In the first incident, Balkrushna Wasnik, 62, was knocked dead by a speeding car at Seminary Hills. According to the police, Wasnik was standing near a complex when Prakash Adhau’s vehicle hit him. Before that, the killer car rammed into two parked vehicles. Passers-by, who witnessed the incident, informed the police control room. Meanwhile, Wasnik was rushed to a hospital but in vain. Gittikhadan police have registered a case against Adhau for rash driving and death due to negligence. In another incident, Ganesh Uyke, 25, was killed in an accident after the trolley of the tractor on which he was seated, suddenly turned and fell on him near Lakhnapur Shivar. According to the police, Uyke was sitting on the trolley with one Yogesh Dongre. The tractor was driven by Ankush Durve. The incident happened when the trio was heading to Amgaon Deoli. Uyke was crushed under the trolley and sustained injuries due to the iron rod. He died on the spot. Hingna police have registered a case against driver Durve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-persons-killed-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/76240110.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 7, 2020||Kolhapur||18 high-risk zones identified in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Municipal commissioner of Kolhapur’s civic administration Mallinath Kalshetti said that based on the data from Arogya Setu app, the Indian Council of Medical Research has declared 18 potential high- risk zones in the city. Mangalwar Peth, Rankala, Pachgaon, Shivaji University, Rajarampuri, Pratibha Nagar, Udyamnagar, Kasba Bawda, Lakshmipuri, R K Nagar, Ruikar Colony and Shukarwar Peth are some of the high-risk zones. Speaking to TOI, Kalshetti said that most of the people coming in from the red zones were lodging in the quarantine facilities developed in the aforementioned areas. “These people have been asked to download the mobile application and feed in the data about their health status. Some of the high-risk zones are slum areas where we have appointed nodal officers to conduct door-to-door survey of and identigy senior citizens or those having comorbid conditions,” said Kalshetti. “Currently, we are not letting people leave for their home till they complete the quarantine course. They have to stay in isolation at home atleast for seven days,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/18-high-risk-zones-identified-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76238022.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Staff shortage dulls shine of silver ornament-making biz||Kolhapur: Even after over a month of the government allowing industries to start operations, only 600 of the 3,000-odd silver ornament making units in Silver Town in Hapuri have started functioning. The town — some 20km from Kolhapur city — is known for making silver ornaments for 150 years. Around 10,000 people, who make up 80% of the families in the town, are involved in crafting the various designs in silver. The payals and other jewellery of various designs crafted here have demand across the country. M T Desai, expert associated with the local association of silver makers, said, “There is no demand for silver ornaments as the big markets in the city are shut due to lockdown. We are also facing difficulty in getting raw silver, which we procure from other parts of the country.” Another reason affecting the industry is that most of the migrant workers have returned to their home states. Workers from Agra, Rajkot and Salem adept in soldering, designing and bead making are in high demand among the local units in Hapuri. Dinkarrao Sase, director of Hupari Silver Makers Association, said, “To address the issue of shortage of skilled labour, we have started training the locals here. Around 200 workers are being trained in batches. We have to take stock of the situation now or it will become very difficult for us to survive in this business.” According to the association, there are around 1,000 skilled migrant workers, besides unskilled workers, working in these silver-ornament making units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/staff-shortage-dulls-shine-of-silver-ornament-making-biz/articleshow/76238016.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘For school reopening, take parents’ views’||CHANDIGARH: A city-based advocate has sent a legal demand notice to the UT administration for including public and parents’ representatives in the committee constituted to decide on reopening of schools. Advocate Pankaj Chandgothia said, “It is learnt that the education department has constituted a committee to take decision on reopening of schools, but parents’ representatives have not been included.” It has been, therefore, requested to include at least five representatives of parents and two public-elected representatives, so that they could deliberate and discuss the viewpoints of all the stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/for-school-reopening-take-parents-views/articleshow/76240108.cms||Neha Sharma
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||82% parents don’t want schools to start||Hyderabad: With no respite in Covid-19 situation, many parents in the city are concerned about sending their children to schools immediately. In a survey conducted by Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA), it has been revealed that 82% of parents are not ready to send their children to schools until there is some cure or vaccine for the coronavirus. The findings of the survey, in which 1,118 parents participated, also suggest that most schools are not complying with GO 46 which states that the schools shall not increase any kind of fees during academic year 2020-21. The HSPA members said that despite instructions from the government that non-compliance with GO 46 will result in appropriate action against the school management under relevant acts/rules, many schools continue to flout the rules. Speaking to TOI, Seema Agarwal, vice-president, HSPA said, “Despite government instructions, nearly 60.6% parents said that their ward’s school is not complying with GO 46. Also, a majority of them are not ready to send their children to school especially as there is a rise in the number of cases.” The survey also indicated that 99% of schools are charging the entire fee along with tuition fee and other charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/82-parents-dont-want-schools-to-start/articleshow/76240113.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali ready to step into Unlock 1.0, with caution||MOHALI: Under the Unlock 1.0 phase, the Mohali administration has allowed to open places of worship, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls – albeit significant safeguards. There will be no dine-in facilities in restaurants and eateries. Only home deliveries and takeaways will be allowed. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, while issuing orders for Unlock 1.0, said community food will not be served at places of worship across the district until further orders. The relaxation under Unlock 1.0 will come into force from Monday. The DC said places of worship will be opened between 5 am and 8 pm. Only 20 devotees will be allowed at a time. “The temple authorities will have to take care of proper sanitisation of the premises. Each devotee will have to pass through the sanitisation process. The place where devotees would bow to pay their obeisance must also be sanitised every time. No community food or prashad will be served to devotees,” he said. Restaurants and bars in hotels will remain closed, but food will be served to guests in hotel rooms. There will be no dine-in facility at any restaurant or eatery, however, takeaways and home deliveries will be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-ready-to-step-into-unlock-1-0-with-caution/articleshow/76240104.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Only city residents at Delhi govt, pvt hospitals||New Delhi: The Delhi cabinet on Sunday decided to reserve the admission of patients to state government-run and private hospitals to only the residents of the city based on the fear that the limited Covid-19 beds may get occupied by people from the neighbouring states.Hospitals run by the Centre and super-speciality health facilities providing treatment for oncology, neurology, among other ailments, can continue to admit patients from other states. Medico-legal victims of road accidents and acid attacks, irrespective of their place of residence, that have occurred within Delhi will also get treatment in state-run hospitals.Delhi government also decided to open the state borders that were closed last week despite the Centre lifting restrictions on the movement of people. The move was taken to prevent patients from other states from getting admission in hospitals in the capital.Officials said patients would have to provide an address proof, such as Aadhaar, passport, voter ID, electricity or water bill, bank passbook, among other documents with a Delhi address, to get treatment in the state-run and private health facilities. Those without an address proof would have to approach hospitals run by the Centre.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the decision to reserve Delhi government’s hospitals was based on over 7.5 lakh suggestions received from people and the report submitted by the five-member expert committee led by Indraprastha University’s vice-chancellor Dr Mahesh Verma.“All Delhi hospitals were open for patients from across the country till March, but the decision to reserve beds was taken due to the surge in the number of Covid-positive cases in the past few days. Delhi government is working relentlessly to arrange for more beds for the city’s residents. If we get more cases, where will we accommodate them?” Kejriwal asked.The CM added that 90% of suggestions were that till the Covid-19 situation existed, Delhi hospitals should be reserved for the city’s residents. In 2018, Delhi government in a pilot project had decided to give preference to Delhiites at state-run GTB Hospital, but Delhi high court had set aside the circular after a petition was filed against it.“At any given time, 60-70% of patients in Delhi hospitals are from other states and treatment is not denied to anyone. But right now Covid cases are increasing. This is why I asked for suggestions,” Kejriwal said.The expert committee, while considering the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, in its analysis stated that by the end of June Delhi would need nearly 15,000 beds for patients infected by the novel coronavirus. “If we open the hospitals for all, the 9,000 Covid beds will be filled within just three days,” said the CM.“There is a need to maintain a balance. Delhi government hospitals have around 10,000 beds and Centre’s facilities another 10,000. For now, we have decided that 10,000 beds of state hospitals will be reserved for the city’s residents. The beds of central government health facilities and private hospitals providing special treatments and surgeries will be open for all,” added Kejriwal.As of now, five Delhi government hospitals have been earmarked to treat Covid-positive patients. Several private hospitals have also been fully or partially converted into Covid-designated facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/only-city-residents-at-delhi-govt-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76251696.cms||Atul Mathur
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||TOI Impact: Minor girls shiftedto room closer to mom & sister||Yavatmal: After a TOI report highlighted their plight on Saturday, the three minor daughters of the goldsmith from Mudhana, who died of Coronavirus on June 2, were shifted to a large room at GMC Yavatmal, just opposite the isolation ward where their virus positive mother is admitted. Their fourth sister is also housed on the same premises. The deceased man has four daughters — Janvi, Pallavi, Vaishnavi and Pooja. On June 3, one of the girls was accommodated in a special room near her mother’s ward.The remaining girls were quarantined in the Mahagaon based Covid-19 Care Centre along with 40 others. The girls were unaware of the fate of their parents and hence continued to sob for three days, confirmed civil surgeon Dr Tarangthushar Warey. There was a smile on the faces of the three girls after they caught a glimpse of their mother and fourth sister. “We have taken the swab samples of all the four girls and sent them to the local VDRL. We’ll get the reports by Sunday,” said dean Dr R P Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/toi-impact-minor-girls-shiftedto-room-closer-to-mom-sister/articleshow/76240118.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolhapur||First plasma therapy for Covid-19 successful in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai on Friday said the first attempt of treating a Covid-19 patient using plasma therapy in Kolhapur’s Chhatrapati Pramilaraje (CPR) hospital has been successful. The therapy, which was conducted last week, involves using plasma derived from the blood of a coronavirus patient recovered in April to treat another positive patient. The plasma of the recovered patient contains antibodies that fight Covid-19 infection when injected into the bloodstream of a positive patient. Claiming the experiment as a huge success, Desai said that the recent patient on whom the therapy was performed tested negative for the test. The test was conducted three days after the therapy. The patient is yet to be discharged from the hospital. The plasma therapy has been approved by the central government for treating critically-ill patients as well as those with morbid conditions. The machine to derive plasma from the recovered Covid-19 patient was made available at the CPR hospital. In addition, the recovered patients volunteered to donate blood so that the stock of plasma is maintained. Doctors at CPR hospital said that many patients, including those suffering from coronavirus, can be treated using plasma therapy, thereby reducing the death count to a great extent. Varun Bafna, haematologist at CPR hospital said, “We used the plasma of a recovered Covid-19 patient for treating another patient who later tested negative in repeat tests. The patient is currently in sound condition and out of danger. Before the therapy, the patient was critically ill. Along with plasma therapy, we are also using routine treatment regime to recover the patients. It is a big step for us and we hope to carry out similar attempts in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-plasma-therapy-for-covid-successful-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76238028.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hubballi||Special exam rooms for migrant workers’ kids||Belagavi: About 780 children of migrant workers will take the SSLC examinations at dedicated rooms specially earmarked for them in Belagavi and Chikkodi educational districts. The district administration, particularly the education department, has set up exclusive exam centres for these children keping in mind social distancing and their travel history. Several hundred families have returned to the district from Bengaluru, Mysuru, Udupi, Mangaluru and other regions. Identified as potential carriers of virus, the education department has decided to house children separately. It must be noted that these children have also opted for change of centres. In Belagavi educational district there are 400 such students and in Chikkodi 380. Many centres have been already earmarked for accommodating the children. Besides, students who are found to be suffering from mild Covid related symptoms will take exams all alone in reserved rooms. Chikkodi DDPI said 35 centres have been earmarked. Twenty special centres are readied in Belagavi and 15 in Chikkodi. "There are adequate number of masks, hand sanitisers for the children to use. The children will be seated in such a way that there will be a gap of 3 feet between each student," he said. An SSLC student who has returned from Mysuru along with his parents told ToI that he was relieved after the state allowed to change centres. His parents who work as construction workers were in Mysuru since 2012. Now he will be taking the exam at a special centre in Sadalaga taluk. SSLC nodal officer, Mahadev Bellannavar said the department will run a health check on students before they enter the examination hall. "If we find any student has any Covid-like symptoms, he/she will be shifted to reserved rooms to write the exam alone," he said adding that the department is carrying out exams as per the SoP issued by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/special-exam-rooms-for-migrant-workers-kids/articleshow/76238858.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||No high for restaurants: Fine wining, dining not on menu||New Delhi: Despite lockdown relaxations, restaurateurs in the capital aren’t feeling very optimistic. Referring to the rules announced by Delhi government on Sunday, Dinesh Arora, president of Delhi Restaurants and Club Association, said that with these norms and mounting financial losses, restaurateurs would prefer to keep their outlets closed than incur more losses from the first day of reopening.Arora said he expected the government and the landlords to stand by the industry that had been paying duties and rents regularly, and was now facing unforeseen hardships.The rules will not enthuse lounges, restaurants and bars serving alcohol to reopen before August, said Arora. The authorities will have to support the industry as business will be very low for the next six months, he suggested.Without naming anyone, the restaurateur who runs popular brands Unplugged Courtyard and La Roca claimed he knew about at least 200 outlets that would shut this month.Echoing his sentiment, Joy Singh of Yeti and Raasta said the current rules made sense for bakeries, cakeries and QSR brands serving pizzas and burgers to reopen. While he has started delivering from one outlet, Singh has no immediate plan to reopen his lounge. “This is the time to rethink our strategies. We devised our lounges as places for people to unwind and enjoy. Without alcohol permission and restriction on timings, it will be difficult to reopen.” Akshay Anand of Ophelia and Toy Room said reopening after a closure of almost three months was almost similar to starting a restaurant — the space will need to be renovated, staff will have to be hired again and fresh ingredients will be required. With the market sentiment being at its lowest, Anand doesn’t see many restaurateurs willing to take the risk of investing in reopening.Even if one goes ahead, Varun Puri of Imly and Duty Free Bar said, the fear of virus will keep a restaurateur anxious as any staff testing positive will mean shutting it down again. Citing his own example, he said his delivery of Indian fast food started off well but dipped immediately after the news of a pizza delivery boy testing positive caused panic and he had to close it for 15 days. He also rues lack of support from malls despite being one of the highest revenue generators for a mall brand in Delhi, Noida and GurgaonChef Jatin Mallick of Tres said that for deliveries to work, menus would have to be tweaked. Rohit Aggarwal of Lite Bite Foods also felt brands would have to work on their delivery models and invest in hygiene and packaging. He also said his dine-in places would be ready to reopen within three days of the official order.Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle Restaurants said with closed AC spaces being discouraged, the authorities should think about reopening terraces or giving public places to restaurants. If concerns such as timings, alcohol service and waiver of rents and duties are not immediately addressed, almost 50% of outlets will never reopen, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-high-for-restaurants-fine-wining-dining-not-on-menu/articleshow/76251699.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Junk hospitalization rule for Covid test or face contempt’||AHMEDABAD: City-based doctors’ body Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) has sought explanation from the state health department over its order on Covid-19 testing dated June 2. The AMA wrote a letter to Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) on June 5, requesting again to revise the condition that a person needs to be hospitalized if he/she wants to be tested. In a new notification on testing issued on June 2 by Dr Prakash Vaghela, additional director, health, it was mandated that any patient being tested for Covid-19 should be admitted to a hospital, ‘keeping in mind the possibility of infection.’ ‘The doctor would discharge patients only after the test turns out to be negative. If the result is positive, the treatment protocol for Covid-19 must be followed,’ added the directive. The new rules came into force after the Gujarat high court directive on testing and also exempted six categories from prior permission for testing at private laboratories. Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, in the letter to Ravi wrote that she had written a letter on the same date requesting the authorities to revise the condition. She also had a word with Ravi who had said that she would ‘consider it.’ ‘The honourable high court in its order has nowhere stipulated that for Covid-19 testing one needs to be hospitalized/ admitted till the report is received,’ stated the letter. ‘The non-deletion of this condition from the above-mentioned government order is a clear attempt to defeat the very purpose of the honourable high court’s direction and hence you are again requested to delete the provision of hospitalization/ admission for Covid-19 testing immediately failing which we will be left with no other option but to file a contempt application in the high court.’ “We are still to hear from the state government on the issue,” Dr Desai told TOI. “Several doctors have complained to us that the practice is putting Covid negative patients who need a confirmation test in danger of coming in close contact with Covid positive patients.” Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that their association has already sent a letter to Ravi on Friday on the same issue echoing the concern. “Why is the state government going against the tide and insisting on controlling the conditions of testing when all leading countries and states are not mandating permission for the same?” asked Dr Gadhvi. “When the state and city are experiencing a surge in case numbers, quicker identification and treatment is the only way to ensure flattening of the curve and of reducing fatalities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/junk-hospitalization-rule-for-covid-test-or-face-contempt/articleshow/76239440.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali braces to tackle locust attack||MOHALI: The local administration has braced itself to face locust attack. Teams have been constituted at district and block levels to initiate preventive measures and farmers will be advised to spray effective insecticides to repel swarms. DC Girish Dayalan said teams have been constituted under the supervision of assistant commissioner (General - ACG) Yashpal Sharma. He has been directed to formulate strategies and review preparedness in the district. Dayalan said, “Swarms of locusts were spotted in two border villages of Punjab’s Fazilka district, prompting the state agriculture department to sound a high alert. Emanating from Pakistan, swarms of pests — three to four km long and one km-wide — settled on trees in these border villages. In anticipation of attack, we have chalked out plans to tackle the menace.” ACG Sharma chaired a meeting with officials and shared the action plan prepared by the agriculture and farmers welfare department. He has constituted teams at the district and block level to implement the same effectively. The teams have been asked to monitor locust movement and prevent an attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-braces-to-tackle-locust-attack/articleshow/76240120.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government may reserve its hospitals for residents||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is likely to reserve its hospitals for the residents of Delhi till the city is battling the novel coronavirus pandemic, while the central government hospitals may continue to remain open for patients from across the country. A final decision is, however, yet to be taken. It is being done to ensure that outside patients do not overwhelm the Covid infrastructure in Delhi which has reported over 27,000 positive cases so far. The sealed Delhi borders are also likely to be opened after an announcement over reservations in the hospitals is made. The state government has received over 7.5 lakh suggestions from Delhiites on the issue and a final decision is likely to be announced on Sunday. Many people have favoured reserving the Delhi government hospitals for the people of Delhi. “I liked a suggestion given to us that the Delhi government hospitals should be reserved for the people of Delhi and Centre-run hospitals should be open for people from across the country. This is a balanced decision. But, a final decision is yet to be taken,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal stated during an interview with a news channel. Meanwhile, a five-member doctors’ committee has recommended that the health infrastructure in the capital should be used only for the residents of Delhi which is witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. The committee has also stated that the hospitals will reach 100% capacity within three days if patients from outside are allowed to use the capital’s health infrastructure. The committee was formed by Delhi government to assess overall preparedness of health facilities to fight Covid-19 cases and suggest measures to augment health infrastructure in the capital. It was headed by IP University’s vice-chancellor Dr Mahesh Verma and other members of the team included Dr Sunil Kumar, medical director of GTB Hospital; Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council; Dr RK Gupta, former president of Delhi Medical Association; and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director of Max Hospital. The report of the committee may be taken up for discussion during the Cabinet meeting which is likely to be held on Sunday. The Cabinet will take a final decision with regards to reserving the hospitals for the people of Delhi. Fearful that the patients from outside may overwhelm the city’s health infrastructure, the chief minister had earlier announced the sealing of the capital’s borders with neighbouring states while the government was working on taking a final call on the issue. Though the number of Covid positive cases is going up, the fatalities remain low. Out of 15,311 active cases as on Friday, only 3,899 people are admitted in Covid hospitals and 10,255 people are under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-may-reserve-its-hospital-beds-for-city/articleshow/76239748.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi tally crosses 27,000, 59% active cases||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 1,320 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally in the city to 27,654. Of the total cases, 16,229 (59%) are active while 761 (3%) patients have died. The rest, 10,664 (39%), have recovered from the disease. After Maharashtra, Delhi has maximum active cases, government data shows. Epidemiologists say the increase in active cases in the city is due to a sudden spurt in the infection. Over the last 10 days, Delhi has recorded over 11,000 new cases. Such is the crisis that many people are struggling to find beds in private hospitals. “My friend’s mother was diagnosed with pneumonia on Saturday. When we took her to a Covid-19 hospital for admission, they told us to bring her only if she tested positive for coronavirus. She is at home and isn’t able to breathe properly,” said Sneha Kumari, a resident of Daryaganj. Multiple such reports of denial of admission despite severe symptoms of Covid-19 were reported on the social media even as the government, in its health bulletin, stated that 4,412 (51%) out of total 8,637 dedicated Covid-19 beds in the state were still vacant. The government also issued an order on Saturday stating that no patient, who has moderate to severe symptom of Covid-19, should be denied admission on the pretext of not having Covid-19 report. In a separate order, the state health department was asked to procure and stock sufficient supplies of surgical consumables, oxygen masks and all necessary accessories required for oxygen therapy in view of surge in the number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tally-crosses-27k-59-active-cases/articleshow/76239763.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 7, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Roaming tiger gets life term for three human kills||BHOPAL: The ‘nomad’ tiger from Maharashtra, which made headlines in 2018 for the longest dispersal in the quickest time in the country, may have to spend the rest of its life behind bars for three human kills. It was tranquilised in Kanha National Park and shifted to Van Vihar in Bhopal on Saturday, where it’s likely to be kept in solitary confinement, say sources. Officers say the tiger was given enough chances to survive in the wild but it kept straying into human habitation. The authorities declared it ‘dangerous’ to human life in compliance with 2019 NTCA guidelines and decided to keep it in an enclosure. The five-year-old, 180kg male had wandered 510km from Chandrapur in Maharashtra to Palaspani in MP’s Betul — killing three humans on the way — in search of new territory between August and December 2018. It was captured by Satpura Tiger Reserve officials from near a fly-ash pond in Sarni area on December 10, 2018, and shifted to Kanha, where it was kept in an enclosure for around 45 days. Now, Van Vihar will be its new home. Its days of wandering are over. Van Vihar currently houses 14 tigers, but only four are on display. The others are either ‘dangerous’ or were rescued as orphans and are kept in separate cages away from the tens of thousands of visitors. “The Kanha team arrived around 10.30am. It will take some time for the tiger to adjust and ease its aggression. CZA will decide if it will be put on display. We will write to them,” Van Vihar director Kamlika Mohanta told TOI. The tiger’s first human kill was reported in Maharashtra’s Mangrul Dastagir on October 19, followed by a second one on October 22 in Anjansingi. Both attacks took place in Amravati district of Maharashtra. It continued to prey on cattle as it prowled close to human settlements. The third kill was reported near Satpura Tiger Reserve (STR), about 200km from Bhopal. “It was captured from Betul twice. There was barely 500m between the first and second locations. We gave it a chance to adapt to the natural habitat but it was found moving towards human habitations. It may be because it was born close to Chandrapur power station (in Maharashtra), which is surrounded by human habitations,” said Kanha’s field director L Krishnamurthy. It was shifted to STR on January 31, 2019, where it was radio-collared and released in the wild on February 1. Forest officials monitored it 24x7 and scrambled to intercept it when it moved out of STR territory and got close to human habitation on February 22, 2019. It was captured and taken back to STR. It kept straying out and the authorities decided it was safer to keep it in an enclosure. The tiger was tranquilised in Kanha around 5pm on Saturday and transported to Bhopal, around 440km away. Forest officials are monitoring it closely here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/roaming-tiger-gets-life-term-for-3-human-kills/articleshow/76239392.cms||P Naveen
June 7, 2020||Delhi||No hospital can refuse suspected corona patients: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Issuing a stern warning to private hospitals for reportedly turning away Covid-19 positive patients, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said hospitals could not use their political godfathers to avoid patients and go scot-free. In what comes as a big relief for many, the CM has said that no hospital could deny treatment to a suspected coronavirus patient on the grounds that they have not undergone Covid tests. The chief minister warned of stern action against hospitals involved in the black-marketing of beds and said that medical professionals would be deployed in each private hospital to ensure patients are aware of the number of beds available in hospitals and they are admitted without any hassles. At a digital press conference, Kejriwal said that a few private hospitals were indulging in black-marketing of beds and are demanding Rs 2 to Rs 8 lakh for treatment. Majority of the hospitals are ethical, he added. “The hospitals are updating their beds’ status on the backend of the app, and still lying about their availability to the people. It will take some time to bust the whole mafia behind this.” Delhi government has started holding back-to-back meetings with owners of private hospitals. “They have been asked to reserve 20% beds for Covid-19 patients and if they deny that, 100% of their beds would be declared as Covid beds,” the CM said, adding that genuine concerns of the hospitals are being addressed. Kejriwal said he was happy to learn that the media and the public health advocates were tracking the availability of beds and ventilators in the hospitals. “A medical professional will be deployed on the reception of every private hospital who will give information on the bed vacancy as well as ensure that people are admitted,” he added. The health department issued an order on Saturday asking all private and government hospitals to ensure that no patient having Covid symptoms (moderate and severe category) be denied admission on the pretext that the patient was not having Covid positive report. “All such patients may be kept in Covid suspect patients area till the test report is received. If found positive, they should be kept in the Covid hospital and otherwise transferred to non-Covid hospital for further management,” the order stated. Dismissing a rumour that testing has stopped in Delhi, the CM said that Delhi was conducting highest number of tests in the country. “Action has been taken against six labs that were not performing their duties adequately, but 36 labs are still operational and samples are collected regularly,” he claimed, adding that people could also go to flu clinics and testing centres for the tests. Kejriwal appealed to asymptomatic persons not to insist for testing. “Our priority is to save the lives of the people. Mild and asymptomatic cases will recover. Our system will collapse if asymptomatic cases also go for testing. Delhi has a population of 2 crore people and if 10,000 people go for testing every day, our testing capacity will fall short,” the CM said. He emphasised that there was no shortage of beds in the capital. “Against 8,645 total available beds, 4,038 are occupied and 4,607 vacant. These are real beds, not mere figures,” Kejriwal added. Watch Action will taken against “black-marketing of beds” in private hospitals: Delhi CM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-no-hospital-can-refuse-suspected-corona-patients/articleshow/76239732.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||NMMC to hosps: Reserve 80% beds||With a rising number of coronavirus positive cases in Navi Mumbai, the NMMC commissioner has directed private hospitals to keep 80% beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. The civic chief has warned that refusal to accommodate and treat Covid patients will invite action under Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act, 2006. NMMC commissioner Annasheb Misal said, “We have asked private hospitals to put aside 80% of beds for Covid-19 patients, which could be utilized as and when required. Action will be initiated against doctors and staff for failure to comply with the order under MESMA.” — B B Nayak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nmmc-to-hosps-reserve-80-beds/articleshow/76239388.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Traffic violations peak with 1.4 lakh cases booked in 8 days||HYDERABAD: There is a steep rise in number of traffic violations as 1.4 lakh cases were booked in the city in just eight days. After a brief lull due to the lockdown, traffic violations were back to normal by the end of May. From March 23, the day lockdown came into effect, to May 18 as many as 2.4 lakh cases were booked by the Hyderabad traffic police. According to the data, 50,510 cases were against double riding, 329 for disobedience to orders and 13,558 were against vehicles moving without permission. “During the lockdown, only limited vehicles, carrying essential items, emergency or with permissions, were allowed on the road. The traffic violations were quite less and mostly people were caught for violating lockdown norms. Compared to that, the traffic on road has doubled now. Hence the violation cases have also increased this week,” said a traffic cop on duty at Begumpet junction. The data shared by the city traffic department said that 1.4 lakh traffic violation cases were registered between May 27 and June 3. Of the total cases, as many as 1.1 lakh cases were booked against riders of two-wheelers for not wearing a helmet. Overspeeding cases in the eight-day period were as high as 5,684. “Four days back, there was a lot of traffic like how it used to be before the lockdown. There were many instances of people driving in the wrong direction, jumping the signal etc. As per the new norms, autos can carry only two passengers but they were carrying three to four people, violating social distancing norms,” said Vijay GV, a private employee from Ameerpet. After the lockdown was relaxed, traffic cops have booked close to 190 three-wheeler and four-wheeler drivers for carrying extra passengers. Over 4,000 cases were booked for wrong side driving and jumping the signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-violations-peak-with-1-4l-cases-booked-in-8-days/articleshow/76240130.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Two doctors booked for gender test||PATIALA: Two private doctors and an agent have been booked for allegedly conducting sex determination test. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Pre-Conception Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act. A team of doctors from Chandigarh and Fatehgarh Sahib carried out a raid and nabbed the two accused, including the owner of a clinic Dr Ashok Kumar, and his agent Naib Singh. Ashok’s wife Dr Davinder Kumari managed to escape. The team of doctors claimed to have recovered Rs 7,000 in cash from the accused doctors. They said the cash recovered was the amount given to the doctor by a decoy patient. The police said the deal was stuck at Rs 25,000 between the decoy patient from Amritsar and the accused doctors, who were supposed to conduct sex determination test of a pregnant woman. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the team comprising Fatehgarh Sahib family welfare officer Dr Karan Sagar and Tarn Taran family welfare officer Dr Sumit Singh, along with the cops, carried out the raid and nabbed the accused red-handed. He said the team also recovered some tools being used for abortion and 1,170 tramadol tablets from the clinic. The Patran police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-docs-booked-for-gender-test/articleshow/76240123.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Tributaries of Kapila river under threat, say greens||Mangaluru: Greens led by Dinesh Holla, Avinash Bhide, Mamatha KS and Suresh of the Sahyadri Sanchaya are undertaking a study on the tributaries of Kapila river that flows in the Shibaje Reserve Forest in Uppinangady forest range. The study is aimed at understanding the impact of various projects proposed by the government over the years on Kapila river and its tributaries that are only growing weaker. “The government has always eyed this rich green patch on the foothills of the Western Ghats in the name of development after destroying Charmadi and Shiradi Ghats. Several surveys have been done over the years for projects such as the controversial road work from Shishila in Dakshina Kannada to Byrapura in Chikkamagaluru as part of its connectivity from Chitradurga to Mangaluru, linking the port with the golden quadrilateral. The area has also been surveyed for hydel projects and the state government when launching Yettinahole project looked at river Kapila and Kumaradhara as a backup in case they failed to get sufficient water from Yettinahole. We are documenting the flora and fauna of this region,” Holla said. Destruction of this range is already taking place in several forms. Arasinamakki team, a group of four youths with the support of the forest department cleaned a portion of Kapila river bank near Shishila in Belthangady during the lockdown period. “The river tributaries are the lifeline of villages. There have been instances of locals poisoning fish ponds, destroying forests and hunting. Tributaries of Kapila have also seen a drastic reduction in its flow, making the river very weak. However, this year, the situation looks slightly better because of the recent showers as well as the lockdown. We urge the government to consider this belt as a sensitive zone and stop any kind of development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tributaries-of-kapila-river-under-threat-say-greens/articleshow/76238910.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 7, 2020||Kolhapur||‘No one should go home unless swab reports arrive’||Kolhapur: Five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Sangli district on Saturday, taking the total tally of positive cases to 148. Meanhwhile, a 58-year-old woman from Zhare village of Atpadi tehsil in Sangli district died of Covid-19 on Saturday. She was put on non-invasive ventilator on June 1 and was critical since then. The woman had arrived from Mumbai and was already suffering from diabetes, blood pressure and hypothyroidism. Five people have succumbed to the viral infection in Sangli district. The condition of two patients are said to be critical. In Kolhapur district, a 52-year-old man from Ajara — around 85km south of Kolhapur city — died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the death toll to eight. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has asked the health staff not to let any person arriving from the red zones or the high-risk contacts to go back to home after their throat swab samples are collected. Such people willl have to be kept in the Covid care centres till their reports arrive. Meanwhile, a three-member team comprising of a central government officer and two doctors of AIIMS have started a state-wide tour to get details of the Covid cases and suggest measures to stop the infection spread. The team, is going to visit Kolhapur either on Monday or Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-one-should-go-home-unless-swab-reports-arrive/articleshow/76238047.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: One of five Sector 33 shooters is a hotel management student||CHANDIGARH: One of the five assailants who fired 17 bullets outside the house of liquor baron Arvind Singla’s brother in Sector 33 on May 31 is a hotel management student of a private university in Banur, police said on Saturday after arresting him. Inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon of the crime branch said the accused is Karan Sharma, a resident of Ludhiana. The 23-year-old was living in a flat in Banur. Sekhon said a crime branch team caught him from Mauli Jagran while was trying to escape from the city. Sekhon said Sharma was in touch with Deepu, an aide of Lawrence Bishnoi, lodged in Ambala jail. Deepu had directed Sharma to go with the four others to the house of Singla. Police claimed the rest of the four shooters have been identified and would be arrested soon Read AlsoChandigarh: 17 bullets fired at house of liquor baron's brotherAs many as 17 bullets were fired outside the house of the brother of a liquor baron in Sector 33 in a brazen crime on Sunday evening.Police claimed Sharma during interrogation told them that he came in touch with Deepu through social media. Deepu had promised Sharma that he would get his share of money for the shooting. However, he had not been paid any money so far, cops said. On June 3, the crime branch had arrested Sewak, another Bishnoi associate, with a country-made pistol and eight live cartridges. On June 4, Sector 34 police had arrested Kulwinder Singh, who had helped the accused, and recovered pistols and 80 live cartridges. Police said Sewak had provided a car to the five assailants on the directions of Bishnoi, while Kulwinder was to provide a safe passage to them after the crime. Sewak is already in five-day police remand. Police sources said extortion was the motive behind the attack but the complainant had not received any call so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-of-5-sec-33-shooters-hotel-mgmt-student/articleshow/76240128.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Corona duty may count as PG medical internship||AHMEDABAD: The resident doctors have been toiling hard for more than two months in Covid-19 wards as frontline corona warriors. Looking at the exigency, the state government has requested the Medical Council of India (MCI) to postpone final exams of third year postgraduate medical students. But the government seems to have plans to compensate these resident doctors for the delay in their final exams. It has decided to treat the Covid-19 duty period as part of their mandatory internship, which normally starts immediately after their exams with their posting in rural areas for a year. Many doctors skip this internship by redeeming their Rs 30 lakh bond, which the government makes the students sign while granting them admission. But the state government has now decided to grant them relaxation. Covid-19 patients were mainly treated by these resident doctors, who had even complained about the difficulties they faced in an anonymous letter to the Gujarat high court last month. With the hectic Covid duty schedules, the state government is of the opinion that it cannot spare the services of these students by granting them time to take their final tests, which are normally scheduled in April and May. The exams may not be held before August. The principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi said, “We are considering and talks are under way about how to consider the Covid duty as part of the internship period so that students are not at a loss.” She also said that like Gujarat, there are other states which have requested the central authority for postponement of the final exam for third year students. On this subject, the president of Junior Doctors’ Association, Pinkesh Damor, said, “Examinations are not possible in this scenario with all senior doctors busy with Covid duty. They may not even come from other centres. Whave demanded that the Covid duty of resident doctors be counted as part of their internship.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-duty-may-count-as-pg-medical-internship/articleshow/76239445.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fatigue a red signal of infection||AHMEDABAD: Almost everyone is familiar with that feeling of extreme weakness or fatigue where you are too tired to even get out of the bed. In times of Covid, such weakness for Covid-positive patients should send alarm bells ringing that he or she may be on the verge of getting critical due to falling oxygen saturation. Nearly two and half months after treating thousands of Covid-positive patients, infectious disease experts and critical care specialists have listed out signs that may not be part of conventional symptoms but should be taken seriously to prevent the patient from getting critically sick. Most important of these is severe weakness, especially when the fever has started subsiding. “Many patients complain of extreme weakness after the fever has subsided. As there is no more fever, they feel relaxed and do not attach much significance to the weakness which is a sign of dropping oxygen saturation. Such patients then invariably have to be rushed to the hospital in critical condition with breathlessness and cytokine storm,” said critical care specialist, Dr Jigar Mehta. Senior infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel says that such patients should especially be made to walk up to the bathroom and back. “If they get even the slightest breathlessness, they should rush to the hospital as it may signify dropping oxygen saturation level,” said Dr Patel. He also advocates that one should invest in an pulse-oxymeter in times of Covid pandemic. “Even if the patient is asymptomatic and being treated at home, it is important to check if he or she has not slipped into a state of `happy hypoxia' where patients do not show any symptoms till their oxygen levels have dropped dangerously. If the pulse-oxymeter shows saturation below 94, hospitalization should not be delayed even if there are no signs of distress,” says Dr Patel. Pulomonologist and critical care specialist Dr Tushar Patel says happy-hypoxia is afflicting some 50% of patients who end up in the emergency room with complications. “Being aware that oxygen saturation is the key to managing Covid can prove a game changer in reducing the number of complicated patients in hospitals needing oxygen support and generalised crashing of vitals. It can help reduce mortality. People need to be very aware of evolving signs and symptoms,” said Dr Tushar Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fatigue-a-red-signal-of-infection/articleshow/76239438.cms||Radha Sharma
June 7, 2020||Hubballi||Recruitment drive held in Ballari to help returning workers get jobs||Hubballi: In a bid to help the many people who returned to their homes in Ballari district, the Ballari District Industrial Centre, along with the district employment exchange, recently organised a recruitment drive to help skilled workers who have returned home, and local unemployed youngsters get jobs. The drive, which was open to all the workers who returned home, and completed the stipulated period in quarantine, in addition to all residents of Ballari who have lost jobs owing to the lockdown, received an overwhelmingly good response. On the one hand, workers who had migrated to Bengaluru, and cities in neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, have returned and are looking for jobs, while many locals too ended up losing employment. Ballari district employment officer Hattappa PS said that those with a minimum qualification of SSLC and even those with degrees had registered for the drive. “The district administration gave its nod permitting local skilled workers to attend the interviews. Answering our call to help those who lost their jobs, 23 local industries such as JSW, BMM Steel and SLR Steel came forward to participate in the drive,” Hattappa told TOI. He said that around 700 candidates attended the drive, and were interviewed for a range of jobs such as mechanic, driver, computer operator, etc. At the end of the drive, around 220 of them made it to the shortlist. The organisers ensured that all safety norms were followed during the drive. Deputy director of the social welfare department, Ballari Rajappa N said that many migrants who attended the drive seeking employment, had worked as drivers and helpers in factories in Mumbai and other cities. “Our attempt to help provide employment was appreciated by the workers who returned to Ballari leaving their jobs behind,” said Rajappa. A worker, previously employed in the capacity of a fitter in a firm in Maharashtra that shut shop following the lockdown, said that attending the drive had boosted his confidence. “I am now hopeful of getting a job right here, in my hometown,” he added. Sridhar Murthy, a resident of Ballari, said that he had lost his job as a mechanic at a local firm. “But I am confident of getting a job in some local company now, after attending the recruitment drive,” Murthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/recruitment-drive-held-in-ballari-to-help-returning-workers-get-jobs/articleshow/76238901.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 17-year-old girl ends life post break-up with boyfriend||CHANDIGARH: A 17-year-old-girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her residence in Hallomajra on Friday. The police said the deceased was in depression due to her strained relationship with her boyfriend and the girl had recently ended her relationship with him. The police said the girl was living with her mother in Hallomajra. The incident came to light when her mother returned home after from work and found her hanging from a ceiling fan in the room. She reported the matter to the police and the PCR reached on the spot. The police rushed the girl to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared her brought dead. Sector 31 police inspected the crime scene. No suicide note has been recovered. The deceased’s mother told the police that her daughter was in a relationship with a boy of Rajiv Colony, Panchkula, and her daughter had recently ended her relationship with him. She was in depression for the last few days. The police have ruled out any foul play in the incident as there were no external marks of injuries on the body. The police have kept the body at GMCH-32 for post-mortem. They have also registered a case under Section 174 of CrPc and initiated inquest proceedings in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-year-old-girl-ends-life-post-break-up-with-boyfriend/articleshow/76240137.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Special chemicals used for antique-look||Rajkot: One of the key investigating officers, Premsukh Delu, told TOI: “Some special chemicals were used to make documents look like they were 100 years old or more. He pasted the impressions on papers by copying them from internet and embossed used stamps and seals of Gaekwad state. “Signatures of Dr. Ambedkar, Dr. Rajendra Prasad and other stalwarts were taken from somewhere and embossed on the documents. In some of the documents, these leaders are even shown as witnesses.” Police sources said there were Surat builders too who were in Vali’s contact to grab their piece of share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/special-chemicals-used-for-antique-look/articleshow/76238886.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh floats Rs 160-crore tender for 24X7 water supply project||CHANDIGARH: The city is all set to have its prestigious 24x7 water supply project in Manimajra. The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has floated Rs 160-crore tender by completing the paper works. The tender will be opened on June 22 and the authority has already held a pre-bid meeting with the contractors to answer their queries and for a detailed deliberation about the project. Significantly, the CSCL has clubbed both the components, namely capital work and installation of water meter work, under the project to make it successful. According to the records, approximately 13,700 water connections in Manimajra will be covered under the project. Of the 13,700 connections, around 50% have been facing the problem of non-revenue water (NRW) or water leakage. The project aims at decreasing the NRW or water leakage to 15% in this particular area. “Of Rs 160 crore, Rs 70 crore will be spent on capital work like laying down pipelines, construction of water reservoirs, hydraulic walls etc. The water meter installation cost will be around Rs 20 crore and Rs 70 crore will be spent on maintenance of the project for 15 years. The capital work and installation of water meters will be done by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited, while the municipal corporation (MC) will take care of the maintenance work of the project for 15 years,” said a senior officer of the Chandigarh administration. According to the tender documents, after the allotment of the said works, the contractor will have to complete the entire work in one-and-a-half years. In this 24x7 water supply project, besides laying down the pipelines in the outer areas, the authority will also lay down pipelines inside the houses of residents, so that water contamination can be stopped. “Earlier, the MC was laying down the pipelines only till the outer area of the houses. Residents were themselves getting the pipelines laid inside their houses and connecting the same with the MC’s line. This was increasing the chances of contamination. But in this new project, all the lines will be laid down by the authorities concerned only,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-floats-rs-160-cr-tender-for-24x7-water-supply-project/articleshow/76240133.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat professor re-purposes wild cactus fruit pill to fight Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: The remedy for SARS-CoV-2 with its infamous club shaped spike protein may lie in the prickly pear fruit that grows on wild cactus, found abundantly in the arid region of Saurashtra. Thirty-eight-year old Sanjay Chauhan, a professor in Graduate School of Pharmacy, Gujarat Technological University (GTU), and co-founder of SPHERO Health LLP, has sourced the extract from Opuntia Vulgaris or prickly pear, a fruit of a xerophytic plant, to pack it in a pill to combat anaemia. He has now proposed to repurpose the pill for treating Covid-19 patients. Presently, Hempoin, the tablet developed by Chauhan is being prescribed by doctors for various patients including women for antenatal care and children. “To establish the efficacy of the tablet we need to run clinical trials on Covid-19 patients. I have proposed to the Centre to give me permission to conduct Phase 3 clinical trials for the repurposing of the tablet for Covid-19 patients,” said Chauhan. Since the product is available in the market, the need for conducting Phase-1 and Phase-2 clinical trials does not arise in this case.  The tablet is being marketed for anaemia patients for the past few years and a patent for the same is pending. Chauhan claims that the tablet can work in three different ways for Covid-19 treatment. As an anti-viral, it can prevent virus entry by binding to spike protein at cell surface and by inhibiting Covid-19 Protease, according to Chauhan. Also, it can work at Mast Cell Stabilization level. This includes prevention of IgE production and prevention of mast cell degranulation antioxidant. Besides, the tablet can also effectively restore the redox balance in the host, he adds. Chauhan’s research for Covid-19 is mainly based on the work done using computer aided drug design tool. The tablet has the potential to work as an immunomodulator as well as an antioxidant in Covid-19 patients, he says. Since it boosts the immunity of a person, once approved clinically, it can also be used by them as a preventive measure. SPHERO Health LLP, which is incubated at GTU’s innovation council and startup wing, has received financial assistance under the Startup India Policy. The professor started the research 12 years ago under the guidance of Dr N R Sheth, vice-chancellor of GTU, and carried out phytochemical and pharmacological screening of the prickly pear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/prof-re-purposes-wild-cactus-fruit-pill-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/76239433.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two held for not wearing masks in public||CHANDIGARH: The UT police have arrested two more persons for not wearing masks in Manimajra on Friday. The accused have been identified as Shubjam Kumar of Morigate, Manimajra, and Sandeep of Shastri Nagar, Manimajra. The IT Park police arrested Shubham from near the Kishangarh roundabout. Sandeep was arrested by Manimajra police from near the Shastri Nagar lightpoint. Both the accused have been arrested under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. They were later released on bail from the police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-held-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public/articleshow/76240136.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||What’s the status of construction workers, asks Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has directed AAP government to give details of steps taken to renew registration of about five lakh construction workers. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar asked Delhi government’s Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWW) Board to also indicate status of the workers who have been able to file their applications for renewal and have appeared before it for physical verification. The court gave the board six working days’ time to file an affidavit and a copy of the online form required to be filled by construction workers for registration or renewal of the same. It was hearing a PIL by social activist Sunil Kumar Aledia seeking registration of all construction workers under the BOCWW Act so that they can get the benefit of the relief package of Rs 5,000 per month being provided to each labourer during the lockdown. The board told the court that in terms of its last order SMSs were sent to about 46,000 workers and 17,000 applications for renewal were received between May 15 and June 2 and they are being processed. It said physical verification of each applicant is necessary to ensure that the application is genuine. However, the stand was opposed by Aledia and another group of workers who told the bench that the physical counters for receiving applications has been shut since the lockdown and have not opened despite the restrictions being substantially lifted and all government offices becoming functional. Noting the contention, the bench said, “We fail to see any reason why the physical counter should not be opened by the board for receiving applications for registration and renewal,” and ordered the board to examine this aspect as well and listed the matter for further hearing on June 16. Aledia in his plea contended that only a small section of the over 10 lakh workers in the city are registered under the law regulating their welfare and service conditions and thus, a huge chunk of the labourers are not getting benefits actually meant for them. His plea said despite collection of over Rs 2,000 crore under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act in the names of lakhs of workers, only around 37,127 construction labourers who are registered are getting the benefits. Alleging there has been gross under-registration of construction workers in the national capital since 2015, the plea said the lockdown has led to work and wages being denied to the labourers and the relief granted by governments, through direct benefit transfers or orders to pay wages. The board had earlier told the court that it had disbursed Rs 19.8 crore to 39,600 workers registered with it as a relief package during the Covid-19 lockdown. However, the relief has been provided only to the workers registered under the BOCWW Act as mandated under the statute and rules framed thereunder, it maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/whats-the-status-of-construction-workers-asks-hc/articleshow/76240350.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Tourist federation demands minister to take back his statement on guides||Aurangabad: The Tourist Guide Federation of India (TGFI) on Friday demanded Union tourism minister Pralhad Singh Patel to retract a statement he made on a TV interview where he said, “No guide is registered with the government...We are introducing facilitators’ course to fill the gap.’’ “The minister should have done his homework before making such statements. His ministry itself has renewed licences of about 3,500 regional tourist guides working across the country,’’ said Ajay Singh, the president of TGFI, who is based Varanasi.He said the minister’s statement has prompted the guides to launch a Twitter campaign as many of their representations made to the ministry was unheard. Singh told TOI, “Currently, the minister is busy creating data. They introduced the online facilitators' course to train over 70,000 students who have passed Class 10 and Class 12 to work as guides. However, they did not even find 5,000 people for the course and could not roll out its first batch. They are just spending in the name of facilitators to show that they have created thousands of jobs in this sector. The government wants to kill the guides cadre.’’Singh as well as Subhash Jadhav, the TGFI advisor, said “Guiding tourist is a highly technical and responsible work for which the minimum qualification was graduation as per the tourism department norms. Regional tourist guides, approved by the ministry of tourism, also have to undergo physical training for six months.’’Syed Abrar Hussain, one of the guides at the Ajanta Caves, said, “Guide training was conducted by S N Chib, the former director-general of tourism in 1958 and Raj Bahadur, the former minister of tourism awarded the licences to the guides. The area of operation was pan- India so the guides from the tourism department were called tourist guide and those from Archaeological Survey of India) ASI were named as licensed guides. Before 1958, guides were operating under ministry of information”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tourist-federation-demands-minister-to-take-back-his-statement-on-guides/articleshow/76238065.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Cop posted at DSP Kharar office tests coronavirus positive||MOHALI: A policeman posted at the DSP Kharar office tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said samples of the 20-year-old constable were taken as he was to proceed for police training. It is mandatory to conduct a Covid test on cops going for training. The Kurali resident was to go for a basic training course at Police Recruits Training Centre, Jahan Khelan, near Hoshiarpur. The civil surgeon said, “We have shifted him to an isolation ward in Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Now, we are tracing his contacts and the source of infection. We will be testing all the officials posted at DSP Kharar office and the family members of the constable.” Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “I have just now been told that one of our constables has tested positive for Covid-19. We will be directing DSP Kharar to get all his staff tested for the virus and cooperate with the health department.” The total positive cases have risen to 128, with 17 active cases. On Friday, three members of a single family residing in Sector 70 out of four people had tested positive for Covid-19. The civil surgeon said, “We have traced 13 contacts of the Sector 70 residents and took samples on Saturday. We will get their reports within two days. More contacts are being traced. All patients have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital. All of them are responding well to the treatment and are stable.” As many as 6,050 samples have been taken in the district so far. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a Covid-19 patient was cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on Saturday. He belongs to Zirakpur and had returned from Oman. The civil surgeon said they had cautioned when last Covid-19 patient was discharged from Mohali on May 21 that the threat of coronavirus was still there. After four days of being declared Covid-19 district, a patient had surfaced in Mohali on May 26. With 108 out of a total 128 people recovering and three deaths, Mohali has a recovery and fatality rate of 83.5% and 2.34%. BOX MOHALI COUNT Total | 128 Active | 17 Cured | 108 Deaths | 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-posted-at-dsp-kharar-office-tests-positive/articleshow/76240143.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases double in 9 days in Ahmedabad rural||Ahmedabad: Twenty-nine fresh cases were reported on Saturday in Ahmedabad rural, taking the total to 356 — with cases doubling in the area in nine days. On May 28, Ahmedabad rural had reported 178 cases and nine deaths. The number increased to 356 cases and 23 deaths on Saturday. One more death from Dholka town has been reported. Officials said that that Covid seems to be spreading fast in Bopal and nearby areas. One case was reported from Alaknanada society in Manipur village. The village shares it boundary with the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika. Of the 29 cases registered in rural areas, there was an increase in cases in Dholka and Sanand. Dholka reported 10 cases and eight cases were reported from Sanand. Of the Sanand cases, two were from Gujarat Housing Board and one case each was reported from Ratnadip Society and Radhe Villa Bungalows. Also, of the 29 cases there were 19 patients below 40 years of age. Of the 19, four patients were 20 or below 20 years of age. A 69-year-old male from Dholka town passed away. Taluka-wise, of the 356 cases in the district excluding the city, 109 are from Dholka, 98 from Daskroi , 51 from Sanand, 27 from Viramgam, 41 from Bavla, 16 from Dhandhuka, nine from Detroj, four from Mandal, and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-double-in-9-days-in-ahmedabad-rural/articleshow/76239423.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Safaris in tiger reserves to open tomorrow||JAIPUR: The tiger reserves in the state — Sariska and Ranthambore — will finally be open for tourists from Monday with certain conditions laid out by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). According to the state forest department, parks will be re-opened nearly after two months subject to the strict compliance of NTCA guidelines. Field director, RTR, Manoj Parashar said, “As per the directions, to ensure social distancing, seating capacity will be reduced to 50% in vehicles. Also, children below 10 years and senior citizens over 65 years will not be allowed on safaris.” Other than this, lavatory facility at the entry and exit points need to be ensured as no tourist shall be allowed to disembark within the tiger reserve. Vehicle tyre bath with appropriate disinfectant will be installed at all the entry points. Wearing masks and using sanitiser have also been made mandatory for visitors. These parks were closed during the peak season in March to curb the spread of coronavirus. The state forest department had earlier issued the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the same.” The SOPs state confidence building measures among tourists. It reads, “Ticket booking must be online to the maximum extent. Also, one place where required manpower and resources are available for implementation of guidelines may be opened by DCF in-charge.” An official source said, plans are afoot to reduce the safari rates for tourists, however, no concrete decision has been taken so far. The decision to open the parks has brought a sigh of relief in the related business community. The industry has already suffered heavy losses due to coronavirus in the past after most hotel bookings were cancelled. “All types of related businesses and industries had suffered – tourism included. It was peak tourist season for wildlife. The decision will help recover the industry soon,” a tour operator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/safaris-in-tiger-reserves-to-open-tomorrow-but-with-riders/articleshow/76240148.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt orders austerity measures||Gandhinagar: Due to the hit the lockdown has delivered on the state exchequer, the state finance department has issued new and detailed guidelines for all departments for austerity and to halt all unnecessary expenditures. The finance department in the government resolution titled ‘Action to be taken due to challenges arisen due to Covid 19’ has directed all department secretaries and their subordinates to ensure strict austerity measures. “These austerity measures are preliminary, more may be suggested in the coming days,” a key source in the government said. “The government is also considering to put many high-capital projects and programmes — which are not directly contributing to welfare — on hold for a while.” The old policy of austerity was almost forgotten. However, due to Covid 19, the government had to revive it to manage finances. The government had to borrow about Rs 5,000 crore in April-May due to the non-realization of income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-orders-austerity-measures/articleshow/76239426.cms||Kapil Dave
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 war room: 83% grievances related to food supply to poor; lowest satisfaction rate in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A whopping 2.57 lakh Covid-related grievances have been registered on Rajasthan Sampark portal, at a rate of 3,400 complaints per day, from March 24 to June 5. Of these, 2.14 lakh grievances (83.2%) were related to ‘supply of food to the needy’. Highest number of grievances was registered in Jaipur, at 1.52 lakh, with lowest satisfaction rate of 41.49% only. Of the total, 98% (2.53 lakh) cases have been disposed of and 4,139 are still pending. After Jaipur, Kota registered second-lowest satisfaction rate of just 60.8% followed by Tonk at 71.34%. Of the 1.52 lakh grievances (59%) registered in Jaipur, 1.49 lakh cases (98.4%) have been disposed of. Grievances pending with the district are 364, pending for verification are 1,818 and not pending with district are 178. Of the total grievances registered under the category ‘supplying food to the needy’ (2.14 lakh), 2.11 lakh cases (98.5) have been disposed of so far. In all, 12,788 grievances were registered with regard to shortage of food supplies and 12,556 cases have been disposed of. Bhilwara is at distant second in registration of grievances at 14,312 and of these, 14,193 cases (99.12%) have been disposed. “The satisfaction rate in Jaipur is low because of large number of grievances related to supply of food/ration kits. In numerous cases, the administration found these were fake complaints, where the families already had ration in their house. In some cases, the families were demanding ration kits repeatedly despite being given to them. In other cases, they were demanding more than the amount allotted to them by the government. So, all these cases fell under the category of ‘not satisfied’,” said G K Sharma, additional director and officer-in-charge Rajasthan Sampark. “There are 400 seats in the war room under Sampark portal and these are located at the Secretariat, Kisan Bhawan and a few other locations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-war-room-83-grievances-related-to-food-supply-to-poor-lowest-satisfaction-rate-in-jaipur/articleshow/76240155.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad doctors ‘infuse’ new life in Jalna woman||AURANGABAD: A 23-year-old woman from Jalna, who suffered three miscarriages and ruptured her amniotic sac within 14 weeks of her fourth pregnancy, beamed with joy when she delivered a baby girl weighing 1.3kg on April 23 — thanks to the amnioinfusion process carried out by a team of doctors from Aurangabad. Besides amniofusion, the doctors also instilled saline in her uterus and continued the pregnancy for 105 days in a “miraculous” manner to ensure not only the survival, but also the proper growth of the foetus. Rahul Gosavi, neonatologist with Kamalnayan Bajaj hospital here, said on Saturday once the amniotic sac ruptured, the pregnancy could last upto a maximum of two weeks. Continuation of such pregnancy may have resulted in infection in the baby as well as the mother. “Treating doctors decided to have amnioinfusion as the family was keen on having a baby and considering the history of the mother’s three abortions. The process averted the possibility of low fluid volume in the womb and negated chances of any birth defects in the foetus,” said Gosavi. A series of foetal scans and other investigations were carried out to ascertain the well being of the foetus. At the stage of 29 weeks and five days, an emergency caesarean section was performed due to placental separation. The baby received neo-natal care and was kept on ventilator for 7 days and was administered antibiotics and a treatment to ease her breathing. She started breastfeeding and her weight increased to 1.7kg before she was discharged from the hospital on May 25. Besides Gosavi, the other doctors involved Rekha shinde, obstetrician at Carewell hospital, Archana Patil, foetal medicine consultant at MGM hospital and neonatologist Nikhil Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-docs-infuse-new-life-in-jalna-woman/articleshow/76238071.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: MLAs to vacate bungalows in Lal Kothi, Jalupura areas||JAIPUR: Over 65 MLAs residing in Lal Kothi and Jalupura areas will soon vacate their bungalows as the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) will sell off the plots to construct apartments for 200 legislators at Jyoti Nagar. Assembly speaker C P Joshi, who is overseeing the project, has directed JDA to transfer the land to RHB. RHB commissioner Pawan Arora said, “RHB has been appointed as the nodal agency for constructing MLA apartments. The revenue earned after selling the land at Lal Kothi and Jalupura will be utilised to construct the apartments. The assembly will issue orders that the land be transferred to RHB by JDA”. The MLAs who will vacate the houses will be given the option either to purchase or rent apartments at concessional rates in three RHB schemes. “The RHB has earmarked three apartments—Sarswati Apartment, Dwarka Twins and Vyas Apartment for the MLAs. These apartments will be sold at concessional rates. Those who are not willing to buy the apartment can rent the accommodation. The state assembly will transfer Rs 30,000 to RHB per MLA as rent,” said an official. Sources said that the MLAs have to vacate the bungalows within two months. There are 25 houses in Jalupura and around 40 in Lal Kothi scheme. The state government had recently decided to construct 174 flats in a six-storey building with modern facilities at a cost of Rs 250 crore for the MLAs. The legislative residences will be equipped with all facilities. They would include a legislative hall with a capacity of 250 people, park, gymnasium, dispensary, community centre and commercial complex. Other than this, a parliamentary museum is also proposed to be set up in the assembly building at a cost of Rs 10 crore. In the museum, the history of the state and its reorganisation, freedom fighters, the architectural craft of the Rajasthan assembly, governor of the state, the chief minister, the speaker of the assembly, modern Rajasthan, democracy and the Indian Constitution, assembly constituency in Rajasthan will be curated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-to-vacate-bungalows-in-lal-kothi-jalupura-areas/articleshow/76239420.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Woman who eloped with ‘love guru’ returns home with infant||RAJKOT: A 21-year-old woman who had eloped with ‘love guru’ Dhaval Trivedi, convicted of raping two minor girls, returned to her home in Chotila of Surendranagar district on Saturday. She was carrying an 11-month-old child believed to be of Trivedi (47) with whom she had eloped in August 2018. In 2012, Trivedi had made two girls elope with him. He was arrested in Punjab in 2014. Rajkot sessions court had sentenced him to life imprisonment, subsequent of which he was lodged in Rajkot Central Jail. “Trivedi had obtained parole from the jail in August 2018. After his release from the jail, he changed his identity and started working as an English teacher at an English speaking class from where he made the concerned woman elope with him,” said an official from Chotila police station. After eloping with the woman, who was aged 19 then, Trivedi had taken her to Delhi, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh (UP). Trivedi and the woman started living together in a village of UP bordering Nepal. After she had a fallout with Trivedi, the woman returned to her home in Chotila, carrying the child born out of her relationship with Trivedi. Meanwhile, the Central Bureau of Investigation, which is probing into the cases against Trivedi, has intensified its manhunt for him. The Chotila police has informed the CBI of the development and a team from the central agency was on its way to meet the girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-who-eloped-with-love-guru-returns-home-with-infant/articleshow/76238929.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Hotels, restaurants, malls to open in Rajasthan tomorrow||JAIPUR: The state home department on Saturday issued orders to unlock hotels and other hospitality services, restaurants and clubs, and shopping malls from Monday in the state. The meeting of religious leaders convened by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on unlocking places of worship decided to constitute a committee under district collectors comprising religious leaders, CMHO and district police superintendent to decide on the modalities according to the local conditions. No date has been fixed for now for opening places of worship. The state home department order said they had to strictly follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on June 4. According to the SOP issued by the Union health ministry, persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities and pregnant women are advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. The table-setting arrangements for restaurants and clubs will ensure at least six feet distance between them. Fast-food restaurants with standing arrangements will have to ensure a distance of eight feet between tables and not more than two guests on a table. According to the central government guidelines, gaming arcades, children play areas and cinema halls inside shopping malls would remain closed till further orders. The detailed guidelines issued by MoHFW said only asymptomatic persons would be allowed at the malls with mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions. The management of malls will deploy adequate manpower for ensuring social distancing norms and staggering of visitors. All staff who are at higher risk namely older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions, to take extra precautions. They should not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public. Shopping mall management should facilitate work-from-home wherever feasible and ensure people maintain physical distancing of a minimum of six feet, when queuing up for entry or when inside the shopping mall as far as feasible. Similarly, number of people in the elevators should be restricted, duly maintaining social distancing norms while use of escalators with one person on alternate steps be encouraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotels-restaurants-malls-to-open-in-state-tomorrow/articleshow/76240154.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University hostellers want to return as exams draw near||CHANDIGARH: “I am a resident of Kolkata and planning to book a flight to Chandigarh. Can you tell me when I can shift to my hostel?” “I have research work in a department laboratory. I want to come back to the hostel.” “I am staying in a joint family. It is not possible for me to study at home. Please allow me to shift to the hostel.” These messages are flooding the inbox of email and WhatsApp account of Panjab University Dean Student Welfare since last week. Examinations are fueling interest in students to return to hostels. The university is planning to hold the exams from July despite opposition from student outfits. Students are hoping that PU would also open the hostels, as Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar has already asked its final year students to return to hostels. Professor S K To mar, dean student welfare, PU, said he is getting calls and messages from students regularly. He said the higher authorities have not taken any decision on when students will be allowed in hostels. Professor Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor, PU, said the decision will be taken on the basis of the guidelines issued for educational institutes by the central government. Another issue troubling the students is that they are not using the hostel accommodation but still have to pay for it. Tomar said he is aware that it is not easy for students to bear this burden. He said wardens of all the hostels have been asked to be in touch with students regularly and resolve their issues. Manoj Lubana of NSUI said more than 70 students have sent an e-mail on the two issues to various officials and wardens. Puta writes to VCPanjab University Teachers Association (Puta) president Rajesh Gill has raised the issue of vacancies arising this year following appointment of hostel wardens after completion of their terms. In a letter to the vice-chancellor, Gill said the process of inviting applications from eligible teachers has still not been initiated. She sought the principal of seniority be followed to ensure fairness and transparency in making the appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-hostellers-want-to-return-as-exams-draw-near/articleshow/76240152.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Relief for residents of Nizamuddin Basti after unending wait||NEW DELHI: Having remained locked down for 70 days, residents of Nizamuddin Basti got a semblance of relief on Sunday when restrictions in the containment zone were scaled down. Locals in the area, which had been in the eye of a storm ever since the Tablighi Jamaat row broke out in March, had been pleading for relief as there were no new cases for over a month. The relaxation orders, issued by South East district authorities, however, clarified that officials would continue regular follow-up in the basti and strict vigil must be ensured. A survey team had been constituted by the district administration, which would work with the SHO to ensure that there was minimum movement in the area, the directions issued by DM Harleen Kaur read. “The sub-divisional magistrate, Defence Colony, will keep a strict vigil in the area for the next 14 days. Every person will maintain social distancing and no one will come out of their house without covering their face with a three-ply mask or handmade washable cloth mask. All vendors and hawkers will have to maintain hygiene and social distancing (sic),” the directive read. Area councillor Yasmin Kidwai said the order had come as a big relief for the residents. Syed Kashif Ali Nizami, head of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya Dargah, said disinfection of the shrine had started and they were ready to open their doors. “We will study the order in detail to know the precautions that need to be taken and contact the SHO of the local police station for help. Only five people will perform dua during the Urs beginning June 9,” he added. Justifying the relaxation, the order stated that the district health authorities had carried out a fresh survey of the area and found no influenza-like illnesses. The last Covid-19 case here was reported on May 5. The guidelines issued by Union ministry of health and family welfare state that restrictions are to be scaled down if no positive case is reported from the quarantine zone for at least four weeks and all contacts followed up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relief-for-residents-after-unending-wait/articleshow/76251730.cms||Paras Singh
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik police book 87 people for not wearing mask||Nashik: The Nashik city police on Friday booked as many as 87 people across the city for not wearing a mask in public places, which could lead to the spreading of coronavirus. The police said that after the relaxations in the lockdown, it was all the more important to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. Senior police officers said that the total number of people they have booked for not wearing masks stood at 2,494 until Friday. Police officials said that due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases throughout the country, Nashik commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil has been instructing people to stay indoors as much as possible to contain the spread of the infection. Despite the instructions by the police and orders for the lockdown, a large number of people are seen moving out unnecessarily, some without masks and not following social distancing norm. So, the city police have been taking action against such people. The Nirbhaya squads are taking action against such citizens. The police added that they have been taking action since March 22 against people who are not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-book-87-people-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/76238112.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 7, 2020||Ajmer||Jaipur tops in Covid-19 deaths per/million population, Kota 2nd, Jodhpur 3rd||JAIPUR: Pink City beats all other districts in the state in terms of being the worst-affected due to Covid-19 pandemic with highest number of deaths per million population (ppm). At 15 deaths per million, Jaipur tops the list with Kota and Jodhpur close behind. Even the case fatality rate (CFR) for the city, which is nearing 5, is highest among the seven worst-affected districts of the state. However, nationally, Jaipur fares better and is not among the top five worst-affected cities. With 118 deaths per million, Ahmedabad tops the chart, followed by Mumbai with 83 and Pune with 55 deaths per million. Delhi figures at rank 4 with 32 deaths while Kolkata stands at fifth position with 23 deaths per million. “We have launched mission Life Saving in the state to identify vulnerable groups for early diagnosis and early treatment to prevent deaths due to Covid-19. It has played a big role in keeping the mortality rate under control,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). When it comes to the case fatality rate, deaths per 100 cases, Jaipur lead the pack with 4.7% average rate, while with Kota coming a close second at 3.5%, and Ajmer at 2.5%. However, with Jodhpur at 1.1% CFR, the district has managed fairly well in preventing deaths. This is when the number of positive cases reported from Jodhpur stands at 1,762, which is just after Jaipur with 2,188 cases, the highest in the state. The seven districts that have contributed 78% of total deaths in the state are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Nagaur, Pali and Bharatpur. In all these districts, the cases were reported in clusters in certain areas and the health department had to impose curfew to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jaipur-tops-in-coronadeaths-per/mn-popnkota-2nd-jodhpur-3rd/articleshow/76240916.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur tops in Covid-19 deaths per/million population, Kota 2nd, Jodhpur 3rd||JAIPUR: Pink City beats all other districts in the state in terms of being the worst-affected due to Covid-19 pandemic with highest number of deaths per million population (ppm). At 15 deaths per million, Jaipur tops the list with Kota and Jodhpur close behind. Even the case fatality rate (CFR) for the city, which is nearing 5, is highest among the seven worst-affected districts of the state. However, nationally, Jaipur fares better and is not among the top five worst-affected cities. With 118 deaths per million, Ahmedabad tops the chart, followed by Mumbai with 83 and Pune with 55 deaths per million. Delhi figures at rank 4 with 32 deaths while Kolkata stands at fifth position with 23 deaths per million. “We have launched mission Life Saving in the state to identify vulnerable groups for early diagnosis and early treatment to prevent deaths due to Covid-19. It has played a big role in keeping the mortality rate under control,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). When it comes to the case fatality rate, deaths per 100 cases, Jaipur lead the pack with 4.7% average rate, while with Kota coming a close second at 3.5%, and Ajmer at 2.5%. However, with Jodhpur at 1.1% CFR, the district has managed fairly well in preventing deaths. This is when the number of positive cases reported from Jodhpur stands at 1,762, which is just after Jaipur with 2,188 cases, the highest in the state. The seven districts that have contributed 78% of total deaths in the state are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Nagaur, Pali and Bharatpur. In all these districts, the cases were reported in clusters in certain areas and the health department had to impose curfew to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-tops-in-coronadeaths-per/mn-popnkota-2nd-jodhpur-3rd/articleshow/76240159.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Two held for minor girl’s rape in Sangli||KOLHAPUR: Kadegaon police in Sangli arrested two brothers for allegedly threateaning to kill a minor girl and raping her for the last three months. Yeshvant Maruti Aywale (65) and Niwas Maruti Ayawale (58) have been arrested under POSCO. The girl told her parents how she was being raped since the last three months, following which her mother approached police and lodged a complaint. As per the complaint, the duo lured the girl promising her money and sweets in March this year. Niwas took the girl to a nearby tin shade and perpetuated the crime. Thereafter, the brothers frequently raped the girl in their residence. They threatened to kill her if she disclosed anything to her parents. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-held-for-minor-girls-rape-in-sangli/articleshow/76238087.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: No langars for devotees at Mansa Devi temple||PANCHKULA: With only two days left for the Mata Mansa Devi temple and Kali Mata temple to open its doors to public, the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board has opened online appointments for devotees from Saturday. The shops within the temple premises will be opened and the standard operating procedure (SoPs) will be strictly followed. Langars will not be served to devotees. Officials of the shrine board said any devotee who wants to visit the temple, should visit the official website mansadevi.org.in, and register for taking appointment to offer prayers at the temple. The person concerned will have to choose the temple i.e. Mata Mansa Devi temple or Kali Mata temple, where he/she wants to offer prayers. The person concerned will also have to provide all the details, including mobile number, address and number of his family members coming with him/her, if any. M S Yadav, chief executive officer (CEO), Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said, “People usually come with their family members to offer prayers at the temple and because of this we have kept an option of including the number of members visiting the temple. The appointments will be on first-come, first-serve basis.” A person concerned is required to reach the entry gate of the temple five minutes before his appointment time. A single person will be given 15-second time for prayer in front of the idol of the goddess and if a person has come along with his/her family members, the time will then be multiplied with the number of family members. The entry to devotees will be given in a 15-minute slot basis. A total of 60 persons will be allowed in one slot. While talking about following the lockdown guidelines, CEO Yadav said four foot-based sanitisers have been installed inside the temple and the guards will make sure that social distancing norms are being followed by devotees. Thermal scanning of devotees will also be done at all the entry points by the security guards. The temple premises will be sanitized from time-to-time. “For opening of shops within the temple premises, standard operating procedure (SoPs) will be followed strictly. Langar will be prohitibited and no one will be given entry into the temple premises without appointment,” added the CEO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-langars-for-devotees-at-mansa-devi-temple/articleshow/76240153.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur tops in Covid-19 deaths per/million population, Kota 2nd, Jodhpur 3rd||JAIPUR: Pink City beats all other districts in the state in terms of being the worst-affected due to Covid-19 pandemic with highest number of deaths per million population (ppm). At 15 deaths per million, Jaipur tops the list with Kota and Jodhpur close behind. Even the case fatality rate (CFR) for the city, which is nearing 5, is highest among the seven worst-affected districts of the state. However, nationally, Jaipur fares better and is not among the top five worst-affected cities. With 118 deaths per million, Ahmedabad tops the chart, followed by Mumbai with 83 and Pune with 55 deaths per million. Delhi figures at rank 4 with 32 deaths while Kolkata stands at fifth position with 23 deaths per million. “We have launched mission Life Saving in the state to identify vulnerable groups for early diagnosis and early treatment to prevent deaths due to Covid-19. It has played a big role in keeping the mortality rate under control,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). When it comes to the case fatality rate, deaths per 100 cases, Jaipur lead the pack with 4.7% average rate, while with Kota coming a close second at 3.5%, and Ajmer at 2.5%. However, with Jodhpur at 1.1% CFR, the district has managed fairly well in preventing deaths. This is when the number of positive cases reported from Jodhpur stands at 1,762, which is just after Jaipur with 2,188 cases, the highest in the state. The seven districts that have contributed 78% of total deaths in the state are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Nagaur, Pali and Bharatpur. In all these districts, the cases were reported in clusters in certain areas and the health department had to impose curfew to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-tops-in-coronadeaths-per/mn-popnkota-2nd-jodhpur-3rd/articleshow/76240914.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Udaipur||Jaipur tops in Covid-19 deaths per/million population, Kota 2nd, Jodhpur 3rd||JAIPUR: Pink City beats all other districts in the state in terms of being the worst-affected due to Covid-19 pandemic with highest number of deaths per million population (ppm). At 15 deaths per million, Jaipur tops the list with Kota and Jodhpur close behind. Even the case fatality rate (CFR) for the city, which is nearing 5, is highest among the seven worst-affected districts of the state. However, nationally, Jaipur fares better and is not among the top five worst-affected cities. With 118 deaths per million, Ahmedabad tops the chart, followed by Mumbai with 83 and Pune with 55 deaths per million. Delhi figures at rank 4 with 32 deaths while Kolkata stands at fifth position with 23 deaths per million. “We have launched mission Life Saving in the state to identify vulnerable groups for early diagnosis and early treatment to prevent deaths due to Covid-19. It has played a big role in keeping the mortality rate under control,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). When it comes to the case fatality rate, deaths per 100 cases, Jaipur lead the pack with 4.7% average rate, while with Kota coming a close second at 3.5%, and Ajmer at 2.5%. However, with Jodhpur at 1.1% CFR, the district has managed fairly well in preventing deaths. This is when the number of positive cases reported from Jodhpur stands at 1,762, which is just after Jaipur with 2,188 cases, the highest in the state. The seven districts that have contributed 78% of total deaths in the state are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Nagaur, Pali and Bharatpur. In all these districts, the cases were reported in clusters in certain areas and the health department had to impose curfew to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jaipur-tops-in-coronadeaths-per/mn-popnkota-2nd-jodhpur-3rd/articleshow/76240915.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Lovers beaten to death, kin allege honour killing||JAIPUR: A young unmarried couple — Bantu Singh (21) and Anita Singh (20) — of Layka Pur ka Thar village were killed allegedly for being in love, by the latter’s family under Rajkhera police station area in Dholpur. The incident happened when the girl’s family members attacked the family of Bantu Singh, accusing him of eloping with the girl. Both the deceased are from the same clan (gotra) and marriages within the same clan being prohibited is believed to be the reason behind the double murder. “Bantu’s family has alleged that it is a case of honour killing. Both deceased were from the Nishad community. This appears to be the reason behind the killing. The matter is being investigated from different angles,” said Mridul Kachawaha, SP, Dholpur. The FIR reads that a dozen armed persons from the girl’s family, mostly her uncles and cousins, attacked the house of Bantu Singh at 3pm on Saturday. “They entered the house after breaking the main gate, armed with iron and bamboo sticks and sharp objects. They found both the boy and the girl inside the house. The armed persons took both of them outside the house and started attacking them mercilessly,” said a police officer investigating the case. The armed persons allegedly did not stop beating the duo till they showed signs of life. “Both were rushed to the hospital in the village, but the boy was declared dead. The girl was rushed to a hospital in Dholpur and succumbed on the way,” said the cop. Till the last report came, none of the accused was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lovers-beaten-to-death-kin-allege-honour-killing/articleshow/76239430.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Hygienic food is a top priority now||Nagpur: Access to hygienically cooked food has gained significance amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from the government set-up, NGOs and individuals that are ensuring meals for the needy, restaurants too are taking all precautions to provide hygienic food to customers. WHO in collaboration with Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations has emphasized on healthy and safe food practices to mark the ‘World Food Safety Day’ which will be observed on June 7. TOI spoke to a few cooks, restaurant owners and individuals who explained how food safety and hygiene is everyone’s priority. Gaurav Manke, a restaurant owner from city, explains how they are ensuring safety while cooking meat and curries. “Meat is boiled in a certain temperature before preparing any dish. We are not buying from the local meat seller, as it is very risky. We dip the vegetables and meat in vinegar mixture so that the impurities are washed away before cooking,” he said. Praveena Limbachiya, who is associated with a community kitchen in the city, helps in packing hundreds of meals everyday. “Right from vessels to the kitchen counter, everything is cleaned with an antiseptic liquid. The food is cooked at our home. We put on mask, hand gloves and cap while cooking,” she said. The demand for spicy non-vegetarian food is always there, says Sanosh Dhabekar, manager at a famous Saoji restaurant in the city. “Hence, safety standards for preparing the food have gone a notch up. Groceries are washed thrice, and vegetables and other ingredients are cleaned thoroughly. The entire restaurant and utensils are sanitized every week,” he said. According to Savita Tharate, who provides service at a community kitchen, precautionary measures have increased while preparing food. “Even at home we now put on a cap while cooking food for the needy and the consumers. The vegetables are washed repeatedly,” she said. The heightened sense of safety holds true for café owner Mithilesh Wazalwar too. “Cleaning the café thoroughly and taking special care while preparing food has become an integral part of business. It's a welcome change, which will give a boost to the hospitality sector " he said. More precautions are being taken at home as well. “We now clean even the outer packets of grocery items. We are not buying food packets with broken seal,” said Poonam Khatri, a housewife. THINGS TO REMEMBER DOs - Buy meat and seafood or eggs from authentic buyers - Keep meat and produce in different packages while shopping - Clean vegetables and fruits in salt water or vinegar, cleaning machine can also be used - Wash hands before cooking food - Clean the kitchen counter, vessels and utensils - Before ordering food, check restaurants’ safety standards - Sanitize groceries and keep them untouched for a few hours - Keep food at certain temperature - Cook food thoroughly * DON’Ts - Purchase food if the packet is broken or leaking, especially meat - Use chemical or detergent to clean fruits or veggies - Order if hygiene is at risk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hygienic-food-is-a-top-priority-now/articleshow/76240162.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Teen hangs self in Kota after playing PUBG game||KOTA: A 14-year-old boy allegedly hanged himself from the grill of his room’s ventilator at Gandhi Colony under Railway Colony police station area of Kota city on Saturday. His body has been kept at the mortuary of MBS Hospital for postmortem until his father, who is an army personnel posted in Arunachal Pradesh, arrives. Class 9 student RS Aswant, son of C Rajan, hanged himself from the grill of his room’s ventilator between 3am and 6 am at his rented house in Gandhi Colony, Railway Colony SHO Hansraj Meena said. The boy allegedly played mobile game PUBG till 3am and then moved to another room where he allegedly hanged himself, he added. The deceased was a native of Kanyakumari district in Tamil Nadu and his father, an army personnel, is currently posted in Arunachal Pradesh, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-hangs-self-in-kota-after-playing-pubg-game/articleshow/76239462.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Rampant sand mining along Godavari takes toll on drought-hit village in Beed||Aurangabad: The Sangam Jalgaon village in Gevrai takuka of Beed district has been suffering from drought for four consecutive years because of alleged indiscriminate sand mining from the Godavari river basin. The villagers say that worse still, the school dropout rate is high, besides youths getting hooked by drugs, as many of them are lured with money to drive tractors carrying sand. According to the elderly locals, Sangam Jalgaon was once had sufficient water, but it has to rely on water tankers during summer now even as the Godavari passes through it. “Around 30 tractors are seen carrying sand from the river daily,” said a villager . According to the villagers, the sand mafia uses mechanical excavators and when the water level is high, drums are attached to the excavators to be able to extract high quality sand.Environment activist Kishore Pathak said, “Aggressive mining of sand from the river, beyond the government prescribed limits, affects the sedimentation process and leaves the river basin with only silt, which reduces its water holding capacity and impacts percolation. Asked about the mining, Prashant Jadhwar, who is holding the additional charge of Gevrai tehsildar, told TOI that he and the deputy superintendent of police frequently visit the site in question. “The sand is being lifted as part of a stock tender, which is valid from May 29 to June 12. We had seized 300 brass of sand. The tender is to lift sand from that stock,” he said.Jadhwar added that police squads regularly visit the site and due to the rise in the water level, sand cannot be lifted. He claimed that the drums lying in river are used for fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rampant-sand-mining-along-godavari-takes-toll-on-drought-hit-village-in-beed/articleshow/76238099.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Liquor shop timing back to 8pm||JAIPUR: The excise department has reversed the truncated timings for liquor outlets and gone back to the routine business hours by allowing them to remain open till 8pm. When shops were opened after 40 days of lockdown on May 4, keeping in view social distancing precautions, the state government had reduced the normal business hours to 6pm. But now shops will remain open till 8pm. This is expected to boost the sales, and help government maximize revenues which it needs desperately due to significant fall in other tax revenues. But liquor industry said sales growth will remain subdued due to increase in prices. “We don’t expect any increase in sales because liquor in the state has become unaffordable due to regular hike in taxes and prices. Lot of liquor is coming from Haryana where it is cheaper by a significant margin,” said a shop owner. Recently, there has been an uptick in the consumption of country liquor due to the arrival of migrant labourers from various states, said the shop owner. “The timing should have boosted country liquor sales more, but since most of the labourers are without jobs, increasing the timing will not have any impact,” she said. Night curfew is another reason for the low offtake of liquor. “There are no house parties happening now. Evening gatherings are yet to be a part of life. That’s why to expect a sales boost does not have enough reason,” said another shop owner. But the government officials are expecting that there will be increase in consumption due to the opening of hotels and restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-shop-timing-back-to-8pm/articleshow/76240160.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Be positive to turn negative: Ahmedabad's Civil Hospital nurse who beat Covid||AHMEDABAD: Mittal Pandya doesn’t mince words when she narrates her Covid-19 experience. “When I tested positive on April 24, I went completely blank for some time,” said Pandya, a staff nurse at Civil Hospital. “I worried about myself and my family whom I might have inadvertently infected.” Pandya is among the several Civil Hospital staff members who have resumed duty at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 facility after getting treated for Covid-19 themselves. “I was deployed in the D9 isolation ward which was converted into a Covid-19 ward in March and even attended to the first patients of the city,” Pandya said. “But when you get infected, the thorough knowledge of the condition doesn’t help much.” Pandya now trains other nurses to use PPE and be mindful of safety measures. She also spreads the message of remaining mentally positive among Covid-19 patients. She had worked at one of the wards at the Covid-19 hospital in mid-April. “On April 22, I was advised a test when I told my seniors that I was running fever and had severe diarrhoea,” she said. “Diarrhoea was a new symptom then. I was not much worried as I had no respiratory issues. But the report did come positive and I was admitted to the ICU due to severe dehydration.” But once faced with the challenge, she resolved to remain positive. “I told myself — what if I am Covid-19 positive? I took it upon myself not to think too much about it and concentrate on my diet and mental well-being,” she said. “The strategy paid off. I tested negative in just four days.” In the 14-day isolation that followed, she spent time with her family. “My husband works in Pune but due to the lockdown, he was in the city,” she said. “He took care of my child and mother-in-law in my absence. I kept inspiring other nurses and junior staff members that Covid-19 can be won and should not be feared.” She went on to say: “Whenever I interact with patients, I request them not to lose hope or unnecessarily fear the condition. It surely is dangerous but if we can remain positive, it will help us turn Covid-19 negative quickly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/be-positive-to-turn-negative-nurse-who-beat-covid/articleshow/76239488.cms||Parth Shastri
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||9-yr-old boy stranded in boarding school alleges sexual abuse by warden||Dehradun: Police have arrested the warden of a boarding school in Sahastradhara Road area on Saturday for allegedly sexually abusing a nine-year-old boy who was stranded on the campus due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Hailing from Noida, the boy is a class V student in the school. His family members said that the incident came to light only when they reached the campus on Thursday to take him home. According to a complaint lodged by the family members at Raipur police station, the warden, in an inebriated condition, forced the boy to take off his clothes and then touched him inappropriately. The complaint added that the warden also thrashed the boy, and even made him sweep the floor and wash clothes. SP (city) Shweta Choubey said, “The accused has been arrested. The allegations are serious and we are investigating the matter.” The family members have also tweeted a message to district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava seeking strict action against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/9-yr-old-boy-stranded-in-boarding-school-alleges-sexual-abuse-by-warden/articleshow/76238117.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Cancelling exams should be the last option: AICTE chief||Nagpur: With the confusion over final year/semester examinations continuing in Maharashtra, the chairman of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Anil Sahasrabudhe stressed that cancellation should be the last option, only if the situation is not conducive. In an exclusive chat with TOI, the apex body chief suggested a road map for conducting exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Excerpts... What’s your take on the state government’s decision to cancel exams? Till date, the AICTE hasn’t spoken about cancellation of exams. I wouldn’t like to talk about a particular state, but in my view, awarding average marks should be avoided. The exams could be deferred till the risk factor due to coronavirus is reduced substantially. Exams can be conducted in three shifts instead of two by strictly maintaining covid distancing. However, if the current situation continues for a long period of time then cancellation of exams cannot be ruled out. Are online exams a possibility? In the given circumstances, it’s the perfect option, but in many areas, Internet connectivity is a major problem. In such cases, students could be given assignments and projects as open book exams, and asked to submit them from their homes online for internal assessment. Even viva-voce could be conducted online by the faculty at different times and there’s no need to be physically present. The global pandemic has given us a golden opportunity to innovate by trying to find out new ways and means to move ahead. We need to set in motion our critical thinking abilities and come out with ideas that would become a benchmark in the education sector even beyond Covid times. Many renowned institutions like IIT Kanpur have cancelled the exams. It’s very easy to draw comparisons with premier institutions. Their overall teaching pedagogy is different from that of traditional universities. National level institutions evaluate students throughout the year/semester based on various components like assignments, quizzes, midterm tests, projects, group work and extra-curricular activities. They’re equally evaluated on theory and internal marks, unlike the traditional universities. By the time the students reach the final semester, they are thoroughly tested. In traditional universities, we have just 20% internal marks. If exams are conducted late then what about the students who want to join postgraduate programmes or jobs? Institutions have been instructed to admit students provisionally. They won’t suffer, even if the results are declared late. In fact, if average marks are given, meritorious students wouldn’t like it as everyone prepares hard for the final exams. They may revolt and knock the judiciary’s doors which would further complicate the issue. On the other hand, those who fared badly would be at an advantage and may insist on exam cancellation. It’s extremely important to take their opinion before arriving at any decision. Should universities be allowed to take their own decisions? Being autonomous bodies, they can take a call. Their academic councils have the authority and can devise a mechanism for holding exams. In such an extraordinary situation, universities should do a brainstorming on how to conduct exams. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has already given a format for conducting exams. Universities should now take a call depending on the circumstances in their areas. One cap fits all isn’t right. Any decision regarding cancellation of exams across the state is not right. It should be left to the universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cancelling-exams-should-be-the-last-option-aicte-chief/articleshow/76239522.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors vent ire as Telangana stays mum on accommodation||HYDERABAD: With the state government still sitting on its decision to provide accommodation to doctors working across government hospitals, doctors fear that hospitals might soon have to stop functioning with an increasing number of them going into quarantine. On Saturday, after seven doctors at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) tested positive for Covid-19, the out-patient and in-patient services of five departments at the hospital were shut for three days for sanitation purposes. The five departments medical gastroenterology, surgical gastroenterology, urology, cardiology & surgical oncology will remain shut between June 7 and 9. With the seven new cases, a total of 71 healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19. This includes 57 doctors across six government hospitals : Osmania Medical College and Hospital, NIMS, Gandhi Hospital, Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Niloufer Hospital, King Koti Hospital. As a result over 400 doctors and staff are in quarantine. “The government orders to provide accommodation to doctors in hotels has not been implemented. We have represented the issue to the health department and now with hostels turning into hotspots, it’s all the more important to prevent a chain of transmission,” said Dr G Srinivas, president, Resident Doctors Association. When asked, Dr K Ramesh Reddy, Director of Medical Education, Telangana said, "We are finalising it (hotel accommodation plan). Till then we will provide safe alternate accommodation." However, this failed to assuage the fears of doctors who say that the spread might have serious consequences since junior and resident doctorsd account for 70% of the doctors’ strength. “If the situation persists, the hospitals will stop functioning due to inadequate staff to,” said a senior resident at the MGMH, Petlaburj. Under the current circumstances, the need for accommodation is more than ever, doctors stressed. “The condition is deteriorating now since hostels themselves have become hotspots for widespread transmission among doctors. We cannot go on staying in the hostels as we have a common mess, common water source etc. We live in constant fear. I don’t understand how long the government will take to make a decision,” said a junior doctor from Osmania Medical College, a current hotspot of transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-vent-ire-as-t-stays-mum-on-accommodation/articleshow/76239503.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Police bandobast to continue in Malegaon||Nashik: Even as the lockdown rules are eased in Malegaon as part of the ‘Mission Begin Again’, senior police officers of Nashik rural police said heavy bandobast would continue here. Malegaon has seen a large number of Covid-19 patients. Out of the 1,489 patients who tested positive for the contagion in the district, 831 have been from Malegoan alone, followed by 345 from Nashik city, 249 from other parts of the district and 64 from outside the district. Superintendent of police Arti Singh said that given the infection rate in the textile town, police bandobast would continue even in the future to contain further spread of the virus. Meanwhile, senior officials of the rural police said that they are appealing to Muslim brethren to offer namaz at their respective homes. Police said they are spreading awareness among people about the extension of lockdown till June 30. Police have also prepared leaflets in Marathi and Urdu for the purpose and circulated them on WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-bandobast-to-continue-in-malegaon/articleshow/76238126.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||NWR sends list of 75 passengers who travelled in Mumbai-Jaipur superfast||JAIPUR: A day after a 65-year-old woman travelling from Mumbai to Jaipur tested Covid positive and died, authorities of Jaipur division of North Western Railway (NWR) sent seven of its staff and a coolie to quarantine on Saturday. NWR has also given a list of 75 passengers who travelled up to Jaipur in S-2 coach of Mumbai-Jaipur superfast with the woman. Also, NWR has got additional PPE kits and face shields to ensure extra precaution while attending to such passengers. According to authorities, the woman came to Jaipur on Thursday. “While she alighted the train, she was restless and was unable to walk properly. Our staff attended to her and called doctors and medical staff. However, the woman was declared dead within minutes,” said a senior officer of Jaipur division of NWR. However, authorities were in panic when told by the state health authorities on Friday that the woman tested positive. “As part of contact tracing, we submitted a list of 75 passengers out of which three travelled up to Durgapura station and 73 up to Jaipur main station. Also, we have informed that in the S-2 coach in which the woman travelled there were 83 passengers of whom eight travelled up to Kota or some station before Kota and 75 came to Jaipur,” Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR, told STOI on Saturday. He added eight railway staff, including the train ticket examiner, railway doctor who attended the woman and others, were sent to quarantine. “Also a coolie, who first attended to the woman, was sent to quarantine,” he added. On the other hand, NWR has appealed to the passéngers and reiterated the railway’s advisory for senior citizens and children travelling in trains. The incident also exposed the lofty claims of Indian railways on passenger screening as the woman boarded the train from Mumbai Central. “As part of our advisory, we only disallow the travel of symptomatic patients. The woman was asymptomatic,” said an officer with western railways, Mumbai. NWR adds extra PPE kits In order to ensure safety of the railway staff, including station superintendent, station director and others, NWR has got extra PPE kits and face shields for its staff working at various railway stations. “In order to attend to any passenger with symptoms, we need to be extra careful,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-sends-list-of-75-passengers-who-travelled-in-mumbai-jaipur-superfast/articleshow/76240163.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rs 67 crore relief to farmers hit by hailstorm||JAIPUR: The disaster management and relief department has allotted Rs 67.49 crore for the two districts of Bharatpur and Bikaner where Rabi crops were damaged due to hailstorm. As per the instructions of the state government, Rs 67.49 crore for the payment of agricultural input grant to 71,661 farmers of six tehsils — Bharatpur, Kumher, Nadbai, Deeg, Nagar and Roopas, affected by hailstorm in Bharatpur district by the department of disaster management and relief, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-67cr-relief-to-farmers-hit-by-hailstorm/articleshow/76239509.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||CII to manage govt’s Model Career Centre, once ready||Edited_290 words Panaji: The government’s Model Career Centre (MCC), which is in the process of being set up, will be managed by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Goa and will be mentored by an industry task force, said CII officials on Saturday. The CII – Goa said that the MCC will aim to connect jobseekers and industry while also assisting job aspirants in selecting jobs based on their individual skillsets. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had kick-started the work to set up the Model Career Centre, which is an evolved version of the state employment exchange, in January 2019. The MCC is being set up as part of the Centre’s drive to connect job aspirants to employment opportunities. The CII – Goa said that the MCC would conduct psychometric assessment, career counselling, pre-employment preparation and job placements. CII will also facilitate job placements inside and outside the state through the network of MCCs and state offices and the digital platform. The industry body also welcomed the department of labour and employment’s initiative to set up an online vacancy notification system and appealed to the Goan industries to support the government in creating employment for Goans. The CII, in association with the labour department, will set up the Model Career Centre at Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto in Panaji and will house a state-of-the-art, 120-seater training hall with audio-visual and video conferencing facilities. It will also include an independent counselling room, modular work stations, offices and other facilities. The initiative, industry officials said, could play a crucial role to reduce unemployment and capacity building. The MCC, once set-up, will assess candidates for skills and guide them to apt opportunities of employment or skill development. The services include job matching, employment market analytics and value additions. GFX HELPING HAND - The MCC will be set up at Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto in Panaji - MCC services will include include job matching, employment market analytics and value additions - The MCC will assess candidates for skills and guide them in career opportunities - The centre will have 120-seater raining hall with video conferencing facilities, counseling room and modular work stations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cii-to-manage-govts-model-career-centre-once-ready/articleshow/76240169.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Jaipur||Passengers suffer as RSRTC segregates departure points||JAIPUR: RSRTC has segregated originating points for its buses to various routes in order to ensure social distancing and prevent overcrowding. Except for super luxury buses, all other services which are being operated from five different points across the city which is troubling passengers. The express category buses to Kota and Jhalahwar are operated from Durgapura, buses to New Delhi and Agra are operated from Transport Nagar, buses to Ajmer, Bhilwara, Udaipur and Jodhpur from 200ft Bypass and those to Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Churu and Sriganganagar are departing from Sikar Road. However, only super luxury buses are operated from Sindhi Camp Bus Stand. RSRTC CMD Naveen Jain on Saturday said, “This segregation was necessary to avoid overcrowding and to maintain social distancing. In case, a passenger or my staff is symptomatic or is a suspected Covid case. By seggregating the originating points, I have saved passengers and staff at all the other zones. But if I invite everyone to Sindhi Camp, it will be problematic for all. It is a norm only for safety of passengers.” Though majority of the passengers are now acquainted with the new boarding points, some feel it is a little too far. “These days, autorickshaws and private cabs are operating in limited numbers. It took me almost 45 minutes to travel from Malviya Nagar to Chomu Pulia on Sikar road. I would request RSRTC authorities to bring back buses to Sindhi Camp Bus Stand as passengers and their staff are already following SOPs and taking precautions. I am going to Sikar,” said Anita Singh, a private school teacher in Sikar. “I came from Kardhani and it is a little too far,” said Shankar Lal, a software professional who took a bus to Gurugram from Transport Nagar. However, Ramesh Daswani who was travelling to Kota from Duragpura was happy. “They are managing it well. Precautions are very important in this tough time,” said Daswani, a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passengers-suffer-as-rsrtc-segregates-departure-points/articleshow/76240165.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist registers 104 Covid-19 cases in a day||Aurangabad: The number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district swelled to 1,942 with the addition of 96 cases on Saturday, officials said, adding that four deaths were reported between Friday and Saturday. With this, the district’s fatality count has reach 99. The new cases were reported from different areas of the city, including 29 from Harsul jail. District administration officials said that a total of 1,184 patients were discharged from different facilities until Saturday morning. Arvind Gaikwad, media co-ordinator at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said that a 50-year-old woman from Champa Chowk died at 3.15 pm on Friday due to bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome caused due to Covid-19 with hypertension and ischemic heart disease with bronchial asthma. On the same day, at around 9.30 pm, a 70-year-old man from Savera Park of Harsul died while undergoing treatment at the GMCH. The cause of his death was acute respiratory distress syndrome with bilateral pneumonia caused due to Covid-19 in known case of ischemic heart disease and hypertension, Gaikwad said. Meanwhile, on Saturday, a 50-year-old woman from Kiradpura died at the GMCH due to coagulopathy with bilateral pneumonia caused due to Covid-19 in known case of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and recurrent cerebrum-vascular accident. Another woman aged 63 from Harsul died at 2:25pm at GMCH on Saturday. Of the total number of fatalities in the district, 77 deaths have occurred at the GMCH, 20 at three different private hospitals in the city and one at the district civil hospital. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said that of the total 129 Covid-19 patients currently undergoing treatment at the GMCH, 49 are in critical condition. Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has started training its health workers on conducting door-to-door screening of people aged 55 and above for body temperature, blood oxygen levels and any co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension. The health workers will record the collected information in AMC’s — Majhi Health Majha Haathi — mobile application and will counsel people on taking proper precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-registers-104-covid-19-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76238130.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik farmers gear up for kharif||Nashik: Undaunted by the pandemic, the farming fraternity in Nashik is gearing up for the kharif season. Nashik is a major agricultural hub and it supplies fresh produce to markets across the state and even Gujarat. According to the data provided by the district agriculture department, in the past one month, more than 27,000 farmers in rural Nashik have bought more than 2,400 quintal of seeds and 9,700 metric tonne of farm inputs including fertilizers and urea. The cumulative cost of these seeds and farm inputs run into several lakhs of rupees. “These figures will swell as the monsoon is round the corner,” said the agriculture department officials. According to district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, the economy in the rural sector has got an impetus after a prolonged lockdown and farmers are on a buying spree of seeds and fertilizers. “I am sure the rural economy will further open up as days progress” added the minister. This year, the agriculture department is helping the farmers buy seeds and farm inputs. “Our staff in each of the 15 talukas of the district are coordinating between the farmers and dealers. Given the pandemic, we did not want the farmers to visit the dealers’ outlets. The dealers send the seeds and farm inputs directly to the villages. This new mechanism is working out well,” added the officials. So far, the staff have covered more than 1,400 villages in these 15 talukas. The farmers will sow the seeds in their fields soon after the monsoon arrives. “With the IMD predicting good monsoon, we are optimistic that this kharif season would yield impressive production. However, the state government must ensure that the small and marginal farmers get credit from the banks on time,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-farmers-gear-up-for-kharif/articleshow/76238132.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nashik||MUHS exams scheduled from July 16||Nashik: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided to conduct its summer exams in a staggered manner from July 16. The full schedule has been put on the varsity’s website: https://www.muhs.ac.in/. To start with, final-year undergraduate students of different streams like allopathy, dental, homeopathy, nursing, unani, ayurved, etc. will appear for the exams. Later, the varsity will announce the exam dates for other years. State governor and chancellor of the varsity Bhagat Singh Koshyari had given his nod to the university to hold the summer exams after state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh met him recently at Raj Bhawan. Varsity vice-chancellor Deelip Mhaisekar has worked overtime to prepare the exam blueprint with various stakeholders after the varsity announced cancellation of all health science exams in May due to coronavirus outbreak. He also co-ordinated with the central medical councils on the issue. Varsity’s controller of examination Ajit Pathak said, “The reason why the university is starting with final-year exams is that after these students pass out, they can start internships at different hospitals and serve as Covid warriors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-exams-scheduled-from-july-16/articleshow/76238142.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cash-strapped govt plans to sell 2,200 acres, net Rs 20,000 crore||HYDERABAD: The government has decided to resume over 2,200 acres of unutilised land worth Rs 20,000 crore in a fresh bid to fill its coffers. The land parcels had earlier been allotted to various government institutions. These land parcels would be handed over to the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) to pave the way for auctions soon. Officials said though the government has started identifying land suitable for sale from this February itself, it could not go ahead with the exercise due to coronavirus pandemic in the last three months. The revenue administration has identified 2,080 acres allotted to Deccan Infrastructure and Land Holdings Limited (DILHL) in various areas like Qutbullapur, Hayatnagar, Moinabad, Koheda, Shamshabad, Ghatkesar, Ibrahimpatnam, Keesara, Medchal and Saroornagar. “The then Congress government had transferred 2,084 acres to DILHL in 2007 and 2008 for taking up joint venture projects, especially construction of integrated townships under public-private partnership (PPP). Of the total land, only four acres was utilised and the rest of the land is still vacant,” a senior official of the revenue department told STOI. Apart from this, 77 acres in Khanamet and Budvel villages in Rajendranagar will be transferred to TSIIC from HMDA and Vdotc, a gated community. The government has already indicated that it would get rid of unutilised and non-performing assets by selling them and use the amount for projects and implement schemes. Officials said the revenue department had identified assigned land given to farmers in prime areas, especially Rangareddy and Medchal a few months ago and auction the land at market rate. The assigned land was given to farmers several decades ago for cultivation purposes and they cannot enjoy ownership rights. The government is now planning to take over the land by paying compensation to the farmers and sell it later. The Rangareddy administration has identified 1,450 acres in Kongara Khurd, Thummaloor, Raviryal (near Shamshabad airport) villages in Maheshwaram mandal, Madhapur in Kandukur mandal and Rayannaguda in Shamshabad mandal. The land worth is about Rs 3,580 crore. HMDA is also planning to auction 600 acres in Kokapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cash-strapped-govt-plans-to-sell-2200-acres-net-rs-20k-cr/articleshow/76239564.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 7, 2020||Allahabad||Five new coronavirus cases take Prayagraj tally to 123||PRAYAGRAJ: With five new positive cases reported on Saturday, Covid-19 tally went up to 123 in Prayagraj. Nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said those who tested positive include Kamla devi (36) of Raghunath Pur village who had come from New Delhi by special train on May 25 and was home quarantined. Samples of her husband and two sons have also been taken. 55-year-old Lal Jee of Chuck Prayagraj also tested positive for the virus. Anita (34) of Baraut (Handia) who came from Palghar was also found to be infected. 23-year-old Mohamad Saif also tested Covid-19 positive. However, he does not have any travel history but was in close contact to Shifa who tested positive on June 4. Deelip Kumar Pandey (29) of Meja who came in his own vehicle from Noida on June 2 also tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5-new-corona-cases-take-city-tally-to-123/articleshow/76239533.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||‘Cancer patients can’t be denied fertility preservation even during pandemic’||Dr Sadhana Patwardhan is a gynaecologist and an IVF consultant. She has been practising since two decades. She is also a national executive member of Fertility Preservation Society of India, clinical secretary of Maharashtra State chapter of ISAR and chairperson of High Risk Pregnancy Committee AMOGS 20-22. On the occasion of World Cancer Survivor’s Day (first Sunday of June), Dr Patwardhan, director of Nagpur Test Tube Baby Centre, talks to TOI about the importance of fertility preservation among young cancer patients. Excerpts from the interview... Q. How is fertility preservation linked to cancer survivor’s day? A. The concept started from the USA and it was introduced in India a decade ago when the Fertility Preservation Society of India was formed in New Delhi. The need for fertility preservation was felt as 4-5% among the newly diagnosed cancer patients are less than 35 years old. With early diagnosis and better treatment modalities, the life span of cancer survivors is increasing. This was not possible a few decades ago. The essence of fertility preservation is to give them a biological child or retain the ability to procreate once they are cured. Q. Are young patients convinced of fertility preservation? A. Young cancer patients look at the prospects of becoming biological parents once they become disease-free. However, the need for fertility preservation has to be weighed against morbidity and mortality associated with cancer. The ultimate aim of today’s oncologist, IVF specialist, onco-surgeon, endocrinologist and health counsellor should be to bless these young cancer patients with their own biological child and a fruitful and purposeful life. In fact, the patients very much wish to retain their fertility. Q. Has the Covid pandemic affected this option? A. As per the guidelines of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHERE) and American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM), a cancer patient can’t be denied the option of fertility preservation even during this pandemic. We have been getting referrals to freeze their gamete – cryopreservation of the semen, oocytes and embryo with the necessary triage and safety precaution. No published reports show that Covid19 will affect the reproductive system and fertility of male and female though this possibility cannot be ruled out. SARS CoV-1 SARS Cov-2 receptors are expressed in ovary testis and uterus but SARS Cov-1 RNA was not found in these organs. Q. Can you call it part of cancer treatment? A. The life of patient is more important than anything else. If the disease needs immediate treatment, we can’t wait for fertility preservation. It takes a week for men while in women it takes 2 to 3 weeks because she has to undergo ovarian stimulation. Q. What is the preference level? A. In two years of launching fertility preservation in Nagpur, more than a dozen patients have opted for it. It is quite affordable for men but slightly expensive for women as she has to undergo one complete IVF stimulation cycle. Mostly, the option is for people in the early stage of cancer. If the disease is curable and the patient has a good long term survival after treatment, it is strongly recommended. Q. Is there a need to regulate fertility preservation through a law? A. In 2006, the American Society of Clinical Oncology first published recommendations on fertility preservation stating that “as part of education and informed consent before cancer therapy, oncologists should address the possibility of infertility with patients treated during their reproductive years.” Fertility Preservation Society of India is formulating guidelines. Fertility preservation strategies require two to three weeks to complete. There are many technical, logistical and ethical questions which surround this concept. Legal help is also needed along with all clinical experts to execute this work. Issues such as compulsorily discarding the semen or embryo in the event of patient’s death need to be addressed. Q. How does cancer treatment affect fertility? A. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy remains the mainstay of cancer treatments. Both can be damaging to the ovary and testis depending on the agent used, dose given, and age of the patient. Interdisciplinary collaboration between medical and surgical oncologists, reproductive endocrinologists, and urologists is important. Oncologists have the initial responsibility to discuss the reproductive risks of intended cancer therapies. Q. What are the options for men and women patients? A. The options are embryo cryopreservation, oocyte cryopreservation, ovarian tissue cryopreservation (OTC) and in-vitro maturation (IVM) among women. For men, cryopreservation of semen and testicular sperm extraction is done. Q. Can fertility be protected before beginning cancer treatment? A. Fertility sparing surgery is essentially offered for female cancer patients where ovarian transposition i.e. moving the ovary out of the field of radiation is done. Medical management is also largely applicable to female cancer patients when adjuvant therapy is given to prevent loss of ovarian reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cancer-patients-cant-be-denied-fertility-preservation-even-during-pandemic/articleshow/76240182.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Full refund for Haj pilgrims if they cancel||HYDERABAD: With Saudi authorities mum over Haj 2020, the Telangana State Haj Committee (TSHC) has notified pilgrims that should one want to cancel, the full amount will be refunded into their respective accounts. Meanwhile, the Haj Committee of India decided to leave the option to wait or cancel their holy trip to the pilgrims. TSHC chairman Mohammed Masiullah Khan and executive officer B Shafiullah informed that, as per the circular issued by the Haj Committee of India on June 5, only few weeks were left and there had been no communication from Saudi authorities regarding arrangements for this year’s Haj. “Haj pilgrims who want to cancel their pilgrimage are requested to fill the cancellation forms available on the website www.hajcommittee.gov.in or email to hajcommittee@nic.in attaching with a bank pass book and cancelled cheque,’’ the TSHC chairman said. According to TSHC, nominees of those who have died after provisional selection in the draw of lots can submit their bank details along with the letter and a copy of the death certificate to Haj Committee of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/full-refund-for-haj-pilgrims-if-they-cancel/articleshow/76239510.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Heavy rains with wind lash several parts of Amreli||Rajkot: Heavy downpour with wind lashed several parts of Amreli district on Saturday evening resulting in damage to several small houses.Liliya taluka of Amreli recorded 64 mm rainfall causing heavy inflow in Navli river and water logging on roads. At several places water entered in the houses and shops; and damaged goods. District officials said that several electrical polls collapsed between Babra and Chamardi causing power outage in many parts of the district. A number of trees got uprooted which restricted traffic movement on main roads. Amreli taluka received 17mm, while Lathi and Babra talukas received 8mm rainfall each. According to farmers they will be able to start sowing with this rain. The rain with heavy wind was also reported in Rajkot city late Saturday evening, resulting in waterlogging on several roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/heavy-rains-with-wind-lash-several-parts-of-amreli/articleshow/76238991.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Gap in discharge and admission numbers of Covid-19 patients narrows in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In what the city’s civic officials claim is a sign of “recovery,” the once-sharp gap between the number of daily hospital admissions due to Covid-19 and the number of hospital discharges is narrowing. In May, the number of recovered patients were a fraction of the number of admissions. “But data from our three big hospitals — KEM, Sion and Nair — show the number of discharges are inching closer or are almost equal to the number of admissions,” said a BMC official. A public hospital doctor, however, said the ‘equalisation’ of hospital admissions and discharges is merely a reflection of the changed discharge policy announced by the Centre on May 9; the new policy said mild-to-moderate patients could be sent home without a second test. “Patients are no longer being kept for 14 days or until they get two negative tests,” the doctor said, warning that the number of admissions could increase with the lockdown being relaxed. At the moment, however, BMC officials and doctors are savouring the “change.” Consider KEM Hospital in Parel, which has 500 beds for Covid-19 patients: it admitted 103 patients and discharged only six on May 19, for example, but on June 5, the number of admissions stood at 52 and discharges at 27. An officer said, “Earlier we would discharge after 14 days, which was reduced to 10 days. Now, if a person doesn’t have symptoms for three consecutive days, we discharge the patient on the seventh day without testing. It helping free hospital and quarantine beds.” In BMC-run Nair Hospital, which has 1,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, the number of admissions haven’t reduced but the discharges have grown. It admitted 51 patients and discharged 11 on May 15, while it admitted 67 patients and discharged 70 recovered patients on June 5. “We have seen this trend throughout the first week of June,” said a BMC official. On June 4, for instance, if new admissions stood at 45, the number of discharged patients was 41. “Increasing number of discharges is a sign of recovery,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of the Indian College of Physicians who is a member of the state government’s task force. “The city’s worst Covid-19 spell was in May, and we are on a plateau right now,” he added. The discharge percentage was 26% (8,395) as on May 26, when the city had recorded 32,791 cases. But in the last 11 days, the discharge percentage has increased to 41% (18,761) when the total cases stand at 47,128. In fact, BMC’s Covid update now has a special column on the number of admissions alongside the number of discharges. On June 3, the ward-wise breakdown of cases showed 17,447 people were discharged from various health facilities while 23,473 cases were still active. “It’s heartening to note that admissions and discharges in our major hospitals now almost match. Earlier, hospitals were overwhelmed by new admissions and had fewer discharges,” said principal secretary Manisha Mhaiskar, who is on deputation from Mantralaya to the BMC for Covid management. She said the change has been brought about by the steady improvement in doubling time – which stood at 20 days on June 5 but was 12 days on May 15. “The lockdown helped in bringing about an improvement, but the aftermath of easing remains to be seen,” she said, adding that BMC is preparing for the weeks ahead. G North ward’s assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said, “Because of the change in discharge policy, our discharge rate has increased. We have four private Covid-19 hospitals in Dharavi and beds are now easily available in these hospitals.” He also stated that fever clinics, isolating high-risk contacts at an early stage and providing oxygen supply and other health facilities at Covid-19 health centres in the ward to provide timely treatment to emergency patients had reduced casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gap-in-discharge-admission-nos-of-covid-patients-narrows/articleshow/76240172.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Warangal serial killer kept tabs on police investigation||HYDERABAD: Hours after killing nine people in the early hours of May 21 in Warangal, the accused, Sanjay Kumar Yadav, returned to the scene of offence after coming to know that police had reached the agriculture well at Gorrekunta.. Untill he was contacted by cops — since his phone number figured in the deceased Maqsood Alam’s call data record, Sanjay was keeping track of the developments in the case by being in touch with migrant labourers and lending a ear to discussions among locals. “To execute his plan...Sanjay frequented their new place of residing, which was at the gunny manufacturing unit during the lockdown. He even asked Maqsood to help him get employment since he was jobless because of the lockdown,’’ Warangal police said. Police said Sanjay’s intention to visit the gunny bag unit was to conduct a recce of the place so that he can execute the multiple murders and dispose the bodies. After committing the murder, he thought that police would treat is as a mass suicide since none of the victim’s immediate family members was at the spot or knew him. But, his plans were disrupted when cops stumbled upon his missing live-in partner Rafiqa. Sanjay mixed sleeping tablets in buttermilk that Rafiqa consumed and pushed her out of a running train near Nidavadolu in AP when she was unconscious. After killing her, he returned to Warangal. In fact, to cover up this killing, Sanjay murdered nine others as Maqsood’s wife is related to Rafiqa. Apart from the murder case, police also registered a fresh case against Sanjay after conclusion of custodial enquiry for allegedly raping a minor, who is a relative of one of the nine victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-serial-killer-kept-tabs-on-police-investigation/articleshow/76239442.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana minister KT Rama Rao brands green tribunal case vilification campaign||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao said that the NGT case filed over a plea by Congress’ A Revanth Reddy against him was a deliberate personal vilification campaign. Responding on the issue, the TRS working president tweeted: “The NGT case against me by a congressman is a deliberate personal vilification campaign based on utter false statements. It remains a fact that I don’t own the property as clarified by me earlier.” The minister added that he would seek appropriate legal remedies by “exposing falsehood of allegations.” Coming out in support of the municipal minister, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owasi tweeted: “We are with you @KTRTRS ,continue to do the good work. Political detractors are frustrated & also because you have been a successful minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-brands-green-tribunal-case-vilification-campaign/articleshow/76239406.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu students in Kyrgyzstan call on govt for evacuation||HYDERABAD: A large number of Indian students pursuing medical courses in Kyrgyzstan and stranded due to the pandemic have urged the Union government to evacuate them. While some students could be evacuated during the two phases of Vande Bharat mission, a few hundred students from the two Telugu states continue to be stuck there. The students have put out videos on social media platforms explaining their plight. The students from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said there were at least 200 in their group and want to return home. There were around 15,000 Indian students pursuing medical courses in the country, they said. According to them, there were at least 1,200 Telugu students at the International School of Medicine in Bishkek. “It is important that we return to India because we will also have to appear for Medical Council of India (MCI) examination,” said Jakka Sushma from Nagarkurnool. “It has been a childhood dream for me to become a doctor and with a limited budget have been able to pursue medicine in Kyrgyzstan. There are hundreds like me who are eager to come back but have got stranded,” Sushma told TOI over phone from Kyrgyzstan. “Lockdown has been lifted here and there is every scope for us to be affected with Covid-19 if we continue to be stuck here,” a student said. She said that like her, several students had completed their five-year course and had to return to India. They said they had also gone to the embassy on June 5, but officials expressed helplessness and suggested that they contact their respective state governments for help. Students from AP have also addressed a letter to YS Jaganmohan Reddy explaining their situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-students-in-kyrgyzstan-call-on-govt-for-evacuation/articleshow/76239474.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: KTR should resign from portfolio to facilitate free and fair inquiry||A day after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued notices to municipal minister KT Rama Rao among others and ordered an inquiry into a construction allegedly taking place in a protected area under GO-111, the Congress on Saturday demanded the minister’s resignation in order to facilitate a free and fair inquiry. Top state Congress functionaries including TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, Malkajgiri MP Revanth Reddy, former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, while addressing the media said that the minister should either step down or be relieved of his portfolio by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. “A free and fair inquiry is not possible as most of the officials in the NGT-constituted committee are from the municipal administration department. They cannot be expected to do a fair inquiry against their own minister,” they said. The NGT order came following a petition to NGT by A Revanth Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-ktr-should-resign-from-portfolio-to-facilitate-free-and-fair-inquiry/articleshow/76239411.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Revenue dip may nudge Telangana govt to enhance retirement age||HYDERABAD: With revenues plunging due to the economic slowdown and subsequently the lockdown due to coronavirus, the government’s decision to raise retirement age from 58 to 60 is now looking more likely. The move is estimated to save the government as much as Rs 4,000 crore per annum. Should the move materialise, the government will not have to pay gratuity, leave encashment, commutation and other retirement benefits in lump-sum thus resulting in huge savings. The finance department is currently working out the details and will send a report to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao who will then take a decision. Many had been expecting most retirements to take place in the months of February and March instead of June.“This is because the dates of birth of most employees fall in June, July or August. About 35 years to 40 years ago, when parents used to admit their children in schools in villages, they used to give the date of birth as June — school admission month because they did not have birth certificates. This is also one of the reasons for June topping the list for number of retirements,” said an official. Telangana Non-Gazetted Officers’ Association president K Ravinder Reddy told TOI that it was high time for the chief minister to implement his promise of enhancing retirement age. “As it is, the government is not giving revised pay scales (PRC) which is due from July 2018. We were expecting at least over 60% if not PRC but economic slowdown and the lockdown has impacted the state and central revenues,” Reddy said. Meanwhile, the executive committee meeting of government employees’ JAC on Saturday unanimously resolved to demand the government that it should pay full salary for June. Ravinder Reddy said the government incurs at least Rs 50 lakh per employee on an average towards lump-sum retirement benefit. “Already, over 11,000 employees have retired since TRS came to power for second term and missed out on retirement age enhancement,” he said. Elsewhere, unemployed youth JAC leader Koturi Manavtha Roy demanded the government first fill up the one lakh government job vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revenue-dip-may-nudge-govt-to-enhance-retirement-age/articleshow/76239358.cms||Roushan Ali
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Now, consumers receive power bill shocker||HYDERABAD: After a nearly three-month hiatus, discoms have severed a high-voltage shock to consumers in the form of huge power bills. While it triggered a row with consumers raising doubts over the billing cycle, Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) officials dismissed the claims saying people stayed indoors due to the lockdown and consumed more electricity. The power discom, which could not issue bills based on meter readings since March, has started issuing bills this month by taking meter readings manually though its personnel. However, these bills gave a shock to lakhs of consumers and many claimed they were inflated. “Generally. we used to get Rs 700 to Rs 800 a month as power bill. But for these three months, we got Rs 10,000 bill. We don’t understand the rationale behind the power consumption charges,” P Balaji, a resident of Keshavanagar Colony, Secunderabad, told TOI. Like Balaji, thousands of consumers complained to TSSPCL regarding their bills. However, TSSPDCL chairman and managing director (CMD) G Raghuma Reddy dismissed the allegations saying the units were billed as per the tariff approved by the Electricity Regulatory Commission. “We have nine slabs in the domestic category — up to 100 units, 100-200 and third slab of over 200 units. Many consumers have got more power charges as people stayed indoors due to the lockdown. Many consumers use more than the normal power, generally 13% more, in the summer and slabs change accordingly,” the TSSPCL chief said. Of 95 lakh power consumers in the state, 75 lakh consumers were domestic consumers and 80% of them consume below 200 units per month. “Our state’s power tariffs are less compared to others and our method is being followed by them,” the CMD said. He said due to the lockdown, TSSPDCL had asked consumers to pay April and May month bills based on previous year’s consumption. “In March, 67% consumers paid their bills, while it was 44% in April and 68% in May. The average is about 60%,” the discom chief said. “If any consumer has any doubts regarding their bills, we will examine and rectify it, if required. TSSPDCL is a government agency. Even if consumers paid excess bills, it will be adjusted in the subsequent months,” Raghuma Reddy clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-consumers-receive-power-bill-shocker/articleshow/76239174.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Youth goes missing after visa rejection||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old engineering graduate went missing from home after his visa application to go to Australia was rejected recently. The family filed a missing complaint at Malkajgiri police station. According to the family members, Danaboina Sai Kumar Yadav left home on his Honda CB Unicorn bike on Wednesday without intimating anyone. After searching in vain for two days, they approached the Malkajgiri police on Friday night to lodge a missing complaint. They said Sai was depressed after his visa application was rejected. Sai, a resident of Yadav Nagar in Malkajgiri, had applied for the visa to go to Australia to pursue higher studies. Three months ago, he had also applied for a UK visa to go to London before the lockdown, they said.He had completed his BTech from Brilliant Institute of Engineering & Technology, Abdullapurmet, two years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-goes-missing-after-visa-rejection/articleshow/76239567.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vadodara||Amul pins ‘Exit the Dragon?’ on its Twitter handle||Vadodara: Facing outrage over its move to briefly restrict dairy giant Amul’s account, microblogging site – Twitter – on Saturday cited security processes. Amul, on the other hand, pinned its tweet ‘#Amul Topical: About the boycott of Chinese products..’ on its official twitter handle. The tweet is at the centre of the entire episode. On Saturday noon, Amul with over 28,000 tweets, was among hot trending topics in India. TOI had carried an exclusive report that the top brass of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets the home grown dairy brand Amul was totally surprised when its account on the microblogging platform was temporarily blocked. The matter spiralled into a virtual outrage with Twitteratis linking the move with Amul’s latest creative take ‘Exit the Dragon?’ that supported boycotting Chinese products. The tweet in bold letters claimed Amul is “Made In India” focusing on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Aatmanirbharta’ (self-reliance). Amul’s iconic witty girl in the red polka dot dress is seen saving her country by fighting a dragon, carrying a 'Made in China' placard, behind which a logo of the Chinese video-sharing mobile application TikTok can also be seen in the creative. Citing “safety and security of the accounts” as “a key priority” for Twitter operators, a statement issued by a spokesperson of the American microblogging and social networking service said that it was a part of a routine exercise that “requires account holders to clear a security key for login verification to protect the accounts”. In an emailed statement to TOI on Saturday, the spokesperson said, “To ensure an account has not been compromised sometimes we require the account owner to complete a simple reCAPTCHA process. This is easy for authentic account owners to solve, but difficult (or costly) for spammy or malicious account owners to complete. Once the account clears this security step the account regains full access.” “Since Friday, we have been asking Twitter why it had blocked our account. But it failed to respond, despite the outrage across the country. It is good that they have responded finally, even if a day later. The way netizens across the country reacted and supported Amul, only shows how Indians remain united during such times,” R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF told TOI, adding that “nobody managing social media platforms should take Indian viewers, listeners or readers for granted”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-pins-exit-the-dragon-on-its-twitter-handle/articleshow/76238333.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 7, 2020||Goa||CII to manage govt’s Model Career Centre||Panaji: The government’s Model Career Centre (MCC), which is in the process of being set up, will be managed by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Goa and will be mentored by an industry task force, CII officials said on Saturday. The CII – Goa said that the MCC will aim to connect jobseekers and industry while also assisting job aspirants in selecting jobs based on their individual skillsets. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had kick-started the work to set up the MCC, which is an evolved version of the state employment exchange, in January 2019. The MCC is being set up as part of the Centre’s drive to connect job aspirants to employment opportunities. The CII said that the MCC would conduct psychometric assessment, career counselling, pre-employment preparation and job placements. It will also facilitate job placements inside and outside the state through the network of MCCs, state offices and digital platforms. The industry body also welcomed the department of labour and employment’s initiative to set up an online vacancy notification system and appealed to the Goan industries to support the government in creating employment for Goans. The CII, in association with the labour department, will set up the Model Career Centre at Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto in Panaji and will house a state-of-the-art, 120-seater training hall with audio-visual and video conferencing facilities. It will also include an independent counselling room, modular work stations, offices and other facilities. The initiative, industry officials said, could play a crucial role to reduce unemployment and capacity building. The MCC, once set-up, will assess candidates for skills and guide them to apt opportunities of employment or skill development. The services include job matching, employment market analytics and value additions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cii-to-manage-govts-model-career-centre/articleshow/76240170.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Landlord waives of Rs 7.5 lakh rent of tenants||AURANGABAD: A city-based landlord Yusuf Mukati, who owns commercials shops in Gulmandi area has waived off a whopping Rs 7.5 lakh rent from his tenants amid the country-wide lockdown. A total of 13 tenants belonging to different religion and community said they were relieved from the major financial burden as their income was completely frozen during the lockdown. Shekhar Chandekar, one of the tenants, said that he would never ever forget the noble gesture shown by his landlord. “I run a garment shop, which was closed for more than two months. While I was worried overpaying the dues towards rent, Mukati, on his own conveyed to all tenants including me that we need not have to pay a single penny towards rent for the lockdown days,” he said, who pays Rs 15,000 as a monthly rental. Another tenant Avinash Rathod said that the timely help offered by Mukati would really give him much needed relief. “The government has announced multi-crore package but businessmen like us are left out completely. We have to start from scratch again to overcome losses. The relief from paying rent of the shop helped in a big way,” he said adding that he pays a monthly rental of Rs 20,000. After being closed for almost 75 days during the lockdown, the local markets in the city finally reopened on Friday. The commercial establishments were permitted to operate only on alternative days. Mukati, who also runs ‘Roti-bank’ also offers free food to needy and poor among other charity ventures in Aurangabad. He said that other landlords should also, follow him in waiving off the lockdown rent. “Life has come to standstill for all of us during the current outbreak of Covid-19. I feel it is a moral duty of everyone to help each one of us around in all possible manner,” said Mukati, who had unsuccessfully contested last Assembly election as Congress-sponsored candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-landlord-waives-of-7-5l-rent-of-tenants/articleshow/76238161.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||50-year-old University of Hyderabad staffer found dead||HYDERABAD: A 50-year-old employee of University of Hyderabad (UoH) was found dead with a severe head injury at Rajendranagar on Saturday. Police have registered a murder case and taken up investigation. The deceased was identified as Sathyanarayana, a section officer with the university and a resident of Hydershakote. Police suspect that unidentified persons attacked the victim with a boulder. The body was found in FTL zone of Himayathsagar Village under Rajendranagar. According to police the incident might have occurred in the afternoon. A local alerted the cops on Saturday evening. “We are checking for CCTV cameras and investigating the case. A murder case was registered,” said a police officer from the Rajendranagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-year-old-uoh-staffer-found-dead/articleshow/76239584.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Marijuana cultivation busted||Rajkot: A marijuana cultivation was busted and a farmer arrested in Kandhevadia village of Vichhiya taluka in Rajkot district on Saturday. “We arrested the farmer, identified as Jivan Dharajia (70), for the alleged cultivation of marijuana. We have seized 199 marijuana plants worth Rs 2.35 lakh and 2.285 kg dry marijuana worth Rs 16,995 from the possession of the accused,” said H G Palacharya, inspector with Rajkot rural special operation group. Dharajia told the cops that he had cultivated the contraband in the rows of the cultivation of toor dal and papaya and that he had grown marijuana to cater to sadhus visiting the village temple. “Though Dharajia has claimed that he has not sold the contraband to anyone, we are probing whether he was into the business of drug trafficking,” added Palacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/marijuana-cultivation-busted/articleshow/76239014.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||Infected tally surges past 9k in PMR, 6 more die of nCoV||Pune: The Covid-19 case burden in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged beyond 9,000-mark on Saturday, with the addition of 342 positives in the past 24 hours. Besides, six more people succumbed to the contagion in the region on Saturday, pushing the casualty count in the PMR to 407. Of the new cases, 290 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 34 in Pimpri chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits and 23 in the rural and Cantonment areas of the Pune district. The total positive cases in Pimpri Chinchwad have surged past 700-mark. Officials from the PMC’s health department said 1,649 swab samples were collected on Saturday. “A total of 299 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours in the region after they were declared Covid-free. As many as 2,964 active cases are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and centres,” a district health official said, adding 231 patients were in critical condition in the PMR, including 194 from PMC limits and 20 from PCMC areas. Among the six deceased, five were aged over 60. These included a 68-year-old woman from Yerawada, a 70-year-old woman of Mangalwar Peth, a 66-year-old man from Jalgaon, an 80-year-old man from Latur district and an 84-year-old man from Baramati Tehsil. A 42-year-old man from Wadarwadi was the only deceased who was aged below 50. Till Saturday, 45,835 people were in quarantine in PMR, of which 37,455 were from Pune city and 5,594 from Pimpri Chinchwad areas, where over half of teh patients have recuperated from the contagion so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/infected-tally-surges-past-9k-in-pmr-6-more-die-of-ncov/articleshow/76240185.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Four die as tractor overturns||Nashik: Four persons including a farmer, his wife and 14-year-old child, died when the tractor in which they were travelling turned turtle at the descend of the Bhavadbari ghat, 60 km from here, on Saturday morning. Six other people including children and women escaped with grievous to minor injuries and have been admitted to the Deola rural hospital. The deceased have been identified as Vijay Madhukar Bhavar (47), Sunita Vijay Bhavar (45), Sonu Vijay Bhavar (14) and Bhausaheb Parvat Kale (46). The Deola police said the accident took place at 11.10 am on Friday. The deceased and the injured victims are from the same family of the Puri village in Chandwad taluka. According to the Deola police, the family has a farmland in the Bhavad village in Deola. All the family members were coming to their farmland by tractor. While Bhausaheb Parvat Kale was driving the vehicle, others were seated in the tractor trolley. At the descend of the Bhavadbari Ghat, Kale lost control of the tractor and it turned turtle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/four-die-as-tractor-overturns/articleshow/76238181.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 7, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Testing slows down, but case burden soars in PCMC limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: From 265 Covid-19 cases on May 22 to over 600 positive patients on June 5, the coronavirus spread in the 181sqkm Pimpri Cinchwad municipal limits has worsened, especially since the lockdown exit began in the twin cities, despite reduced testing. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal area was the first to come out of the red zone in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), with the process of relaxation starting early on May 22 here as against the other areas. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) also started its skeletal service in Pimpri Chinchwad first. As per the data provided by the health department, the first Covid-19 case in PCMC limits was recorded on March 11 and the tally rose to 12 by the end of the month. The further rise, albeit gradual, was recorded in April, when the total case tally rose to 113. It was in May that the case showed a spike, taking the total count to 522. In May as well, the sudden rise was registered after May 22 when the total case count was 265. Besides, records show that Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has frozen its testing to just an average of 115 tests daily over the last 10 days. When asked about the rationale behind the move, PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI, “Earlier, we were testing 20 people for each positive patient. It has come down in recent times as the testing infrastructure is not adequate. We are now setting up a testing facility in Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital and also tying up with more private laboratories. This should help in more testing.” According to experts, early detection and increased testing are key to arrest coronavirus spread. So far, the PCMC has tested about 306 persons per lakh of its population compared to neighbouring Pune Municipal Corporation’s 1,107. On the faster doubling of cases, Hardikar said, “It is also because the denominator was low in PCMC limits some 10 days ago. Besides, most of the cases in the civic limits are coming from just one area.” The Anandnagar slum pocket in the civic limits has contributed to over 220 of the 679 cases. ( With inputs from Sarang Dastane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-slows-down-but-case-burden-soars-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/76240174.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cancel exam, don’t postpone, urge parents of SSC students||HYDERABAD: The state should cancel the SSC examinations instead of postponing them incessantly, urged parents of pupils who are forced to travel from other states and district to appear for the exams. The demand came in the backdrop of the exams getting postponed again, after the high court directed state to reschedule them in view of Covid-19 fear. Many of the parents, including those living at their home districts, who had to travel for days to reach their destination on Friday or Saturday, said that it’s not fair on the state’s part to take such last-minute decisions. “It took us three days to reach Adilabad. Initially, we were stopped at Maharashtra border and were made to undergo medical tests and then again at the Telangana border,” said Dattatreya Bejankiwar, a farmer who is a resident of Yavatmal, Maharashtra. He added that they had to cross four check posts and walk for about three to four kilometres at each of these check posts. On hearing that exams are postponed, Bejankiwar said: “I had spent Rs 6,000 so that my son can appear for SSC exams. Now, I have to go to Adilabad and get him back to Maharashtra as no one knows when the exams will be conducted. Also, he might have to be under home quarantine. Why put us through this trouble.” Parents of students who are stuck in other states said that the state should just cancel the examinations. “I have no money to send my son to Karimnagar to appear for the exams. Instead of postponing, why can’t the state just cancel them like other states? The children are in no state to write exams and many parents have no means to support them and fund their transportation and accommodation in other states,” said Sagar Nagulwar, a construction labourer from Chandrapur, Maharashtra. K Narayana, another parent who travelled from Mahabubnagar to Sarroornagar so that his daughter Roja can appear for the exam, said: “Even when we had no money or place to stay, my daughter and I reached Hyderabad on Saturday so that she can write her exams.” “Our owner did not let us stay at our rented accommodation and asked us to stay in another building,” said Narayana, a migrant labourers, adding that he will stay for another couple of months in the city. “We don’t have the money to go back and come again. So, we will see for another two to three months as the owner said that I can work as a watchman here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cancel-exam-dont-postpone-urge-parents-of-ssc-pupils/articleshow/76239623.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees highest 1-day deaths (58), records 1,274 new Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra recorded 120 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, its second highest toll in a day. The highest deaths so far in a day was 139, on Friday. Of the 120 deaths, 58 were in Mumbai, the city’s highest fatalities for a day; its toll stands at 1,577. The state’s overall toll is now 2,969, just shy of the 3,000 mark. The state added 2,739 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 82,968. Mumbai recorded 1,274 fresh cases, taking the city’s tally to 47,354 cases, with the case fatality rate at 3.33%. The state update said that of the total deaths reported on Saturday, 30 were from the last two days, while the other 90 were from May 3 to June 3. Since Monday, the state has reported 683 deaths. Of the 120 deaths, 90 were from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The BMC’s daily Covid-19 update too spoke of 57 (as against the state update, which said 58). The BMC said 39 of these victims had chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes or heart problems. While 29 of the dead were in the 40-60 age-group, 21 were above 60 years of age and seven were under 40. While 23 of the 57 victims were women, 34 were men. Over a quarter of a lakh patients in the city are actively fighting the disease at the moment, a BMC official said. “We have been seeing between 1,000 and 1,500 cases on most days in the last fortnight, with a few days having more than 1,700. But the graph seems to be steady,” the official said. “The city’s peak was in the second fortnight of May, we are now witnessing a plateauing of cases,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of the Indian College of Physicians and a member of the state task force. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the doubling time has improved to 20 days across the city and is higher in some pockets. “We cannot say for certain that the worst is over, but we are on the proper track,” he said. “The next few days are crucial as the lockdown is being relaxed and we could see a spike in the next few weeks,” Kakani said. He said the BMC has been actively recruiting doctors, especially those from alternative therapies who can supervise quarantine centres. “We have also reached out to doctors from the green zones of Latur, Wardha and Ambejogai,” he said. Meanwhile, 128 cases were reported from within NMMC areas on Saturday, taking the total cases there to 2,771. One death was reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 88 there. In Thane city, 124 new cases were registered within 24 hours, but no new deaths were reported. The toll in Thane is 113. In the Kalyan-Dombivli region, three Covid-19 patients died while 68 tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of patients to 1,397, including 37 deaths. Senior officials in the state said newer hotspots like Solapur and Jalgaon were getting added in the state. The Solapur Municipal Corporation had a total of 1,176 cases and 90 deaths and Jalgaon, which has been reporting a high death rate, had 963 cases and 109 deaths. The rate of recovery in the state was showing a steady rise and was 45% on Saturday. The state discharged 2,234 people on Saturday, taking the total number of people discharged so far to 37,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-sees-highest-1-day-deaths-58-cases-up-1274/articleshow/76240183.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||300 illegal encroachments demolished||COIMBATORE: The city corporation on Saturday demolished 300 houses built encroaching the Muthannan Kulam at Kumarasamy Nagar. The civic body will demolish 1,092 houses that are vacant in the first phase of the eviction drive, a corporation official said. “Power to 592 houses has been disconnected. The eviction drive will continue on Sunday,” he told TOI. As many as 2,100 families are residing along the water body, a Tamil Nadu slum clearance board official said. “Of them, 1,570 families had obtained tokens to relocate to the housing units of the board. Close to 1,300 families had vacated and moved to the units at Malumichampatti, Anna Nagar in Kovai Pudur and Keeranatham.” But after vacating, some of the families rented out the old houses and some housed their relatives there, the official said. “We had directed the remaining families to vacate at the earliest. We are ready to provide alternative accommodation to all the encroachers. If they are not willing to accept the offer, they will have to find accommodation on their own.” MS Velmurugan, a resident, who is also a state committee member of CPI (ML), objected to the drive. ”It is not fair to move us to housing units on the outskirts, which lack even basic facilities like transportation, educational institutions and hospitals. Most of us are daily wage workers. What would we do without any employment opportunities there? We don’t know why the civic body wants to remove us at a time when the pandemic is spreading,” he said. Muthukrishnan, a resident, said his family had been residing in the locality for five generations. “We will vacate if alternative land is provided within the city limit. Livelihood of those who had moved to the housing units in Malumichampatti was badly hit during the lockdown and several of them returned to Kumarasamy Nagar,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/300-illegal-encroachments-demolished/articleshow/76239635.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two units sealed for violating Covid-19 norms||SECUNDERABAD: Two commercial units at Rasoolpura were sealed by the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Saturday for violating Covid-19 preventive measures. Employees at these two units were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distancing. “We have sealed two firms, M/s Shalimar Foods and M/s Dristi Associates at Siraj Compound at Rasoolpura. We found that the workers and employees were not wearing masks and no one was maintaining social distance,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender told STOI. “In Shalimar Foods, we have observed that the workers were preparing bakery items without taking proper precautions. In another firm, Dristi Associates, the workers were stitching garments without following norms that are mandatory now.We have served notices under and have imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 each to these two units,” the official said. He added that ten other commercial units at Rasoolpura were cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-units-sealed-for-violating-covid-19-norms/articleshow/76239637.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Bus service restricted in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Government buses plying between Ooty and Coimbatore were restricted till Mettupalayam from Saturday. This comes in the wake of huge inflow of visitors to the hill district in the last few days. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has cut short trips to the plains as per the instruction of Nilgiris collector, divisional manager Arumugam said. “On an average, 2,000 passengers travelled to Ooty per day in the last few days,” he said. “From Saturday onwards, seven buses will operate from Ooty to Mettupalayam in the morning hours and three from Mettupalayam to Ooty in the evening hours till further notice. The services are to facilitate office-goers and workers.” A press release from the collector said, “Checking is taking place in all private cottages and hotels. If found that tourists are entertained, the facilities will be locked and sealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bus-service-restricted-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76239629.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Two held with 384 fake currency notes near Ambaji||Palanpur: Two persons were arrested with fake currency notes having facevalue of Rs 7.86lakh by the Banaskantha special operations group (SOG) from near temple town Ambaji late Friday night.The accused were identified as Hamir Patel, resident of Kuvata village in Deodar taluka and Ramabhai Patel of Chuva village in Vav Taluka. They were found in possession of 384 fake notes of Rs 2,000 denomination. According to police, the duo and the SUV in which they were travelling have been seized. “We got a tip-off about the fake currency so we had kept a watch near Chadotar village near Palanpur. As the accused approached in their vehicles, we intercepted then and recovered the fake currency,” said police inspector J B Agrwat of SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-with-384-fake-currency-notes-near-ambaji/articleshow/76239025.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist officials prepare to curb waterborne diseases||Nashik: With monsoon round the corner, the district health department has started taking steps to ensure that there is no spread of waterborne diseases. Health officials said though the staff is busy tackling the Covid crisis, all arrangements are in place to ensure that there is no spread of waterborne diseases too. Officials said the possibility of people contracting waterborne diseases is always higher during the rainy season. During monsoon, there is a possibility that surface water could get mixed with drinking water, thus contaminating it and leading to various waterborne diseases. Such possibilities, according to officials, is more prevalent in the villages that are prone to floods. There are about 60 villages situated along the Godavari, Darna and Kadwa rivers. These villages are vulnerable to floods. During floods, the surface water tends to get mixed with drinking water, resulting in contamination. Drinking such contaminated water increases the chances of diseases like gastro, dysentery and hepatitis A and E which, to some extent, could also be fatal. On this backdrop, health officials have ensured that all medicines for such diseases are available with the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-officials-prepare-to-curb-waterborne-diseases/articleshow/76238188.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 7, 2020||India||84% of total Covid cases from 10 states with highest infections||NEW DELHI: A higher number of Covid-19 tests per million population by a state may not necessarily co-relate to more confirmed cases detected or high fatality rates. The top 10 states with highest confirmed cases —Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, UP, MP, West Bengal, Karnataka and Bihar — together account for 84% of the total cases and 95% of the fatalities. A TOI study shows Delhi, TN, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Maharashtra, in that order, have carried out maximum tests per million population. However, the order of the top five states changes to Delhi, Maharashtra, TN, Gujarat and Rajasthan when it comes to maximum confirmed cases per million. Highest deaths have been reported from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, MP and Bengal, together accounting for 83% of the 6,650 deceased. But on a case-fatality rate, the top five are Gujarat, West Bengal, MP, Maharashtra and Delhi, in that order. As we see, the order changes for tests, number of confirmed cases and fatality rates. More tests does not mean more confirmed cases. The caveat here is that case detection also depends of contact tracing, monitoring of patients with serious respiratory illnesses and serological surveys of high and low risk populations. Also, death rates are a factor of early detection and clinical management. In Maharashtra, testing is much higher in Mumbai as compared to the rest of the state. Yet, some aspects stand out : Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bengal and MP with high case-fatality rate or number of deaths per 100 cases, ranging between 4% to 6%, have been conducting fewer tests per million population than Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Karnataka which have fatality rates lower than 3%. The top 10 states with highest Covid cases together have reported over 2 lakh cases as against total countrywide cases of 2.37 lakh, till June 6. More than 6,300 deaths have been reported in these states out of 6,650 across India. Meanwhile, the situation in Delhi remains worrisome with the positivity rate -- confirmed Covid-19 cases per 100 tests -- doubling from 7% between May 7-21 to 14% during May19-June 1 and now crossing 25%. Maharashtra has the highest positivity rate but the incidence may be slowing down. Watch Covid-19: 84% cases and 95% deaths in India from 10 states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/84-of-total-covid-cases-from-10-states-with-highest-infections/articleshow/76240361.cms||Pradeep Thakur
June 7, 2020||Pune||Weekend mood back on streets after around 10 ‘locked’ weeks||Pune: The city streets bustled with life on Saturday — the first near-normal weekend after 10 long weeks of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.Many Puneites headed out for a dose of fresh air. Some exercised, several strolled donning masks. A few pedalled around in the neighbourhood.Bhandarkar Road resident Sudha Jalan said, “I have started taking a stroll on the walking track from Prabhat Road to BMCC Road since Friday evening.”The Old Sangvi area was also abuzz with activities. “Both my elder brothers and I finally stepped out on Saturday for an evening walk,” said Harshad Jadhav, a resident of the area.Some residents of Pashan went to a nearby hill for a walk. “It was a relief to trek up the hill, but it was difficult to recognise the regulars as everyone was wearing masks,” said Ashish Singh from the area.Societies along the NIBM Road saw children playing on their premises after a long time. “It was an endearing sight,” said Aniket Iyer.Rifat Khan from the same area said, “I went for a walk with my friend at 7am after months and bought vada pav from a store. The person dealing with public was constantly sanitising his hands.”Sushma Date, a regular to the Vetal Tekdi, said, “It was wonderful to be back here, but I did notice some people coming in groups. Walkers should come alone.”(With inputs from Ardhra Nair, Neha Madaan and Piyush Bhusari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weekend-mood-back-on-streets-after-around-10-locked-weeks/articleshow/76240189.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur doctor, a frontline Covid warrior, dies in UAE||Nagpur: Dr Sudhir Rambhau Washimkar, a 61-year-old MD medicine physician working in the UAE for the last ten years, passed away in Dubai on June 7. He got infected with novel coronavirus while treating patients, sources said. Nagpur’s well-known cardiologist Dr Sunil Washimkar, who is a close relative, confirmed the news to TOI. Dr Washimkar was an alumnus of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur. He was a 1977 batch student. After completing his MBBS and MD in GMCH, he worked in IGGMCH in Nagpur as assistant professor (medicine). After working in academics for more than 18 years, he shifted to UAE with his family around 11 years ago. He has worked in different hospitals there. Since 2018, he was associated with Burjeel Royal Hosptial at Al Ain, a city in eastern region of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. Currently, he was in-charge of fever clinic at this hospital. As he was infected with novel coronavirus, he was shifted to Al Ain hospital, a government facility of UAE on May 13, said a close friend of Dr Washimkar. Dr Washimkar’s condition deteriorated and he was put on ventilator. According to his doctor friends, he was having issues with renal failure too. He leaves behind his wife, a gynaecologist, a doctor son — both were living with him at Dubai — and younger son who lives in Chennai. Dr Washimkar became the second doctor from Nagpur to die while working as a frontline Covid warrior abroad. Earlier, paediatrician Dr Rajesh Kalraiya, a Nagpurian who was working in the UK for the past 40 years, died on April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-doctor-a-frontline-covid-warrior-dies-in-uae/articleshow/76239658.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||School under lens for excluding 10 students from online classes||COIMBATORE: The school education department has launched an inquiry after a private school in Vadavalli reportedly disallowed 10 students from attending online classes, after their parents criticised the school management. The PSBB Millennium School refused to let 10 children attend online classes that began on June 1 for Classes I to V after their parents posted messages in a WhatsApp saying the classes were a ploy to collect fees, sources said. In her communication to the Coimbatore collector, a parent said that the classes began on June 1 and on June 3, her kids were not allowed to attend classes along with their classmates. “They also removed me from the WhatsApp group created by the school to communicate details to parents. I am a member of a parents’ association and had posted a published news item that quoted the school education minister on conducting online classes. When I inquired, the school administration said I was removed from the group as I had posted a message against the school management. But I have not done any such thing,” she said. An administrative official of the school told TOI that some parents had maligned the school’s name by posting baseless messages on social media. “They had posted derogatory messages about the school’s online classes and also said the school was collecting fees. We had not forced any parent to pay fees,” he said. “Some parents said that attending online classes spoiled their kids’ health. So, the school management decided that if parents were not interested, let their kids not be part of the online classes.” Chief educational officer (CEO) P Usha has initiated an inquiry into the issue. “I have asked the district education officer to investigate and also asked the school principal to submit an explanation. Based on the outcome of the initial inquiry, we will initiate further action,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-under-lens-for-excluding-10-students-from-online-classes/articleshow/76239650.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Focus on safety as hotels get ready to reopen tomorrow||COIMBATORE: With hotels set to open from Monday, collector K Rajamani met with hotel representatives in the district on Saturday and informed of the regulations and guidelines to be followed. As per the guidelines, hotels should function only from 6am to 8pm. “Only 50% of the seats should be made available. Customers should be placed with proper distancing and air conditioners should not be turned on,” said the guidelines. Hotels and eateries should make hand sanitisers and hand wash available at the entrance. All workers should wear face masks at all times. “Customers and workers should be screened with thermal scanners and only those without Covid-19 symptoms should be allowed. More than dining, takeaways should be encouraged. Delivery agents of food aggregators should be screened using thermal scanners before they collect food. More than cash payments, digital payments should be encouraged.” Utensils should be cleaned in hot water at 80°C and all food items should be cooked completely. Half-cooked food should be avoided, the guidelines said. There should be separate doors for entry, exit and for workers to bring goods. Customers should maintain six feet distance. Hand wash areas and restrooms should be regularly sanitized. Hotels should also display posters, standees and audio-visual media on preventive measuress for Covid-19 prominently. Representatives of Coimbatore District Hoteliers Association said 225 of their member hotels will be open for dining from Monday. “The collector mainly asked us to ensure personal distancing, use sanitisers, screen temperature of customers and maintain the data. He also asked us not to switch on ACs,” said a representative. The regional office of the food safety and drug administration department has also issued guidelines for eateries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/focus-on-safety-as-hotels-get-ready-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/76239642.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||‘Can use Cumbharjua canal, but at own risk’||Panaji: The captain of ports (CoP) has permitted barges to navigate through the Cumbharjua canal under the Banastrarim bridge, but has warned vessel operators that they are doing so at their own risk. The ports authority said the “special permission” is being given only to those barge operators who have sought prior clearance from the department. “Loaded barges should enter the Cumbharjua canal from the Zuari side for proceeding to the Mandovi at least one hour before times of high water. Empty barges should enter the Cumbharjua canal from the Mandovi at the appropriate tides and depths available. The loaded barges should move from Marcaim from the Zuari side ensuring proper timings of tides are taken into account to make the transit,” the CoP said. The notice issued to mariners by the CoP also said barges are required to drop the forward mast in order to avoid contact with high-tension power lines. The ports authority has also said that as per guidelines issued by the directorate of health, crew working on barges coming to Goa from within Indian waters are required to undergo Covid-19 testing, which will have to be paid for by vessel owners. “Seafarers serving on board barges, tugs, pilot launches, mooring boats etc. which are operating exclusively within ports limits, are to be treated as port staff and necessary quick clearance and facilitation will be provided by the ports for crew changes as applicable,” the CoP said. The guidelines apply to vessels plying in inland waters along the Indian coast and those operating in the Exclusive Economic Zone. If any vessel wishes to stay at anchorage, it is the responsibility of the owner, agent and master to ensure the crew does not go ashore, the CoP said. While at anchorage, the vessel agent needs to ensure that the crew members are provided with fresh water and provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/can-use-cumbharjua-canal-but-at-own-risk/articleshow/76240191.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Maldhari tied to tree, thrashed by 3 foresters||Rajkot: A maldhari, a member from the pastoral community, was tied to a tree and whipped with sticks allegedly by three forest officials on Saturday. Police said Vikram Shyora, round forest officer of Rajpara range, and his two subordinates allegedly tied Rewa Ratadia (34) to the bole of a tree and thrashed him with sticks. “In his complaint, Ratadia said that while he was shifting his family from Leria Nes to Dhandha Nes, he and his nephew Govind were waylaid by Shyora and the co-accused,” said L R Patel, inspector with Visavadar police station. Scared of the forest officers, while Govind fled from the spot, Ratadia was caught by the officers who allegedly perpetrated brutality on him. “When Ratadia’s family members rushed to the spot, the accused released him. He was taken to Visavadar police station to from where he lodged the complaint ,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/maldhari-tied-to-tree-thrashed-by-3-foresters/articleshow/76238977.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||NTCA allows tiger tourism, but Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh undecided||NAGPUR: Even as the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the statutory body under the environment ministry monitoring tiger reserves in the country, issued an advisory to start tourism with certain restrictions, parks in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh are yet to take a call. After Covid-19 breakout, all parks in the country were shut for tourism on March 18. The NTCA advisory issued on Friday comes at a time when parks are set to close for the rainy season. Chief wildlife wardens of Maharashtra and MP have sought comments from field directors (FD) before taking any decision. The FDs are also wary of reopening the parks for such a short time especially as rains have begun early this year. Maharashtra chief wildlife warden Nitin Kakodkar told TOI, “I am taking the views of APCCFs and FDs before deciding on it.” JS Chauhan, APCCF (wildlife) in MP, said, “Though we are ready to follow the protocol, the disadvantages are more for opening the parks for 15 days. Tourists come from other states and some of them may be coronavirus carriers. Protecting our staff and animals is top priority. A final call will be taken by the MP government.” Field directors said they will face lot of problems in implementing NTCA rules (see box). “The seating capacity per vehicle has been reduced to 50%. Normally, 8 people including a guide and driver are allowed in one vehicle. This will come down to 4, which means only 2 tourists will be allowed. A family of four will have to hire two Gypsys and that will increase their cost,” they said. They felt that the NTCA must allow entry for more vehicles. “The advisory is such that you can start tourism but the rules make it difficult. The condition of vehicle tyre bath is difficult to follow at short notice,” the field directors added. They also pointed to other restrictions. “Air and rail travel has not totally restarted. In Maharashtra, inter-district transport is not allowed too. Those coming from other states have to compulsorily undergo home quarantine for 14 days. In such a situation we don’t expect tourists to come,” the field directors said. The officials will also find it difficult to start tourism at such short notice. “We’ll have to mobilize staff and complete other formalities. In Pench, due to recent rains roads have got damaged. With the recent funds crunch, repairing them is not feasible,” they said, adding that tourism in buffer zones of Pench and Tadoba can begin in July-August. Only Melghat finds itself at an advantageous position as it has tar roads passing through the tiger reserve. Besides, places like Harisal, Chikhaldara and Narnala are best destinations for monsoon tourism. With 50-room capacity available at its various guesthouses, the park is ready to open tourism even at short notice. “Last monsoon, Dnyanganga Sanctuary was open for tourists. We are also planning to keep it open this season along with Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary after following Covid-19 precautions. This will at least provide some succour to stakeholders. In Karnataka some reserves are open even during monsoon,” officials told TOI. “Though tourism doesn’t happen in core during monsoon, it should be allowed on motorable roads to help the industry recover from the lockdown. 70% of earnings are during March-May. Survival of locals and stakeholders till parks reopen in October will be tough,” said Pench resort owner Sandeep Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ntca-allows-tiger-tourism-but-maha-mp-undecided/articleshow/76240206.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 7, 2020||Pune||PCB to shut shops repeatedly flouting norms||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) will shut down shops found guilty of violating social distancing norms thrice in a row. The board also decided to levy a fine of Rs100 for not wearing masks and Rs500 for spitting in public places. PCB CEO Amit Kumar issued an order to this effect on Saturday. "Shops in our limits will operate between 9am and 8pm from June 8. If any shopowner fails to adhere to rules, we will charge Rs1,000 for the first violation, Rs2,000 for the second andRs3,000 for the third. A fourth violation will lead to closure of the shop till further notice,” Kumar told TOI on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-shut-shops-repeatedly-flouting-norms/articleshow/76240192.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Children’s home new Covid hotspot in Chennai||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday sealed a children’s in Tondiarpet after 15 children tested positive for Covid-19. Nineteen children had tested positive on Thursday. All 81 children in the home, under the social defence department, have been shifted to hospitals and various quarantine facilities. One block in the home had 24 children — temporary inmates including those rescued from railway stations — while the other had 57 permanent inmates. On May 30, a boy from the reception block tested positive days after developing fever. It was found he had contracted it from a caretaker who showed symptoms of the infection. Later, all the inmates including the staff were tested. Nineteen children tested positive on June 4 and another 15 including three teachers tested positive on Saturday. One child has been isolated at the Chennai Trade Centre in Nandanam, 19 were shifted to the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet and 13 kids are in hospital quarantine as they showed mild symptoms but tested negative. Thirty-three other children are at Vivekananda School. The home has been converted into a quarantine facility, with a doctor regularly checking the remaining children. A senior Tondiarpet zone official said the home was disinfected daily. “The first case was found after a surveillance worker reported that a child had symptoms. There are 11 other homes in the zone and we are checking on them every day. We have instructed the caretakers of the homes to ensure they don’t come in contact with those who go out to buy essentials.” Sources said the children couldn’t be taken for tests to fever camps due to lack of transport and social distancing at the small home was impossible. A guard tested positive after he showed up at an Urban Primary Health Care Centre and the children at the home were tested. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said officials had begun testing children in other homes as well as inmates of old age homes. “Since the guards and caretakers come from other areas, there is a chance of spread. We have fever surveillance workers who check on them every day and if anyone shows symptoms, we will test them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/childrens-home-new-covid-hotspot-in-city/articleshow/76239688.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Man attempts to kill son, wife||COIMBATORE: A 67-year-old construction worker was arrested for attempting to murder his wife and son at Karuvampalayam in Tirupur city in the early hours of Saturday, allegedly after they asked him to leave the house. An investigation officer identified the accused as B Vijayaraj, of Polur in Tiruvannamalai district. He has been living with his 48-year-old wife Vijayalakshmi, and younger son Vinothkumar, 21, at a rental house at Karuvampalayam in Tirupur city. “Recently, he had partitioned 1.5 acres land that he owned at his native place between his two sons. Ever since that, his wife and younger son have been asking him to leave the house,” the officer said. On Saturday around 2am, he said, the two again asked Vijayaraj to get out of the house. In a fit of rage, he grabbed a sickle and attacked his son and wife. He later took them to the Tirupur Medical College and Hospital, where doctors provided them first aid and referred them to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. His son’s condition is critical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-attempts-to-kill-son-wife/articleshow/76239663.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||200 stranded MBBS students from Nagpur to return on June 17||NAGPUR: Around 400 MBBS students from Maharashtra, including 200 from the city alone, are set to be evacuated under the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission from Moscow on June 17. The students were stranded in Russia following the lockdown and restrictions on international flights. NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhijye, who was approached by several parents from the city, said the students, from 15 universities, are studying in different years. He had asked the parents to prepare a list and found that the stranded students hail from Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Chandrapur, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Wardha and the city as well. Later, the MLC approached MP Supriya Sule and state home minister Anil Deshmukh who requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to facilitate the return of the stranded students. The students are scheduled to embark on the Moscow-Nagpur flight at 12.40pm on June 17. This would be the second Vande Bharat Mission flight from Russia. This first batch of stranded Indian nationals would fly out from Russia on a Moscow-Kochi plane on June 15. Ten more flights from the same departure point will reach Hyderabad, Mumbai, Chennai, Gaya, Vizag, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Bengaluru. As per the Indian Embassy in Moscow, additional flights will be considered in due course. Gajbhiye thanked Sule and Deshmukh for their efforts in rescuing the students from the state. “The students are quite scared and worried about their admissions. Right now we just want them to return safely,” he said. A woman from North Nagpur said her younger sister was stuck in Moscow since March. “The help from state and central governments has come as a big relief for not just parents here but also the students. Just like the problems we all are facing here because of the lockdown and coronavirus infection, they, too, are going through similar troubles. This was the first time my sister travelled so far. She would have returned this May for post-exam vacation,” she said. Another relative said her brother is studying in a university near Moscow. “They were safe and didn’t face much problems with food and other necessities. We just wanted our loved ones near us during this phase of the pandemic,” the relative said. A parent thanked Gajbhiye for proactively helping them and taking up the cause with higher authorities and the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/200-stranded-mbbs-students-from-city-to-return-on-june-17/articleshow/76239699.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Cyclone jolts MSEDCL with Rs 4cr losses in Nashik & Ahmednagar||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has suffered losses of Rs 4 crore due to cyclone Nisarg after it hit Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. Stormy winds blowing across Ahmednagar and Nashik districts on Wednesday night damaged the infrastructure to the extent that it could not be fully restored before 4 pm on Thursday. “As many as 199 substations across the two districts were out of order. More than 2,500 electricity poles were grounded, thus bringing down the infrastructure along with it,” sources from the Mahavitaran, Nashik zone office, said. The power supply was damaged to extent of 80% across Nashik zone as the overhead lines were damaged due to gusty winds and heavy rainfall. About 50% power supply was restored by Wednesday midnight while in the other areas took about 18 hours before the supply was restored. “Alternative power arrangements were made wherever possible. MSEDCL officials, employees and contract workers were on field all night working despite the cyclone,” officials of the power supply department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cyclone-jolts-msedcl-with-rs-4cr-losses-in-nashik-ahmednagar/articleshow/76238240.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 7, 2020||Pune||Plea to open stores in sealed pockets||Pune: The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) on Saturday met deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar to seek permission to open shops in containment zones in the city’s Peth areas and Yerawada, A decision in this regard would be taken during a meeting on Monday between Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, police commissioner K Venkatesham and FTAP. — Rujuta Parekh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plea-to-open-stores-in-sealed-pockets/articleshow/76240193.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Two refugees flee camp, arrested in Sri Lanka||COIMBATORE: Days after the arrest of a 33-year-old man and his eight-year-old daughter, who escaped to Sri Lanka from a refugee camp in the district last week, the Sri Lankan police have detained six people, who helped the duo reach the country in a boat from Rameswaram, on Friday. According to a police source, J Pulendran, 33, a Sri Lankan Tamil refugee, his wife Kamalaveni, 30, and daughter were staying at the Pooluvapatti refugee camp. He was a wall painter. The source said Kamalaveni had lodged a complaint with the Alandurai police against her husband, following a family quarrel two months ago. “Police held inquiry with the couple and the issue was settled amicably.” Meanwhile, Pulendran and his daughter went missing from the refugee camp more than a week ago. His wife subsequently alerted the revenue department and Q-branch CID officials. On June 1, police officials came to know from the Indian Embassy in Sri Lanka that Pulendran and his daughter had safely reached Talaimannar in that country illegally in a boat. “They surrendered before the Madu police that falls under Mannar division in Sri Lanka on June 2. They were arrested and interrogated.” Preliminary inquiry revealed that Pulendran and his daughter had reached the coastal area of Talaimannar in Sri Lanka in a boat in the early hours of June 1. “He took his daughter to a village and the next day they surrendered before police, who sent them to a camp at Batticaloa,” the source said. On Friday, police there detained six Sri Lankan Tamils for helping Pulendran reach the country from Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu and seized the boat, which was used to ferry him, from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-refugees-flee-camp-arrested-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/76239678.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||NCL develops better, cheaper swab to improve Covid sample collection||Pune: The National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) has developed a nasopharyngeal (NP) swab to collect samples from the throat cavity for conducting Covid-19 tests. The new swabs can be priced at at one-fourth the cost of imported swabs currently being used in the country. Chandrashekhar Rode, scientist emeritus at the Pune-based NCL, said, “India is using imported swabs. There’s currently a shortage in China because there is high demand for swabs all over the world. Doctors have had to use earbuds due to lack of swabs. In April, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research was consulted by the Centre need for swabs. The NCL was tasked to manufacture them.” A CSIR-NCL team, including Prakash Wadgaonkar, Anuya Nisal and Wode, then worked out specifications for a new swab. “The swabs should be delicate enough to not hurt patients. But they should be strong enough to scrape the throat for samples. Second, the sample collected is a mucus fluid. The swab material should absorb the sample and not the mucus fluid. Finally, a swab is transferred to a viral transport medium. Here, the swab must be able to release at least 80% of the absorbed sample,” said Rode. The research unit has transferred the technology to a Mumbai-based chemical company. “It will first need a nod from the Drug Controller General of India. After that, it has the capacity to produce at least 1 lakh swabs per day,” said Prabhakar Ingle, principal scientist, science communication, at NCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncl-develops-better-cheaper-swab-to-improve-covid-sample-collection/articleshow/76240198.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Hire, train local talent, Tamil Nadu CM tells manufacturers||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to the manufacturing sector to train and employ local talent to compensate for the loss of migrant workers, who have left for their home states. “The TN skill development corporation and the NSDC will help skilling local talent and smooth functioning of the industries. Government is taking every step to get back to normalcy fast,” he said while speaking at the Confederation of Indian Industries’ conference on Luminous Tamil Nadu. “The state has taken a slew of measures to bring the state back to normalcy including attracting foreign investment worth Rs 15,128 crore, providing employment to 47,000 people and providing special incentives to industries preparing medicines and medical equipment locally,” he said. He also released a book, ‘Enchanting Tamil Nadu, Road to Prosperity’, in a virtual press meet organised by the CII. Specifically outlining the schemes for the micro, small and medium industries, the chief minister said Rs 200 crore had been allocated as corpus for providing collateral-free loan under the Covid-19 Upliftment and Relief Scheme and 1,095 SMEs had availed the same. He further pointed out that the state had held discussions with PSU banks on May 30 to ease the process of giving business loans to SMEs. “A finance committee under former RBI governor C Rangarajan has been set up to revive the state economy,” said Palaniswami. Speaking on the occasion, industries minister M C Sampath said the revival of industries was happening in a phased manner. He said 25% of industries were functioning in Chennai and 100% were allowed to function in the rest of the state. The state was working towards securing more foreign investment and high-level committees were set up to attract companies that were moving out of China. Seventeen MoUs had been signed so far, he said. Fisheries minister D Jayakumar said measures were being taken to help fisherfolk suffering from the fishing ban. Jayakumar said Rs 185 crore had been allocated to the fisherfolk during lockdown and stressed the importance of easy access to credit for the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hire-train-local-talent-cm-tells-manufacturers/articleshow/76239714.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Amid fund crunch, GHMC corporators seek new iPhones worth Rs 1.3 lakh each||HYDERABAD: An acute financial crunch doesn’t seem to have deterred corporators from seeking out a piece of luxury — a brand new iPhone 11 Pro Max for 17 of them — each priced at no less than Rs 1.30 lakh (avg). The total cost: Rs 21.35 lakh. Turns out, a proposal to this effect was tabled by the standing committee of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), that met on June 4. It’s term expired on Saturday, June 6. Incidentally, the same day GHMC offered to waive off Rs 800 crore interest on property tax arrears, touted to be the highest relief ever extended by the civic body, to make up for the severe financial loss it incurred during the two-month-long lockdown period. While the expensive plan — the list of names include Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan and deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin —is yet to be green-lit by the GHMC commissioner, standing committee members see no reason why it shouldn’t go through, “The proposal for iPhones has been drafted since GHMC is switching over to an e-governance model. Even grievances are aired by people online these days. That’s why we have requested for an upgrade in the mobile phones ,” said R Sheshagiri , GHMC standing committee member and TRS corporator from Gajularamaram. The GHMC standing committee is the apex body of the corporation which takes important policy decisions that includes according sanctions for civic works. The committee consists of 15 corporators. Even the Hyderabad Mayor seems to find no fault with the move. “ The practice of providing mobile phones to elected members is followed in Assembly as , so this isn’t anything new. Also, this was drafted after requests poured in from corporators,” said Rammohan While repeated attempts to reach GHMC commission, D S Lokesh Kumar, failed, the exorbitant plan raised many eyebrows. “With employees taking pay cuts and foregoing benefits to help the government during the pandemic it is irresponsible on their part to spend government funds in this manner,” said Ridima V an activist from city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-amid-fund-crunch-ghmc-corporators-seek-new-iphones-worth-rs-1-3-lakh-each/articleshow/76239704.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 7, 2020||Goa||Look at agriculture as business: Sawant||Bicholim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has appealed to Goans to look at agriculture from a business point of view. “If we adopt modern technology there will be no problem in making our state prosperous. And if that happens, no one will be able to stop our dream of a self-sufficient Goa from coming true,” Sawant said, adding, “It is time to tell the nation that Goa is not only a place of fun but also an ideal agricultural state,” he added. The chief minister made the statement at a special meeting convened at Ravindra Bhavan, Sakhali, to discuss techniques to give a boost to agriculture and dairy farming in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/look-at-agriculture-as-business-sawant/articleshow/76240214.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Eight injured in group clash||Rajkot: As many as eight persons were injured in a clash that erupted between two groups over a land dispute in Sachana village of Jamnagar taluka on Saturday. Complaint and cross-complaint have been filed by the members of both the groups, who attacked each other with axes, iron pipes and bats. While from one group, Reshma Kakal (33), Qadar Kakal (35) and her brother-in-law Qasam Kakal (32) lodged a complaint, it was Juma Kakal (40), Jusab Kakal (42) and Ilyas Kakal (40) who lodged the cross-complaint from the other group. Those injured in the incident were Juma, Jusab and Ilyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-injured-in-group-clash/articleshow/76239069.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai schools ease kids into online classes with PE, craft||CHENNAI: City schools have started teaching online for lower classes with a time-table and they have come out with a set of do’s and don’ts that students and their parents must stick to during the live sessions. Parents have been told to keep watch on their kids and ensure they attend classes regularly. The sessions are planned with ample breaks to avoid strain on the children’s eyes. Some schools give a two-hour break between their morning and afternoon sessions. Students are also informed about the topic that will be taught the next day and video lectures are posted for future reference. To avoid confusions and keep access limited, some schools have created individual e-mail IDs for students to attend the online classes. Alwin Memorial Public School in Selaiyur has issued a timetable too, with classes split into morning and evening sessions with regular intervals. “To save time, we are opting for technology-enabled attendance systems instead of traditional calling-out-names. We also conduct remedial classes once a week to clarify doubts of students,” said Ganapathiraman G, physics teacher from the school. The school has asked parents to be present during live classes. For lower classes, the school is sending recorded sessions and assigning worksheets. Asan Memorial Senior Secondary School in Nungambakkam is planning to start online classes from Monday. “We have had online classes for Classes X and XII in April and May. Now, we will be starting online classes for classes Class VI to XII,” said Sunitha Vipinchandran, its principal. The school has issued direction to parents to ensure a classroom-like atmosphere and avoid noises. Bhavans Rajaji Vidhyashram in Kilpauk has issued do’s and don’ts parents and students should stick to during online classses. “For primary classes, we are uploading recorded lessons and have issued certain guidelines for live sessions, like asking parents to keep an eye on students,” said P G Subramanian, principal of the school. Everwin group of schools is uploading video lectures and sending the links to its students. “The school also organises video calls to clarify doubts. Besides classes, we encourage students send short videos of exercising or do dance videos to reduce their stress,” said B Purushothaman, senior principal of the school. The school began online classes on June 1. To help parents understand topics and teach kids, the school offers lessons in Tamil besides English. Some schools have also began online classes to offer counselling and stay in touch with students. “Students are very happy to see their teachers. Some parents are finding it difficult to recharge their mobiles though. We have kicked off the online classes with lighter subjects, like craft and drawing to ease them back into attending classes,” said V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-schools-ease-kids-into-online-classes-with-pe-craft/articleshow/76239738.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: FIR filed against Ganga Ram Hospital for not using Covid-19 test app||NEW DELHI: In an unprecedented action, the Delhi government has got an FIR filed against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) for allegedly violating its order to use the RT-PCR app, launched by the Union ministry of health, for recording details of the samples being collected for the Covid-19 RT-PCR test. This is an app for all collection centres to provide real-time data in order to minimise duplication and error. It is linked to the main database of the Union health ministry. The app has replaced the earlier practice of collecting the data manually. The FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, has been filed under Section 188 of IPC which deals with disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant and is a punishable offence. Dr D S Rana, chairman (board of management) of the hospital, said the government action was due to some miscommunication that would be sorted out soon. Medical body criticises moveFiled by deputy health secretary Anil Kumar Pamasi, on behalf of the state government, the complaint alleges the hospital wasn’t using the app till June 3, almost a month after an order made it mandatory for all accredited labs to use the app so that all Covid-19 suspected cases could be tracked and monitored. “This a clear violation of the direction issued under Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulation, 2020, issued under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Therefore, the government has requested the police to file an FIR… against the medical superintendent,” says the complaint. This follows the initiation of an inquiry against the hospital – one of the prominent private hospitals in the city – and at least seven labs for the same reason. Some of the labs have also been reprimanded for testing too many asymptomatic people. Delhi Medical Association (DMA) has criticised the government move. “DMA strongly condemns this act of threatening and intimidating healthcare workers. The doctors of Delhi are already overworked and overstressed in this hour of pandemic and the state government is unnecessarily putting pressure on the healthcare system,” said DMA president Dr S S Wadhwa. Ganga Ram was among the first few private hospitals to designate two of its smaller units — Sir Ganga Ram City (140 beds) and Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet (40 beds) — for Covid-19 treatment. Recently, Delhi government ordered that its main hospital, which has 635 beds, should also reserve 80% of its beds for Covid-19 patients. Many doctors at the hospital have criticised the government action. “As a clinician, I am unhappy with the recent Delhi government orders. Universal Covid testing in hospitals, along with strict segregation of Covidpositive and Covid-negative patients, must be mandatory,” said Dr Sujay Shad, senior consultant, cardiac surgery. “The current order places the health and lives of our staff and patients at risk. I am particularly worried about recent bypass patients who carry a 35% risk of not surviving hospitalisation if they contract Covid-19.” Dr Abha Mazumdar, director and head of IVF, said they had at least 400 patients waiting to undergo IVF or those who are facing a high-risk pregnancy. “Where should they go? I have some patients who have been waiting for three months for the lockdown.” “A majority of my patients are high-risk pregnancies with multiple complications which can be dealt with only in a tertiary care hospital. Most of them are worried about losing their pregnancies and baby. I also have patients from all over the country in the middle of IVF cycles and have been waiting in Delhi for over three months. These patients deserve care which they currently cannot seek at Ganga Ram because of the disproportionate allocation to Covid,” said Dr Majumdar. Dr Alok Roy, co-chairman of FICCI’s health services committee and chairman of the Medica Group of Hospitals, said this was no way to treat an institution that has provided great humanitarian services over the past many decades. “There must be some misunderstanding and the government should look into it to resolve and clarify on priority. It is our appeal to Delhi government that at this stage both government and private institutions must work together,” he said. Watch TOI Daily: FIR filed against Ganga Ram Hospital for not using Covid-19 test app||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-fir-filed-against-ganga-ram-for-not-using-covid-19-test-app/articleshow/76240357.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Restaurants told to use disposable menu cards, napkins||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday advised restaurants to use disposable menu cards, and encourage online and QR code-enabled payment methods wherever possible to avoid cash transactions due to Covid-19. Air conditioners or air coolers should not be used, instead all windows should be kept open. Releasing a standard operating procedure for restaurants — just ahead of resumption of dine-in facilities with 50% seating capacity from June 8 — the government gave a slew of instructions to be followed by customers, owners, managers and workers, including thermal screening and hand wash at the entrance, and providing hand sanitisers on all dining tables. “In order to maintain strict social distancing in restaurants, seating arrangements should be made in such a way that 1sqm distance is maintained between each table,” the order said. Total number of dine-in customers should be displayed on a board prominently at the entrance. Good quality disposable paper napkins must be used instead of cloth napkins, use of escalators with one person on alternate steps will have to be encouraged, while gaming arcades/ children play areas will remain closed in restaurants. CCTV camera surveillance is a must at the entrance and at other places for tracing contacts if need be later. Customers having cough, cold or fever should not be permitted and those with comorbidities should avoid visiting restaurants, the government has advised. “Biometric attendance system should be avoided in restaurants. People above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home except for essential runs and medical needs,” the order said. Take aways should be encouraged instead of dine-in, and food delivery personnel should leave food packets at customers’ doorsteps. Restaurants should ensure physical distancing of at least 6ft is maintained within and while queuing up to enter their premises. In another order for shops and other establishments, the government said hand wash facilities should be made available with soap and water or sanitisers at the entrance. “At a time, only one person should be allowed to buy the goods and a minimum of four to five people shall be allowed to wait in the marking area,” the order said. Customers should not touch products at the shops “unnecessarily” and should wash their hands once they reach home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/restaurants-told-to-use-disposable-menu-cards-napkins/articleshow/76239770.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu testing lab yet to start||Aurangabad: Even after a formal announcement about a week back, the lab testing facility for Covid-19 at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) is yet to start its operations. District guardian minister Subhash Desai had visited the Covid testing lab at Bamu on May 30 and had declared the capacity of the lab to test around 1,000 samples per day. Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said, “The lab could not start due to the absence of certain infrastructure. It is expected to be available shortly.” The facility would have 23 staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-testing-lab-yet-to-start/articleshow/76238244.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Reform exams, cut syllabus by 30%: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has highlighted the need for taking the novel coronavirus-induced pandemic as an opportunity to bring about exam reforms and reduce 30% of the syllabus. While appreciating the initiative of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) to plan reopening of schools with reasonable guidelines, Delhi’s education minister said that online teaching could not replace classroom teaching and stressed the importance of continuous evaluation. In a letter to HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Sisodia said, “We need to assure every child irrespective of age and social class that they are important to us and all of them have equal right to physical and intellectual space of their respective schools. The clamour of online teaching or older children coming to school first and not the younger ones should be put to rest. Online teaching can only complement the learning in school, not replace it.” He also opined that a plan was required for bringing primary children to school as learning across all stages was important. He suggested adopting a distinct approach to be followed in early childhood and elementary grades. “Instead of continuing the remaining part of schooling with reduced syllabus, let us move beyond the tendency to just complete the syllabus. Instead, fluency in reading with understanding and oral expression, writing different genre of text, number sense, emotional resilience, internalisation of healthy and hygienic practice, etc, should be the key areas of engagement between children and their teachers,” said Sisodia. For secondary and senior secondary grades, he suggested that NCERT and CBSE be asked to remove the stranglehold of syllabus and rote learning-oriented exam from the academic life of a child. “CBSE should move away from one-time high-stake exam of class 10 and 12 to a model of continuous evaluation so that students can take online exam whenever they want,” suggested the deputy CM. On exam reforms, he suggested following the approach of the International Baccalaureate (IB) board. He also advised international-level training for teachers. “We cannot expect a fundamental change in education and examination unless our teachers are ready and prepared for it,” Sisodia wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reform-exams-cut-syllabus-by-30/articleshow/76239773.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hearings to be held at Judicial Academy||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Judicial Academy in Secunderabad is all set to play a big role with the full court of the high court, which met on Saturday, deciding to conduct physical hearings from the academy if the parties insist on it. The parties have to inform the registry two days in advance and the judges would come and hold courts here. The judicial academy has already been functioning as a virtual high court ever since the lockdown was announced and videoconferencing courts were brought in. The high court administration has established four virtual court rooms for advocates and party in persons to come and argue before their courts through video-conference mode. Four rooms fitted with computers along with the video-conferencing facility are already functioning and advocates have been regularly coming to these courts after the high court has arranged technical assistance in the building. The officials and staff of the judicial academy too have been assisting and helping HC in this task. The full court presided over by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan in its Saturday meeting also decided to extend the suspension of regular court work at the high court till June 28 in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. However, the videoconference courts will continue to function and the judges will take up all final hearings, pending admission and other matters in addition to the fresh matters. The work at trial courts too was suspended till June 14. The judges in the districts can hear urgent cases either through online mode or they can as well come and hear the cases in the court halls by following all Covid-19 norms, the full court resolution said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hearings-to-be-held-at-judicial-academy/articleshow/76239743.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Haj aspirants can now withdraw 100% money paid for pilgrimage||Aurangabad: With chances of Saudi Arabia’s government calling off the annual pilgrimage due to coronavirus outbreak, the Haj Committee of India has issued a letter to the aspirants giving them option to withdraw cent per cent of the money paid for the pilgrimage this year. The letter issued by the committee’s CEO Dr. Maqsood Ahmed Khan, a copy of which is with the TOI, cites a communication received from the Saudi authorities on March 13 regarding temporarily halting of the preparations for Haj 2020. ‘As only few weeks are left for the preparatory work in Indian for Haj 202, yet Saudi authorities have not communicated any further development regarding Haj 2020,’ the letter reads. ‘In view of several enquiries received and concerns were expressed over uncertainty over Haj 2020, it has been decided by the Haj Committee of India that those pilgrims who desire to cancel their Haj journey this year, their 100% amount paid so far will be refunded without any deductions,’ read the letter, while appealing the pilgrimage aspirants to fill the given forms and email copies of the same to ceo.hajcommittee@nic.in along with copy of bank passbook/cancelled cheque. The forms are available at the Haj Committee office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/haj-aspirants-can-now-withdraw-100-money-paid-for-pilgrimage/articleshow/76238257.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Schools demand more Covid-19 tests in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Heads of government schools have been writing to the education department and district magistrates asking them for testing their teaching staff, requesting closure of the meal distribution centres and complaining about the lack of sanitisation in government schools. The head of school of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Rohini Sector 11, wrote to the education department recently, informing them of a ministerial staff deployed at a hunger relief centre testing positive for Covid-19. Eight other teachers and staff had come in contact with the said person. “It is quite possible that some other teachers have also caught the viral infection. I request you to please look into the matter and place an order for the school staff to go on self-quarantine. I also request you to please close the hunger relief centre in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19 among staff members,” the letter stated. A similar letter was written by the head of school at Shalimar Village to the DM (North West) highlighting that though the school has been functioning as a dry ration distribution centre for over two months, not a single test for novel coronavirus had been done so far. “Through various letters, I have made a request to arrange for Covid testing for all employees engaged in distribution of food for the past two months, along with sanitising the premises. But sorry to say not a single test or sanitisation has been arranged by any authorities till date,” the letter claimed. A senior education official said they would look into the concerns raised by the principals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-demand-more-covid-tests/articleshow/76239775.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-metropolitan magistrate from city dies due to Covid-19 in Mumbai||Nagpur: A former metropolitan magistrate, a native of Gopal Nagar in the city, died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Mumbai on Thursday. The deceased risked his own life while attempting to help his 82-year-old client, a coronavirus positive patient, get the right treatment at a hospital in Mumbai. According to lawyer Siddharth Tayade from Akola, who knew the deceased personally, it was a classic case of saving a life at the cost of risking one’e own. “His client was deserted by his family. After getting help from him, the patient had recovered. However, the former magistrate contracted the virus and was admitted to a private hospital in Mumbai on May 25. After battling the disease for 11 days, he succumbed on June 4. He was cremated at Vile Parle in Mumbai in the presence of his family members and a few colleagues,” said Tayade. After completing his schooling and law degree from the city, he was inducted as Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC). Later, he was elevated as metropolitan magistrate in Mumbai. After taking voluntary retirement, the 65-year-old restarted practicing at the Bombay High Court. He had expertise in criminal, civil and service matters. The former metropolitan magistrate was popular among his friends and colleagues. “He always helped people who were in dire need,” said Tayade. He is survived by wife, daughter, younger brothers, sister and a large number of relatives, friends and judicial colleagues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-metropolitan-magistrate-from-city-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-mumbai/articleshow/76239771.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four in police custody for double murder||HYDERABAD: A businessman with a stake in a dance bar in Mumbai and three accomplices were behind the murder of the rowdy-sheeter from Golconda and his associate on Friday night, police said on Saturday. Ashfaq, who is in his mid-thirties, allegedly felt Mohammed Sheikh, 52, would kill him for taking the side of a man who had failed to repay Sheikh’s loan due to the lockdown and hence, tracked down Sheikh and stabbed him and his associate Fayazuddin to death. The four persons behind the double murder — Ashfaq, Hasham and two others -— are now in police custody. Ashfaq has had a few run ins with the cops, including when he created a nuisance in a star hotel and later at a pub in the city a year and a half back. Subsequently, he moved to Mumbai and joined a bar business. “Rowdy-sheeter Sheikh gave Rs 2 lakh as loan to Azam. Since Azam failed to pay back due to the impact of the lockdown, Sheikh started to pressure him. Ashfaq, who returned to Hyderabad from Mumbai a month before lockdown was announced, intervened on the behest of Azam. This annoyed Sheikh,” a source in Hyderabad police told TOI. Ashfaq’s acquaintance told him that Sheikh could be targeting him, following which he decided to kill Sheikh. On Friday, when Sheikh along with Faiyazuddin, a meat shop owner, were riding a bike, the accused followed them in a car and knocked down the two-wheeler. When the duo fell down, the accused stabbed them to death. Since Fayazuddin was in the company of Sheikh, he too became a victim. Police said that they are still probing the case to know if there are any other reasons behind the murders. On Friday, four persons were murdered in three different incidents in Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-in-police-custody-for-double-murder/articleshow/76239778.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 7, 2020||Chennai||HC tells NCLT to stay away from assets tied to money laundering||CHENNAI: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has got no jurisdiction over criminal cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the Madras high court has held. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy passed the order while allowing a plea moved by the Enforcement Directorate, challenging an order of the NCLT against its attachment proceeding under the PMLA. The issue pertains to three criminal cases registered by the CBI in 2016, 2017 and 2018 against Best and Crompton Engineering Project Ltd on a complaint given by a consortium of banks led by the Central Bank of India. According to CBI, officials of the company, along with others, hatched a criminal conspiracy in Chennai and Hyderabad from 2010 to 2013 to defraud the bankers. This apart, the amount sanctioned through a fake letter of credit was diverted for a purpose other than the one sanctioned. A case for money laundering was registered. Subsequently, the management of the company was taken over by two crony companies — Global Forgings Ltd and Tejaswini Engineering Private. Later, Ganga Exim Pvt Ltd and Godavari Exports & Imports Pvt Ltd were created and fictitious transactions made between them. A forensic audit in 2014 brought to light a transfer of Rs 125 crore in favour of Veceroy Hotels Ltd. In a nutshell, money was diverted by the borrower through Sujana Group Companies to various companies. Later, Veceroy Hotels moved the NCLT contending that the property attached has not been purchased from the proceedings of the crime. As the plea was allowed by the NCLT, the ED has moved the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-tells-nclt-to-stay-away-from-assets-tied-to-money-laundering/articleshow/76239800.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Rajkot||Dr BR Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s signs forged to usurp Amreli land||RAJKOT: This one can easily go into police records as the most preposterous forgeries ever detected. Sample this: A trunk-load of nearly 400 land documents with forged signatures of none other than some of the tallest leaders of Indian Independence - Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Dr Rajendra Prasad and Dr BR Ambedkar - were prepared to usurp nearly half of Amreli town's land. The documents were designed so craftily so as to give them an ‘antique’ look by three conspirators, all senior citizens, two of them who have been detained.. The chief conspirator is Vali Metar, a 72-year-old man from Vapi, who colluded with his friends - Yusuf Motiwala and Vinod Bhad. Motawala and Bhad, who were given the power of attorney, have been detained. The plot was unearthed after a Herculean eight-month-long investigation conducted by Amreli collector, superintendent of police and the team of Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS), Gandhinagar. “The documents looked so antique and matched the size and shape of the ones used in the Gaekwadi era,” said Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai. The documents, all in Gujarati, were wrapped in 7-8 feet long cloth and papers.  The land parcels claimed account for nearly 45% of the area of Amreli town, said collector Ayush Oak. Metar had been staking claim to the government land since 2008 on the grounds that the sprawling parcels were gifted to his grandfather Gora Dosa, who, he claimed, was the administrator of Amreli during Gaekwad rule. These were gifted by none other than then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and home minister Sardar Patel after Independence and merger of princely states. Metar claimed in the documents that his grandfather had subsequently leased out the land parcels to the state government in 1950 and 1951. He also said that if the land cannot be returned to him, he should be compensated as per the prevailing market prices as the lease of some parcels had expired in 2017, 2018, 2019. In March last year, Oak disposed off his application as no revenue record substantiating his claim was found. Getting suspicious, Oak formed a special investing team to probe the criminality in the dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/signatures-of-sardar-ambedkar-forged-to-usurp-half-of-amreli/articleshow/76239099.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Stepping off the gravy train, restaurants say they need rescue act||NEW DELHI: ‘It is great to see the wheels turning again and doing what we, in hospitality, do best,’ read a post by restaurateur A D Singh as he announced home delivery and takeaway from his brands Olive Qutub, The Grammar Room and Guppy with “ever-clean kitchens and extra precautions”. Chef Jatin Mallick has been receiving calls from patrons of his restaurant, Tres, asking when they are reopening for celebrating birthdays, anniversaries and other important occasions. As restaurants wait for the green signal to open next week, chef Mallick says rather than make long-term plans, he is focussed on taking each day at a time. Explaining the emerging scenario — from border sealing and new guidelines to disruption in the supplies of ingredients and workforce besides a completely changed dining scenario — Mallick says it is the time for chefs to unlearn and learn. While he envisions each dish as a sensory appeal, he has tweaked his menu, done away with textural and visual delight and come up with simplistic dishes that retain the ethos of his ingredient-based cooking. The industry had liquidity sucked out of it during the lockdown. Restaurateurs are making every possible attempt to stay afloat and be in a position to reopen. They are sparing no efforts in reaching out to the regulars and win their confidence. Some outlets have been sending out impassioned, at times tearful, pleas to their regular diners to buy vouchers, which they can redeem later. Daily updates are being sent about their hygiene and safety protocols, such as live feed from their kitchen, noting the body temperature of kitchen and delivery persons, regular sanitisation of the kitchen and their premises, contactless delivery and dining where your interaction with the serving or delivery staff is minimal. Riyaaz Amlani, CEO of Impresario Entertainment & Hospitality — which runs outlets like Social and Smoke House Deli — says reopening with some of the present guidelines will further bleed the industry. He suggests the focus should be on hygiene and safety than on 50 per cent occupancy. He says restaurants should be allowed to serve alcohol and landlords need to waive the rent for the lockdown period. “Old business models, especially rents, are no longer relevant. We are looking at highly reduced revenues. If landlords do not support, we will have no option but to move on to new premises,” he asserts. The industry also feels that the government has ignored its plight and given it no relief. Rakshay Dhariwal, MD of Pass Code Hospitality, says their outlets offer a 360-degree experience that cannot be replaced by home delivery or takeaway. He used all his profits to open new outlets and says the future of the industry in the next few months looks bleak. Rohit Aggarwal of Lite Bite Foods says his brands — Punjab Grill, YouMee, Artful Baker and Asia7 — are open for delivery. After they receive clear directives, it will take him three days to reopen the dine-in facilities. He says they have been following most of the measures put out in the ministry’s SOP and have even got their own staff to home deliver food than rely merely on aggregators. Aggarwal says dining out will be a new experience now. Guests will order through an app, the staff and guests will be wearing masks and food might be placed on side caddy tables with the option of guests serving themselves. The present rules do not enthuse restaurateur Priyank Sukhija, who says he will not open till timings are relaxed and alcohol is allowed to be served. His chain of First Fiddle Restaurants that has many outlets across the city did almost 60 per cent of its business during dinner time that usually starts around 9 pm. Alcohol was a major draw. With the present guidelines — such as reduced timings, guest restrictions and no serving of alcohol — he feels it makes no business sense for him to reopen. Many of them feel that 30 per cent of the restaurants may not open again. With these new rules and highly reduced revenues, if the authorities, landlords and other stakeholders do not partner with the industry, half the reopened outlets may close down permanently, leading to almost five million jobs being lost, they say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stepping-off-the-gravy-train-restaurants-say-they-need-rescue-act/articleshow/76239794.cms||Amin Ali
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Satranjipura, Gandhibagh worst hit among all 10 NMC zones||Nagpur: Covid-19 has struck all 10 zones of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) but it’s Satranjipura and Gandhibagh that have suffered the most in terms of number of cases as well as containment zones. The number of active containment zones in city limits increased to 31 after municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Saturday notified parts of four more areas — Dhantoli, Sweeper Mohalla at Lalganj, Chandramani Nagar and Binaki Sonartoli — where cases were reported in the last couple of days. The NMC has denotified 16 containment zones so far. Containment zones are under all types of prohibitions for 28 days from the date last positive patient is reported. Only essential shops are allowed to open. In case of Mominpura under Gandhibagh zone and Satranjipura, the restrictions are in place since April 4 and 6, respectively, as the areas are reporting cases on a daily basis. Sweeper Mohalla at Lalganj and Binaki Sonartoli come under Satranjipura zone, increasing its containment zones to nine. Two areas — Dalalpura and Shanti Nagar-I — have been denotified. The remaining five in existence are Satranjipura, Tulsi Nagar, Naik Talao-Bangladesh, Tandapeth and Shanti Nagar-II. One more containment zone is likely to be added in a day or two.As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) data, Satranjipura zone has the second highest 206 cases in the city. Number of containment zones in Gandhibagh zone is seven of which six in existence — Mominpura, Bajeria, Siraspeth, Itwari Tanga Stand, Kapda Bazaar at Gandhibagh and Bairagipura. Bhaldarpura has been denotified. This zone has highest number of cases at 323 due to Mominpura. Dhantoli zone has now five containment zones — Hawrapeth, Venuwan Society, Arvind Society at Narendra Nagar, Vasant Nagar and Chandramani Nagar. Three zones — housing society near Gandhisagar, Parvati Nagar and Ganeshpeth — have been denotified. The zone has reported 20 cases. Mangalwari Zone, with 32 cases, has five containment zones. Restrictions are still in places at Gaddigodam and Shabri Mata Nagar in Gorewada while Jaripatka, Gautam Nagar in Gittikhadan and Khushi Nagar containment zones have been denotified. Ashinagar zone too witnessed five containment zones of which three — Habib Nagar, Mehbubpura and New Indora in existence while two — Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and Sangam Nagar — are denotified. This zone has recorded nine cases. Three of remaining four NMC zones — Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth and Hanuman Nagar — have three containment zones each. Laxmi Nagar zone registered 12 cases with part of Bajaj Nagar in containment zone in existence while two notified — Khamla and part of Bajaj Nagar. Dharampeth zone has recorded five cases with parts of Dhantoli and Sadar as containment zones in existence. Pandhrabodi has been denotified. Taj Nagar and Jawahar Nagar are containment zones in Hanuman Nagar zone while Kashi Nagar was denotified. The zone has recorded seven cases. Lakadganj zone, with only one case, has one containment zone. Due to prolonged containment zones, the people backed by politicians have started agitations despite it for identifying if any corona positive patients, give treatment to positive patients in initial stage itself to avoid mortality, end chains, conduct door-to-door survey etc. With inter-state and district travelling allowed on conditions and easing of lockdown, cases are on rise in new areas. The chances of increase in containment zones cannot be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satranjipura-gandhibagh-worst-hit-among-all-10-nmc-zones/articleshow/76239815.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Jaya house still under tax, legal proceedings; can’t be memorial: PIL||Chennai: Claiming that the Poes Garden residence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa is a ‘scene of crime’, social activist Traffic Ramaswamy has moved the Madras high court to restrain Tamil Nadu government from converting the property into a state memorial. Noting that the Supreme Court had declared that a portion of the property was acquired by Jayalalithaa during the period of misappropriation (1991-96), Ramaswamy said the income tax department too attached the property for tax dues. It had raided the property after the demise of Jayalalithaa, he said, adding that the department was yet to pass final order on the raid conducted. Most importantly, a commission of inquiry headed by a former judge of the HC was probing the causes of death of the former chief minister, he said, adding, “the commission is yet to complete its inquiry and pass a final order.” While the property is subject matter of so many legal proceedings, the state government cannot proceed further and convert the residence into a memorial, that too by spending public money, Ramaswamy said in his petition. The state government’s decision to convert the property into a memorial has received strong criticism from the residents of Poes Garden neighbourhood and 108 of them have made representations to the state government opposing the move, during the public hearing conducted by the authorities, Ramaswamy said. The action of the state in proceeding further to convert the property into a memorial would also amount to contempt of court, as a portion of it has been declared as proceeds of the crime by the apex court, he added. The plea filed as a PIL is likely to be taken up for hearing next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jaya-house-still-under-tax-legal-proceedings-cant-be-memorial-pil/articleshow/76239817.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||BJP trolls its CM as Goa hits 200 Covid positive-mark||PANAJI: Within minutes of the state crossing the 200-mark of Covid-19 positive cases, it was BJP spokesman Dattaprasad Naik who took a potshot at his own government by posting a comment on social media tagging chief minister Pramod Sawant, his party state president Sadanand Tanavade and others: “Double century. Who takes the credit now?” Naik’s post comes at a time when Sawant has been facing all-round criticism from opposition to the public for a series of missteps. ‘CM alone should not be blamed’One of these was allowing a woman coming from Mumbai to skip the screening test at the border, who was later tested positive. Naik also questioned Sawant and his party president over the diversion of construction workers’ funds to sarpanchs and said BJP in Goa never had to face any allegations of scam since 2012. TOI had front-paged the report where Sawant admitted to lapses and said four sarpanchs had availed funds meant for labourers. Taking a dig at Sawant and tagging home minister Amit Shah and national organising secretary B L Santosh, Naik said it was the first time since Manohar Parrikar was sworn in as the chief minister in 2012 that BJP had to face allegations of a scam. “All concerned officers involved in this scheme must be immediately suspended,” he tweeted and followed it up by saying, “all involved from top to bottom must be punished”. But later speaking to TOI, Naik tried to tone down his rhetoric and said the chief minister alone shouldn’t be blamed, as he was trying his best. “The rest 39 MLAs should also be held responsible,” he said. Naik, who lost twice to labour minister Jennifer Monserrate from Taleigao constituency, said she should be held responsible for the diversion of construction workers funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-trolls-its-cm-as-goa-hits-200-covid-ve-mark/articleshow/76240238.cms||Murari Shetye
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Cantonment may soon get mayor-like VP||NEW DELHI: Delhi is likely to get a fourth mayor-like position with Delhi Cantonment getting a directly elected vice-president post. The draft of the amendments proposed in the Cantonment Act, 2006, has been made public by Delhi Cantonment Board, which has sought feedback till June 16. A senior official said the number of elected members in Delhi was likely to increase from eight to nine. “A post of vice-president has been proposed. The person will be elected directly by the residents from all the eight wards for five years. If the draft gets approved by the Centre, residents of Delhi Cantt, which is a category 1 Cantonment area, will be voting for a local representative and a vice-president directly,” the official explained. The officer commanding the station shall be the president of the board, the draft said. The official said after feedback, more changes could be made in the draft. The term of the currently elected members was scheduled to expire in January, but has been extended by six months. All the cantonment areas in Delhi are currently governed via Cantonment Act 2006, while Cantonments Bill, 2020 is likely to replace it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cantt-may-soon-get-mayor-like-vp/articleshow/76239869.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Man kills mother-in-law, body buried in farm||AURANGABAD: Neknoor police in Beed rural on Saturday arrested a man along with his father for murdering his mother-in-law and burying her body in his farm in Mandavkhed. Arrested accused has been identified as Ankush and Tukaram Kadam, while the deceased has been identified as Alka Jogdand (50), hailing from Ankushnagar of Beed. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said that they were probing the missing complaint lodged by Alka’s husband. It was about 14 days back the woman had come to Ankush’s house after learning about some disputes in the family. After zeroing on Ankush they and started questioning him, following which he confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-kills-mother-in-law-body-buried-in-farm/articleshow/76238273.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 7, 2020||World||‘BlackLivesMatter’ protests in London descend into violence||LONDON: About 20 unarmed police officers who were not dressed in riot gear were hit with glass bottles and other projectiles as ‘BlackLivesMatter’ protestors clashed with cops trying to guard the front gates of Downing Street as protests in London turned violent on Saturday. The protests were sparked by the death of George Floyd during a police arrest at Minneapolis in the United States on May 25. The line of police had to be taken off the scene and riot police in full gear with shields and helmets, and mounted police on horses, had to be brought in to push the violent protesters away from Downing Street in central London that houses the official residences and offices of the UK Prime Minister. One police officer was thrown from his horse after a bottle was thrown at him as the protest descended into chaos around 6pm local time. The horse bolted up towards Trafalgar Square. The officer’s injuries are unknown. No arrests confirmed till this report went to press. @SkyNews Taken from am mother angle you can see why the horse w bolted https://t.co/EjDNDyJQkq— Emma Murray (@EmmaM_PR) 1591473458000The protests took place despite being illegal under the temporary coronavirus legislation. For about an hour from around 6pm things grew tense outside Downing Street and then they descended into violence. By 7pm there were hundreds of protesters still facing off against police in Whitehall. One black protestor told Sky News: “The real message is being lost. Half the people here don’t know why they are here. They are throwing bottles. There are a lot of bad people here.” Police in Whitehall charge Black Lives Matter protesters as they throw bottles at police horses. https://t.co/lsidWFC2md— Ian Miles Cheong (@stillgray) 1591464025000Home secretary Priti Patel had earlier urged people not to protest. “I understand people’s desire to express their views and have that protest but we are in the middle of a pandemic across the UK. Coronavirus is a deadly protest. I would say to people who wish to protest, please don’t. The regulations are clear in terms of mass gatherings. We must put public health first at this particular time. I would say to the organisers — speak to the police and they want to engage and explain an talk to people so we can stop the spread of this horrendous virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/blacklivesmatter-protests-in-london-descend-into-violence/articleshow/76240366.cms||NAOMI CANTON
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Shops roll up shutters, but customers missing||Nagpur: Shut for nearly 75 days, several markets in the city opened on the second day of Mission Begin Again on Saturday but witnessed almost zero business, partially because of the pandemic fear still looming large over people and largely because of confusion over the odd-even formula of reopening of shops mooted by the state government. Many shopkeepers complained of fewer footfall because of the confusion about the new formula of opening shops. They say when they themselves do not have much idea about the new formula, how will they convey it to their customers. Moreover, how will customers know which shop will open on which day, they say. Shopkeepers urged the NMC to reconsider the odd-even formula for shop reopening. “We will not get response unless customers are well-informed about the new arrangement,” said shopkeepers from Kelibagh Road, Mahal. On Saturday, the NMC teams from all 10 zones were seen making rounds to ensure strict adherence of the odd-even formula. Many shopkeepers like Hussan Noorallah Ajani, who owns a chain of footwear shops in the city, is making use of social media to inform his customers about opening of his shops on odd-even days. Nag Vidarbha Chambers of Commerce (NVCC) president Ashvin Mehadia told TOI that it would erect almost 300 hoardings across the city to create awareness about the odd-even formula and precautions to be taken by both shopkeepers and customers. The NVCC is a parent body of traders across the city and Vidarbha. “As shopkeepers are aware of their responsibilities like maintaining Covid distancing, using mask etc, we will appeal to the state government and the NMC to open all markets on regular basis from June 15,” said the NVCC president. From Friday onwards, an NVCC team was making rounds of all commercial areas and meeting shopkeepers to educate the importance of Covid distancing, using masks, disinfecting their shops etc. While popular markets like Sitabuldi main road, Itwari, Mahal, wore a deserted look, traders in markets like Sakkardara, Nandanwan were seen cleaning their shops. Central Avenue traders said the odd-even rule cannot be effectively implemented in the market and they are still figuring out the modalities. “Will the customer visit a store keeping the shop number and odd-even date in mind?” asked Sameer Phale, a garment shopkeeper from Sakkardara. The shopkeepers also complained that customer inflow was minimal. “The situation is bad. It was not good earlier as well but coronavirus and lockdown have dealt a severe blow to everyone. People are buying only essential items these days. Clothes will be the last item on their mind,” said Naresh Harde, a garment shopkeeper from north Nagpur. There are many shop situated on only one side of the road like in front of a hotel in Sadar area, near Raj Bhavan, Kachipura. “These shops are not even numbered in a way that the NMC can implement the new formula,” Mehadia said. Meanwhile, the NMC’s nuisance detection squad on Saturday penalized many citizens for not wearing masks and also imposed a fine of Rs1,000 each on a couple of citizens for spitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shops-roll-up-shutters-but-customers-missing/articleshow/76239840.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 7, 2020||Goa||Testing stops at Mangor, which has 170 of state’s 202 active cases||Panaji: Even as chief minister Pramod Sawant said last week that his government would test every single person at Mangor Hill, the containment zone witnessed no testing for the second consecutive day on Saturday. Since the first two cases in the area were reported on Monday, Mangor Hill now accounts for 170 of the state’s 202 active cases. The state saw its biggest spike in cases on Saturday, with 71 new cases, 62 of which pertain to Mangor Hill. On Thursday, the zone’s last day of testing, 955 swab samples were taken. Apart from Sawant, health secretary Nila Mohanan too had said that all persons in the area would be tested. She had said that the health department’s focus would be on Mangor Hill. The Covid hospital in Margao, which is treating all the state’s cases of the novel coronavirus, is now 92% full, with 202 of the 220 beds occupied. The state government is “seriously considering” taking over one or more hospitals to cope with the demand. South Goa collector Ajit Roy said that the plan is to take over government hospitals and resources first, before any private facilities. “We will first use the government hospitals,” he said. “Some hospitals have been identified, but a final decision is yet to be taken.” A few private hospitals were shortlisted in the initial phases of the Covid-19 battle, but since the initial phases of lockdown didn’t see too many cases in Goa, the plan was deferred. Sources said that talks are underway with owners of private hospitals, and a decision to take them over could be taken “anytime soon”. “We have the plan in place,” said deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida. “However, the decision of taking over more hospital/s rests with the government.” Testing at Mangor Hill came to a standstill on Friday. after seven health workers deployed there tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Then, the urban health centre, Vasco, shut down its operations since 16 of its staffers were working in the containment zone. Sources said that a huge backlog of cases may have held to the halt in testing. However, Mohanan said that the department has enough trained people to take swabs, but didn’t specify the exact number. While there was no collection of swabs, the Chicalim sub-district hospital started a two-hour OPD at Mangor Hill from 10am to 12 noon on Saturday. Those who complained of cold and fever were checked, and medicines dispensed. “Our OPD will run from 10am to 12 noon and will check people for various physical conditions,” said the hospital’s health officer, Dr Rajendra Borkar. Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai told TOI that testing at Mangor Hill could resume on Monday. However, on Sunday, the Goa Ayurvedic Medical Association, approved by the Union Ayush ministry, will start distributing Ayurvedic medicines to boost immunity, he said. After Friday’s chaos (reported on TOI’s edition dated June 6), things seemed to have settled down on Saturday. “People are relaxed today (Saturday) after the health facility was made available to them,” said Mormugao Municipal Council councillor Yatin Kamurlekar. “The OPD will function for one hour at the BSNL junction near Chota Mangor, and for another hour near the gurudwara at Bada Mangor.” He also said that swab collection will henceforth be done on larger premises, which can accommodate 200 persons. From Saturday, a Kadamba bus has been stationed at the containment zone to move patients to hospital in case of emergency. “The bus will be stationed there 24x7,” Dessai said. Goa currently conducts 1,500-2,000 tests a day, and has substantially ramped up its testing capacity since last month after machines were added at the district and subdistrict hospitals, as well as one at GMC’s virology lab. Of the 2,311 samples tested on Saturday, 1,389 tested negative. 851 reports are awaited. Besides the Mangor Hill cases, Saturday saw nine travellers also test positive for Covid-19. Three of them arrived by air from Delhi, three by train from Maharashtra, and three by road. The day also saw 12 suspects admitted in isolation wards, 235 international and 262 inter-state passengers placed in home quarantine, and seven placed in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/testing-stops-at-mangor-which-has-170-of-states-202-active-cases/articleshow/76240248.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 7, 2020||Goa||Parts of Goa receive pre-monsoon showers||PANAJI: Parts of the state experienced rain on Saturday but these are still pre-monsoon showers said the India meteorological department (IMD) stating that the onset of monsoon clouds over the state will only be by mid-next week. “The winds are westerly over the Goa region upto about 1.5km height which have been bringing moisture from the sea, thus resulting in cloud formation. This situation will continue in the coming days as well,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. “However, as per the criteria of Southwest monsoon, the monsoon wind current has not properly set over Goa,” he said. Monsoon conditions require the wind to be westerly up to a height of 4.5kmph from the surface. This has not yet been set in Goa even though the monsoon current has reached upto Karwar, in coastal Karnataka. The IMD is expecting for a low pressure region to form over the Bay of Bengal by June 8. This will enhance the monsoon propagation to the regions northward of Karwar in coastal Karnataka. “Regions in interior Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh also are likely to get the required criteria of rainfall in the coming 2-3 days. That will improve the probability of northward propagation of monsoon. With the formation of the low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal it is expected that monsoon currents will cover Goa in a few days,” Rahul said. The conditions for monsoon are expected to set in Goa after June 8. “The Southwest monsoon will therefore arrive by the first half of next week,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-state-receive-pre-monsoon-showers/articleshow/76240249.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||4 special Shramik train leave with migrants||Ludhiana: Amid heavy security arrangement, the railway authorities managed to run four special Shramik trains, along with five long-route passenger trains here on Saturday. The 207th train left the staton with migrants. Moreover, a health team was conducting thermal screening of food stall owners working on the station premises. On Saturday, the first train departed around 1pm for Katihar (Bihar) with 1,600 passengers. The 22-coach train will reach its destination in the afternoon on Sunday. Another train left for Purnia railway station (Bihar) around 4.15 pm. Following this, two more special trains for ferrying migrant’s workers to Badalpur (Uttar Pradesh) and New Cooach Behar (West Bengal) lef the city railway station in the evning with almost 3,200 passengers. Ludhiana railway station director told, Tarun Kumar said,t “I will personally go and check all security arrangements again at different crossings for proper enforcement of law and order norms for the safety of migrants.” “Moreover, the Railways have put a break on the use of lifts and escalator services at the city railway station and asked the food stall owners to make the use of masks and store food packets properly while taking care of all safety precautions. Besides, they should not sell at higher rates to passengers,” the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-special-shramik-train-leave-with-migrants/articleshow/76239108.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Sanitisation business booms as Mumbai offices prepare to open from Monday||MUMBAI: When Jitendra Kadam returns home these days, invisible and wet inside his sweaty blue PPE kit, his wife, Jagruti spritzes his whole being with a disinfectant while their two daughters place a bucket outside their Rs-4500-a month chawl room in which he can pop in his uniform before heading wordlessly for the bathroom. Some days, the kids even massage his shoulders which ache from lugging the 16-litre can of the pungent sodium hypochlorite all day. The perilous job at a cleaning and disinfecting firm not only pays his rent and the EMIs of his 125cc scooter but also turns his family into a silent pitcrew of sorts. In the days to come, Kadam knows his domestic pitcrew will have to work harder. With offices opening their shutters on June 8, there is a huge demand for sanitisation and disinfection services. Pest control firms are receiving around 20 to 25 inquiries per day from desperate clients who want their office premises clean and ready for staff to step in on Monday. The problem however is shortage of manpower. "More than 50% of my staff have left for their hometowns. Of the rest, many live in far flung suburbs like Virar or Kalyan and transporting them to the client's location is an issue. Not all clients can afford to send over cars to collect our staff," said Jaldhi Trivedi, CEO of Elite Corporation and former president of Indian Pest Control Association. This has also sparked cold wars between firms and clients. "One of our clients is a leading bank and they are upset that we did not prioritize them over others. We had to explain that fixed time slots were being given out to all clients," said Trivedi. Trivedi says he doesn't send over his staff to sanitise buildings where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected. "My employees do not have PPE suits. They use regular precautionary measures like masks, gloves, face shields and sanitisers. But some of the clients do not disclose that they have had a Covid-19 positive case on their premises until our staff reaches there," Trivedi said. This is why everyday is nervous-making for sanitization worker Ganesh Taral, who recently attended a call at a general store in Jogeshwari's Poonam Nagar only to discover later an employee there had been found infected. "We also have a family," says the financially anxious Taral, who had to placate the concerns of not only his angry wife but also a reluctant society secretary before taking up the job. "I make sure to spray disinfectant all over myself before entering. Thankfully, I live on the ground floor which makes things easier. I don't want to put anyone else at risk," says Taral. To establish the company's credibility, Taral makes sure to click pictures and videos of the team in action. "I send these to the client as proof," he says. "Sometimes we get to know of cases after the job is done," says Kadam, who grew curious after being asked to "particularly disinfect the toilet and kitchen" of an office in Mahim recently only to find that this was because a cook had been diagnosed with Covid-19 there. There’s no government guideline mandating any kind of deep cleaning or sanitising. "But it helps keep customers and employees healthy. And later, nobody can blame us for being negligent," said the promotor of an auditing firm in south Mumbai. About three to four workers are required to sanitize a one lakh square foot space. The strong fumes of sodium hypochlorite can be suffocating, so we ask occupants to step outside the premises for that time,” says Deepak K, who—as the in charge of sourcing manpower for a sanitizing company—makes sure to lead the team in cases where a Covid-19 patient was found. So far, he has led six to seven such cases from Bandra to Panvel. One of the homes belonged to a patient who had died a day before the team had been summoned. For each sanitization "call", Kadam earns Rs 500. Desperation led him into the job. "I had even applied for the post of ward boy at Kasturba hospital but for some reason, my online application didn't go through," says Kadam, who had undergone ward boy training in 1996. Not only offices, pest control firms are being flooded with calls from apartment owners as well as chawls. As a rule, Kadam hoses down not only the lift but also the watchman of each building he enters down with his sanitizing disinfectant. On May 23, along with colleagues, Kadam sanitized the corridors and stairs of an entire building in Kandivli in which a Covid-19 patient was found. Recently, when a bus conductor in a nearby chawl in Malad fell prey to the virus, Kadam played good neighbour and sanitised the chawl for free. To keep his strong will from being infected by well-meaning relatives who dissuade him from the risky job, 42-year-old Kadam has evolved a strategy. "I make sure to leave one cellphone at home on purpose."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sanitisation-biz-booms-as-city-offices-prepare-to-open-from-monday/articleshow/76240253.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Some private schools offer partial fee cut||PANAJI: In light of many parents losing jobs, facing pay cuts or business losses, a couple of private schools in Goa have decided to offer relief by implementing a 10-20% fee waiver for a few months. The decision was taken following demands by parents. This fee waiver has been given for some months only as of now on the hiked fees approved by the directorate of education for the new academic year 2020-21. This essentially means that parents will be paying the same fee as the last academic year, at least for a couple of months. Other unaided schools have decided to offer deferment of payment of fees for parents on a case-to-case basis. “We have waived off the 10% fee hike in terms of school fees as a way of standing with parents,” chairman of King’s School, Margao, Melvin Pereira told TOI.  We trust that our mutual understanding will lead to mutual respect and we can all come out of this time stronger than ever before. Our staff has been amazing, our students have been very responsive and parents have been very encouraging,” he said. Last month, the directorate of education issued a circular allowing unaided schools in Goa to implement the annual increase in fees by around 10%. But many parents had contacted schools asking them not go in for the increase in fees, given the pandemic and the impact on the economy and therefore on jobs and businesses. “This pandemic has had a severe impact on both the Indian as well as Goan economy, and there is a lack of visibility ahead in navigating the future path. Due to this uncertainty, and, at the requests from various parents for reduction in fees, the management has decided to reduce the fees and offer the parents the concession for the month of May 2020 and for the period from June to May 2020,” the management of Sharada Mandir School, Miramar, said in a circular issued to parents. As against the term fee approved by the DoE for the two months, a 10-20% reduction in fees has been offered to parents, depending on the class. The school has also said that the first term fee, which was normally included in the June fee bill, will feature in the July monthly fee this year, so that the June bill is not ‘heavy’. Founding president of the All Goa Government-Recognised Unaided Schools Association (AGGRUSA), Deepak Khaitan, told TOI, “A couple of unaided schools have decided to revert to last year’s fees. In a meeting held of unaided schools, most decided that they can defer the payment of fees for parents on a case-to-case basis. They will have to contact the schools if they are having difficulty in paying the fees and they can be allowed to pay it later at decided time of their convenience.” He, however, appealed that parents who can afford to should pay at least 50% of the fees immediately to schools to help the institutes cover its costs. “We have to pay teacher salaries and also things like sanitisation of school premises has only added to our cost,” Khaitan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/some-pvt-schools-offer-partial-fee-cut/articleshow/76240251.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Migrants, officials forget social distancing norm at stadium||Ludhiana: At a time when cases of Covid-19 are rising in the district with each passing day, the district administration has failed to implement modern health safety norms among migrant labourers community gathered inside the Guru Nanak Dev Stadium for returning back to their home states on Saturday morning hours here. More than 7,000 migrants hailing from different parts of district reached the stadium for registering for special Shramik trains for going back to their native places. They were forced to stand next to each other without following the social distancing norms. A visit to the stadium suggested that majority of labourers involved in the ticket getting process were not maintaining social distance norms, especially while standing in long queues. Moreover, there was no proper arrangements of pure clean drinking water. Although, officials were stationed inside the premises for providing clear water but due to large numbers of workers, they couldn’t follow the social distance norms and were standing just next to each other for their turn to come for filling their water bottles. After hearing that the government had arranged four more Shramik trains for migrant labourers, the migrants had reached the stadium for going back to their home states, but they were denied entry to the stadium by volunteers without prior registration. Meanwhile, the Railways ran four special trains from the city railway station with thousands migrant workers to Bihar and West Bengal on Saturday here. A migrant labours, Sushil Kumar, who used to work in a factory at Focal Point, said, “I have been facing several difficulties in managing the items for daily use. We are left with no a single penny to purchase food items for home because we have been thrown out of our jobs by factory owner after enforcement of the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/migrants-officials-forget-social-distancing-norm-at-stadium/articleshow/76239113.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Commuters hit as share auto fares go up due to restrictions||Madurai: With the state government restricting the number of passengers allowed in an autorickshaw to just two to fight the spread of Covid-19, share auto drivers have increased the fare by up to 40%. This has affected daily wage labourers, elderly and the poor who feel the pinch at a time when they are struggling to find work.Due to poor patronage the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Madurai has been operating limited number of vehicles resulting in people relying on share autos for last mile connectivity. V Pandiselvi, a construction labourer from Vandiyur said that she used to pay Rs 20 from Anna Nagar and Periyar in a share auto. But, now it has now increased to Rs 30. She is forced to cough up to Rs 100 every day to travel to her construction site at Kochadai, while her day’s earning is only Rs 400. Share auto drivers say that it is not feasible to collect the same fare charged before lockdown since there is a restriction in number of passengers. They also urged the state government to allow them to carry three passengers. Meenakshi Sundaram, a driver from Sellur said lockdown created a huge impact in their lives and a few of them including himself were forced to sell their vehicles to repay debts. “I have taken an auto on rent. While the owner used to charge only Rs 200 a day, he increased it to Rs 400 last week. I need to spend Rs 300 towards fuel. I find it difficult to even earn the money spent,” he said.Meanwhile, there are widespread complaints of share auto drivers carrying more number of passengers than specified numbers in the peripheries of the city. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Joseph Nixon said they are levying fine against such drivers who carry more than two passengers. Majority of auto drivers are following the norms, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/commuters-hit-as-share-auto-fares-go-up-due-to-restrictions/articleshow/76239848.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: To beat lockdown blues, artistes make Konkani short films, post them online||Inspiration struck Ryan Mark while he was awaiting his turn at the checkout counter of a grocery store recently and saw the owner’s wife watching a film on YouTube. The Mapusa-based singer-songwriter who, like many other artistes, has been grappling with the lockdown, knew exactly what he had to do. He phoned a friend in Bahrain for help with scriptwriting and narration, and rallied a few more in Goa for shooting, acting and work on a musical score. It took the eight-member team a little over a week to release ‘Day 40’, a 17-minute production. It is the latest in a string of zero-budget Konkani short films that have the lockdown as their central theme and are being posted online for free public viewing. Ryan relied on virtual tutorials to help him direct and edit his maiden short film and said he never would have felt motivated to improvise if it wasn’t for the lockdown. “There has been no live entertainment since March, prompting people to rely on their computers and mobile phones to unwind. I wanted to put some quality content out there, while also doing my bit to promote our mother tongue,” the artiste said. Early in April, when restrictions were more stringent, Joywin Fernandes of Colva decided to produce a Konkani short film that was shot gratis by each of his cast members on their mobile phones and in their own homes, in just one day. After some hours of conscientious editing, his eight-minute production, ‘Lockdown’, went online. “As I had worked with most of the actors before, I was able to tell them exactly how I wanted each shot taken. The challenge was ensuring that their eye movements were correct, because although it seems like two of them are in the same setting, they were actually miles apart,” the filmmaker said. “One of the actors sent in her clip from Pune while the other shots came in from Calangute, Mapusa, Panaji and Curtorim.” Joywin peppered the film with real-life situations, such as the ‘sari challenge’ that became a rave on virtual photo-sharing platforms when people were confined to their homes. “I wanted the film to resonate with audiences, and I am glad it has successfully done so,” he said. In Nuvem, Jerson Fernandes had ideas of his own. Keen on getting people to snap out of their apathy towards the Covid-19 situation, the actor and musician chose to the tap the power of film. ‘Amcho Salute Tumkam’ (We salute you) was uploaded on April 11 and highlighted the contribution of the police force in implementing lockdown restrictions. Barely 14 days later, Jerson released another short film, ‘Na Tuka, Na Mhaka, Konnak Nirminaka’ (Do not wish this for you, me or anyone). At 12 minutes, it was double the time of his earlier production but managed to garner over 22,000 views because of its “meaningful message”, according to some reviews. “The film was made in three days with the sole purpose of promoting the efforts of the police and medical fraternity in Goa in battling Covid-19,” he said. “It was my way of paying it forward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-beat-lockdown-blues-artistes-make-konkani-short-films-post-them-online/articleshow/76240255.cms||Misha Britto
June 7, 2020||Goa||Dy CM calls for status report on Taleigao land||Margao: Deputy chief minister and agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Friday said he has asked for a report from the director of agriculture with regards to the status of the land acquisition at Taleigao after farmers and locals objected to filling of the land for construction of a panchayat ghar. Kavalekar told TOI there was confusion over the status of the acquisition of the land, proceedings for which were completed years ago. “The land was acquired for some purpose by the government long back. Confusion prevails over whether the land acquisition had lapsed or not. I have asked the agriculture director to study the issue thoroughly and place the facts before me,” Kavalekar said. “Once I receive the report, an appropriate decision will be taken.” Farmers and activists had protested at the site of the construction of the panchayat ghar at Taleigao objecting to the filling of the agricultural land, leading to the arrest of a few persons. Addressing a press conference earlier at the BJP’s South Goa district office, Kavalekar stressed on the need for bringing more land under agricultural cover and urged people not to keep their cultivable fields barren. Pointing out that Goa produced only a miniscule percentage of total requirement of vegetables by the state, Kavalekar urged the young generation to venture to into agro-enterpreneurship. Stating that the central government has always supported the state government’s infrastructure development plans in the state, the deputy chief minister said that Goa’s signature Zuari bridge, the flyover from Bambolim to Verna, and the proposed organic agriculture university in the state has received the support and backing of the central government. Kavalekar further applauded the central government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for successfully completing two years in office. BJP state general secretary Damodar Naik while listing out the achievements of the central government, said that the BJP government had fulfilled most of the promises it had made in its manifesto within just two years in power. Minister for fisheries Filipe Neri Rodrigues, addressing reporters, hailed Modi as an example of strong and bold leadership. “It was Modi’s strong leadership that spurred the 10 of us to join the BJP (by defecting from the Congress),” he said. Referring to the demand of the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) for a mechanism for quality checking of fish landing at the wholesale fish market in Margao, Rodrigues said he would look into the matter and also discuss the issue with the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dy-cm-calls-for-status-report-on-taleigao-land/articleshow/76240254.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||MC gives one last chance to vendors to get registered||Ludhiana: Before moving ahead with their plan of having vending zones, the MC has given a last chance to the vendors to get themselves registered with the civic body by the end of this month. The officials claimed that they had given them a chance earlier also but vendors did not come forward for the same. However, the officials are silent about those vendors who have gone to their native place during lockdown, whether they will be given a chance once they will return or not. As of now, only 8,500 street vendors are registered with the civic body and that too when MC officials made them register forcefully. The civic body had conducted a survey in the city in which 21,000 street vendors were identified and all vendors who sell anything on roadsides were included in the list. The survey took a long time and for over two years the tussle has been going on finalising the vending zones because earlier these zones were identified but were rejected by traffic police department. The sites were identified again and these total around 100. The officials claimed that due to lockdown the entire process stopped in between and now they have again resumed the ongoing process. Initially, they had registered 4,000 vendors after organising camps and then they increased the number to 8,500 but still many were left. Zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, “The vendors who were included in that survey but could not get them registered have one final chance. We will register the vendors till June end.” He said they would issue identity cards to the vendors when they would be registered and on the basis of this vending zones would be developed. However, regarding vendors who have left the city, he said they would keep option in the policy and if their names were in this survey list then they would be considered once they return to the city. The matter of vending zones has been pending for almost 10 years but for two years the process had been put in the fast lane. Before lockdown a special drive was kicked off jointly by the MC and police against temporary encroachments and roadside vendors creating obstacle ins traffic. But due to lockdown the process was stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-gives-one-last-chance-to-vendors-to-get-registered/articleshow/76239115.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Work on Thanjavur main road to restart within two weeks||Trichy: The corporation has planned to restart work on widening the Thanjavur main road in the city in two weeks and complete it within a week after it begins.“We will resume the work within the next two weeks. Once launched, the road widening can be done in a week,” an official with the state highways department said. “At present the width of the road varies between 9-10 metres, after widening it will increase to 12-14 metres,” the official added.Road users have been urging the state highways department to relaunch the civil work to widen and relay the road as the two-year-old proposal was grounded abruptly last year.Thanjavur main road, one of Trichy city’s oldest gateways for vehicles arriving from Chennai, Madurai and Thanjavur, is also accessed by heavy vehicles approaching Gandhi market. City buses heading to Central and Chathiram bus stand from Trichy’s suburbs via Palpannai also depend on the arterial road. As the land required was readily available with the state highways, the civil work was launched in December 2018 and the work on stormwater drains on either side of the road was completed in May 2019. “The narrow Thanjavur main road that handles high volume of traffic has been in a pathetic state for a year now. The road should be immediately widened and relaid before the monsoon kicks in,” said K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-thanjavur-main-road-to-restart-within-two-weeks/articleshow/76239851.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: As austerity call grows, govt in a spot where to save cash||PANAJI: A freeze on government recruitment, 15-20% reduction in office expenditure, rationalisation of capital intensive infrastructure projects and optimum utilisation of central schemes are some of the measures required to mitigate the fiscal crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. While chief minister Pramod Sawant had hinted that the state government could cut some of the subsidy schemes, government sources pointed out that out of every Rs 100 spent, just Rs 2 is spent on subsidies, while the expenditure on salaries and welfare schemes is much higher. The government is expected to roll out its austerity measures, which have been under deliberation for over a month, by Wednesday. “The expenditure on social security schemes like Griha Aadhaar and DSS is large also, but at this time to stop giving these payments may not be well accepted,” a government officer said. With around 60,000 government employees in Goa, the government has to shell out around Rs 50-60 crore per month just on salaries, pension, government provident fund, gratuity, group insurance and other heads. Adding manpower to an already bloated administration will do little to improve efficiency, stakeholders said. “Just talking about austerity measures does not help,” said president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Manoj Caculo. “Across the industry everybody is taking salary cuts, something similar has to be done in the government. The government is borrowing month after month, but the major money is not going for infrastructure development, the money is going for salaries.” Deliberations within the finance department have focused on restrictions on purchase of vehicles, ban on foreign junkets, curbs on official seminars, conferences and mega events and reduction in overheads at the departmental level. In an ideal situation, said a finance department official, the present economic crisis would have called for an end on doles, but the issue is a hot potato for the BJP government, which is already facing flak for not putting enough money in the hands of the poor and the needy. Sawant, who holds the finance portfolio, had told TOI that he would review the subsidies being given and if possible reduce them, but would not touch the welfare schemes and projects. This, a senior bureaucrat said, was unlikely. The bureaucrat said that steps have to be taken to save money while simultaneously ensuring that public spending on priority sectors is not affected. Any cut in priority sectors such as agriculture and animal husbandry, fisheries and industrial support schemes will impact economic recovery and the state’s revenues in the following years. Other than borrowing through state government bonds, the state is left with very few options to generate revenue. “One of the revenue sources such as property registrations have gone down. And politically, we cannot justify an increase in power, water and transport charges,” a bureaucrat said. According to the budget for 2020-21, the Goa government expected Rs 5,463.78 crore in commercial taxes, Rs 3,027 crore as the share in central taxes, Rs 543.96 crore through excise collections and Rs 220.7 crore from stamps duty and registrations. Now, the finance department is worried that just half of these figures will be met. Meanwhile, the state is projected to spend Rs 90.8 crore on Ladli Laxmi, Rs 241 crore on the Dearness Allowance Scheme for housewives and around Rs 370 crore on other social welfare schemes. Compare these figures to the Rs 2.5 crore earmarked for interest subsidy on loans for agriculture and allied activities, Rs 6 crore for fishermen as subsidy to purchase kerosene, engines and nets. Budgetary allocation for subsidies on greenhouses, poly houses is Rs 1.8 crore. “Agriculture, animal husbandry and fishing subsidies are priority sectors and at this juncture, when we are talking about self sustenance, to touch them would be difficult,” the senior officer said. Goa State Coordinator for the Association for Democratic Reforms Bhaskar Assoldekar said that the government needs to pump in funds into the rural economy if it wants to reduce its dependence on other states. “The government needs to revive the rural economy if it wants to remain sustainable. The government needs to give incentives to those who are engaged in fishing and agriculture in Goa so that the revenues remain in Goa,” Assoldekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-austerity-call-grows-govt-in-a-spot-where-to-save-cash/articleshow/76240252.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Depressed over dad’s death, teen hangs self||NAGPUR: Shivani Tekade, 19, ended her life at her residence at Chitale Marg on Friday by hanging from the ceiling fan. She was depressed after the death of her father in an accident in January. She was the only child of her parents. Shivani, who had gone to Pune for her studies, returned in March during the lockdown. Police said Shivani’s mother, who is into business, was aware about her daughter’s depression. She had gone to the bank when Shivani took the drastic step. Shivani’s mother informed Dhantoli police who found a suicide note in which the deceased stated that she was unhappy after her father’s death. A case of accidental death was registered at Dhantoli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/depressed-over-dads-death-teen-hangs-self/articleshow/76239859.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Op Bluestar anniv remains peaceful; Community leaders put under house arrest||Ludhiana: The anniversary of Operation Bluestar remained peaceful in the city. Taking proactive action, Ludhiana police put some leaders of Sikh and Hindu community under ‘house arrest’. The police also deployed cops outside their houses to ensure they didn’t move out. While most of the leaders remained indoor, Youth Akali Dal leader Gurdeep Gosha had a heated argument with cops when he was asked to go home. Following this, the cops had to detain him from Clock Tower area and was taken to police station division number 1. Thereafter, the cops dropped him home. About 15 leaders of different organisations and communities were asked to remain at home on Saturday. When Gurdeep Gosha reached near clock tower, the cops stopped him and asked him to go home. YAD leader Gosha said, “I have been distributing langar and ration among needy ones since day one of lockdown. Following my routine, I reached near Clock Tower when cops stopped me. They wanted to detain me, so I asked for the reason. Without explaining any reason, the cops forcefully took me to police station. After half an hour I was dropped at my home. Cops have been deployed outside my house and I was instructed to not step out of the house.” Gosha added, “I am investigating the seed scam and moreover, I have been organising langar for needy ones for over two months, therefore I was targeted.” Ashok Thapar, president of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Brigade Anti-Terrorist Front, who was also kept under house arrest said, “We had planned to hold a programme at Daresi ground to pay tributes to martyrs who attained martyrdom in the fight against terrorism. The police did not allow them to move out and also sealed Daresi ground.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “This is not house arrest. Ludhiana police had requested all leaders to stay at home to maintain peace and law and order in the city. I am thankful that they agreed to stay at home. The allegation of YAD leader Gosha is not true. He was asked to remain at home and when he did not agree, the cops dropped him home. Besides, a team of Ludhiana police is keeping check on social media too.” Meanwhile SSP Ludhiana Rural Vivek Sheel Soni said that cops were already in liaison with the religious leaders and Gurdwaras across the police district to ensure that there was no disturbance. He added that it went off absolutely peacefully with no slogans or no flex boards. Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh added that cops had made deployment in sensitive areas across the police district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/op-bluestar-anniv-remains-peaceful-community-leaders-put-under-house-arrest/articleshow/76239121.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||As another private lab gets approval, Nagpur can now test 1,950 samples in a day||NAGPUR: Second private laboratory in Nagpur has received an approval to conduct Covid-19 tests on Saturday. In addition to this, the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur has now involved RT-PCR Abbott Machine under NACO Project for Covid-19 testing which has increased its capacity from 300 to 750. With this, Nagpur’s total capacity of Covid-19 tests has raised to 1,950 per day now. Dr Rajkumar Rathi’s Clinicare Speciality lab in Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH) has received approval from mentoring institute AIIMS Nagpur on June 6. “We have been approved to carry out Covid-19 tests using TrueNat technology. Our focus will be on the same-day reporting. The lab will follow price restrictions as per ICMR rules,” said Dr Rathi while speaking with TOI. As per new guidelines, the patients referred by registered medical practitioner for Covid-19 tests can present themselves to private lab and submit their samples. The test costs Rs4,500 per sample. The GMCH Nagpur has now started using RT-PCR Machine Abbott company which was received under NACO Project. This machine can conduct 450 tests per day. “With increase in number of positive Covid-19 cases in Nagpur and in Vidarbha, it was need of time to increase the testing capacity of the lab,” said GMCH Dean Dr Sajal Mitra. Secretary of state Medical Education and Drugs Department Dr Sanjay Mukherjee and Director of DMER Dr T P Lahane instructed using this RT-PCR Abbott Machine which was initially brought to the GMCH through NACO Project for HIV testing. “Kits necessary for Covid-19 testing using this machine were arranged through Chief Minister’s Fund. We received kits on May 30 and started using Abbott machine. This machine is available only in Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Dhule and Nagpur. Testing capacity of this machine is 450 per day,” Dr Mitra added. With this, GMCH can now test upto 750 samples per day, which is so far highest for any lab in Vidarbha region. According to doctors, the Abbott machine is more accurate for viral load testing and provides fast results. The VRDL Lab in GMCH is testing samples from Nagpur as well as from Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur. On an average, they are testing 500 samples a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/as-another-private-lab-gets-approval-nagpur-can-now-test-1950-samples-in-a-day/articleshow/76239864.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Work on Thanjavur main road to restart within two weeks||Trichy: The corporation has planned to restart work on widening the Thanjavur main road in the city in two weeks and complete it within a week after it begins.“We will resume the work within the next two weeks. Once launched, the road widening can be done in a week,” an official with the state highways department said. “At present the width of the road varies between 9-10 metres, after widening it will increase to 12-14 metres,” the official added.Road users have been urging the state highways department to relaunch the civil work to widen and relay the road as the two-year-old proposal was grounded abruptly last year.Thanjavur main road, one of Trichy city’s oldest gateways for vehicles arriving from Chennai, Madurai and Thanjavur, is also accessed by heavy vehicles approaching Gandhi market. City buses heading to Central and Chathiram bus stand from Trichy’s suburbs via Palpannai also depend on the arterial road. As the land required was readily available with the state highways, the civil work was launched in December 2018 and the work on stormwater drains on either side of the road was completed in May 2019. “The narrow Thanjavur main road that handles high volume of traffic has been in a pathetic state for a year now. The road should be immediately widened and relaid before the monsoon kicks in,” said K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-thanjavur-main-road-to-restart-within-two-weeks/articleshow/76239861.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite Telangana HC order, dead not being tested for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: About 10 days after the Telangana High Court asked the state government to conduct Covid-19 tests on the dead too, the process is yet to start at any of the state-run hospitals. Authorities say that they are yet to receive formal orders in this regard. “We have so far received no orders from our superiors to take samples from deceased patients. Unless there are formal orders from the state health department, samples cannot be collected. There is no clarity on why there is a delay in issuing the order,” said a senior doctor from the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences admitting to the possibility of transmission through such patients. On May 26, theHC had ordered the state government to conduct Covid-19 tests on all dead bodies before releasing them from hospitals. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy had stressed that the state government must ascertain whether the virus affected dead patients or not and not doing so would be like inviting the trojan horse. The order was issued while hearing public interest litigations saying that the government was not conducting adequate tests for Covid-19. However, suspected cases continue to slip testing due to the current protocol. “Since we do not have orders to test dead patients, even some patients who would fall in the suspicious category and have succumbed, are not being tested. This week alone there were three such highly suspicious cases and the patients succumbed within hours of coming to the hospital. Since their samples were not collected when they came in, after they succumbed too the samples could not be collected as we do not have orders to do so. Some of them could be Covid-19 positive but without testing them, we would not know,” said a senior resident at Osmania General Hospital (OGH). When contacted, director medical education Dr K Ramesh Reddy and director public health Dr G Srinivas Rao did not comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-hc-order-dead-not-being-tested-for-covid-19/articleshow/76239868.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Complaint against opening of market in violation||Ludhiana: The police here have received a complaint against Gandhi Nagar AC Market for remaining open for the past 15 days, violating lockdown orders. The complainant has also shared the pictures and videos with the police, following which ADCP-I Deepak Pareek has been asked to investigate the matter. The complainant, wishing anonymity, said he was also a shopkeeper in the market, which has been running without permission for the past 15 days. About 10 days ago he made a compliant to police control room against it, following which PCR cops had come there. However, they returned without checking the written permission, as owners of the complex told them that they had talked to a senior officer concerned, who had allowed them to open the complex. The complainant also added in his complaint that a PCR remains inside the complex and is witness to this violation. He further said, “The owners of this complex have political links, because of which they are fearless. They have got permission to open their other market, which is in Calibre Plaza, Bhadaur House, for dispatch of goods from godowns. However, they don’t have permission to open Gandhi Nagar market. Traders are coming from other states every day for purchasing goods here.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “I have asked ADCP-I Deepak Pareek to check if there is any violation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/complaint-against-opening-of-market-in-violation/articleshow/76239123.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Locals want creaky bridge over Uyyakondan canal repaired||TRICHY: The reinforced cement concrete (RCC) bridge on Uyyakondan canal in Trichy, which links Alwarthope and Bhima Nagar to the city, is in a damaged state, residents said. Even as the retaining walls of the Uyyakondan Bridge are damaged in multiple spots, people continue to use it. Locals, therefore, demanded that the Trichy corporation should repair the bridge. The RCC bridge on Uyyakondan canal was constructed before 1994. Alwarthope and Bhima Nagar, both being densely populated areas, rely on this seven-foot wide bridge to access rest of the city. In the absence of the bridge, residents have to take a 3-5 km detour to reach the city. Locals lamented that the bridge was not maintained by the civic body for decades. Due to the poor maintenance, the retaining walls of the bridge have become weaker due to the recent rains. The reinforced steel bars in the retaining walls are protruding and there are cavities in the walls through which people may fall into the canal. “As the walls are damaged, pedestrians are forced to walk among the moving vehicles,” Mohammed Ismail, a resident of Alwarthope said. Sources said that authorities were asked to repair the damaged bridge in 2018. However, the demand was not taken seriously. “We will prepare an estimate to repair the damaged bridge. It may take months as Covid-19 preventive measures are keeping us occupied,” an official with the corporation told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-want-creaky-bridge-over-uyyakondan-canal-repaired/articleshow/76239870.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Conspiracy via chat groups under scanner||NEW DELHI: Moving swiftly towards taking the Delhi riots cases to their logical conclusion, Delhi Police has filed 79 chargesheets against 410 people for offences ranging from murders and arson to assembling unlawfully. Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa, said that out of these, the Crime Branch had arrested 104 people and the local police 306. Police claim that the murders were either due to instigation by a group of people or in retaliation to the violence that took place between December 24 and 26. They are also probing a conspiracy that was allegedly hatched through WhatsApp groups that were formed during or before the riots. The role of activist groups, such as India against Hate and Pinjra Tod, is also under the scanner. Names of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Khalid Saifi figured during the interrogation of the perpetrators of the riot, claim police. According to police, the probe had found that the violence at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 last year was the beginning of a conspiracy that later turned the anti-CAA protests into violent clashes with the cops. The three months long protest at Shaheen Bagh was also a part of it, sources said. “In all these cases, the same group of people was found to be leading the protesters. They would block the road and cause inconvenience to public before getting into clashes with the cops to draw attention,” said a police officer. “During the interrogation of suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and Rajdhani Public School owner Farooq Faisal, who have been charged with leading and instigating the rioters, it was found that the purpose of the riots was to embarrass the government during the US President Donald Trump’s visit to India,” sources added. “For the same reason, the members of the activist groups had led the women protesting at the roadside in Jafrabad and Chand Bagh to block the Jafrabad main road and Road Number 66.” Police claim to have recovered several WhatsApp chats in which people opposing the move to block roads were termed as traitors by the protesters. Police have also come across other WhatsApp groups that were formed to avenge the loss of life and property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-conspiracy-via-chat-groups-under-scanner/articleshow/76239878.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: MCG sets up control room to monitor private labs||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set up a control room to ensure a streamlined process of timely Covid-19 test results in private labs. According to sources, it was observed that the private labs are delaying in providing results to the health department on time. On May 28, when Rajiv Arora, Haryana additional chief secretary (health), visited Gurugram, he pointed out to the district health department to ensure that all private labs in the city submit the Covid test results within 24 hours. He had also asked the health department to take action against those labs which are delaying the reports. The MCG control room will be managed by a team of 30 officials. On receiving information about contacts of Covid positive cases from labs, these officials will forward the patients’ details for contact tracing to public healthcare units. The team will also map out areas in the city where most of the cases have emerged in the past week. They will be helping primary health centres for contact tracing. So far, the district has 1,303 active cases which is the highest in Haryana. “We have a dedicated call centre in MCG Sector 39 office. We have 30 officials monitoring the cases and the test reports which are pending with the private labs,” said Dr Ashish Singla, medical officer, MCG. He added that their main focus is on the functioning of those private labs which are conducting Covid-19 tests. “We are ensuring that these labs update correct data on time. We are also responsible for the daily bulletin and reporting of cases. We are working along with other departments and providing them the required support,” Singla said. Meanwhile, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has also constituted a 25-member team on Friday and a control room is being set up at Sector 29 HSVP Gymkhana Club to monitor the situation. The team will be responsible for monitoring of primary health centres for contact tracing and managing rapid response teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-sets-up-control-room-to-monitor-private-labs/articleshow/76239883.cms||Ipsita Pati
June 7, 2020||Hubballi||Ranebennur DSP to probe seed scam||Haveri: Ranebennur DSP T V Suresh has been appointed as the investigating officer to probe the uncertified seeds scam in the state. Eastern range IGP S Ravi appointed Suresh and handed him over nine cases pertaining to the scam in Haveri, Dharwad and Ballari districts for investigation. Police also suspect the scam is linked to Telangana. But Covid-19 may become a hurdle for the investigating team as the present condition is not favourable for inter-state travelling. Meanwhile, agriculture minister B C Patil has expressed his disappointment over the delayed attitude of police to conduct the probe. “We have filed nine cases regarding the fake seeds scam in Haveri, Dharwad and Ballari districts, and handed them over to a special team led by Ranebennur DSP Suresh. I have strictly instructed the team to conduct the probe and submit the chargesheet to the court as early as possible,” the IGP said. The IGP also clarified that Covid-19 wouldn’t be a hurdle to their investigation because their police would take precautionary measures during the investigation. When contacted, DSP Suresh said he, having received the related order on June 2, will start the investigation soon. “The scam is a sensitive issue and it is linked to Telangana. So we need to travel interstate as part of the investigation. Moreover, Ranebennur taluk is one of the biggest seeds production are in Asia. So the uncertified seed menace is highest here.” Patil said that he had been appealing to home minister Basavaraj Bommai and the IGP to investigate the scam at the earliest. “Now that the IGP has put the Ranebennur DSP on the job, the latter should do it in full earnest and in the interest of farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ranebennur-dsp-to-probe-seed-scam/articleshow/76234117.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Namaz can be offered with mask, says Jamia Nizamia fatwa||HYDERABAD: With mosques in Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana all set to reopen under the new normal condition, Jamia Nizamia, south India’s leading Islamic deemed university, on Saturday issued two fatwas (religious decrees) giving clearance for five daily congregational prayers in the changed social and physical distancing scenario due to Covid-19. “Yes, you can pray wearing masks,” said chief Mufti of Jamia, Moulana Mufti Mohammad Azeemuddin. “In view of the serious threat of Covid-19 spread, there is no need to stand shoulder-to-shoulder in congregational prayers.” Mecca Masjid, which was closed for more than two months for the first time in over three centuries, will reverberate with prayers and supplications of the devout. Jama Masjid near Charminar will also function. It was the first-ever lockdown for this Qutub Shahi mosque too. The Badi Masjid (Markaz or headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Telangana and AP), which was used as a quarantine centre, will also reopen, said Telangana State Waqf Board chairman Mohammad Saleem. The fatwas issued by Jamia Nizamia, which was founded in 1876, pave the way for the Islamic religious gatherings in mosques in a new normal world. Incidentally, all the procedures now told to be followed in mosques are contrary to the very spirit of Islam, which lays emphasis on close human contact through congregations. The Mufti has cited Islamic rulings in the past, including those taken during the time of the Prophet and the righteous Caliphs in his support. The Mufti has also given clearance for prayers maintaining social distance while Islamic jurisprudence calls for people offering prayers with shoulders touching. However, Islamic scholars of various schools of thought, who held a video conference through Zoom, differed on the use of sanitizers before entering mosques. They said one can use alcohol-based sanitisers at other times and not just before offering Namaz. “We have recommended use of soap for handwashing and bleaching powder for disinfecting mosques after every prayer. Since most of the sanitisers contain 70% alcohol, they should not be used while entering mosques. One can use them elsewhere,” said Moulana Syed Ghulam Samdani Ali Quadri, head of Seerat-un-Nabi Academy. The Friday sermons will be short as also the prayers. Earlier, the Dar-ul-Uloom, Deoband in Uttar Pradesh, had issued 10 commandments to be followed while entering mosques. Thanks to social distancing, many mosques will not have enough space for Friday congregations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/namaz-can-be-offered-with-mask-says-jamia-fatwa/articleshow/76239875.cms||Syed Akbar
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai, Thanjavur report one death each as Covid-19 cases climb||Trichy/ Madurai: The Central region of the state recorded a death of an 84-year-old man and 24 more new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 992 on Saturday. Being a resident of Chennai, the man, a native of Vadaseri in Thanjavur district, tested positive on his return to Thanjavur on May 28. He died at government medical college hospital in Thanjavur on Saturday. Meanwhile, a 72-year-old woman from Mela Anuppanadi in Madurai who died on Thursday was reported Covid-19 positive on Friday. The woman was suffering from Influzena-like illness (ILI) and had co-morbid condition of diabetes mellitus. Her death is yet to be officially declared in the bulletin even on Saturday. In south Tamil Nadu, 50 more Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday taking the tally to 1,745. On Saturday, seven more Covid-19 cases were recorded in Madurai district. The seven cases included a 26-year-old man from CISF Unit Line at Madurai airport. Apart from the seven cases, four close contacts including three family members and a personal security officer of a 57-year-old Madras high court judge from Madurai bench also tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. However, these four cases are yet to be included in the medical bulletin. Thanjavur reported two cases, Tiruvarur district four cases and Nagapattinam six on Saturday. Karur district added six more cases to its count, which included a one-and-half-year old baby. Ariyalur reported five new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Pudukottai district recorded a positive case with a Chennai-returnee. In Trichy, a 25 year old Covid-19 positive man from Bangladesh was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Friday. Booked in a criminal case in Chennai, he had been lodged in Puzhal prison and later shifted to the special camp in Trichy central prison recently. Tuticorin reported 14 more indigenous cases. Kanyakumari on the other hand reported as many as 10 new cases. Fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported on Saturday in Sivaganga (2), Tenkasi (2), Tirunelveli (2), Virudhunagar (4), Ramanathapuram (4) and Dindigul (5). In Theni district, as many as 32 samples of contacts of the two Covid-19 patients who tested positive on Friday have been sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-thanjavur-report-one-death-each-as-covid-19-cases-climb/articleshow/76239874.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NIPER working on nasal sprays, drugs to fight Covid-19||HYDERABAD: The city-based National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) has joined the international race to develop new drugs and a vaccine for Covid-19. It has also taken up the task of repurposing drugs — approved by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) of the US — for their fast introduction into the market. Repurposing of drugs involves finding new uses for existing diseases and it saves money and time. NIPER is busy using computational tools to design new drugs to fight against novel coronavirus and its associated complications such as inflammatory ‘cytokine storm’ (or immune system going awry), pneumonia and lung conditions. “The institute is working on nasal sprays as adjuvant therapy to control viral entry through nose and spread though nasal droplets. We are also developing localised inhalational formulations,” NIPER director Dr Shashi Bala Singh told STOI. Dr Srinivas Nanduri, dean, said NIPER has proposed several research projects to different funding agencies, including the department of biotechnology (DBT) and ICMR. “We are already carrying out preliminary proof of concept studies. We are using computational tools to design new drugs, besides repurposing the FDA-approved drugs,” he said. Researchers at NIPER are also working with natural products to improve immunity to prevent microbial infections, including Covid-19. NIPER has signed an MoU with ESIC Medical College, Hyderabad, to carry out Covid-19 diagnosis testing and in-vitro antiviral screening for coronavirus research projects..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/niper-working-on-nasal-sprays-drugs-to-fight-covid/articleshow/76239892.cms||Syed Akbar
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Chargesheet against 7 for killing of student in northeast Delhi riots||NEW DELHI: Mohammad Salman, one of the rioters who had killed IB staffer Ankit Sharma, was also found to be a part of the group that had shot Rahul Solanki, a civil engineering student, during the riots on Febraury 24. Salman, along with six others, were named in the chargesheet by police on Saturday, in the murder case of Solanki. Cops also recovered a 0.32 bore pistol from him and are looking for a country-made weapon with which he had shot at Solanki, who had come out of his house in Shiv Vihar to go to a shop. He was turned away by the shopowner and was on his way home when a mob surrounded the area. Solanki was shot dead. His family members took him to GTB Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. In the chargesheet, police said that the murder took place during the large scale arson of houses and shops. The place of the incident was near Anil Sweets, where one of the sweet shop employees Dilbar Singh Negi was also murdered. Many more case were registered in the riots. Police said that though several CCTV cameras were destroyed by the mob, some footage from the cameras installed at residential houses was recovered. Eyewitness accounts were recorded and mobile data was also analysed. On the basis of this, seven people were identified and caught. The chargesheet mentioned that Salman was one of the rioters who was seen firing several rounds at a crowd from a country made pistol standing at the Shiv Vihar Tiraha. During this, one of the shots had hit Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chargesheet-against-7-for-killing-of-student-in-riots/articleshow/76239896.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Dehradun||With Niranjanpur mandi shut, vegetable sellers in a quandary||Dehradun: With the Niranjanpur Mandi — the main wholesale vegetable market in the city — being shut for an indefinite period, the business of vegetable retailers has been severely hit. The retailers say that they now have to pay a higher price for the vegetables and also bear the additional transportation cost. To recall, the mandi was announced to be closed by CM Rawat a few days ago after several traders here tested Covid-19-positive. Sonu Kumar, a vegetable seller at Rajpur Road, told TOI, “With the mandi closed, I am forced to buy goods from Haridwar and other areas on the outskirts. This involves an additional transportation cost. As a result, the price of the vegetables has increased and it is affecting customers as well.” In view of the mandi closure, the Niranjanpur Mandi Samiti, the body that administers the market, has arranged 25 mobile vans for regulating supply of vegetables and fruits in several parts of the city. However, the retailers say the move is not enough to provide them relief. Brij Gopal, a vegetable vendor at EC Road, said, “The mobile vans arranged by the mandi samiti allow us to purchase vegetables at a lower rate but more vans are needed if the demand of the entire city is to be met effectively.” The supply shortage and increased prices of vegetables is also affecting residents. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front who co-ordinates with over 70 RWAs in the city, said, “I am constantly receiving calls from city residents who are struggling to find vegetables in the local markets after the shutdown of Niranjanpur Mandi. On Saturday, I requested the mandi council officials to send mobile vans to Rajendra Nagar and Vijay Park localities due to the high demand. We will need to find a way to address the situation.” Meanwhile, mandi samiti officials said they are putting in place arrangements for smooth supply of vegetables. Talking to TOI, Vijay Thapliyal, secretary of mandi council, said, “We have finalised Nanur Khera and Maldevta as alternative spots for procuring vegetables and supplying it across 100 wards. All due arrangements are being made to ensure that the residents don’t suffer supply shortage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-niranjanpur-mandi-shut-vegetable-sellers-in-a-quandary/articleshow/76237642.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city records 4 Covid deaths||Nashik: Nashik city has recorded four more Covid-19 deaths in the past 72 hours, including three males and one female, taking the total number of casualties to 18. The city also reported 27 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of patients rose to 365. As many as 17 patients from Nashik city were discharged on Saturday. The total number of patients discharged is 133 in the city while 214 are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, 11 patients in Malegaon and 3 in Nashik rural were also discharged, taking the total number of patients discharged in the Nashik district to 1,006. The four patients who passed away were undergoing treatment in the civil hospital. A 40-year-old man from Pakhal Road died on June 4, a 44-year-old man from Panchsheel Nagar passed away on June 5, a 50-year-old woman from Naikwadi Pura and a 38-year-old man from Khode Nagar died Saturday morning, the sources said. The patient from Khode Nagar had comorbidities, the doctors said. They were admitted to the hospital between May 29 and June 4 and were in critical condition. The number of Covid-19 cases in the district including Nashik rural, city and Malegaon, has crossed 1500-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-records-4-covid-deaths/articleshow/76238385.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T playing with docs’ lives, says Gudur||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy on Saturday alleged that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is playing with the lives of Covid-19 frontline warriors such as doctors, nurses, medical staff, police personnel, among others. “Doctors and medical staff getting infected with Covid-19 is a serious issue. Who will treat thousands of coronavirus positive patients if doctors test positive for Covid-19 This exposes the negligence on the part of the government,” Narayana said. Even the high court has reprimanded the government over doctors getting infected. “If protective measures are in place, how did these doctors and the other medical staff get infected?” he wondered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-playing-with-docs-lives-says-gudur/articleshow/76239897.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||‘Centre, Kerala doctor’s Mumbai Covid-19 assessment wrong’||MUMBAI: The Centre as well as the head of the visiting Kerala team of doctors have got their Covid-19 assessment for Mumbai wrong, said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state task force of doctors set up to advise on the treatment to be followed in the city and Maharashtra. Dr S Santhosh, who is leading a team of 150 health workers from Kerala, had told TOI on Friday in the next fortnight, Mumbai will need at least 5,000 ICU beds in clusters of 500 so that manpower and specialists from public and private hospitals can be pooled. Meanwhile, a detailed note on the Kerala doctor’s assessment has been submitted to the state government. Dr Joshi said the Centre had predicted 50,000 cases in April and six lakh by May 15. “We did not even touch 50,000 by May-end and the peak is already past us,” he said. While the overall infrastructure for critical care needs to be ramped up, the focus in the war against Covid-19 must be on oxygen and high flow nasal cannula as this can save lives in large numbers, he said, adding the Journal of American Medical Association mentioned that 80% of those who died in New York were on ventilators. “We have 6,000 oxygen beds today in the four field hospitals. After Wuhan, Mumbai is the only city to set up this infrastructure. Only 3% of the affected population needs ICU beds and ventilators. Those most vulnerable are above 55 years of age with co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes. The deaths we are seeing are because patients come late for treatment. Those with mild to moderate symptoms can be treated at these field hospitals.” He said the stigma attached to Covid-19 has resulted in people not seeking help early. Also, there is a reluctance to download Aarogya Setu. The BMC must do more tests and contact-tracing, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-kerala-docs-city-covid-assessment-wrong/articleshow/76239163.cms||Clara Lewis
June 7, 2020||Trichy||22 booked for planning temple festival||TRICHY: While the state government was yet to decide on reopening of temples, a group of local people who gathered to plan a temple festival after June 8 was booked by police here on Friday. A group of people led by N Jeyaraman of Mill Colony in Ramji Nagar in Trichy gathered for discussing the possibilities of conducting festival at Mariyamman temple in Mill Colony. The meeting was held at 8 pm on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, Edamalaipattipudhur police rushed to the spot and booked Jeyaraman and six others besides 15 unidentified people. The police booked them on charges of disobedience to public order, negligent act likely to spread infectious disease, malignant act likely to spread infectious disease, making atmosphere noxious to health under Sections of IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and disaster management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/22-booked-for-planning-temple-festival/articleshow/76239900.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||‘Delhi University online exam unfair to blind students’||NEW DELHI: The representatives of Delhi University, human resource development ministry, Central Board of Secondary Education, University Grants Commission have been called for a meeting on Monday by the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities over concerns on DU’s online open book examination (OBE). The National Federation of the Blind has moved Delhi high court against the move and also approached the department, stating that the system was against the “principle of equality” towards disabled students. However, the university said that it has taken all measures to ensure that students with disability do not face difficulty. DU will be conducting OBE for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students from July 1. General secretary R K Rungta, in a video press conference on Saturday, stressed that the university did not pay heed to their representation highlighting the problems faced by the students, especially those with visual impairment. “In such an uncertain situation, conduct of examination through an open book would risk the health of students in general. In addition, blind and other disabled students are more vulnerable. The federation even conducted a survey where about 150 blind students expressed their inability to appear for the online examination,” said Rungta. A DU official said that it has issued separate guidelines for students with disabilities. “ Such students will be given extra time to complete the exam and there is a detailed guideline on getting a scribe as well,” added the official. However, the federation said that one of the biggest problems the students with visual impairment will face would be arranging a scribe at the villages and locations they are living in. The other problems include having the computer/internet facility, the ability to operate, complete the process of scanning and uploading answersheets. “The scribes may not agree fearing the spread of disease due to contact and even the social distancing norms will be violated. If the university goes ahead with their plan then it is clear it has decided to preclude and exclude students with disabilities from appearing in examination,” added Rungta. The federation suggests that students with disability should be either promoted on the basis of performance of the previous semester or an offline examination with 50% weightage be conducted one week after the opening of the university. In this system 50% would be offline examination and 50% internal assessment. It added that CBSE has already allowed the students with disability to not appear for the remaining examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-online-exam-unfair-to-blind-students/articleshow/76239906.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 7, 2020||Nashik||Business picks up in Nashik after lockdown relaxation||Nashik: With the state government announcing relaxations in lockdown rules and allowing reopening of establishments, people in the city have started thronging the markets again. Shops and markets in the city have restarted operation after a gap of nearly 74 days. However, social distancing has gone for a toss at some places and there have been reports that people are not cooperating with shopkeepers. “We step out of our houses only to buys essentials such as clothes, school books etc. We hope to wind up our purchases soon and we are being cautious. ‘Not to touch anything’ is the mantra we carry along,” Nilesh Kulkarni, a city resident, said. Though some shopkeepers are ensuring that social distance is maintained and people wear masks, at some places, especially shops in small lanes, these rules are still being ignored. Autorickshaws back on city roads Autorickshaws have also started plying on the city roads. However, they carry only two people at a time. “Since we are allowed to ply passengers for essential services only, we are mostly ferrying elderly people, especially those who travel to hospitals, pension offices or banks. We avoid taking long distance passengers,” Santosh Kale, an autorickshaw driver, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/business-picks-up-in-nashik-after-lockdown-relaxation/articleshow/76238401.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||2 Chennai returnees test positive in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district reported two new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday when two returnees to Ooty from Chennai tested positive for the virus. Health officials said both the cases would be added to the Covid-19 tally of the state capital. A source said one of the patients was a resident of Nondimedu area in Ooty. A 33-year old, he had come down to Ooty two days ago. The second patient, a 43-year-old man, was staying in Raj Bhavan Colony that was located within the government botanical garden in Ooty. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said throat swabs were collected from them while they crossed the district border. “Test results showed they are positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Both of them have been shifted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.” Nondimedu and Raj Bhavan Colony have, meanwhile, been sealed and declared as containment zones. The Nilgiris has reported five positive cases - four returnees from Chennai and one from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh - in the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-chennai-returnees-test-positive-in-ooty/articleshow/76239157.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nashik||45 officers get Aviation Wings at CATS||Nashik: As many as 45 officers completed the combat aviators course for becoming combat helicopter pilots at the Combat Army Aviation Training School (CATS) located at Naghi Nagar Airfield, Nashik Road, on Saturday. They were also awarded the tags of ‘Aviation Wings’. CATS is the alma-mater of the Army Aviation Corps and is the premier flight training institution of the Indian Army, which functions under the aegis of the Army Training Command (ARTRAC), Shimla. The combat aviators’ course is the second phase of flight training. During the course, the officers underwent rigorous flight training over a period of 17 weeks. The training was carried out with Covid-19 precautions, a release from CATS said. Capt Omkar Lokhande won the ‘Silver Cheetah’ trophy for coming first in the overall order of merit. While Capt Suraj Fartyal won Capt SK Sharma trophy for best flying and Capt Omkar Lokhande won the ‘AOP-35’ trophy for standing first in-ground subjects. The ‘Fledgling Trophy’ for standing first in PAPC was won by Capt Harpreet Singh Arneja and the ‘Capt PK Gour trophy’ for best in gunnery was won by Capt Suraj Fartyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/45-officers-get-aviation-wings-at-cats/articleshow/76238430.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nashik||‘Seeds and fertilisers will be delivered to farmers’||Nashik: Maharashtra agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said that the agriculture department has planned to distribute abundant stock of seeds and fertilisers to the farmers to ensure that none of them are deprived of the same.Assuring the farmers best of the services, despite Covid-19 and Cyclone Nisarga causing havoc in the state, the minister said that the government would play its part to ensure that the farmers are able to produce crops. “After having toured the state, we have chalked out various plans for the farmers,” the minister said..On the need to raise infrastructure, the minister said that the department had planned to raise community farm ponds that could help marginal farmers, packhouses, shed nets, onion storage facilities etc. He presented the work orders for the Shyama Prasad Mukherji Rurban Mission in Dabhadi. Dilip Deore, the sub-divisional agriculture officer, said, “The scheme will be implemented in the villages with a population of about 50,000. Every village in the taluka will benefit from the cluster development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/seeds-and-fertilisers-will-be-delivered-to-farmers/articleshow/76238423.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Police track rat paste buyers to prevent rising suicides||TRICHY: With suicides using rat paste on the rise, Trichy range police have started keeping a tab on those buying the rodenticide with the help of vendors. According to data with the police, 138 people in 2018, 165 in 2019 and 63 so far this year have consumed rat paste to end their lives in the five districts coming under the range. Available freely even in petty shops, the rodenticide is an easy option for those with suicidal tendencies irrespective of age to consume it after stuffing inside a banana. Doctors say the recovery rate from the “slow poison” is low as zinc phosphate in the rat paste is liver-toxic. “It will elevate the enzyme causing injury to the liver cells. Jaundice and damage to the brain will lead to death, but early treatment helps the patient recover,” MGMGH medical superintendent Dr R Yeganathan told TOI. In an effort to bring an end to the unnatural death, Trichy range police initially pulled up all those selling pesticides and initiated action against unauthorised sellers of the rodenticide. A total of 228 shops including 160 in Trichy and 68 in Pudukottai faced the music in the past few months. The distributors have also been strictly told not to sell rat paste to unlicensed vendors. Tightening the grip, DIG V Balakrishnan advised the superintendents of police of the five districts under his range — Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur — to appoint one woman police inspector each as well-being inspector to manage a WhatsApp group. The group comprising police, pesticide distributors and sellers was meant for sharing information about those buying the rat paste. The sellers were advised to take down personal details and inform the police in the group who in turn will track down the buyers and counsel them if they smell a suicide mindset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-track-rat-paste-buyers-to-prevent-rising-suicides/articleshow/76239907.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Jeweller told to pay Rs 10 crore to release seized items in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A top Delhi-based jeweller accused by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) of smuggling gold has been asked by Delhi high court to furnish a whopping Rs 10 crore as bank guarantee for release of some of the seized gold, silver and other items. Partially allowing DRI’s plea, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice C Hari Shankar recently asked a firm — Its My Name Pvt Limited — to give the bank guarantee along with a bond for the full value of the seized goods. DRI has put the value of the jewellery at over Rs 28 crore and had confiscated over 51kg of it from Indira Gandhi International Airport last year. Later, it also raided and seized more jewellery from the workshop of the firm whose directors are Rahul Gupta and Gopal Gupta. While the court allowed provisional release of the jewellery, it found no documentation for around 25kg of the total gold seized at the airport, which as per DRI was smuggled into the country. “We are constrained, therefore, to set aside the decision of the tribunal, to allow provisional release of the gold jewellery, which was not covered by any registered bill of entry,” the bench noted, while hearing a challenge by DRI to a tribunal’s decision to release all seized gold, gold pieces, gold dust, gold jewellery and silver, seized by DRI. As per the probe agency, the jeweller firm smuggled gold from Dubai to India by misusing provisions that allow duty free re-import of jewellery taken abroad for exhibition. In response the company had moved the DRI tribunal seeking provisional release of the entire jewellery seized by the agency. In October last year the tribunal allowed the plea on furnishing of a bond along with a bank guarantee for Rs 1.25 crore, prompting the DRI to approach high court. Assailing the order, DRI argued that confiscated goods can’t be released at such a low valuation and pointed out that for 25kg the company could not even furnish a bill of entry yet the tribunal had granted full relief to the jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jeweller-told-to-pay-rs-10cr-to-release-seized-items/articleshow/76239938.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 7, 2020||Madurai||2 CISF personnel, cop test positive||Madurai: Two Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans from Madurai airport and a police inspector from Tuticorin have tested positive for Covid-19. Madurai airport director S Senthil Valavan said they have been testing airport staff and CISF personnel, who get exposed to passengers, in batches periodically. One of the CISF personnel tested positive on Friday. After the test report came out, they tested his primary contacts in the airport and barracks. Out of their primary contacts, one more person tested positive on Saturday. Now, testing of second contacts is underway, he said. Officials from Madurai airport said there are more than 250 CISF personnel at the airport who are being deployed on a rotational basis. Meanwhile, Tuticorin reported the first case among police personnel on Saturday. The inspector of Eral police station tested positive following symptoms of fever and cough. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-cisf-personnel-cop-test-positive/articleshow/76239910.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Address our grievances, MSMEs tell TN govt||Madurai: The MSME sector, which provides employment to lakhs of people across the state, should be given a fair hearing by the Tamil Nadu government and an opportunity to interact with the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, small scale industrialists have said. Madurai alone has about 20,000 MSME units, providing employment to thousands of people in the region. But, when the Covid-19 crisis forced them to lockdown, many of these units were pushed to the brink of permanent closure. Almost all units have bank loans and repayment alone was a big problem for them, they said. Former president of the Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries, (Maditssia) V S Manimaran said, “During the lockdown, we tried to ensure to the best of our opportunity that our employees were not affected. We paid salaries according to the availability of funds, and when the Union finance minister announced the Rs 3 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), we were very happy,” he said. But, in reality it turned out that this was a scheme that was beyond the reach of the small scale industries. “We were told that we could obtain a 20% loan on already obtained loans, based on collateral. But, all nationalised banks are asking for a memorandum of deposit (MOD) for these loans and for that the we have to pay a registration fee of Rs 30,000, for even obtaining a loan of Rs 4 lakh,” Manimaran said. Also, the Union minister had fixed the turnover limit for medium industries at Rs 100 crore per annum, but, a recent government gazette had enhanced it to Rs 250 crore. Under these circumstances, only micro, tiny and small industries should be clubbed together, said S Satish Kumar, who owns a tiny industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/address-our-grievances-msmes-tell-tn-govt/articleshow/76239911.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Second flight from Kuwait lands in Trichy||TRICHY: The second batch of Tamils, 103 people who had stranded in Kuwait due to lockdown, arrived at Trichy International Airport by a Kuwait Airlines flight on Saturday. All the passengers, hailing from 24 districts from across the state, have been sent to their respective districts in buses after all of them were brought under screening as per protocol at the airport. Of the 103 passengers, 49 were from the central region. During the screening process it was cleared that no passenger had any symptoms, a release from district collector S Sivarasu said. The first rescue flight from Kuwait arrived in Trichy airport on June 4 with 117 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2nd-flight-from-kuwait-lands-in-trichy/articleshow/76239909.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19: Testing done as per ICMR guidelines, says Maharashtra minister Amit Deshmukh||AURANGABAD: Maharashtra medical education minister Amit Deshmukh on Saturday said that the administration is following the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines on people to be tested for Covid-19. Admitting to the hiccups in Covid-19 management at various levels, Deshmukh said the state government is keeping a close watch on the issues and it will ensure that the loopholes are removed. Deshmukh, who held a meeting with divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar, district collector Uday Chaudhari, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey and GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar, among other officials, said that the work of district administration in Covid-19 management is ‘satisfactory’. He said that there is ‘no shortage of safety equipment, medical equipment and supplies’ for Covid-19 management in district. Talking about Covid-19 testing, Deshmukh said that the Virus Research Diagnostic Labs (VRDLs) in the state have been increased from three to 85 in the span of 100 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/testing-done-as-per-icmr-guidelines-amit-deshmukh/articleshow/76238456.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 7, 2020||Hubballi||Shettar inspects development works at Sangolli Rayanna Nagar||Hubballi: District minister Jagdish Shettar visited Sangolli Rayanna Nagar on Thursday and interacted with the residents and heard their grievances. The minister also inspected road works taken up between Bhairidevarkoppa and Gamangatti at a cost of Rs 10 crore. The residents requested the minister to increase the height of the bridge of a stream in Gamangatti village that flows towards Unkal Lake. He also told the residents of Sangolli Rayanna Nagar that silt of the stream would be removed and its width would also be increased for the smooth flow of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shettar-inspects-development-works-at-sangolli-rayanna-nagar/articleshow/76234217.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Noida malls to open from Monday, Ghaziabad to decide on Sunday||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The Noida administration has decided to allow malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship to reopen from Monday, but neighbouring Ghaziabad said it will take a call after a meeting with all stakeholders on Sunday. On Saturday, the UP government released a set of guidelines for all commercial establishments. According to these guidelines, movie halls, gaming zones and children’s play areas in malls will stay shut, but other outlets can open while maintaining social distancing, sanitisation and other safety protocols. Malls, hotels and restaurants have been instructed to ensure sanitisation at entry points, tell visitors to maintain a distance of at least 6ft, regulate AC temperatures at 24-30 degrees Celsius and keep the moisture saturation level at 40-70% on the premises. They will not be allowed to organise any such event that may pull a crowd. Visitors will be screened for their body temperature and anyone exhibiting Covid-like symptoms will not be allowed inside. A visitor showing symptoms after entering the mall will be isolated immediately and the health department will be informed. At religious places, not more than five persons will be allowed enter at a time. Devotees will not be allowed to touch idols or holy books and they will have to carry their own mats or sheets for praying. Prasad or holy water will not be offered. Hotels and restaurants have been told to accept online payments. Food courts in malls will also have to ensure not more than 50% of the tables are filled. Officials in the Noida administration said they would soon design a mechanism to ensure the guidelines are being followed. “We have allowed malls, hotels and other public places to open from Monday, except those in containment zones. We will be appointing nodal officers to ensure the state government’s guidelines are followed strictly,” said Narendra Bhoshan, the nodal officer for handling Covid response in the district. The mall management will have to inform the health department immediately if a person shows symptoms. “Meetings will be held with all stakeholders at different levels. They will be briefed about the precautions to be taken. The owners and managers of these establishments will be instructed to report any suspected cases immediately and ensure all guidelines are followed,” Noida district magistrate Suhas LY said. The Ghaziabad administration has scheduled a meeting with owners of malls and restaurants on Sunday. “The state government may have released its own guidelines, but we will take a call only after we discuss all the possibilities with stakeholders. We will not rush through it,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate. “I have instructed ADMs and other senior officials to inform the malls about the terms and conditions. After they give us a feedback, we will come out with SOPs specific to the district. At this point, I cannot say for sure if malls in Ghaziabad will open on Monday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/noida-malls-to-open-from-mon-gzb-to-decide-today/articleshow/76240486.cms||Snehil Sinha
June 7, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin hospital gets analyser for better Covid-19 management||Tuticorin: A fully-automated Electrochemiluminescence Immunoassay Analyser (ECLIA) was installed in Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital on Saturday for better Covid-19 management.“The Tuticorin hospital becomes the only other medical college in Tamil Nadu after medical colleges in Chennai to be equipped with the state-of-the-art analyser,” said information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju after dedicating it.The equipment was bought at a cost of Rs 25 lakh for better Covid-19 management by monitoring the extent of impact on an individual patient. It will estimate IL6 parameter that analyses the risk of progression of Covid-19 patients to a more serious disorder at a very early stage.“This helps initiate a specific treatment at an early stage. Thereby, it helps reduce deterioration of the patient’s condition,” a senior doctor said.Installed at the department of biochemistry, the analyser can also be used to estimate the parameters of Ferritin, Trop T, Procalcitonin and Vitamin D that are essential for Covid management.Characterised by faster analysis, it can provide accurate and reliable results in 18 to 27 minutes. “This will help the medical team to act based on the patient’s condition,” the dean added.Apart from Covid-19, the analyser can be used to analyse other parameters like hormones, tumour markers and for the diagnosis of HIV and hepatitis infection. The facility can also be used by other government medical college hospitals in the region.District collector Sandeep Nanduri, hospital dean C Revathy Balan and resident medical officer J Silas Jeyamani were present during the dedication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-hospital-gets-analyser-for-better-covid-19-management/articleshow/76239921.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 11,500 to be out on temporary bail soon||PUNE: The prisons department is anticipating the release of over 11,500 prisoners on bail in days to come to de-congest jails across the state in view of the Covid-19 spread. “De-congesting prisons as per the recommendation of the Supreme Court-mandated High Power Committee (HPC), setting up temporary jails for screening undertrials before they are taken into the main jail premises after 14-day quarantine and ensuring apt medical care is part of our strategy to deal with the nCoV situation,” additional director general of prisons Sunil Ramanand said. “Already, 7,347 prisoners have been released on temporary bail after the HPC recommendations on March 25 and May 11, respectively. Another 2,281 prisoners were released on emergency parole as per the state’s order of May 8. This has reduced the state’s jail population to 27,916 as on May 31,” he said, adding that 11,527 bail applications were pending before various courts in the state and were likely to be settled in days to come. “There is no proposal yet to release ailing prisoners on bail/parole,” he said. “So far, we have commissioned 30 temporary jails across 23 districts for screening suspects referred by courts to judicial custody in jail at the end of their police custody remand,” Ramanand said. He said, “As of now, a total of 1,305 inmates, including 54 women, are lodged in temporary jails across the state. This also includes 152 men and 13 women at the SC Girl’s Hostel facility in Yerawada in the city. Other two temporary jails are at hostels of Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute and KK Mangal lawns.” Ramanand said a prisoner released on bail or parole had to periodically report to police station near his/her residence. “The courts while granting interim bail to the prisoner imposes certain conditions. The prisoners are released after they furnish sureties,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11500-to-be-out-on-temporary-bail-soon/articleshow/76239913.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Severity of Covid infection has gone up, says collector||Coimbatore: District collector K Rajamani on Saturday said the severity of Covid-19 infection has increased in the district now, compared to the earlier phases, and urged people not to take safety precautions lightly. “The severity of Covid-19 has increased. Three of the 29 patients are under ventilation. People are not taking safety measures seriously. From Monday, people venturing out of houses should compulsorily wear a face mask. Otherwise, they would be fined Rs100,” he said. He said the city corporation had already collected Rs4 lakh as fine from people for not wearing face masks. “Social distancing should also be maintained at all the places. Otherwise, stringent action would be taken.” The collector said the public health department has screened the passengers of 54 flights, which landed in the city from April 25, for Covid-19. “Forty-three passengers were tested positive and 29 of them were admitted to the ESI Hospital. The remaining patients were sent to their home districts, where they are undergoing treatment.” Rajamani said special teams have been deployed across the district to monitor people returning from Chennai and other states. “Revenue divisional officer, tahsildar, corporation assistant commissioner and police would monitor such returnees in the city limits, while teams comprising town panchayat executive officers and block development officers will watch them in other parts of the districts.” The collector also urged the returnees from other parts of the country to approach the health department if they developed any flu-like symptoms. “People in quarantine should not roam on the streets. If they fail to follow the norms, they will be booked under the epidemic act.” He said 20,041 samples were collected from the district for Covid-19 test so far. “We have collected 986 samples in the past two days alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/severity-of-covid-infection-has-gone-up-says-collector/articleshow/76239179.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||6 shops sealed for violating norms||Coimbatore: Revenue officials have sealed five outlets in a shopping complex and a textile shop on Cross Cut Road in Gandhipuram for violating the lockdown norms on Friday. A revenue official said, “The textile shop on Cross Cut Road was sealed last week for violating social distancing norms. While permission was not given to reopen the shop, it started functioning again. So, the shop was sealed again.” Pointing out that shopping complexes were not allowed to function in the district, the official said the five shops in the complex were sealed for violating the lockdown norms. On May 25, revenue officials had sealed four outlets for violating the lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-shops-sealed-for-violating-norms/articleshow/76239204.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Noida||Noida malls to open from Monday, Ghaziabad to decide on Sunday||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The Noida administration has decided to allow malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship to reopen from Monday, but neighbouring Ghaziabad said it will take a call after a meeting with all stakeholders on Sunday. On Saturday, the UP government released a set of guidelines for all commercial establishments. According to these guidelines, movie halls, gaming zones and children’s play areas in malls will stay shut, but other outlets can open while maintaining social distancing, sanitisation and other safety protocols. Malls, hotels and restaurants have been instructed to ensure sanitisation at entry points, tell visitors to maintain a distance of at least 6ft, regulate AC temperatures at 24-30 degrees Celsius and keep the moisture saturation level at 40-70% on the premises. They will not be allowed to organise any such event that may pull a crowd. Visitors will be screened for their body temperature and anyone exhibiting Covid-like symptoms will not be allowed inside. A visitor showing symptoms after entering the mall will be isolated immediately and the health department will be informed. At religious places, not more than five persons will be allowed enter at a time. Devotees will not be allowed to touch idols or holy books and they will have to carry their own mats or sheets for praying. Prasad or holy water will not be offered. Hotels and restaurants have been told to accept online payments. Food courts in malls will also have to ensure not more than 50% of the tables are filled. Officials in the Noida administration said they would soon design a mechanism to ensure the guidelines are being followed. “We have allowed malls, hotels and other public places to open from Monday, except those in containment zones. We will be appointing nodal officers to ensure the state government’s guidelines are followed strictly,” said Narendra Bhoshan, the nodal officer for handling Covid response in the district. The mall management will have to inform the health department immediately if a person shows symptoms. “Meetings will be held with all stakeholders at different levels. They will be briefed about the precautions to be taken. The owners and managers of these establishments will be instructed to report any suspected cases immediately and ensure all guidelines are followed,” Noida district magistrate Suhas LY said. The Ghaziabad administration has scheduled a meeting with owners of malls and restaurants on Sunday. “The state government may have released its own guidelines, but we will take a call only after we discuss all the possibilities with stakeholders. We will not rush through it,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate. “I have instructed ADMs and other senior officials to inform the malls about the terms and conditions. After they give us a feedback, we will come out with SOPs specific to the district. At this point, I cannot say for sure if malls in Ghaziabad will open on Monday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-malls-to-open-from-mon-gzb-to-decide-today/articleshow/76240272.cms||Snehil Sinha
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur records 1st Covid-19 death||THANJAVUR: The district recorded its first Covid-19 death after an 84-year-old man, who had returned from Chennai, died at the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur early on Saturday. A native of Vadacheri village in Orathanadu taluk in the district, he had been residing at Kodambakkam in Chennai along with his family. He arrived at Thanjavur from Chennai on May 28 by a car. After reaching his home he developed fever along with cough and cold. He was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur on June 4. He was then referred to Government Medical College Hospital for treatment, where his swab and blood samples were lifted for testing. However, he died without responding to treatment before the results came out. He tested positive for Covid-19 test, hospital sources said. He was a diabetic patient, and had hypertension and respiratory problems for a long time, hospital officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-records-1st-covid-19-death/articleshow/76239912.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Medical officers will be recruited soon, promises Amit Deshmukh||Aurangabad: Addressing the long-pending issue of medical officers’ recruitment, Maharashtra medical education minister Amit Deshmukh on Saturday said, “We have asked officials concerned to expedite the process. The recruitments will be done soon.” The minister was in the town to review the coronavirus-related situation, response and preparation for when the lockdown is relaxed. Talking to TOI, Deshmukh said: “We are aware of the issue and orders have been given to follow the recruitment rules to engage medical officers. We want the existing recruitment rules to be followed.” In 2010, the state’s health department was bifurcated into the health department and the medical education department. Since then, the medical education department has not recruited medical officers at the medical colleges and hospitals. Currently, 503 medical officers are working on a contract basis in medical college and hospitals across the state. Their contract gets renewed every 120 days, depending on the willingness of these medical officers to continue as well as their individual performance. The medical officers, despite being on contract, are assigned crucial tasks at the medical superintendent’s office, blood banks, casualty departments, for carrying out autopsies, handling of medico-legal cases and even for acting as witnesses in cases during trial before the court of law. They are also considered to be the backup, in case resident doctors go on strike in the state. The state’s Medical College Medical Officers’ Association, starting from 2013-14, has been demanding regularisation of the posts. The government paid heed to their demand in February 2019. After that, a proposal to take the medical officers, who meet the recruitment criteria, on the pay role was moved. Accordingly, about 120 medical officers, who have been working for over two years at government medical colleges and hospitals and meeting other prescribed criteria, were shortlisted and their names were forwarded. But with the change in government, the file is said to be pending. Office bearers of the association welcomed the minister’s announcement. They said the list is pending at the secretariat and a final push by the minister should address the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/medical-officers-will-be-recruited-soon-promises-amit-deshmukh/articleshow/76238461.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 7, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Upset with wife’s separation, man poisons two daughters||THANJAVUR: Dejected by his wife’s separation from him, a daily wage labourer poisoned his two children to death in Thanjavur district. The man, who fed them rat poison-laced rice, also consumed it and is undergoing treatment. According to police, the deceased have been identified as K Varunikashree, 7, and K Jananikashree, 5, daughters of Kathiravan, 35 and K Suganya, 26. They hailed from Irandampulikadu near Peravurani in the district. Due to a dispute between the couple, Kathiravan and Suganya have been living separately for the last one year. While Kathiravan was taking care of his two children, Suganya was staying with her parents in Ramanathapuram district. Kathiravan made several attempts asking his wife to return to Irandampulikadu, but they went in vain, police sources said. Meanwhile, all three were found unconscious inside their house on June 4. Neighbours rushed them to Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. The girls died on Friday night, while Kathiravan's condition is stated to be critical, hospital sources said. Based on a complaint lodged by the village administrative officer (VAO), Thangamuthu, the Sethubavachathiram police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-who-separated-from-wife-poisons-2-daughters-to-death/articleshow/76239923.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile Inc to focus on sustainability to tap global market||Coimbatore: A textile industry forum is on a mission to showcase the sustainability measures followed by textile units in the state to the global market and tap more business opportunities.As part of the project, which is titled ‘India for SURE’, the Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) has started collecting data on sustainable practices by individual member companies to make the best practices available across the forum.Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor, ITF, said the project’s focus would be on stable, sustainable, reliable and ethical methods. Pointing out that global clothing brands had been promoting sustainable products, he said demand for such products would be high after the pandemic.Dhamodharan said, “The UK and US-based brands have been saying they would buy only sustainable products by 2025-2030. It is gaining momentum now. Post Covid-19, it would become more prominent. Bangladesh is already branding its apparel sector as the ‘most sustainable’ in the global market.”He said textile units in the state have been implementing sustainable practices such as zero liquid discharge and use of renewable energy such as wind and solar energy. “More than 80% of power used in the textile sector is renewable energy. We would compile our sustainable manufacturing practices and match them with the global sustainable goals.”Another objective of the project, Dhamodharan said, was to create a knowledge pool of best practices, which would be made available to all their members. “While big corporates can do this their own, smaller textile firms depend on collective efforts.”After collecting data, which would take around two months, ITF would come up with a ‘sustainability blueprint for Tamil Nadu textile sector’. “Six months to one year after that, we would come up with a sustainability accord for textile industry. By doing this, the state’s textile industry can get global attention and achieve trade growth,” the ITF convenor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-inc-to-focus-on-sustainability-to-tap-global-market/articleshow/76239211.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||Rajesh Tope taps committee to reduce rates at private testing laboratories||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope has appointed a four-member committee to ascertain charges for Covid-19 tests conducted at authorized private laboratories and the panel is expected to submit its report on June 10. With cases expected to rise across the state and large dependence on government laboratories for testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had called on states to take a call on reducing the cost of testing at private laboratories. Presently, a test for Covid-19 at a private laboratory costs Rs4,500. “The committee should talk to all stakeholders and come up with an amount that works for private laboratories as well as citizens,” he told TOI. With 80% beds reserved at private hospitals, the minister wants to focus on reducing charges at private labs. State Health Assurance Society CEO Sudhakar Shinde, who will chair the committee, said, “We will submit a report on the final cost that should be taken then respective collectors can take a call whether they want to call for tenders to further reduce the costs in each district. The report will include the amount set for the state,” he said. However, representatives of private labs have stated that they are not making any profit and will voice their say on the same. While the tests are free at government labs, the ICMR has fixed charges at private labs at Rs4,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-taps-committee-to-reduce-rates-at-pvt-testing-laboratories/articleshow/76239929.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 7, 2020||Noida||NCR malls plan pre-booked visiting slots||NEW DELHI/NOIDA: Malls won’t be as cool when they are ready to welcome visitors again from June 8. ACs running at higher than usual temperatures won't be the only reaosonn. The swarm and hubbub will be missing because of strict social distancing rules, the retail zones won’t be as strikingly effulgent with many stores closed, and aromas won’t waft down from the restaurant deck to entice you to the upper floors. Only around half of India’s 550 malls are set to open on June 8 with the rest located in states that are yet to take a call on their reopening. Even then, retailers expect only 40% of mall retail space to be operational, as cinemas, children’s play areas and gaming arcades will remain shut in line with government guidelines. “We expect 20% of pre-Covid-19 footfalls in the beginning,” said Jayen Naik, VP, operations and projects at Nexus Malls. “That would, initially, help us in crowd management.” Several branded outlets, too, are expected to remain closed, part of a wider pullback by large and small retailers who have not yet reached a conclusion with mall owners on new rental agreements, senior industry executives said. But mall owners, from DLF and Infiniti to Phoenix and Nexus, who are eager to get back into business, are ready with safety measures, which include mobile apps to monitor entry, and only a fixed number of people being allowed in on the basis of pre-booked time slots. With no manual frisking, visitors are also likely to be asked to remove all metal accessories. “We have already implemented the SOPs as advised by the government to a T. In fact, we have done more,” said Pushpa Bector, executive director at DLF Shopping Malls, which runs Mall of India in Noida, one of the largest retail spaces in the country. “We expect to the get permission to reopen soon.” The Noida administration has not taken a decision on opening malls yet. Once inside, shoppers will not be allowed to walk in groups. Use of escalators will be encouraged, not lifts. While eating, customers will not be allowed to change the positions of their chairs and will have to vacate the table within 15 minutes of finishing their meal as social distancing guidelines limit the number of people that can be present inside an eatery or cafe. Wearing a face mask is mandatory for all. Inside stores that do open, shoppers can expect more wide open spaces as retailers have been advised to declutter their outlets. While some apparel brands have decided to do away with trial rooms, as reported by TOI earlier, others have advised their staff to avoid looping belts into bottoms, as it might increase the risk of spread of the virus. “Implementing the measures is not very expensive,” said Mukesh Kumar, CEO of Infiniti Mall. “The idea to make shoppers feel safe once they enter malls.” There will be thermal scanners at entry points. The ACs will run in the mid-20s, air filters will be cleaned every alternate day, only one person will be allowed in every 75 sqm of floor space. “Sanitising frequently will be a part of our routine now,” said Bector. Rules of escalator use will change too. “We will implement a three-step rollover for escalators, foot traffic control at the entrance, have permanent distance markers and keep seats in common areas distant from one another. To be able to manage the flow, visitors will be asked to book time slots, golden hours,” said Shibly Khan, general manager (operations), Mall of India. Gaur City Mall in Noida Extension will be using a mobile app to monitor entry and flow. “The guidelines are out, and it is for every person to follow. On our part, we have introduced thermal checking and sanitisation tunnels at every point of entry. Masks will be mandatory, sanitisers will be available all over,” said Manoj Gaur, managing director of Gaursons and owner of Gaur City Mall. TGIP and Logix Mall in Noida said they are waiting for district-specific guidelines. “Sanitisation has started but the preventive measures will be implemented in keeping with government order when the final SOP comes from the local administration,” said Shamim Anwar, spokesperson for TGIP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-malls-eye-restart-pre-booked-visiting-slots-among-new-rules/articleshow/76240275.cms||John Sarkar
June 7, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Exempt us from power tariff’||Coimbatore: Representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia), a forum of micro and small industries, on Saturday petitioned electricity minister P Thangamani to exempt them from power tariff for March-June period. They said Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh state governments had announced some concessions in power tariff. “During the lockdown, no industry had functioned. As such, there was no power usage. Exempting us from power tariff for the period would not cause any losses to the state.” They also sought a 50% concession for power connections up to 150HP, for one year. J James, a representative of Focia, said they met the minster at his residence in Namakkal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/exempt-us-from-power-tariff/articleshow/76239219.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada wears pre-lockdown look as Covid-19 cases rise||VIJAYAWADA: Traffic snarls have increased across major junctions in the city, such as Mahatma Gandhi Road, Eluru Road, Benz Circle and Gurunanak Junction in the last five days, despite rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The scene at areas such as One Town, Panja Center, Governorpet, and other densely-populated business hubs has returned to their pre-lockdown times. On Saturday, city police had to deploy additional forces to manage traffic congestion on the main roads and used loudspeakers at junctions to request motorists to maintain safe distance. Meanwhile, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz continued to appeal to the public to not come out of their homes unless it is necessary. “One should take care of themselves and their families to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Cases are increasing in the city and one should follow necessary precautions. As per the directions of the government, we are further relaxing the rules of lockdown. All shopping malls, restaurants, temples, and religious centres will reopen from Monday,” Imtiaz said. One should wear masks and gloves and maintain social distancing while moving on streets, he said. Section 144 will be in force from 9 pm to 5 am, Imtiaz added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-wears-pre-lockdown-look-as-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/76238479.cms||Venu Lanka
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Curfew makes Gujarat restaurants reluctant to offer dining in||AHMEDABAD: Even though the state government has given permission to restaurants to resume operations from Monday, most restaurateurs are reluctant to resume dine-in services at their outlets. Since shops and establishments are supposed to shut business by 7pm itself, as part of the state guidelines for Unlock 1.0, restaurants are unsure of customer footfall, as 80% of their dine-in business takes place during the evening. “With dine-in operations mostly taking place during the evening, not all restaurateurs are keen on resuming business because of the timing restrictions to wrap up by 7pm. Owners of restaurants and eateries are therefore in wait and watch mode and most may not restart dine-in services and continue with takeaways for June,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat. Hoteliers say footfalls will take a hit and it doesn’t make economic sense to add to overheads by starting dine-in services. “We will only be operating two outlets and that too for takeaways alone. Delivery orders are very limited at this point and it is an indicator of how sceptical people are when it comes to eating out. This may affect footfalls to a great extent. Keeping restaurants open will only mean adding to overheads which is not palatable for the business,” said Rushad Jinwala, a city-based restaurateur. Some of the eateries are also not keen on resuming, as their staff, mainly comprising migrant workers, have left the state. Some restaurants are thinking of resuming business with limited seating capacity and contactless menus. “We will be reducing the seating capacity to 50% to ensure social distancing is maintained. Digital menus using apps will be used to place orders and customers will also be given an alternative of being served food in disposable crockery. Even though the crockery is cleaned according to specified standards,” said Jasvir Singh, founder of a chain of restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curfew-makes-restaurants-reluctant-to-offer-dining-in/articleshow/76239291.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Madurai||3.5-foot-long crocodile rescued||Madurai: A 3.5-foot- long mugger (Crocodylus palustris), a marsh crocodile species, was recused from a 40-feet-deep well in Vannamparaipatty in Melur on Saturday. “We are clueless how a crocodile landed here. A team has been formed to investigate the same,” forest range officer E Syed Usman told TOI. Villagers of Vannamparaipatty in Melur found the crocodile wriggling in the marshy bottom of the well belonging to farmer N Murugan. Few villagers lowered a noose into the well and after some struggle managed to get the reptile’s hind limbs trapped. Since it was heavy, the other end of the rope was tied to a tractor and it was lifted. Meanwhile a team of eight forest department personnel led by the range officer and four expert reptile handlers from ‘Oorvanam’ – an NGO-- headed to the spot. “We assumed that villagers mistook a monitor lizard as crocodile,” P R Vishwanathan of Oorvanam said. The team took the crocodile to the office of the district forest officer (DFO) in Madurai.  Forest department and villagers are also on alert as it is said that there could be another crocodile in a nearby well. Forest department personnel suspect that it could have been washed away from a reservoir and accidentally landed into the well that did not have a sidewall. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-5-foot-long-crocodile-rescued/articleshow/76239942.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Noida||Jaypee buyers want to be in monitoring committee||NOIDA: Despite a growing clamour for fast takeover the of debt-ridden Jaypee Infratech, state-run NBCC has said that it will wait for a clear direction from the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to start construction activity at the stalled Wish Town project. Meanwhile, a homebuyers’ association has appealed to the NCLAT to be made a party in the interim monitoring committee that will look into the day-to-day affairs of the builder company. “There has been a mismatch in the financial responsibility we have taken for the completion of Wish Town and what NCLT has actually awarded us. Unless the NCLAT settles it in our favour, we will not initiate any takeover bid,” VK Chaudhary, chief general manager of NBCC told TOI.  “Construction work at the Wish Town project is in progress and a monitoring committee is present, but NBCC will not get involved without a 100% clarity from the court,” he added. Of 35,000 Wish Town flats, Jaypee Infratech claims that just 19,000 flats are left to be constructed. Surprisingly, JIL completed 10,000 flats during the insolvency resolution period from 2017-2019. JIL’s day-to-day operation is now supervised by a monitoring company, which includes former interim resolution professional Anuj Jain and NBCC officials. However, the Wishtown Welfare Society with a membership of 1,248 homebuyers has appealed to the NCLAT for its inclusion in the monitoring committee. “In our appeal, we have pointed out that the monitoring committee that will implement the resolution plan has no homebuyer representative,” said Raunak Jain, the legal counsel for the homebuyers. Commenting on the absence of homebuyers from the monitoring committee, former interim resolution professional Anuj Jain said, “The investors in the project can only be part of the panel if the NCLAT gives its nod to the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/jaypee-buyers-want-to-be-in-monitoringcommittee/articleshow/76240276.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
June 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: If liquor stores can open till 9pm, why not grocery shops, says traders||GHAZIABAD: Shopkeepers in the city have been protesting the administration’s decision to allow grocery shops to operate till 4pm while liquor vends can open till 9pm. A shopkeepers’ association in the district took out a protest on Saturday afternoon against this disparity by putting up signs that read ‘liquor outlets and business establishments should have one timing.’ “This is ludicrous, they have no problem allowing liquor shops to open till 9pm but when it comes to essential services like milk, vegetable and grocery items, we have time restrictions,” said Udit Mohan Garg on behalf of the association. “And that is not all. We can open shops only for three days in a week on alternate days. This is absurd and we are demanding that we be allowed to open shops till 9pm,” added Garg. Mohan Singh, who runs a grocery shop in the market and had joined the demonstration, reiterated these demands, calling the government’s decision illogical. In the last week of April, the Ghaziabad administration had restricted timing for purchase of fruits and vegetables till 2pm, and grocery items till 4pm respectively. Residents have also voiced their protest, saying that keeping the grocery stores open till longer would also benefit them. Alok Kumar, a resident of Arihant Harmony Apartment, said, “I have tweeted to the chief minister and others about the district administration’s decision on time restriction. At a time when cities are contemplating the best policies for open shops under ‘Unlock 1.0’, Ghaziabad administration is refusing to adjust to the changing times.” Sanjay Mishra from Shastri Nagar pointed out that time restriction has proved to be counterproductive. “The timing restriction has become counterproductive, and is not at all serving the intended purpose because what I see is that people throng to shops just before 4pm throwing social distancing norms to wind.” Subhash Chandra, a resident of Kavinagar, also questioned the logic behind this decision, and called the decision “draconian” since it is causing unnecessary misery to the residents. “If grocery, vegetable and milk outlet have been assigned timings because the ill-advised administration thinks that it will result in flouting of social distancing norms then it is true with liquor shops also.” Some residents have said they will also have to come out in protest if this persists. “The city is so deserted in the evening that it feels like we’re living in a ghost town. The administration will have to resort to reasoning and allow opening up of shops and markets, or else we will be left with no other option than to protest.” Sushma Tyagi from Indirapuram said, “During summer, we generally go out in the evening to buy essential items to avoid heat. But now, when the weather is comfortable for going out, the shops are shut. We understand that in times like these we have to make tough choices but how would Ghaziabad administration explain the policy adopted by neighbouring Noida where cases are far higher but shops can remain open till 9pm?” Meanwhile, several calls to the district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/if-liquor-stores-can-open-till-9pm-why-not-grocery-shops-traders/articleshow/76240278.cms||Abhijay Jha
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Woman’s murder: Visakhapatnam cops arrest prime suspects||VISAKHAPATNAM: City police, probing the suspicious death of 22-year old woman Divya in Akkayyapalem on May 4, have arrested prime suspects G Vasantha and her sister. They have also called her aunt for questioning. Police believe dispute over money led to her murder. As per preliminary probe, Divya’s aunt brought her to the city from East Godavari to engage her in prostitution, and sold her to Vasantha. The conflict started when Divya demanded equal share in the income. Police, going by the burn injuries on her body, believe Divya was confined to her house and tortured for several days. After the death of her family members, Divya, who belongs to Ravulapalem town in East Godavari district, came to Visakhapatnam with her aunt. She also got married to one Ramana from Gangavaram, who works in Saudi Arabia, about a year ago. On May 4, the body of the 22-year-old was found in her house. Her head and eyebrows had been crudely shaved off and she had burn injuries all over her body. Police further said that Divya’s brother, mother and grandmother were murdered five years ago and their killer is still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/womans-murder-cops-arrest-prime-suspects/articleshow/76238491.cms||Siva G
June 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Hospital-acquired infection, a new worry||KOCHI: Hospital-acquired Covid-19 cases and health workers contracting the virus have become a new challenge for government. Considerable staff at some government hospitals has already gone into quarantine and the number of such cases is increasing. This will become a major problem for health department, especially during monsoon when communicable diseases spread easily. Incidents of hospital-acquired Covid-19 and health workers contracting the disease were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kollam, Kasaragod, Pathanamthitta and Palakkad. “At least 10 healthcare workers are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Kollam. Some of them came from other states or abroad. Globally, around 50% of disease transmission (SARS, MERS and Covid-19) happens via hospitals. So, we must intensify preventive and precautionary measures,” said a health department official. “Primary health centres and taluks hospitals pose a threat due to the lack of PPE kits and protective equipment that are available at Covid hospitals. With more cases being reported, primary, secondary care centres, – where a large section seeks treatment for non-Covid diseases – might become a risk. So, such centres should be brought to the attention of higher-ups in the department to take precautionary measures,” the official said. Health department is adopting strategies to reduce hospital-acquired infections. “Many healthcare workers unnecessarily get involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. We have given strict instructions that only minimum staff is required for the trea tment of Covid-19 patient,” said an official with the directorate of health service. “Over 40 employees of a government hospital in the capital were quarantined after they came in direct contact with a Covid patient. This is a typical example of how many employees unnecessarily get involved in the treatment of Covid patient. If this is continues, the entire health department staff will have be quarantined in a few days. This should be avoided,” the official said. Associations of government doctors have already taken up the issue with the authorities. “The number of patients a doctor has to see is quite high. So, he/she and other healthcare staff won’t be able to keep vigil and take protective measures. We have raised a demand that the number of patients to be treated by doctors a day should be reduced,” said Kerala Government Medical Officers Association general secretary GS Vijayakrishnan. “Once a doctor or health worker is infected, several persons may contract the disease from them. We have imparted training to doctors on the importance of maintaining a vigil and taking precautions. Besides gloves and masks given by government, we are giving face shields for doctors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hosp-acquired-infection-a-new-worry/articleshow/76238498.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Betim gurudwara set to open tomorrow||PANAJI: Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha in Betim is preparing to welcome worshippers again inside its premises from Monday onwards, following the MHA’s guidelines to open places of worship. The gurudwara located at Mangor Hill, Vasco, will not open on the date as it falls with a containment zone. However, sources at the gurudwara said that they were waiting directions from the government. The arrangements for the reopening at the Betim gurudwara include strict social-distancing norms, disinfection of the spaces, markings to designate seating during the langar and installation of loud speakers so that people can hear the kirtans (devotional songs) even from the ground floor and don’t crowd the darbar area to attend the prayers. While there is no cut-off on the number of people to be permitted inside, the gurudwara committee is going to request people to trickle inside instead of crowding. “We will inform the devotees via WhatsApp and social media to avoid coming to the gurudwara in groups,” Harvinder Singh, a member of the gurudwara committee told TOI. The visiting timings have been kept from 10am to 3pm so that people can decide their schedule accordingly. Prior to the lockdown, 12pm to 2pm were marked for kirtans. As a precautionary measure, devotees are being requested to enter the premises wearing a mask. They are also requested to wash their hands before and after accepting the kada prasad. Hands of the person distributing kada prasad will also be sanitised, Singh said. Before entering the premises, devotees usually keep their shoes in a room full of shelves. The committee is currently working out a plan on how to avoid crowding in that room. “We are going to speak to the IGP Jaspal Singh to work out a proper plan for the reopening of the gurudwara so that all the guidelines are followed,” he said. ( With inputs by Ruvina Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/betim-gurudwara-set-to-open-tomorrow/articleshow/76239951.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Ahmedabad, man booked for bid to kill cop||AHMEDABAD: A man went on a rampage with a knife on Friday night in the Shah-e-Alam area of the city, injuring three persons including one policeman who tried to catch him. Ultimately, the man, Mohammed Sharif alias Allahrakha Shaikh, was caught and brought to Isanpur police station. Police officials said that the accused has been sent for a Covid-19 test before he is formally arrested. According to the complaint, the police team of Isanpur police station got a control message from one Wasim Saiyad that a man named Allahrakha has stabbed his sister in her stomach near Shah-e-Alam Amma Masjid and is moving about with a knife in his hand in the area. “We rushed to spot. Wasim, a resident of Millatnagar, said Allahrakha had quarreled with his friend Rizwanuddin Shaikh and his sister Heena Kausar and stabbed them in the hand,” said Isanpur police official. Police officials then set out to find Allahrakha. “After about an hour and a half we spotted near Chandola Lake and asked him to sit in the police van but he refused and threatened us. He started waving the knife on us. He even pushed one of our colleague to the ground and tried to stab him in the chest, but ASI Yasinmiya Husainmiya pushed him to the the side and Allahrakkha stabbed Yasinmiya on his hand” said a police official. The police team overpowered him and brought him to Isanpur police station from where he was sent for a Covid-19 test. “We will arrest him formally after the result of his test is known,” said an Isanpur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-bid-to-kill-cop/articleshow/76239276.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||Will await Goa government protocol before commencing services: Church||PANAJI: With the state witnessing a surge of cases not seen before over the past few days, churches have decided it will not reopen for the public on Monday. The Archdiocese of Goa informed priests and faithful that it is “critically assessing” the coronavirus-related fluid situation that has come upon the state. “...therefore we are not in a position to declare our places of worship open from tomorrow, 8th of June,” director of the diocesan centre for social communications media, Fr Barry Cardozo stated. “When we eventually decide to open up, with prudence, vigilance and careful discernment, it will be in consonance with the state government’s SOPs, which we expect to receive by then,” he stated. It is not known when services are likely to resume in churches for the public. Sources stated that the churches are unlikely to open for the public until the situation improves in the state. “We will have to wait and see. The ‘indefiniteness’ continues,” a senior priest said. Churches were readying themselves to invite the faithful back with priests coming up with innovative solutions to hold services while maintaining social distancing and even considering insisting on online registrations for those who want to attend mass. Sunday services were last held on March 15 in the state. Faithful tuned into Sunday masses online from March 22 when the prime minister called for a Janata Curfew. Masses for the congregation haven’t resumed since, with priests saying mass in Churches to empty benches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-await-govt-protocol-before-commencing-services-church/articleshow/76239949.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU finding it tough to declare LLB results in time||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University (GU), which has decided to hold college level exams from July 2 onwards, is faced with the challenge of declaring the results of final year LLB students in time, failing which these students will not be able to participate in the All India Bar Examination (AIBE) this year. While the last date of filling forms for AIBE XV 2020 is July 27, Bar Council of Gujarat has written to the Bar Council of India to postpone the last date of form filling by at least one month. “Before taking exams for Sanad (certificate of practice), the fresh law graduates will have to take provisional Sanad from the Bar Council of Gujarat. The form filling and enrolment process will take at least 10 days for us,” said advocate Dipen Dave, a member of Bar Council of Gujarat. The varsity should announce the date for declaring results well in advance, so we can make proper representation to the Bar Council of India to postpone the exam dates accordingly, he added. A gap of at least 10 days is required between the declaration of LLB final year results and the last day of form filling for AIBE exams, according to Dave, former chairman of Bar Council of Gujarat. AIBE, a national-level examination conducted by the Bar Council of India, is to assess whether fresh law graduates or provisionally enrolled advocates have the aptitude to practice law. An open book exam, it evaluates the candidates’ analytical abilities along with a basic understanding of law subjects. It is unlikely that GU can conduct the exams and declare results before August, said GU sources. Candidates who qualify in the exam are awarded certificate of practice by the Bar Council of India. Those who are not able to clear AIBE remain enrolled with their state Bar Council as provisional advocates and not practising lawyers. The AIBE exam is mandatory for all law graduates completing their degree 2010 onwards. The annual college level exams could not be held this year due to Covid-19 outbreak and the countrywide lockdown from the last week of March. The state government issued fresh directives recently, where it said that exams will be held from June 26 for final year undergraduate students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-finding-it-tough-to-declare-llb-results-in-time/articleshow/76239300.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Housing scheme for poor on track||Vijayawada: The government is getting ready to launch its ambitious housing scheme in August. Construction of 15 lakh houses, across all 13 districts of the state, would be taken up in the first phase. This would precede the distribution of 27 lakh house sites to the poor on July 8. The housing programme, which would start with the distribution of house sites followed by construction of the houses, would start on August 26. The government plans to give two cents of land (96 sq yards) to 27 lakh women in the state. District collectors have already completed identification of government lands while acquisition of private lands for the scheme — which was initially proposed to be launched on Ugadi in March but was deferred to August 8 due to the Covid-19 lockdown — is in progress. The date of the distribution of house sites is linked to the birth anniversary of late chief minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy. The government also plans to take up construction of houses on these sites from this year. With a whopping target of 30 lakh houses to be constructed in the next three years, the government is targeting at completing 15 lakh houses during 2020-21. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has already finalised the house designs, which would have one bedroom, a living room, kitchen and toilet. All the houses under the scheme across the state would have a similar look. Agriculture minister K Kannababu told reporters that the government has completed land acquisition for the scheme, which would be a record in the country. “No state has taken up housing scheme for the poor in such a massive scale till now,” he said. “The previous TDP government in the state had constructed 7.5 lakh houses between 2014 and 2019.” He also discounted the opposition party’s criticism on land acquisition for housing and asserted that the government would complete the project, unlike the previous government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/housing-scheme-for-poor-on-track/articleshow/76238504.cms||Gopi Dara
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lost 4-yr-old tribal girl reunited with parents||Rajahmundry: Child rights officials on Saturday launched an investigation into reports that a four-year-old tribal girl had spent two days deep in the jungles after she lost her way at VR Puram in East Godavari district on June 1. She was restored to her parents on June 3. As per preliminary probe, the little girl, Kunja Manju, wandered in the forests for some time but was soon found by tribals of a nearby habitation, who took her to their village where she was given food and shelter. Meanwhile, as the news of her missing in the forests reached them, they informed the girl’s parents who went to the village and brought her home. A team of officials will visit the forest area on Sunday to further verify the facts. Officials intervened after the Agency area was agog with the news that the girl had spent two days in the forests without food. The incident happened in the forest abutting the picturesque Papikonda hills, which has several carnivorous animals including leopards. The AP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (APSCPCR) has also taken serious note of the issue. APSCPCR member V Gandhi Babu told TOI he has directed Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) officials to submit a report on the incident. The ICDS team visited the girl’s village and submitted a preliminary report on Saturday. Manju lost her way when she followed her mother to a bank at VR Puram from her village Darbalanka on June 1. The girl apparently went behind her mother without the latter being aware of it. She is believed to have lost her way in the jungles after reaching the link road between Peda Mattapalli and Tellavarigudem. In the meantime, some locals from Gulletivada noticed the girl wandering alone on the road and took her to their village for safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lost-4-yr-old-tribal-girl-reunited-with-parents/articleshow/76238514.cms||Samson Raj
June 7, 2020||Kochi||Pneumonia cases drop in Kerala||KOCHI: The total number of pneumonia cases that had peaked to 416 in January 2020 in Kerala, has come down drastically after the implementation of the nationwide lockdown with just 95 cases in April and 57 cases in May. Incidentally, the percentage of people who died of pneumonia in the corresponding months last year is comparatively higher. In April 2020, 18% people died and 20% died in May, whereas in 2019 it was 11% and 15% respectively. However, pulmonologists in the state said that this could probably have been due to delayed access to healthcare facility due to lockdown. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), the most common diagnosis for severe Covid-19 is severe pneumonia that can often prove to be life threatening. Health department analyzed data from the State Prevention of Epidemic and Infectious Diseases (PEID) cell from March and April to show that this year there has been a decline in patients admitted to hospitals with pneumonia. “This was to check if there was a silent epidemic and if we missed any case. But data showed that the numbers were less during the lockdown period and it is the success of Kerala’s ‘Break the Chain’ campaign that could have resulted in decreased respiratory infections,” said Dr B Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission. “Until May 15, it was healthy season. The number of people coming to the hospital had also reduced. But since last one week, we have seen an increase in cases of pneumonia. Deaths due to severe infection could be higher because they didn’t avail healthcare facility at the appropriate time,” said Dr Paramez A R, pulmonologist, Lisie Hospital. Meaningful community transmission of Covid-19 can be captured by surrogate markers like increase in pneumonia deaths or increase in hospital admissions due to severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI). “We had sent samples of SARI patients admitted to hospitals for Covid testing and they didn’t test positive,” said a pulmonologist at a government hospital. However, experts warned that further studies need to be done to understand the phenomenon. “Probably during the lockdown period many people, especially senior citizens, preferred not to visit hospitals and they received treatment at home. These cases may not be accounted as pneumonia cases as there is no hospitalization,” said Academy of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine president elect Dr P S Shajahan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pneumonia-cases-drop-in-state/articleshow/76238511.cms||Preetu Nair
June 7, 2020||Madurai||9-month-old baby given for illegal adoption, rescued||MADURAI: A nine-month-old baby boy illegally adopted by a childless couple was rescued by a team of officials including Madurai city police on Saturday. The baby’s three-year-old elder sister was also shifted to a home in Karumathur as her parents did not take good care of her. R Mary, 28, from Thiagi Balu 1st Main Road from Sellur gave birth to the baby boy in August, 2019. Robert, her husband, a truck driver did not take care of her and the children. Mary, a daily waged labourer, who was left to fend for herself often left her daughter alone to work. Within a week of giving birth to the baby boy, she decided to give him to Shahjagan, 50, Nagoore Ammal, 42, a childless couple from same area in January, 2020. With the help of child protection unit in Madurai district, Childline conducted an inquiry based on a tipoff it received, which was found to be true. Child Welfare Committee member B Pandiarajan lodged the complaint with the Sellur police station seeking against under Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) act, 2015. Police sources said that Shahjahan was working in a gulf country when the adoption took place and returned only recently. Both sides have denied involvement of any monetary transaction. The police personnel were shocked to see the adoption document having a signature and seal of a public notary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/9-month-old-baby-given-for-illegal-adoption-rescued/articleshow/76239947.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||‘AP will not fight TS over river water’||Vijayawada: The state government is not prepared to fight with Telangana on utilisation of river water, said minister for water resources, P Anil Kumar. The minister addressed media persons at Velagapudi on Saturday. He said decisions taken by the river management boards of Krishna and Godavari have instructed both the states not to go ahead with new projects on the two rivers without further orders. Stating that the orders are yet to reach the ministry, he said that the government would study them and respond as required. The minister said that the state government had proposed irrigation projects on both rivers to utilise the allocated water. “We have an assured share of water in the two rivers and we are trying to use the same without wasting it,” the minister said.. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-will-not-fight-ts-over-river-water/articleshow/76238695.cms||Gopi Dara
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS arrests two contract killers with pistol, knife||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Saturday rounded up contract killers — Sikandar Mir, 26, of Dhanera, and Salim Chandu from Sindhi Colony. ATS recovered a country-made pistol and a knife from him. Police said Raju Gendi, an alleged notorious element of Sardarnagar area, had a dispute with Kamal Nandwani, a resident of the same area, and he had given contract to Sikandar to kill Nandwani. The accused have been sent for Covid-19 tests before their arrest. According to ATS sources, inspector C R Jadav received information that a bootlegger Raju Gendi and Kamal Nandwani were battling for supremacy in the area and had registered FIRs against each other. “To settle scores with Nandwani, Gendi had roped in the contract killers through one Prakash alias Pakiyo. He had called in Ali, Sikandar Mir of Dhanera and Bhailalbhai alias Salim to eliminate Nandwani. He had sheltered them in a house behind Sardarnagar Garden,” said Jadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ats-arrests-two-contract-killers-with-pistol-knife/articleshow/76239288.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: With rising Covid-19 cases, mosques delay reopening to June 30||PANAJI: Mosques in the state will open from June 30, instead of June 8 due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Goa since June 1. The association of Muslim jamats issued an advisory on Saturday asking mosques across the state to delay the reopening till month-end. Masjid committee members and heads of jamats of masjids across the state have been directed to follow the advisory which is “issued keeping in mind the rapid spread of Covid-19 positive cases in the state and halt it from becoming a community transmission”. Committee members of mosques across the state have been requested to adhere to guidelines issued by the association in a previous advisory to offer the regular five times namaz from home, including the jumma (Friday) namaz. “The guidelines shall be followed till the end of June 30,” the advisory stated. The advisory also requested members of the community to pray for the safety of frontline health workers, paramedical staff and the police who are working during the pandemic. The MHA advisory was issued after the government’s decision to unlock the country after an almost two-month lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. It had advised all attendees to download the Aarogya Setu app and follow strict social distancing norms and other preventive measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-rising-cases-mosques-delay-reopening-to-june-30/articleshow/76239955.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC to use GIS-based app for larvae elimination||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has developed a geographic information system (GIS)-based application, which is currently in the trial phase, for better household surveillance of vector-borne diseases. The ward secretariat staff will leverage the app to mark the households visited, location of larvae breeding, and track mosquito population in these households that in turn will help the civic body in eliminating the mosquito habitats. The GVMC will commence its door-to-door survey on May 8 to identify and eliminate mosquito larvae. Speaking to the media here at the commissionerate on Saturday, GVMC commissioner G Srijana said each secretariat staff will be mapped with 100 households. “Every house will be visited at least once a in a week to check on the breeding points in this targetted programme. It takes about a week for the eggs to hatch into larvae. Touching every house, once in a week, will help completely destroy the breeding sources and create awareness among the public,” said Srijana. She said their major focus this year would be on the identification of domestic stagnation of water and breeding of mosquitoes. “Based on the vector-borne disease trend in the last few years in the city, it was learnt that nearly 70% cases are resultant of domestic stagnation of water and subsequent larval habitats sequestering inside the households. The flowerpot plates, refrigerator drip pan, ornamental plants, water drums, domestic containers, empty coconut shells and other household items were found to be the major culprits in harbouring the mosquitoes,” said Srijana. The commissioner gave a call to all Vizagites to allocate 10 minutes on every Sunday to check on water stagnation in their households and surrounding premises. “The GVMC will impose penalties on owners of those vacant lands, which are found to be breeding grounds of mosquitoes and other insects due to overgrown vegetation. At least Rs 10,000 penalty will be imposed on private establishments such as hospitals, hotels, malls and others if any breeding sources are found in these establishments. We will not hesitate to penalise households found repeatedly with breeding points,” said Srijana. Earlier, the GVMC officials presented a demonstartion on breeding of larvae in household items and methods adopted by them to fight vector-borne diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-to-use-gis-based-app-for-larvae-elimination/articleshow/76238480.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||After highest single-day spike, H’bag comes up with 2 containment zones||Hazaribag: With the highest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district on Friday, two containment zones were set up on Saturday — Bundu panchayat in Keradari block and Parbatta panchayat in Barkatha block. Deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said two more localities in the town area will be under restriction soon. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Singh said, “In the last 24 hours, the district witnessed 26 Covid-19 cases, which is the highest single-day spike in the district. For now, we have sealed two areas under Keradari and Barkatha blocks while two more areas, including Chistia Mohalla in ward no.16 under Hazaribag Municipal Corporation, will be made into containment zones soon.” Hazaribag SP Karthik S on Saturday visited both the containment zones to oversee the security arrangements. He said, “Adequate security arrangements have been put in place to ensure that no violation takes place. I would urge the people not to panic. They must cooperate with the administration.” The containment measures come less than a month since Hazaribag was declared as a green zone on May 8. The DC said that with the influx of migrants, the district has once again become a Covid hotspot. The district’s total figure till Saturday afternoon stood at 110 cases, of which 52 are active cases, said Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar Sinha. Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said with installation of two Truenat machines at HMCH, they are trying to expedite the testing of swab samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-highest-single-day-spike-hbag-comes-up-with-2-containment-zones/articleshow/76238159.cms||Abhijit Sen
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||Gumla +ve youth ‘violated’ quarantine norms||Gumla: An 18-year-old migrant, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday night, allegedly violated home quarantine norms for 10 days by playing soccer, gambling and visiting the local haat several times, a panchayat member claimed. District authorities said action will be taken against the youth, if the claim is verified. The infected youth hailed from Patratoli village of Basua panchayat here. After he was found positive, authorities sent him to a Covid hospital on Friday but locals feared that he could have infected many more. Amar Oraon, a panchayat member, said, “After the youth returned from Gujarat on his own on May 23, he directly went home instead of getting himself screened. The following day, he went to the district headquarters for a check-up but returned on May 26 from a quarantine centre on the pretext of getting clothes from home.” Gumla DC Shashi Ranjan said the youth was advised home quarantine. “He was home quarantined while his samples were sent for testing. If he had violated home quarantine norms, we will certainly take action after verification,” Ranjan said. He added that samples of 16 others with whom he had come in direct contact have tested negative. “We are in the process of sanitising 68 houses in the locality and a survey of suspects are on,” the DC added. So far, 27 Covid-19 cases have surfaced from Gumla of which 10 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-ve-youth-violated-quarantine-norms/articleshow/76238138.cms||K A Gupta
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||Reopen demands grow among trade and biz groups||Ranchi: After the Union ministry of home affairs issued a slew of directives under Unlock 1.0, various trade and business groups started mounting pressure on the state government to frame safety guidelines and relax the norms to pave way for their businesses to reopen. On Saturday, a group of gym owners staged a demonstration at Birsa Chowk in Ranchi demanding their establishments to be allowed to reopen. Members of the association said the demonstration is to draw the attention of the government towards their financial plight owing to the lockdown. Shyam Ojha, the owner of a gym in SAIL city, said, “It is difficult to meet expenses like rent, electricity charges, salaries of trainers, counsellors and other staff. The owner of even a small gym incurs a fixed cost of Rs 75,000 every month.” Another member of the association, Dilshad Alam, said, “Gym owners are ready to follow all the guidelines laid down by the government, including thermal screening of visitors, maintaining social distancing, availability of sanitization equipment and mandatory masks and gloves during work. We request the state government to allow gyms to reopen.” On Friday, the Saloon Owners Association had also demanded reopening of their establishments while stating that they are ready to abide by the safety norms. A member, Archana Singh, said, “We are finding it difficult to bear basic expenses like payment of salaries. Many hair dressers are mulling migrating to other states where salons have been allowed to be opened.” Associations of cloth and hotel owners have also raised similar demands. A delegation of hotel and banquet owners met the office bearers of Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) and requested it to speak to the government to reopen their establishments. FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani said a letter has been sent to the state government on Friday evening with reasons why cloth and hotel industries should be reopened. He said, “Cloth merchants have a huge stock in their shops as sales were stooped during the lockdown. With several festivals gone without a sale, their only hope now is the marriage season ahead. The government could at least allow a sector-wise reopening of shops for a few days in a week.” Ajmani said footwear and hotel industries should be also allowed to function in a similar manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/reopen-demands-grow-among-trade-and-biz-groups/articleshow/76238096.cms||Sanjay Sahay
June 7, 2020||Jamshedpur||Bamboo cultivation in East Singhbhum can employ scores of migrants, says Jamshedpur MP||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district can provide employment to the scores of migrants, who have recently returned to their native places, thanks to the booming bamboo cultivation in the district, said Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato on Saturday. Speaking to TOI, Mahato said, “Now with the migrants back home, providing employment is really a challenge for the government and the bamboo cultivation in the entire stretch, right from Dhalbhumgarh to Chakuliya, can employ a large number of people.” He claimed that the bamboos produced in Chakuilya are of better quality and size than those found in the north-eastern states. “Bamboos from Chakuilya are in great demand in UP, Haryana, Punjab and other northern states,” Mahato said. “The state government should look into the matter seriously and provide all kinds of assistance to the farmers engaged in bamboo cultivation. The demand for Chakuilya bamboos is more than its supply. If more areas can be brought under cultivation, the production can be increased,” he added. “If the JMM-led government gives necessary leverage to this sector, then the finished products from bamboos, like furniture and other items, can be made in the district itself. A large number of migrant youths can easily be absorbed in this field,” he further said. Baharagora MLA Sameer Mahanty said, “I have already informed CM Hemant Soren about the possibilities of employment generation through bamboo cultivation in the district. The CM has assured me of exploring all the possibilities in this sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bamboo-cultivation-in-e-singhbhum-can-employ-scores-of-migrants-says-bidyut/articleshow/76238214.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||Govt focus on fresh batch of 18k migrants registered with portal||Ranchi: With the Supreme Court indicating its intention to give 15 days to the Centre and the state governments to send home all migrant workers stuck across the country, Jharkhand government is busy arranging logistics to bring back a fresh batch of 18,000 migrants from over a dozen states across the nation. After a portal was launched on May 2 for stranded migrants, the state government managed to bring back around 5 lakh of the 7.4 lakh who registered themselves, in flights, trains and buses. Upon arrival, migrants were advised home or institutional quarantine depending on the sensitivity of the case. The rest either returned on foot, cycles and auto-rickshaws or changed their mind and are not willing to come back now, said officials. Between May 27 and June 3, the state government opened a second round of registration for migrants who wished to get evacuated. During this period, only 18,000 migrants registered to return to Jharkhand, revealed figures available from the state Covid-19 response centre at the state labour department. A nodal officer at the Covid response centre said, “We have a fresh figure of 18,000 migrants who registered between May 27 and June 3 and we are coordinating with different states to facilitate their return. The major rush is from states like Gujarat, Kerala and Maharashtra, which have reported higher number of cases.” He added, “Many of those who registered earlier had either come on their own or are now unwilling to come back. We are now focussing on cases who genuinely want to come back and avoid a rush by bringing all of them forcibly. Once this lot is brought back, we shall open the registration process again.” The arrival of migrants led to the spike in the Covid-19 cases in the state and the tally crossed the 900-mark on Friday with a doubling rate of 8.53 days, which is higher than the national average of 15.48 days. Talking to TOI, state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta anticipated that the influx of migrants is likely to end in another week or 10 days. “Now, the number of people who are now willing to come back is low. I think in a week or 10 days, the government-sponsored transports to bring them back may not be needed. It is because many who had earlier registered with us are now saying they have got jobs and don’t want to return to the state,” he said. About their tracking mechanism, Bhokta said, “We are mapping the skills of all those who returned and the districts have been asked to register them at local employment exchanges. Depending on their skill sets, the state government will try to facilitate their placements. We are also devising a system to keep a record of all those who want to migrate back to Jharkhand. A final blueprint will be out in another fortnight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-focus-on-fresh-batch-of-18k-migrants-registered-with-portal/articleshow/76238110.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||State stays Koradi plant expansion, greens rejoice||Nagpur: Hit by acute shortfall in revenue and rattled by opposition from environmentalists, the state cabinet has deferred the 2 x 660 MW Koradi expansion project. The cabinet has not given a timeline as to when the project would be restarted. This is a major relief for Nagpurians, who are suffering from ill effects of air pollution from Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants. Energy minister Nitin Raut and his predecessor Chandrashekhar Bawankule have been misleading the citizens that these two units are coming up in lieu of four 120 MW and one 200 MW old units of Koradi. The submission before union ministry of forests, environment and climate change (MoEFCC) makes it clear that the coal meant for one unit of Koradi and two units of Nashik plant would be used for the new units. Further as per Mahagenco’s plan, only one out of five old units being retired in coming years is in Koradi. Due to its failure to install flue gas desulphurizers (FGDs) on existing units of Koradi plant, Mahagenco has not been able to get terms of reference (ToR) for environmental clearance. The process was initiated months ago. Vishwas Pathak, former director of MSEB Holding Company, slammed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “This government is reversing all the good decisions taken by the BJP government. It is not even bothered about the state’s development,” he said.  Environment activists are happy with the “much-needed” decision. “It is good to see that a rational decision has been taken by the state government to defer the coal capacity expansion at Koradi. India already has surplus generation capacity and it makes no sense to go for any new investments in coal from economic, environmental or climate change perspectives. We urge the national government and other state governments as well to rethink about all in pipeline coal projects and replace those with renewable energy sources leading to better liveable environment and sustainable economic development pathway,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. Stating that the decision is a sigh of relief for Nagpurians, founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee said, “Nagpur is already facing increased pollution levels due to thermal power plants, especially the nearby areas surrounding Koradi thermal power plant. Moreover, when the power generated shall be used at some other part of the state , then why Vidarbha sector should face the burn. Thermal power plants should be near to end user in order to avoid transmission loss and at a place where raw material is available. These plants need to adopt cleaner and efficient technologies to curb the pollution level.” Infographics: Cost of the project | Rs 10,625 crore Cost per MW | Rs 8.05 crore (very high) Status of project | Pending with MoEFCC Land | Mahagenco’s own land Coal | Fuel meant for old units to be used Water | Little fresh water needed State peak demand in 2020 | 25,000 MW Peak demand in 2023-24 | 27,000 MW Annual load growth | 3% to 4%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-stays-koradi-plant-expansion-greens-rejoice/articleshow/76239979.cms||Ashish Roy
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: RML Hospital reduces Covid-19 screening centre timings||NEW DELHI: Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital will run the screening centre for Covid-19 patients for a reduced duration from Sunday to not "keep test results pending", a hospital official said, days after Delhi government alleged that the Centre-run facility was giving out "erroneous" test results and delaying reports. "It has been decided that the screening centre for Covid-19 will function from 9am to 5pm with effect from June 7," read the order signed by Dr Minakshi Bharadwaj, medical superintendent of RML, and issued on Saturday.  Earlier the hospital operated the screening centre round-the-clock. An official said the hospital was receiving more samples than its testing capacity. The reduced timings, the administration hoped, would bring down the load. "Over the last one week, we have been receiving over 400 samples and, in fact, in the last two days sample collection crossed over 500 while our testing capacity is of 300-350 samples per day. "We don't want to keep the test results pending and have thus reduced the screening centre timings. The screening facility has been functioning for 24 hours since February 1," the hospital official claimed. On Wednesday, the Aam Aadmi Party government alleged the hospital was giving out "erroneous" Covid-19 test results and violating government norms of submitting them within 48 hours. The hospital has maintained that there was no backlog any more and regular quality checks were being done. By Friday, novel coronavirus cases in Delhi had crossed the 26,000-mark and the death toll jumped to 708, according to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-rml-hospital-reduces-covid-19-screening-centre-timings/articleshow/76240414.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||Mangor locals want mobile ATMs||Vasco: All is not well at the Mangor Hill containment zone as people have been bitterly complaining of not receiving rice and dal that is being supplied free of charge by the government. They are also upset that the two ATMs in the area have run out of cash leaving them with no money money to buy groceries, even the milk and vegetables, which are presently being made available to them. “Rice and dal was distributed to us, but my friends staying in other areas have not yet received them. We have purchased a vegetable packet for Rs 100, but we are running out of cash,” said 23-year-old Badshah Muzawar. Many residents have started calling up their relatives and friends in Vasco and begging them to deliver them food and groceries. The residents said they have been asked to call on a helpline number and place their orders for groceries. Hussain Shaikh, said, “If we don’t have money in hand how do we pay for the groceries we order? The two automated teller machines (ATMs) have run out of cash. The government should immediately provide mobile ATMs so that people can withdraw their money.” When contacted, deputy collector Sachin Dessai said that he would put forth the residents’ demand for mobile ATMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-locals-want-mobile-atms/articleshow/76240053.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 7, 2020||Goa||Assolda healthworker’s kin test negative||Quepem: Most residents of Assolda in Quepem chose to remain indoors on Friday and Saturday after a health worker from their village, serving at the urban health centre in Vasco, tested positive for Covid-19. Shops and business establishments also downed their shutters fearing the spread of the virus. The health worker is undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital in Margao. He used to travel to his workplace on a two-wheeler along with a Covid-positive patient from Mugolli, Sanguem. The confirmatory test reports of both are awaited. An official at the Curchorem community health centre told TOI that on Friday they collected swab samples of seven people, including the health worker’s spouse, father and those who came in contact with him. All the reports have come negative. Today, six more samples were collected and their reports are awaited. The health department also conducted an awareness drive covering 28 houses in Assolda and Xeldem. Ten persons from Assolda who went for a swab test at Curchorem on Friday evening had to come back due to shortage of test kits. They approached the health centre on Saturday morning, but were informed by doctors that it was not compulsory to undergo the tests as the reports of some members from their families were negative. Sanguem deputy collector Ajay Gavde said the swab sample test reports of 11 persons tested on Friday eveninghave come negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assolda-healthworkers-kin-test-negative/articleshow/76240063.cms||Johnny M
June 7, 2020||Goa||KTC ferries seafarers from Goa airport to their states||PANAJI: Passengers who are not residents of Goa were picked up from Dabolim airport on Friday and ferried to their respective native states in 11 buses of the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC). The passengers reached their respective destinations safely by Saturday, officials from the corporation said. “The passengers were seafarers whose flights had landed in Goa. There have been no obstacles in their journey from the Goa airport to their destination. The operations were carried out smoothly,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said on Saturday. A total of 256 passengers were transported in this journey, with the highest number of people ferried to Chennai. A total of four buses ferried 83 passengers. Another 55 passengers were ferried to Mumbai, 40 were taken to Kochi and 21 to Bengaluru. Vishakhapatnam had only one bus carrying 20 passengers. All of these journeys were covered between 12 to 18 hours, sources said. “There only minor delays due to checking due to lockdown at the checkposts. But unlike our previous journeys, our drivers have reported that that these buses operated smoothly without major delays,” Ghate said. KTC’s longest trip (40 hours) has been from Goa to Udaipur undertaken last month. On Saturday night, approximately 250 more seafarers were scheduled for pick up from the airport upon arrival. KTC said that these passengers are Goa-based and would not need interstate travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-ferries-seafarers-from-goa-airport-to-their-states/articleshow/76240100.cms||---
June 7, 2020||India||IIT-H’s Covid test kit can give result in 20 mins, costs 600||HYDERABAD: Researchers at IIT Hyderabad have developed an artificial intelligence-powered low-cost testing kit to detect the novel coronavirus in 20 minutes flat. The cost of Covid-19 test using the new kit will be around Rs 600 only, while each test is currently being conducted for Rs 4,500. Mass production of the new kit will help reduce the test cost further to around Rs 350. This new kit is part of the three Covid-19 testing kits being developed by IIT-H. While this kit was developed within a week, the other two will take about three to six months. The device has been sent to Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai, and the National Institute of Biologicals, Pune, for evaluation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iit-hs-covid-test-kit-can-give-result-in-20-mins-costs-600/articleshow/76240420.cms||Syed Akbar
June 7, 2020||Goa||Lobo bringing Covid +ve into Goa: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Saturday said that Calangute MLA Michael Lobo is exerting pressure on senior bureaucrats and officials to let in people from other states. The party also blamed Lobo for issuing travel passes to people to enter the state and said that the chief minister is unable to control Lobo . “This is a big racket and CM should investigate as Lobo is issuing letters to certain people,” Congress spokesperson Agnel Fernandes said. The former Calangute MLA said that the Calangute incident wherein a senior citizen tested positive for Covid-19 is not an isolated event or a human error.“The collector is supposed to be issuing letters and no other minister is issuing letters not even the health minister, but this person is issuing letters on the pretext of getting essential commodities,” he said. In the Calangute incident wherein a senior citizen tested positive, Fernandes said that Lobo should be blamed. “To bring this woman from the border, a request went from the office of this minister. I request the CM to check the call details of whoever was on duty at the border,” he said. Party spokesperson Urfan Mulla called for the resignation of health minister Vishwajit Rane for the rising number of Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-bringing-covid-ve-into-goa-cong/articleshow/76240112.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||‘To show all well, testing stopped’||Panaji: With novel coronavirus cases in the state rising, the state government has discreetly stopped testing residents of Mangor in order to suggest that all is well in Goa,” Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai alleged. Sardesai said that by halting tests, the state government is putting Goans at risk. “As Goa scores double century, Goemkars ask why, unofficially, testing stopped at Mangor. Why 2,000-odd tests that chief minister Pramod Sawant promised are not happening,” Sardesai said. Sardesai said that the state’s slackness in testing lacked “scientific logic” and was aimed only to please “Delhi bosses by getting the well-heeled here”. “SOPs have become a joke! Goemkars question whether abbreviation stands for Sawant Operating Procedures where human error leading to importing COVID19 without testing has put whole Goa at risk,” said Sardesai. Declared a containment zone on Monday following two cases, Mangor Hill saw a drastic rise in cases in the subsequent days, with the highest spike of 62 recorded on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-show-all-well-testing-stopped/articleshow/76240124.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Goa||Goa Express skips Vasco due to cases||Margao: The Vasco-Nizamuddin Goa Express departed from Margao railway station instead of Vasco, following the change in originating and destination stations of the train as per the latest notification of the South Western Railway (SWR). The Nizamuddin-Vasco Goa Express had terminated its journey at Margao on Friday. SWR has also eliminated commercial stoppages at Sanvordem and Collem for the train until further directions. Margao will be the only station in Goa for Goa Express. Meanwhile, two Shramik special trains carrying 1,483 migrants each left from Margao on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-express-skips-vasco-due-to-cases/articleshow/76240135.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT- Hyderabad's Covid-19 kit can give result in 20 minutes||HYDERABAD: Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad, have developed an artificial intelligence-powered low-cost testing kit to detect the novel coronavirus in flat 20 minutes. The cost of Covid-19 test using the new new kit will be around Rs 600. At present, each test is being conducted Rs 4,500. This new kit is part of the three testing kits for Covid-19 being developed by the IIT-Hyderabad. While this kit was developed within a week, the other two will take about three to six months. The new kit is a rapid, ultrasensitive biomolecule sensor that detects the pandemic virus. The device has been sent to Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai, and the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Pune, for evaluation. It does not require RT-PCR, and has been field-tested at ESIC medical college and hospital in Hyderabad. The other kits under development are rapid, affordable, portable screening kit and nanobiosensor for rapid and early detection of the virus. Testing kit can be transported quicklyEach Covid-19 test to cost around Rs 600The test kit can produce results in around 20 minutes for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. It can be transported quickly, enabling the test to be conducted at the point-of-care. Each Covid-19 test will now cost around Rs 600. However, mass production of the testing kit will help reduce the test cost to around Rs 350. The kit was developed by a team led by Prof Shiv Govind Singh, department of electrical engineering, IIT Hyderabad. Dr Suryasnata Tripathy, a postdoctoral fellow, Patta Supraja, a fourth-year doctoral student and other students from Prof Singh’s Research Team, institute faculty and funding agencies supported this project. Prof BS Murty, director, IIT Hyderabad, said, “Since the outbreak of Covid-19, IIT Hyderabad has put together its research expertise to come up with the possible solutions to contain the epidemic.” The unique points of this testing kit include identifying the unique sequence of conserved region of Covid-19 genome and detecting it without PCR/RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-hyderabads-covid-19-kit-can-give-result-in-20-minutes/articleshow/76240432.cms||Syed Akbar
June 7, 2020||Goa||People must observe safety norms: IGP||Panaji: Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh on Saturday visited the Mangor Hill containment zone and asked the police inspector (PI) to make announcements advising that people maintain social distancing in the area to avoid the spread of Covid-19. The announcements will be made through Police Control Room (PCR) vehicles, he said. Singh added that police deployed there have been asked to wear masks while on duty. “They were told to follow all safety precautions and maintain hand hygiene,” Singh told TOI. He also said that he has asked the PWD to erect a rain shelter for police personnel since the monsoon is around the corner. Police personnel have been deployed at the zone 24x7, and Singh asked them to take care of their family members too. Personnel were stationed there after an outbreak of the novel coronavirus, which has been termed as ‘local transmission’. At the time, Singh had said, “Goa police have been deployed for public safety”. He had also appealed to everyone to follow safety guidelines. “Please don’t panic. The government is ensuring the supply of all essentials. In case of any issue, reach out to Goa police on 112.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/people-must-observe-safety-norms-igp/articleshow/76240149.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Deserted by children, paralysed old couple commits suicide in Krishna||VIJAYAWADA: An elderly couple committed suicide by consuming pesticide at Nanduru village in Ponnuru mandal in Krishna district. The couple consumed the poison on Friday and passed away on Saturday morning. The deceased have been identified as 65-year-old Gosapudi Ankamma and his wife, 60-year-old Venkayamma. Police sources said that poor health coupled with their children’s inability to take care of their ailing parents led them to take the extreme step. According to Ponnuru (rural) CI Ratnaswamy, the incident took place on Friday morning. The elderly couple were alone at home and consumed the pesticide. Soon, neighbours noticed the couple in a lot of pain. They informed the cops and rushed the couple to Guntur Government Hospital (GGH). Elaborating on the likely cause that led the couple to take such a step, the Ponnuru (rural) CI said that both of them were suffering from paralysis and were unable to take care of themselves. They had a daughter and a son. While the daughter was married and lived elsewhere the son used to work in Nellore and could only visit them once in a while. Police said that while Venkayamma was completely paralysed, her husband Ankamma struggled to take care of her as he too was bed-ridden. Eventually, the husband and wife passed away on Saturday morning. Police conducted a post-mortem and subsequently handed over the dead bodies to their son. A case under Section 174 of the CrPC (unnatural death) was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deserted-by-children-paralysed-old-couple-commits-suicide-in-krishna/articleshow/76238954.cms||---
June 7, 2020||India||Govt sets up task force to study maternal mortality rate||NEW DELHI: In keeping with the announcement made in the Union budget for 2020-21, the Centre has set up a task force to examine matters pertaining to age of motherhood, imperatives of lowering maternal mortality rate, improvement of nutritional levels and related issues. The task force headed by Jaya Jaitly will submit its report by July 31. The panel includes ex-officio members — Dr Vinod Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, secretaries of the ministries of health and family welfare, women and child development, higher education, school education and literacy and legislative department — besides three others members Najma Akhtar (New Delhi), Vasudha Kamath (Maharashtra) and Dr Dipti Shah (Gujarat). The mandate of the task force involves examining the correlation of age of marriage and motherhood with health, medical well-being and nutritional status of mother and neonate/infant/child, during pregnancy, birth and thereafter. They will also study the age of marriage and motherhood taking into account key parameters like infant mortality rate (IMR), maternal mortality rate (MMR), total fertility rate (TFR), sex ratio at birth (SRB) and child sex ratio (CSR). In a statement issued by the ministry of women and child development it is explained that this task force will suggest suitable legislations and amendments in existing laws to support its recommendations. The task force will also work out a detailed roll-out plan with timelines to implement these recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-sets-up-task-force-to-study-maternal-mortality-rate/articleshow/76240434.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Eat, pray, shop: Karnataka gears up for reopening tomorrow||BENGALURU: In the biggest push to restoring normalcy in Unlock 1.0, malls, restaurants and places of worship across the state are all set to open tomorrow after over 70 days, though with strict adherence to central government’s guidelines on social distancing norms and public safety and health. This comes even as the state’s Covid count went past the 5,000 mark with two deaths on Saturday and the number of infections going up to 5,213. There was hectic activity at places of worship as the priests scrambled to comply with the government’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). For the moment, only those in non-containment zones will be opened. The distribution of prasad and theertha is banned though rituals can be performed. Some religious places have decided to wait. BK Arshad of Masjid-e-Ibrahim Hinaya, said: “With number of cases increasing every day, it’s not appropriate to open the mosque. I’ve consulted epidemiologists and they suggested not to open at this point.” Mosques on the west coast and Madikeri too will not open. Restaurants across the state are gearing up to open their doors for patrons. While eateries in Bengaluru have been providing takeaways and online deliveries for some time, customers can sit and dine there from Monday with strict conditions regulating their eating out. “There are over 25,000 dining places in Bengaluru. Everyone is preparing for the Monday opening with sanitisation measures and distancing markings. Owners are taking no chances,” said Chandrashekar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurant Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/eat-pray-shop-karnataka-gears-up-for-reopening-tomorrow/articleshow/76240437.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Squabble with wives leads two men to commit suicide in Bapatla||VISAKHAPATNAM: Domestic squabbles with their wives led two men to commit suicide, in two separate incidents, at Bapatla Town in Guntur district on Saturday. Both the men took their lives by hanging to death. Coincidentally, in both cases, the deceased men had quarrels with their wives, after which their wives left homes. Depressed, the husbands committed suicide. In the first incident, Bapatla Town police said that 30-year-old Munna, who lived in Kondal Rao Street, had a quarrel with his wife on Friday night. Initially a petty squabble, the fight escalated further and the couple started hurling abuses at each other. Eventually, Munna’s wife walked out of the house to go to her mother’s place. Seemingly depressed about the incident, Munna hung himself to death on Saturday morning. The second incident, which took place in Vijayalakshmipuram, also followed a similar trajectory. Bapatla police said that the deceased, 37-year-old Koki Durga Reddy had a quarrel with his wife over dinner on Friday night. Later, Durga Reddy hung himself to death on a ceiling fan. Police said that cases have been registered under Section 174 of CrPC at Bapatla Town police station. The bodies of the deceased have been handed over to their respective wives after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/squabble-with-wives-leads-two-men-to-commit-suicide-in-bapatla/articleshow/76238968.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Olive Ridley turtles breeding goes up, but Ramakrishna Beach loses out||VISAKHAPATNAM: A group of animal activists are going to send a report to the district administration urging that the administration refrains from holding any entertainment of recreational programme at Ramakrishna Beach (RK Beach), one of the most popular beaches in the city. The activists’ group says that this must be done to ensure proper breeding ground to Olive Ridley turtles. The group, along with the state forest department, has carried out a survey which states that while nesting of these turtles has increased along the coastline of northern Andhra Pradesh and southern Odisha, it has gone down significantly at Ramakrishna Beach, which was once a favourite breeding ground of the turtles. Pradeep Nath, founding member of Visakha Society for Protection and Care of Animals (VPCA) said, “While conducting the survey, we noticed that nesting of Olive Ridley turtles has increased considerably. This year, the hatching success rate is also high. Unfortunately, nesting at the RK Beach has reduced by 25 per cent this year. We have been observing this downward trend for the last few years.” The VPCA works for the conservation and protection of animal species especially endangered ones. The survey is over and a report with recommendations will be drafted and sent out to revenue officials and district collectors’ offices soon. Experts opine that holding cultural and recreational events, including the Visakha Utsav, is responsible for this fall in nesting. These turtles breed between December and May, peaking between December and February. Unfortunately, most events at RK Beach take place between November and March, they said. “The administration should look into this immediately for the sake of our environment. One needs to understand that this place is the natural habitat of these turtles. We are worried over the fact that such events may increase in frequency once Visakhapatnam becomes the executive capital,” Nath added. This is not the first time that such a recommendation will be made to the district administration. Earlier, several city-based environmentalists had also approached the district administration with similar requests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/olive-ridley-breeding-goes-up-but-rk-beach-loses-out/articleshow/76238983.cms||Arpit Basu
June 7, 2020||India||Cracks in RJD-led alliance over CM face||PATNA: Fissures have emerged in Bihar’s opposition Mahagathbandhan with Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP and Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) demanding a “unanimous decision” of all the constituents of the alliance on the CM face for the assembly elections due in October-November. For some time now, RJD’s projection of its chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi as the CM candidate in case of the Mahagathbandhan emerges victorious in the elections has been the growing bone of contention. Kushwaha, Manjhi and VIP chief Mukesh Sahni met in Patna late Friday evening. The RLSP chief was to leave for Delhi after the meeting. Meanwhile, LJP chief Chirag Paswan, too, created ripples within the ruling NDA in Bihar on Saturday saying BJP will decide the ruling coalition’s CM face and LJP will agree to whatever decision the saffron party takes. “Being the largest constituent of NDA, BJP has to decide who will lead or be the face of the coalition in Bihar assembly election. LJP will support any decision taken by BJP in the interest of Bihar and our alliance,” Chirag tweeted on Saturday. RLSP national secretary-general Madhav Anand said the party is of the opinion that Congress should take the lead and resolve the issue through common dialogue. “We understand that RJD has announced its CM face, but the alliance should unanimously agree on it. We don’t have any issues with Tejashwi’s candidature, but it should have everyone’s consent. It is the RJD’s responsibility to get all allies on the same page or Congress should resolve the matter as it is the largest constituent of the alliance at national level,” Anand told TOI over phone from Delhi. He said Kushwaha is likely to meet senior Congress functionary in Delhi and hold deliberations on various poll-related issues, including seat-sharing. Manjhi, the former Bihar CM, has also been saying that Tejashwi’s name as the CM face of the Mahagathbandhan has been proposed solely by RJD, but it should come through a coordination committee comprising all allies. “I have been demanding a coordination committee, but unilateral decisions are being taken by RJD,” he said on Saturday. Manjhi also invited Bihar CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar to join the Mahagathbandhan. “If he (Nitish) is ready to part ways with the ruling alliance, we will welcome him. I think he is not happy with the BJP’s ideologies and way of functioning,” the HAM(S) chief told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cracks-in-rjd-led-alliance-over-cm-face/articleshow/76240452.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gas leak at pharma company in Govandi causes panic||MUMBAI: A gas leak was reported from U S Vitamin India Ltd, a pharmaceutical company in Govandi (east) on Saturday night, which caused panic in parts of the eastern suburbs, said fire brigade officials. Chief fire officer P S Rahangade confirmed the source of the gas leak, and at the time of going to press, the fire brigade had deployed fire engines to the spot and was investigating the leak. The BMC disaster control room received several calls about a foul odour from parts of the city's eastern suburbs late on Saturday, and at first there was no confirmation on the source. The city fire brigade received complaints about a suspected gas leak from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarh, Vikhroli and Powai. Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, "With regards to the foul odour across some parts of Mumbai, as of now the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been activated with its SoPs. I appeal to all to stay indoors, not panic. Close your windows. @mybmc is actively monitoring this situation." Rahangdale said that residents should take precaution by using a wet towel or handkerchief if a case of serious gas inhalation is reported. Mahanagar Gas Ltd officials said the smell had nothing to do with MGL. A senior official said, "MGL has been receiving complaints about a gas smell from various parts of Mumbai since 10pm. Our emergency teams went to the sites, and we are checking our pipeline systems, but have not come across any breach which could cause a gas leak."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gas-leak-at-pharma-company-in-govandi-causes-panic/articleshow/76240459.cms||---
June 7, 2020||India||Will accept if govt offers Khalistan: Akal Takht chief||AMRITSAR: All Sikhs want Khalistan and will accept it if offered by India, said acting Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, 36 years after Operation Bluestar. The jathedar, responding to a question from media on the occasion of the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, also said “there is no harm if Sikh youth raise slogans in praise of Khalistan.” Akal Takht is the supreme temporal authority for Sikhs among the five takhts (temporal seats of Sikhs). Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal also endorsed Giani Harpreet Singh’s stance.” It is probably for the first time that the heads of two supreme Sikh bodies — Akal Takht and SGPC — have openly supported the cause of a separate state of Khalistan. It is also significant that the remarks came on the occasion of the anniversary of Operation Bluestar, a day marked by the community as Ghallughara (genocide) Day. The remarks also got support from Sikh separatists and the founder of radical Sikh organisation Dal Khalsa Gajinder Singh, who — believed to have taken asylum in Pakistan — posted a message on Facebook: “The leader of Akal Takht Sahib has supported Khalistan in his own style today.May God bless us with the ability to protect his statement.” Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar said those sitting on a position of respect should also realise the responsibility it carries. Ashwani Sharma, president of Punjab BJP, which is in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), said: “Not just Punjabis, but every Indian is religiously attached with Akal Takht, and those sitting on respectable positions should have not commented on something which hurts the unity and integrity of the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-accept-if-govt-offers-khalistan-akal-takht-chief/articleshow/76240463.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Special Cell Delhi cop found dead in car||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police inspector was found dead inside his car in northwest Delhi's Keshavpuram on Saturday evening. The deceased, Vishal Khanwalkar, was posted with the Special Cell. Police said that they received a call around 4.20pm about a man lying unconscious in a car at Rampura main road. Khanwalkar was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead. "The call was made by Rafeeq who stated that a car bearing a Haryana number was parked in front of his shop since 11am," a senior police officer said. Prima facie it appears he died due to heart attack, however, postmortem results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/special-cell-delhi-cop-found-dead-in-car/articleshow/76240465.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka BJP picks names for Rajya Sabha polls; ball in high command’s court||BENGALURU: Karnataka BJP’s core committee on Saturday shortlisted names of a few potential candidates for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections in the state and sent it to the party’s central leadership for approval. Prabhakar Kore, sitting Rajya Sabha member and chairman of Karnataka Lingayat Education (KLE) Society, former MP Ramesh Katti (ex-minister and BJP MLA Umesh Katti’s brother) and hotelier and senior functionary K Prakash Shetty have made it to the final list. Kore and Ramesh Katti are from Belagavi. Though sources said former MP and media and transport baron Vijay Sankeshwar and BJP state vice-president and ex-MLA Nirmal Kumar Surana were included in the list after removing Kore’s name at the last minute, there was no confirmation on it. “We are only recommending the names and our party’s central election committee, which may meet on Sunday or Monday, will take a final call. The possibility of retaining one name from our list and selecting someone of their choice also cannot be ruled out,” a minister said after the meeting. Top BJP sources, however, said the saffron party has decided to field a third candidate only if former PM and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda pulls out of the race. Nine names, including eminent banker KV Kamath and Infosys foundation chairperson Sudha Murty, BJP national general secretary incharge of Karnataka Muralidhar Rao and former IAS officer Madan Gopal, were discussed at the committee meeting before finalising the candidates. Held at the party’s state headquarters here, the meeting was attended by chief minister BS Yediyurappa and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bjp-picks-names-for-rajya-sabha-polls-ball-in-high-commands-court/articleshow/76240455.cms||Anil Gejji
June 7, 2020||India||MHA wants Bangla border trade to resume today||KOLKATA: Movement of trucks from India to Bangladesh is officially expected to resume via Petrapole-Benapole border on Sunday. However, citing the reluctance of most drivers to take their trucks across the border before June 8, when the lockdown is to be lifted fully, local authorities hinted that cross-border movement may start only after that. In a missive issued on Saturday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had stated that the integrated checkpost at Petrapole (on the Indian side) would be operating from Sunday as there were over 1,800 trucks stranded at the border. “The North 24-Parganas district administration has conveyed a set of guidelines, for which all stakeholders have been advised to take immediate steps for resuming cross-land border trade while ensuring adherence to Covid-19 protocol,” the missive read. Earlier in May, movement of trucks to Bangladesh had started via Petrapole but was stalled following agitation by local residents. Sushil Patwari, eastern regional chairman of Federation of Indian Exports Organisation (FIEO), said 200 trucks would move from India to Bangladesh every day between 7am and 11am. He said all exporters had been informed about the MHA decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-wants-bangla-border-trade-to-resume-today/articleshow/76240470.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mysuru||Dakshina Kannada, Udupi schools' 'heal' in quarantine||MANGALURU: Quarantine seems to have done some good to some schools as well. Confined for 14 days, occupants have channeled their energies to spruce up campuses, apply a fresh coat of paint and carry out other repairs. Some schools in Karkala in Udupi and one school in Belthangady in Dakshina Kannada now sport a fresh look, ready to welcome students when they return.  In some cases, it turned out, those quarantined were old students. "It is a kind of homecoming as well as nostalgia to me because this is where I completed my studies and left for Maharashtra to find greener pastures," said Ranjith from Karkala. "During my stay, along with others, I cleaned up the campus and refreshed school memories with them." Pruthvi, who quarantined in Attur school, said he stitched masks during his stay. Big-hearted citizen effort at work in quarantineKarkala block education officer GS Shashidhar told STOI that many such activities had been carried out in quarantine centres, especially in schools. “Some have painted schools, repaired roofs, planted saplings and cleaned the campus. We are more than happy and thank them for their contribution towards government schools,” he said. So far, Karkala district has welcomed 2,470 returnees from Maharashtra alone and around 400 from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. They were quarantined in 38 places. In the second phase, 400 people from Maharashtra are expected. In Belthangady, as many as 25 out of 64 people who were quarantined at 60-year-old Kookrabettu school in a remote village of Belthangady have done their bit of work in isolation. Rathnakar Marody, a villager, said returnees from Mumbai had plucked out weeds, manured coconut trees, worked on the sports ground, cleaned the water tank and tended to the garden. They also carried out repairs. Once quarantine was over, they were given a farewell by Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja. He gifted them a sapling as a memory of their days spent in the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dakshina-kannada-udupi-schools-heal-in-quarantine/articleshow/76240481.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada, Udupi schools' 'heal' in quarantine||MANGALURU: Quarantine seems to have done some good to some schools as well. Confined for 14 days, occupants have channeled their energies to spruce up campuses, apply a fresh coat of paint and carry out other repairs. Some schools in Karkala in Udupi and one school in Belthangady in Dakshina Kannada now sport a fresh look, ready to welcome students when they return.  In some cases, it turned out, those quarantined were old students. "It is a kind of homecoming as well as nostalgia to me because this is where I completed my studies and left for Maharashtra to find greener pastures," said Ranjith from Karkala. "During my stay, along with others, I cleaned up the campus and refreshed school memories with them." Pruthvi, who quarantined in Attur school, said he stitched masks during his stay. Big-hearted citizen effort at work in quarantineKarkala block education officer GS Shashidhar told STOI that many such activities had been carried out in quarantine centres, especially in schools. “Some have painted schools, repaired roofs, planted saplings and cleaned the campus. We are more than happy and thank them for their contribution towards government schools,” he said. So far, Karkala district has welcomed 2,470 returnees from Maharashtra alone and around 400 from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. They were quarantined in 38 places. In the second phase, 400 people from Maharashtra are expected. In Belthangady, as many as 25 out of 64 people who were quarantined at 60-year-old Kookrabettu school in a remote village of Belthangady have done their bit of work in isolation. Rathnakar Marody, a villager, said returnees from Mumbai had plucked out weeds, manured coconut trees, worked on the sports ground, cleaned the water tank and tended to the garden. They also carried out repairs. Once quarantine was over, they were given a farewell by Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja. He gifted them a sapling as a memory of their days spent in the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-udupi-schools-heal-in-quarantine/articleshow/76240471.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 7, 2020||India||Forged signs of Ambedkar, Patel in mega Guj land scam||RAJKOT: A trunk full of 400 land documents with forged signatures of none other than some of the tallest leaders of Indian Independence — Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad and BR Ambedkar — were prepared to usurp nearly half of Amreli town’s land. The documents were designed craftily to give them an ‘antique’ look by three conspirators, all senior citizens. Two of them were detained on Saturday. The chief conspirator is Vali Metar, a 72-year-old man from Vapi, who colluded with his friends Yusuf Motiwala and Vinod Bhad. Motiwala and Bhad have been detained. The plot was unearthed after an eight-month-long investigation conducted by Amreli collector, SP and the team of directorate of forensic sciences (DFS), Gandhinagar. “The documents matched the size and shape of the ones used in the Gaekwadi era,” said SP Nirlipt Rai. The land parcels claimed nearly 45% of the area of Amreli, said collector Ayush Oak. Metar had been staking claim to the government land since 2008 on the grounds that they were gifted to his grandfather, who, he claimed, was the administrator of Amreli during Gaekwad rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forged-signs-of-ambedkar-patel-in-mega-guj-land-scam/articleshow/76240476.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana defers SSC exams again as HC says no test in Greater Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Hours after the high court directed the state not to hold SSC (Class X) examination in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area from June 8 due to spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Telangana government on Saturday night decided to defer the school-leaving examination across the state. The development comes just 48 hours before over five lakh students were to take the examination across the state save the containment areas. There was a mixed response to the decision from parents and students as the SSC exam has been deferred for the second time. The SSC exams were first postponed in March following the high court’s intervention after the students appeared for the first and second language exams. Announcing the decision, education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy said: “The strategy to be followed when it comes to SSC examinations will be placed in a meeting with the chief minister soon and a decision will be announced.” Earlier in the day, the high court bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy made it clear that lives of children were more precious than their careers and directed the government not to conduct SSC examinations in GHMC (Hyderabad and Secunderbad and parts of Rangareddy, Sangareddy and Medchal districts) area as “coronavirus is spreading wide and fast”. The court, however, allowed the government to go ahead with the exams in the rest of the state after taking due precautions and reviewing the situation every week. Can use internal assessment to promote students , suggests CJThough the government had the option to hold the exam in other areas of the state, the administration decided to defer the exams, as education officials said it was more convenient than conducting it in phases — first for students in the rest of the state and later for those from GHMC area. The HC bench, which was hearing a PIL filed by M Balakrishna, appreciated the decision of the state to allow those students who miss their SSC exams now to clear their examinations in the supplementary examinations as regular students without the stigmatic tag of supplementary students. Advocate general BS Prasad briefed the bench in two spells about the safety arrangements made by the state. However, the bench saw more force in the argument of petitioner’s counsel who raised apprehensions about the safety of the students in GHMC area. The counsel cited the statistics issued in the state's bulletins to drive home his point. When the AG was repeatedly citing the arrangements made by special chief secretary, education, Chitra Ramachandran, the bench sought to know if the state was ready to grant Rs 5 crore as compensation to the aggrieved parents in case of the death of a child. “Put that IAS officer in the shoes of that unfortunate parent and ask her how much compensation would bring that child back,” the CJ said, adding, “will she demand Rs 5 crore or Rs 50 crore as compensation?” Chief Justice Chauhan repeatedly reminded the state about the decision of the Punjab government that promoted all its class X students without any examinations. You too can do so. You can even take their internal assessment reports to do this, the CJ said. The bench posted the case to June 19 to review the situation in the rest of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-defers-ssc-exams-again-as-hc-says-no-test-in-greater-hyderabad/articleshow/76240484.cms||---
June 7, 2020||India||Punjab farmers go the extra mile to bring back migrants from Bihar, UP||BARNALA: Farmers from Punjab are spending lakhs of rupees to bring back migrant workers from places in Bihar like Purnia, Motihari, Chapra, and many other districts so that their paddy can be transplanted. They are doing the same in districts like Pilibhit, Mirzapur and Jaunpur in UP. A bus to any district in Bihar to bring back 35-40 persons costs between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.20 lakh, while one to the relatively nearer districts in UP charge Rs 65,000-75,000. Some of the migrants received a hero’s welcome when their buses arrived in the villages of Barnala, Punjab, on Friday evening. At present, nearly a dozen buses from various villages of the Punjab district are in Bihar and UP. Immediately on arrival, the migrant workers are tested for Covid-19 and are not allowed to work or go to any locality till the report comes in negative. They are kept in isolated motor rooms in the fields. The paddy crop, including Basmati, is expected to be transplanted in 27 lakh hectares. A major part of it is done manually. BKU Lakhowal’s Barnala district president, Jagseer Singh, told TOI, "We have brought 65 migrant workers in two buses from Motihari in Bihar and Pilibhit in UP. Tests of all 65 workers were conducted at Barnala on Saturday and we will get the reports on Monday. Till then, they will stay in motor rooms in the fields." Farmer Gurpreet Singh of Patti village, speaking to TOI over the phone from Purnia, said half a dozen farmers have sent three buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-farmers-go-the-extra-mile-to-bring-back-migrants-from-bihar-up/articleshow/76240488.cms||Neel Kamal
June 7, 2020||Bengaluru||How Bengaluru kept its coronavirus count low||BENGALURU: While coronavirus cases are increasing sharply in many parts of the country, Bengaluru has contained the contagion with great success so far. The tech capital, which has a population of over 1 crore, has recorded 452 Covid-19 cases. Of these, only 162 are active. The other patients have recovered. The city has seen 13 Covid-related deaths in the past three months. This is in stark contrast to the situation in other metros: Mumbai has reported over 46,000 positive cases, Delhi 26,000, Chennai 19,000, and Kolkata 2,000. Bengaluru’s success in containing the viral spread has been acknowledged by the Centre, and other cities have been exhorted to follow the same model. So, how did Bengaluru keep the corona count low? STOI spoke to various officials and experts about the strategy. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesCohesive approach“When we realised that more people will be flying into Bengaluru from Covid-affected countries, we had to act in a cohesive manner. We roped in all agencies and made it clear that there should be no chinks in the armour. About 1.4 lakh international travellers were screened and their movements were monitored. Their primary and secondary contacts were kept under observation,” said deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan. “Coordination between the civic agency and health and home departments was effective and the spread of infection from the travellers was minimal.” State health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the labour department and police also played an important role. “In Bengaluru, people are responsible; distancing is being practised and almost everyone wears a mask,” he said. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageMonitoring affected zonesMapping of containment zones and predictive modelling are key factors, according to BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar, who was instrumental in setting up the Covid-19 Control Room. Every time a case was reported, the locality was sealed and residents’ movements were regulated. When five infections came to light in Padarayanapura on April 19, BBMP sealed the ward. “We didn’t wait for orders, we took prompt action,” said Dr Ravikumar Surpur, special commissioner, health. The same protocol was followed in Hongasandra, where a labourer tested positive. The steps protected nearby areas such Electronics City and HSR Layout. Residents’ welfare associations acted as pillars by keeping a watch on those in home quarantine, Kumar said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Contact tracingBBMP didn’t stop at picking up and sending a patient to the hospital. Its teams identified all contacts, isolating them. As on Saturday, 1,840 primary and 5,759 secondary contacts were in quarantine. “Every time a case was detected, we launched contact tracing. We didn’t leave anything to chance,” said M Lokesh, special commissioner and Covid-19 surveillance in-charge. Cops in actionBengaluru police, led by Bhaskar Rao, strictly implemented the lockdown, ensuring citizens didn’t roam around without a genuine reason. In containment zones where trouble erupted, cops swiftly detained troublemakers and provided protection to health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-bengaluru-kept-its-coronavirus-count-low/articleshow/76240490.cms||Nithya Mandyam
June 7, 2020||Shimla||'Cracker dough' blows up cow's jaw in Himachal Pradesh; one held||DHARAMSHALA/MANALI: Amid national outrage over the killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala, a video of a pregnant cow in Himachal Pradesh's Bilaspur whose jaw was blown off after it was allegedly fed firecrackers wrapped in wheat flour dough has gone viral. One person was arrested in the case on Saturday. A video shot by the owner, Gurdial Singh, surfaced on Saturday showing the injured cow with its blown up jaw which was bleeding profusely. The cow was given medical aid and it later delivered a calf. The accused, identified as Nand Lal, a neighbour of the complainant, was arrested on Saturday evening. Himachal Pradesh CM intervenes in cow cruelty caseThe extreme cruelty angered the people of the state. Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur too intervened in the incident on Saturday. Bilaspur superintendent of police Diwakar Sharma said a case under Section 286 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11of Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals Act was registered on May 26 and police had made one arrest in the case. The owner of the bovine had claimed in the video that some miscreants were behind this act and that the cow was pregnant. Sources say that it is common for villagers to keep crackers wrapped in wheat dough to eliminate wild animals like blue bulls that damage their crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cracker-dough-blows-up-cows-jaw-in-himachal-pradesh-one-held/articleshow/76240499.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||2 deaths in Akola, 50 new cases in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Two Covid-19 patients admitted in the isolation ward of Akola GMCH died during treatment on Saturday afternoon, taking the district’s toll to 36 and that of Vidarbha to 76. Akola also recorded 30 new cases, highest for the day in the region which has registered 2,171 cases so far. The deceased include a 70-year-old man from Gulzarpura and a 40-year-old woman from old city area. The man was admitted on June 3 and tested positive on June 4 while the woman had tested positive on May 27. Both patients had severe comorbidities. Vidarbha recorded 50 new cases on Saturday, with Akola contributing 30, Nagpur 10, Amravati 5 and Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Washim, Wardha and Bhandara one each. The total cases on Saturday were the least recorded for a day in June so far. Starting with 103 cases on June 1, Vidarbha has been recording more than 50 cases, for a total of 462, daily this month. At 26, Akola also saw highest number of patients who recovered and discharged on Saturday. Of these, eight were allowed to go home while remaining 18 were asked to stay in institutional quarantine centres as they did not have home isolation facilities. In Nagpur, 22 patients recovered and discharged from three hospitals. Amravati and Gondia discharged six patients each, while Bhandara four. Total 64 patients were discharged in the region, taking recovery count to 1,438. With this, region’s recovery rate surged to 66.23%. AMRAVATI: The covid count of Amravati district reached 275 on Saturday after five new cases emerged. Out of them, two are Mumbai returnees. A 60-year-old woman from Paratwada tested positive at GMCH, Nagpur. She is the second case from Paratwada after a policeman who tested positive a fortnight ago. A 65-year-old male security guard of Getlife Hospital, tested positive, making it nine cases from the hospital. One of the two Mumbai returnees who tested positive is a 23-year-old youth from Kakada village in Achalpur tehsil. Frezerpura, a hotspot, registered its 18th case. Among the new patients is a 50-year-old woman from Badnera which has recorded 10 cases so far. Six patients got discharge on Saturday, taking the total to 172. WARDHA: The district registered two new cases on Saturday. A 52 year-old resident of Vardhamaneri village of Arvi tehsil tested positive on Saturday after completion of his home-quarantine period. The man’s son had returned from Delhi on May 19 while his daughter had come from Nagpur a month ago. The family was in home-quarantine till June 1. A 59-year-old railway employee from Sindhi (railway) tested positive in Nagpur. The employee was on duty on June 1 but had taken leave on June 2 and 3 due to ill health. He resumed work on June 4, but went to Nagpur Railway Hospital on June 5. He tested positive on Saturday. He is undergoing treatment in IGGMCH, Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: A 28-year-old person from Adyal Tekadi village in Bramhapuri, who was under institutional quarantine since his arrival from Mumbai, tested positive on Saturday, taking the district total cases to 28. Out of them, 22 patients have recovered and got discharged. Out of the six active patients, four have been kept at Covid Care Centre on Chandrapur Forest Academy premises, while remaining two are admitted in Chandrapur GMCH. YAVATMAL: No new case was recorded from the district for the third consecutive day. There are now 41 active cases in the district. WASHIM: A 25-year-old youth from Borala (Hisse) village in Washim tehsil tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Washim has the least number of cases in Vidarbha. Out of the 11 patients recorded so far, six have recovered and two patients died. BULDHANA & GADCHIROLI: One case each was registered from the districts on Saturday. Both are Mumbai returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-deaths-in-akola-50-new-cases-in-vidarbha/articleshow/76239933.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 7, 2020||India||Lockdown saw significant rise in domestic violence complaints to NCW||NEW DELHI: The nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19 saw the National Commission for Women receiving a significantly higher number of complaints from women seeking protection from domestic violence. In April and May, of the 3027 complaints received by NCW across 22 categories of crime against women, 1428 (47.2%) were related to domestic violence. The data from January to March on the other hand show that of a total of 4233 complaints made during that period, about 20.6% (871) were related to domestic violence. A month-wise assessment of domestic violence complaints further reinforces the rise in complaints. These complaints accounted for 51.45% (514) of the 999 complaints made to NCW in April. In May complaints of domestic violence accounted for 45.07% (914) of the total 2028 complaints. When compared to the pre-lock down period, it turns out that in January, domestic violence complaints accounted for 18.54% (271) of the 1462 complaints. The percentage of domestic violence complaints was 21.21% (302 of 1424) in February and 22.21% (298 of 1347) in March. Since the lockdown came into effect, NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma has time and again raised concern over increase in domestic violence complaints and the need to reach out to women caught in the confines of their homes with abusive partners. The Commission constituted a special team to handle these complaints on a fast track basis. Before lockdown, NCW received complaints both offline and online. Since the lockdown came into effect, the NCW was receiving complaints only online and through mail initially before a dedicated WhatsApp number was launched on April 10 for victims of domestic violence. Of the total complaints related to domestic violence for April-May, 727 complaints have been received on WhatsApp number—72177135372. There is also an increase in the number of complaints from women seeking help to protect their right to live with dignity. Of the 1906 complaints received since January, 464 were registered in May. Complaints related to cyber - crime too saw an increase from 37 in March to 55 in April and 73 in May. However, complaints related to rape and attempt to rape declined. While 142 complaints were received in January, there were just 12 complaints in April and 51 in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-saw-significant-rise-in-domestic-violence-complaints-to-ncw/articleshow/76240502.cms||Ambika Pandit
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC caps treatment charges till August 31, private hospitals wary||NAGPUR: To stop private hospitals from overcharging patients during the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has imposed a cap on charges of admission and surgeries till August 31. Reacting to it, the Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) said private hospitals would have to shut shop if it implements the revised charges. Referring to state government’s May 21 order, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe issued a circular last Thursday making it mandatory for all private hospitals to follow the charges finalized by the civic body. The rates are not for OPD. Mundhe added that violation would invite strict action. On April 23, an NMC circular had notified 12 private hospitals with more than 100 beds that could admit suspected and coronavirus positive patients. The civic body has now finalized charges for the treatment here too. However, hospital sources said that these 12 hospitals are unlikely to treat Covid patients as they will have to isolate the entire premises. According to them, the charges finalized by the NMC are also less. Mundhe has made it mandatory to charge patients of mediclaim insurance plans under Third Party Administrators (TPA) scheme according to the lowest agreement among all companies. The Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and Ayushman Bharat rates, which are already accepted by many private hospitals, are very low. Also, package charges have been finalized for patients who get admitted without any mediclaim. The private hospitals will have to charge as per NMC’s rates for 80% of beds. For the remaining 20%, they can apply own rates. The charges are in ‘cap system’ for different hospitals. Hospitals with beds of over 100 cannot charge over 75% of packages finalized by the NMC while it is 67.5% for hospitals with 50-99 beds and 60% for those with less than 49 beds. The packages comprise visiting fees of doctors, nurses, surgery cost, per day charges for ICU or room/bed, blood, equipment, tests etc. At present, many private hospitals do not give service in packages and levy charges under different heads. The charges finalized for non-TPA scheme patients are lower to that being levied by the private hospitals. Only the charges for gynaecology patients seem on the higher side, sources said. A VHA official told TOI that private hospitals have agreed to the rates for Covid-19. “We have also been assured that private hospitals will be roped in only after exhausting the capacity in hospitals run by government, NMC and trusts,” he said. Further, the VHA official added: “At present, all private hospitals are treating non Covid-19 patients as per their tariff. If the revised rates are applied for management of non Covid-19 patients, it will break the back of all private hospitals and nursing homes which are already dealing with staff absenteeism and salary issues. The bed and city-wise percentages decreed are irrational and discriminatory. We plan to go to court.” TIGHTENING NORMS Existing System | Rates are different for patients with mediclaim insurance plans under TPA scheme and those without. No package charges New Norms | Charges for admission and all surgeries in package system. 80% to be charged NMC rate, remaining as per private hospitals. For those with mediclaim insurance plans, charges will be lowest among all companies. Charges finalized for patients with no mediclaim. Depends on capacity of beds and differ for hospitals Period: Up to August 31 Covid-19 Service: Rs4,000/day for isolation ward, Rs7,500/day for ICU, Rs9,000/day for ICU with ventilator. Charges include all types of tests, bed fees, consultation of doctors, nurses, food and also procedures Non-Covid Patients: Rs7,500/day for ICU, Rs9,000/day for ICU with ventilator. Rest same Important Packages: Angiography | Rs12,000 including cost of dye; Angioplasty | Rs1.20 lakh; Cataract | Rs25,000; Knee replacement | Rs1.60 lakh; Dialysis | Rs2,500. Hosps with beds over 100 cannot charge over 75% of package, 67.5% for those with 50-99 beds, 60% for those below 49||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-caps-treatment-charges-till-aug-31-private-hosps-wary/articleshow/76239946.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 7, 2020||Hyderabad||In Telangana, 10 deaths and 206 positive cases in single day, highest yet||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded its steepest daily jump in Covid-19 positive cases with 206 people testing positive, 152 of them in the GHMC limits. The total number of deaths in the last 24 hours was 10. The tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 3,496, while the death toll is pegged at 123. With the surge in cases, the state health authorities on Saturday issued a strict advisory asking people not to step out of their homes unless absolutely necessary. Authorities said that the numbers are expected to rise further over the next two weeks. In anticipation and to make space for more patients, hospitals also started discharging ‘stable’ patients from designated Covid-19 facilities on Saturday. Most of the new cases, health authorities said, were detected from within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, while pointing to a steady increase in cases from districts across the state as well, especially Ranga Reddy, Medchal and Adilabad. Meanwhile, the state authorities have issued fresh advisory asking people to report any symptoms to their nearest government hospitals. 1,663 active Covid-19 cases in TIt is observed that there is a surge in cases in most of the districts across the state. In view of the surge, the public is requested to be alert and self vigilant for any signs and symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). In case of onset of any symptoms of ILI or SARI, the public are requested to immediately contact the nearest government health facility without any delay. Do not step out of the house unless essential,” advised the state health department. Also people have been alerted that self-medication, quacks, faith healers and any other indigenous therapy should be avoided if such symptoms are noticed. As per latest reports, Telangana currently has a total of 1,663 active Covid-19 cases. As many as 1,710 patients have recovered till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-telangana-10-deaths-and-206-positive-cases-in-single-day-highest-yet/articleshow/76240500.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Want to abort, cops ask rape survivor||NAGPUR: A five-month-old pregnant rape survivor, who is keen to deliver the baby, was devastated on Saturday after Kapil Nagar police allegedly asked her whether she wanted to abort. Already struggling to overcome trauma of rape, the 30-year-old survivor was allegedly subjected to harassment by the police. As a woman cop met her only briefly, the survivor had to narrate the entire episode of sexual exploitation before the male police personnl on Friday. She was earlier turned away from the police station after filing a non-cognizable offence of cheating. It was only after the intervention of social worker Sunita Thakre and Hafeez Sabri, who met zonal DCP Neelotpal, that the complaint was registered as a FIR. TOI has a copy of the audio tape in which survivor narrated her experience at the police station to Thakre. In another incident earlier this week, Kapil Nagar police had reprimanded Childline volunteers for helping a 10-year-old lodge a rape complaint against 48-year-old man. The offence was registered after much delay when local residents, along with Childline volunteers in possession of video recording by survivor narrating her plight, stormed the police station. The following day, Childline volunteers accompanied more survivors to lodge complaints against the same accused, only to earn wrath of senior officials of the police station. “Don’t we have more important work than this?” the cops allegedly said to the volunteers. A complaint has been lodged with DCP Neelotpal against senior PI Prabhakar Mate of Kapil Nagar police station. TOI has a copy of the complaint. In the latest case, the pregnant rape survivor was on Saturday allegedly asked by cops if she intended to keep the baby when she approached the police station for a copy of FIR. She informed the cops that the doctor has warned her against abortion. The cops then allegedly asked her to keep them informed about her decision. Though Neelotpal’s intervention helped the survivor lodge a FIR of rape, her problems only increased. After summoning the pregnant woman to police station at 10am, cops made her wait for three-and-half-hours before taking her for medical examination. CP BK Upadhyay said that he would look into the issue. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/want-to-abort-cops-ask-rape-survivor/articleshow/76239950.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 7, 2020||Nagpur||City’s 5th Covid-19 patient is the first plasma donor||Nagpur: The 42-year-old Khamla businessman, who is the 5th Covid patient to have recovered after testing positive on March 25, became the first from Nagpur to donate his blood plasma under the nationwide clinical trials to check if the fluid can be useful in treatment of Covid-19. A team of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), which is among 21 institutes authorized to conduct trails by ICMR, collected the businessman’s sample at the Laxmi Nagar-based Jeevan Jyoti Blood Bank on Saturday afternoon.The process was initiated around a fortnight back when the businessman was contacted by the GMCH team. Several patients in different states have recovered while the therapy has been ineffective in some Covid cases.Santosh Totwani (he has permitted TOI to mention his name), said he readily agreed to offer his plasma for the trial.While the GMCH team pleaded confidentiality citing ICMR guidelines as it is a trial, Totwani himself shared his experience with TOI. The GMCH also refused to comment on how and on whom the serum drawn from Totwani’s plasma would be used. On the other side, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) shared the number of Totwani’s uncle with the media after he donated the plasma.Totwani said that his 14-year-old son, wife and elderly mother who too have recovered and spent 28 days after discharge like him, were willingly to offer their plasma.“As of now, the GMCH doctors told me they would conduct trial using my plasma only,” he said.As per the ICMR guidelines, the plasma therapy can be used on moderately ill Covid patients.As on date, the city has eight moderate and two critically ill patients, who are on oxygen support.Last month, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra had confirmed to TOI that they had shortlisted a couple patients for the trial and were counselling them. Reportedly, some patients were reluctant to offer their plasma.“Around 20 days ago, GMCH called me to ask if I can donate my plasma. Without a second thought, I agreed for the cause. I believe in community service. They called again and asked me to come over to give a blood sample. It was investigated and found fit for plasma donation,” said Totwani. On Friday, Totwani was again asked to come to fill up the consent form after which he was given an appointment for Saturday 1am.As per the ICMR guidelines, the patient has to be symptom-free for 28 days after discharge. Totwani was discharged on April 10 from the GMCH Covid ward.IGGMCH sources said they too were counselling some discharged patients for convalescent plasma donation.Some of the Tabligi Jamaat (TJ) members were admitted to IGGMCH in April. Several members have donated their plasma in different parts of the country.Nagpur Markaz official Maulana Abdullah Mazahiri said they had appealed to all community members to donate plasma though none have confirmed yet.(BOX)STEP BY STEPWhat is plasma therapyThe method uses antibodies from the blood of recovered patients to treat those undergoing treatment. In these trials, the ICMR has given nod to transfuse the serum only in moderately ill patients.How effective is the therapyAs per a WHO study, the whole blood collected from patients in the convalescent phase of the infection has been used as an empirical treatment with promising results in a small group of Ebola virus cases. During that outbreak, the entire blood and plasma collected from recovered patients was prioritized for investigation as one of the treatment modalities. Convalescent plasma has been used successfully for the treatment of a variety of infectious agents, the study says.Who can donate plasmaAccording to the portal donatingplasma.org, donors must be 18 years of age and weigh at least 50kg. All individuals must pass two separate medical examinations, a medical history screening and testing for transmissible viruses before their donated plasma can be used to manufacture plasma protein therapies.Are donors screened?Yes. It’s a pre-donation physical screening verifying medical history, tests for viruses such as HIV, hepatitis and evaluation of protein and haemoglobin levels. In this case, Corona system-free status is also checked.What plasma worksAs per the portal, 500 different types of proteins are found in human blood plasma. Approximately 150 of these may be used for diagnosing disease or manufacturing therapies.(Sources: WHO, donatingplasma.org)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-5th-covid-19-patient-is-the-first-plasma-donor/articleshow/76239962.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ill Dumka worker dies after vehicle refuses to ferry him||Dumka: A 30-year-old worker of a stone crushing unit in Haripur village under Shikaripara police station in Dumka died on Saturday after the driver of a vehicle, arranged by his co-worker to rush him to the hospital, denied to ferry him suspecting him to be a patient of Covid-19. Santosh Gorain, a native of Raneswar block, spoke to his wife over phone last night around 11pm, but didn’t complain of any problem. Officer in-charge of Shikaripara police station Waquar Hussain said, “In the early hours of Saturday he complained to his co-worker of restlessness and nasal mucus. The two stayed in a makeshift tent near the unit.” He added, “His co-worker arranged for a vehicle to take him to the hospital, but the driver denied to ferry him, fearing Santosh might be a patient of Covid-19. Later, four of his co-workers escaped from the unit leaving him to die on a pile of stone chips along the roadside.” “Locals alerted us about a person lying by the road, but by the time we reached, Santosh was dead. The in-charge of Shikaripara primary health centre ruled out the possibility of him being affected by the virus, but as a precaution, we sent the body to Dumka Medical College and Hospital for Covid-19 tests,” Hussain added. Police were yet to identify the owner of the stone crushing unit till the time of filing this report, while the district mining officer, Dilip Kumar Tanti, could not be contacted. “Only after the Covid test and an autopsy can the cause of death be ascertained,” Hussain maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ill-dumka-worker-dies-after-vehicle-refuses-to-ferry-him/articleshow/76239003.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Surge in districts Covid-19 count after migrants’ return; Kolkata share dips||KOLKATA: With the influx of migrant labourers into Bengal over the past fortnight, Kolkata’s share in Bengal’s Covid-19 count has dropped substantially. Even though the city still tops the chart with more than 600 cases in the current week, its contribution to the overall state numbers is down to 24% this week from 39% recorded between May 4 and May 10, as per government data updated till Saturday morning. Between May 4 and 10, Kolkata had accounted for 289 of the 741 cases recorded in Bengal, and the state capital, along with three other districts — Howrah, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore — contributed nearly 78% of the total cases. The arrival of migrant labourers from other states in mid-May led to a shift in the balance. In the seven days between May 30 and June 5, the total number of cases in Bengal shot up by 2,490, and, while Kolkata’s contribution more than doubled to 616, it’s share of cases fell by 15% to 24.7%. The cumulative share of the four mentioned districts fell to 55.4%, a dip of 22.4%. Most experts attribute the surge in Covid cases in rural areas to the return of the migrants. “The movement of the migratory labourers started from the beginning of May and resulted in a spread of the disease in about a fortnight. A surge in the rural areas was imminent in mid-May and that is what has happened,” said virologist Amitava Nandy. Malda recorded its first Covid case on April 27 and till May 7, the district’s count was only 3. At present, Malda has 192 Covid patients — all migrants back from other states. North Dinajpur kept its slate clean till May 8. On May 9, three migrant returnees tested positive and the number rose to 202 by June 5. Cooch Behar witnessed a sudden spike after May 28 and now has over 139 cases. Murshidabad, too, has crossed the 100-mark. Darjeeling and Alipurduar, both green zones till last week, had 77 and 12 positives respectively till Friday. The first train carrying migrants reached Bengal on May 5 and since then there have been 150 trains that have brought migrants labourers back home. At present there are 1, 39,624 migratory labourers in 11,504 quarantine centres of the state while another 55,871 workers have been released.  “With the arrival of migrants, there has been a shift of the disease from the urban to the rural areas and the gap will now widen. It could have been restricted with better monitoring and surveillance,” virologist Amitava Nandy said. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas pointed out that an increase in the number of tests, too, has contributed to a rise in the share of districts. “Over the last one month, more testing labs have come up in the districts and more Covid positives are being identified outside Kolkata,” said Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surge-in-dists-covid-count-after-migrants-return-kol-share-dips/articleshow/76240301.cms||Saibal Gupta
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal claims Rs 1.02Lcr for Amphan damage||Kolkata: The Bengal government has claimed Rs 1.02 lakh crore as damages from the Centre for the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan in 16 districts. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha handed over a sector-wise report to the seven-member Inter-Ministerial Central Team during a meeting at Nabanna on Saturday. CM Mamata Banerjee had ordered a joint survey of Amphan-hit districts by state departments days before the IMCT members reached Kolkata on June 5. A look at the figures shows that 28.56 lakh houses have been damaged, 17 lakh hectares of farmland and crops (paddy, moong, til, jute, sugarcane, maize , groundnut and cotton) and another 2.5 lakh hectares of betel vine, lichi and mango orchards have been hit. A total 21.22 lakh cattle and poultry have been killed. This apart, 14,640 schools, 301 colleges and 12,678 ICDS centres were damaged. Coming to infrastructure, as many as 4.49 lakh electric poles have been damaged along with 273 power sub-stations. According to state irrigation department, embankments spread over 244.73 km along the Raimangal, Bidyadhari and Hatania-Doania rivers were wiped out. PWD has submitted a damage report of 2,148.22 km of roads and 1,00,091 km of rural roads, including 355 bridges and culverts. The state has added up the sector-wise loss to a cumulative Rs 1,02,442 crore IMCT members didn’t comment on the report. The team will submit this to the MHA. Prior to their Nabanna meeting, the central team on Saturday morning started for Raidighi in South 24 Parganas where farmlands in Narayanpur, Nandakumar along Moni river have gone under saline water afresh after Friday’s high tide. But they couldn’t reach because an uprooted electric pole blocked the road to Raidighi. The team inspected damaged houses at Katandighi and asked villagers on the extent of damage. The members also asked if any kind of relief has reached them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-claims-rs-1-02lcr-for-amphan-damage/articleshow/76240261.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Cybercriminals target teachers in Chatra||CHATRA: Several teachers in Chatra district became the target of cybercriminals, who posed as district education officials and asked questions over the phone to find out various personal details, including bank accounts. District education officer Jitendra Kumar Sinha on Saturday asked the teachers to be wary about such calls and not to share any information with the callers. Explaining the criminals’ modus operandi, a teacher said a caller asked his details saying the department has given him the task to verify his documents. He, however, disconnected the phone without providing the details. Sinha clarified that the department has not conducted any document verification drive and asked the teachers to inform such fraud calls to the control room numbers 6207273658/100. SP Rishabh Kumar Jha said, “Cybercriminals are taking up new techniques one after another to cheat people. Now, they are impersonating education department employees and targeting teachers in the name of document verification. Police will not spare such frauds. I request everyone not to share any vital information over the phone calls. Such details can be used to withdraw money from bank accounts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cybercriminals-target-teachers-in-chatra/articleshow/76239029.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jhakhand Covid-19 tally crosses 1,000-mark with 106 fresh cases||RANCHI: The number of Covid cases in Jhakhand crossed the 1,000-mark as the state recorded 106 fresh cases in 24 hours, the biggest one-day spike since the outbreak started on March 31. Jharkhand now has 1,028 positive cases, of which 547 are active, 411 have recovered (including 63 on Saturday) and seven have died. While Jharkhand recorded its first 200 cases in 45 days and the next 200 came in 12 days, the last 200 have been reported in less than days. The state health department will also be concerned over the fact that state has crossed the 500-mark on May 29 and the tally doubled in just eight days. More than 700 of the total cases are migrants who have returned from red zones across the country. On Saturday, Simdega recorded 34 cases followed by Ramgarh (21) in the biggest spike for both districts. Gumla recorded 10 cases, East Singhbhum six, West Singhbhum five. Hazaribagh Ranchi and Latehar three each and Saraikela and Khunti one each. Late on Friday night, East Singhbhum reported 14 cases and Hazaribag recorded two. The four cases in Ranchi includes a health workers and two elderly patients from different city-based private hospitals. The fourth is a railway employee who lives in Dhurwa area. “A patient from Medica and another from a private nursing home were diagnosed with Covid-19 on Saturday. A nurse at Medica also tested positive for viral infection,” said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-covid-tally-crosses-1k-mark-with-106-fresh-cases/articleshow/76239019.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Oppn leaders meet IMCT, seek funds||Kolkata: Bengal opposition leaders from BJP, Left and Congress met the Inter-Ministerial Central Team, now in Kolkata to assess Amphan damage, and sought more central funds alo- ng with a mechanism to ensure that relief reaches the victims. The seven-member IMCT led by joint secretary in ministry of home affairs Anuj Sharma has been visiting parts of worst-hit Sunderbans since it came on June 5, a fortnight after PM Narendra Modi undertook an aerial survey of Amphan-hit areas on May 22, two days after the cyclone made landfall. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh urged the Centre to appoint a nodal officer, preferably for a year, to oversee the reconstruction work of roads and embankments. “The Centre had sanctioned Rs 5,032 crore for undertaking embankment repair following Cyclone Aila’s devastation in the Sunderbans. The scheme is still there along with the unspent amount. The Centre should release additional funds,” he said. Ghosh also wanted the Centre to create a dedicated Amphan victim website or launch an app so that real victims can apply for assistance. “I have a list of 2,000 people with names and addresses. Some of them got Rs 20,000 assistance for house building despite their having a pucca house. I would thus prefer direct cash transfers to the real victims,” he said. Left Front parliamentary party leader Sujan Chakrabarty and Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra wanted the Centre to declare Amphan as a “national disaster”. Chakrabarty also urged the IMCT to release more funds based on an objective assessment. “There should be a mechanism to ensure that relief reaches the real victims,” he said. Mitra said the PM releasing Rs 1,000 crore as advance assistance was “too little” . Leader of opposition in the Bengal Assembly Abdul Mannan said: “The CM has been warning against discrimination over relief distribution. But the ground reality is different.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oppn-leaders-meet-imct-seek-funds/articleshow/76240262.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bangla trade to resume today, drivers reluctant||KOLKATA: Movement of trucks from India to Bangladesh is officially expected to resume via Petrapole-Benapole at 6am on Sunday, but local authorities have hinted that the same may start only after the lockdown is completely lifted on Monday. An official reasoned that most drivers were unwilling to take their trucks across the border before June 8. The home ministry, in a letter issued on Saturday by the Land Ports Authority of India, stated that the integrated checkpost at Petrapole would be operating from Sunday, as there were over 1,800 trucks stranded at the border. “The North 24 Parganas administration has conveyed a set of guidelines for which all stakeholders have been advised to take steps for resuming cross land border trade while ensuring adherence to Covid-19 protocol,” it read. In May, movement of trucks to Bangladesh had started via Petrapole, but was stalled following agitation by local residents. Sushil Patwari, eastern regional chairman of Federation of Indian Exports Organisation, said 200 tru-cks would move to Bangaldesh between 7am and 11am daily. “A meeting was held on Thursday to normalise movement of trucks. It has been decided that all stranded vehicles will be cleared by June 14. A pool of around 100 Indian drivers will be engaged for which the exporters will pay. There will be doctors and the drivers must be provided with PPE kits,” Patwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-trade-to-resume-today-drivers-reluctant/articleshow/76240280.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Nephew +ve, Malda man hangs self||MALDA: A 55-year-old farmer committed suicide in a Malda village in the small hours of Saturday, apparently apprehensive of a Covid-19 swab test and its possible outcome after one of his nephews, with whom he had spent a couple of days, tested positive. Narayan Chandra Mandal was found hanging from a tree and his body sent for post mortem. Police superintendant Aloke Rajoria said the swab sample of the deceased had been collected. Amid the lockdown, Mandal of Kanchan Nagar under Gazole police station went to guard the empty house of his nephews in Akanda village. His nephews, who work in Delhi, returned last week. Their swab samples were collected. The farmer decided to spend a couple of days with them. Mandal’s son Parimal, too, wasn’t keen on his father returning home and advised him to stay on for a fortnight. “Malda has seen a spike in cases following the return of migrants. We, therefore, asked my father to stay in Akanda at least till his swab sample was taken and the report arrived,” Parimal said. On Thursday, a medical team confirmed that one of Mandal’s nephews had tested positive. He was taken to hospital and his contacts were advised to stay home so that swab samples could be collected. This apparently left Mandal scared and he returned to his village the same evening. But, his son did not allow him to enter their house. Mandal went to neighbouring Mandalpara, but allegedly wasn’t allowed entry. He committed suicide soon thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nephew-ve-malda-man-hangs-self/articleshow/76240273.cms||Subhro Maitra
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Little cash in Centre’s fiscal package, says Amit Mitra||KOLKATA: West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said on Saturday the cash component in the Centre’s much-talked about stimulus package was only 0.025%, almost nothing compared to such packages in the US and UK. Mitra added the figure would be only 0.0005% if one set aside the 100-day work component. “It is a long-term crisis. You need a fiscal stimulus with at least 50% cash component,” he said at a webinar, Rebuilding Infrastructure & Real Estate, organized by CII. According to him, the economy was not doing well even before the Covid lockdown. GDP growth for Jan-March 2020 was only 3.1%. Mitra, former chairman of the empowered group of state finance ministers to roll out also stressed the need for financial assistance to states when their revenues were in poor shape. “In West Bengal, we got Rs 600-crore revenue in April 2020. That includes a component from March. This is only 13.1% of the normal revenue collection of Rs 4,500 crore in April,” he added. He told industrialists at the webinar that unlike the Centre, it is not possible for states to provide a stimulus as it can neither borrow from RBI nor monetize the borrowing. But it has offered policy help to sectors like real estate and construction, which generate a lot of employment. He criticized the Centre for not adequately helping states in troubled times. Be-ngal had earlier announced it would raise the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) Act limit to 5% from 3% of GSDP currently. But Mitra made it clear the real gain to states would be 0.5%. “We can only avail up to 3.5%. To avail the full limit, states have to abide by some conditions, which are against federal principles,” he said. These include ease of business, reforms in power distribution utilities and revenues of urban local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/little-cash-in-centres-fiscal-package-mitra/articleshow/76240287.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai patient pays Rs 8,000 for 200m ambulance ride||MUMBAI: A Covid-19 patient was recently charged Rs 8,000 by a private ambulance to transport her from one hospital to another 200 metres away in Kurla. A relative of the patient made a video of the driver insisting on the Rs 8,000 and it went viral. On Monday, Kurla resident Kabirun Nisa was admitted to Habib Hospital with symptoms of novel coronavirus infection. The next day, when the middle-aged patient's reports came positive for Covid-19, the hospital told her relatives to take her to another hospital as Habib did not have the facilities to treat her. "I called Just Dial and enquired about a private ambulance as the government ambulance was not available. I was directed to contact Mobile Care, an ambulance service in Jarimari. They sent an ambulance and said they would charge Rs 10,000," Mohammed Mudassar Shaikh, Nisa's brother-in-law, said. Shaikh said the patient needed oxygen and a regular vehicle was risky. So, he bargained and brought the fare down to Rs 8,000. Nisa was transported in the ambulance from Habib Hospital to Fauzia Hospital, 200 metres away. After Shaikh got Nisa admitted to Fauzia Hospital, he came down to pay the ambulance driver. "I told him to take a little less. We were ready to pay even for the PPE kits the driver had used. His owner would not take less than Rs 8,000," Shaikh PHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-patient-pays-rs-8000-for-200m-ambulance-ride/articleshow/76240586.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 10,000 vials of 'anti-viral' drug||MUMBAI: The state government on Saturday said it would procure 10,000 vials of 'anti-viral' drug Remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patients. Health minister Rajesh Tope said that studies conducted by World Health Organisation suggest that the use of the drug may have a positive effect on Covid patients. "It is an expensive drug, but its use must not be restricted to the rich. So the state has decided to get 10,000 vials to be used for critical patients," said Tope. "It could cost about Rs 12 crore and funds will be made available as part of CSR donations." He added that if the drug is out of stock in the country, the state government may procure it from Bangladesh. Dr T P Lahane, head of the state medical education department, said, "We are seeking quotations from various firms including the original American manufacturer, a Bangaldeshi company and Indian companies to supply Remdesivir." The company that offers us the best possible deal will be selected, he said. A senior government official said, "Over a dozen or so cases in private hospitals have benefited from Remdesivir."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-to-get-10000-vials-of-anti-viral-drug/articleshow/76240612.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Behala sees surge in Covid-19 cases||KOLKATA: Considered a safer zone compared to the rest of the city in terms of number of Covid cases even a few days ago, the added areas of Behala — just like Bidhannagar — have seen a spurt in numbers after Amphan. Till Saturday evening, sources at KMC headquarters said that there are around 40 active cases in the areas. But, they also said that the numbers have stabilized in the past 48 hours. Though KMC insists that Covid cases here are well within limits (Behala with a population of over 10 lakh still has reported fewer cases when compared to the rest of south Kolkata), the prevalence of positive cases in apartments located in densely populated pockets has led both KMC and police to devise micro-containment plans to stop the spread. Pockets in Haridevpur, Purba Barisha, Parnasree, Satyen Roy Road and Roy Bahadur Road in Behala have reported multiple cases. Positive cases have also been reported from Taratala, Sarsuna and Thakurpukur. “There are reports from apartments where cases have surfaced in Behala. They are on Roy Bahadur Road and Purbapara Road. One affected apartment is located on the busy Diamond Harbour Road. While a couple of cases have been found in hospitals and nursing homes, the authorities have restricted market timings in several areas,” said a source. KMC sources said that several residents have been distributed hydroxychloroquine tablets and Arsenicum Album homoeopathy drops. Random tests of patient’s neighbours are also being done. KMC has chalked out a comprehensive conservancy plans and it is working with cops to get sanitizing machines installed outside the prominent markets of the area. “We had closed the Rail Line market and Lohapole market in Thakurpukur. But, in the past week, important markets like the one in Behala, are slowly re-opening. We are expecting a few eateries to open on James Long Sarani too from Monday. As a first step, we are ensuring that Behala Market does not get overcrowded. We are checking the industrial estates in Chowrasta and Taratala so that no one from the micro-containment zones report to work at these spots. In addition, we are also carrying out night checks,” said an IPS officer. For specific micro containment zones, cops have arranged for a neighbourhood watch where grocers are being fixed and family members of Covid patients — presently in quarantine — are being delivered essentials through this fixed grocer. Meanwhile, residents of some of the localities in Thakurpukur like Satyen Park and Green Park put up barricades at the entry-exit points of their neighbourhood to stop movement of vehicles and outsiders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-sees-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76239363.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No online theory exam at IIEST||KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, has decided not to hold any theory examination online for the end-semester for undergraduate years. Only online viva exams will be held immediately. This is in line with the system that is being followed by the IITs and NITs. The institute is re-opening its doors to officials and non-teaching staff on Monday, while faculty and students have been asked to wait for further orders. Officials will report to duty according to a fixed time table. This will be on a rotational basis. Online exams for viva voce will start immediately, the time table for which is being prepared by the heads of departments and will be shared with students in the next couple of days. An emergency senate meeting was called earlier on May 30 to discuss this. All students will be given marks in theory on the basis of their mid-semester scores, their best grade point scores in past semester exams, assignments and class responsiveness by the faculty. The marks of end semester exams will have to be submitted by the teachers by July 3 for the results to be announced. “Initially, we thought that online theory exams can be taken but after a lot of debate we realised that this was not possible because a large number of students had returned home and many are in remote places where net connectivity is very poor, making it difficult for them to access these exams. So we decided on this new formula,” said Sushanta Chakraborty, dean of academics. A similar set of rules is being devised for the post graduate students as well, he added. Online teaching, however, happened in full swing after the campus shut its doors on March 24. By this time, mid-semester exams were completed and 30% of the syllabus remained to be covered. “We were able to complete the syllabus and all teachers have posted the theory portions that they have taught in an institute supported repository, so that students can download/access them,” Chakraborty added. Since practical examinations cannot be conducted at the moment, the marks for this portion will be sourced from the student’s year-round participation in the laboratory as assessed by the teacher. “The lockdown has been a great learning experience for students who have come to realise that it is very important to attend classes, participate in activities and submit assignments on time,” Chakraborty added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-online-theory-exam-at-iiest/articleshow/76239367.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 7, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Cop, hubby drive 65km to drop woman in labour to hospital||NAVI MUMBAI: A 35-year-old woman constable attached to the Alibaug police headquarters and her husband came to the rescue of a stranded woman who was on the throes of labour pain by taking a long detour and driving her safely to a hospital. Constable Aarti Raut was on her way to Shrivardhan, along with her husband on the Mumbai-Goa highway, as she was deployed there for cyclone relief related work on June 4. The couple had taken a couple of detours to avoid road blocks due to fallen trees on the highway and had taken a shorter route along Murud Road from Alibaug, and diverted towards Mangaon, when they spotted a group of women waving at passing vehicles. “As we were driving through Washi village, we spotted a group of women and two men on a bike. They were attempting to remove fallen trees. One of the women told us that her pregnant niece had developed labour pain and they did not have a vehicle to take her to a hospital that was about 10 kilometres away. We took the pregnant woman and two of her aunts in our car and drove towards Mhasala and the husband accompanied us on a bike.” Aarti’s husband Mandar Raut (38) said, “The fallen electric poles had blocked the internal roads. So we took a detour and had to travel for 65 kilometres along Indapur Road. But we managed to take her safely to a private hospital at Mhasala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cop-hubby-drive-65km-to-drop-woman-in-labour-to-hospital/articleshow/76240585.cms||George Mendonca
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation wants 100% attendance||KOLKATA: With easing of lockdown restrictions, Kolkata Municipal Corporation now wants to ensure 100% attendance of its employees from Monday. The municipal commissioner on Saturday issued a circular to this effect amid resentment from a section of KMC employees' associations. They believed that the circular was a violation of the civic body's earlier order, which directed the use of prudence while instructing the employees to resume work amid difficulties for non-availability of mass transport modes. But, Saturday's circular stated that any violation of the order will invite penal action. "We will mark an employee absent if he/she fails to turn up at the headquarters or at the respective borough offices," said a senior official. According to the official, the authorities will keep an eye on employees who work in essential services department, such as health, conservancy, water supply, sewage and drainage. "If they remain absent we will also seek an explanation," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-municipal-corporation-wants-100-attendance/articleshow/76240629.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Two more cops succumb to coronavirus, Mumbai police toll 22||MUMBAI: A police constable died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the police personnel toll to 22 in the city and 33 in the state – according to police records. Another constable succumbed to the virus on Friday. Till late on Saturday, city police were reluctant to share details of the two recent deaths in the force. The city police report showed that 253 officers and 1,518 constables/assistant sub inspectors had tested positive for Covid-19 till June 5, of which 697 have recovered. The report also said that since June 1, 245 police personnel tested positive. The first police death was reported on April 25—head constable Chandrakant Pendurkar, of Vakola police station. In at least four of the 22 deaths, four did not show comorbidities. Officers said there are several ways they could get infected—patrolling, arranging facilities for migrants, bandobast duties in slum pockets, among others. The maximum number of personnel who tested positive were from J J Marg police station, with 46 cases. Additionally, five officers and 73 constables/assistant sub inspectors of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) platoons deployed in the city’s red zones and slum areas, have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-more-cops-succumb-to-coronavirus-mumbai-police-toll-22/articleshow/76240637.cms||V Narayan
June 7, 2020||India||Kerala elephant death: Union environment min asks conservationists to list cruel practices that kill wildlife||NEW DELHI: Union minister of state for environment and forests Babul Supriyo has approached conservationists and NGOs to share a list of cruel practices in India that are still adopted by farmers to protect crops from wild animals. The move comes days after a pregnant elephant was killed in Kerala after she bit into an explosive-laden fruit meant to ward off wild boars. "The Kerala incident is gruesome. In fact, there are reports that such practices are common in the state and elsewhere. We have asked experts to share with us all such methods they are aware of so we can sensitise farmers. We have to strike a balance between crop protection and wildlife conservation,” the minister told TOI. Supriyo also said that use of crude bombs that end up killing animals calls for a deeper investigation. “We need to probe how people are accessing low explosives and where they are being manufactured,” he said. Meanwhile, the MP from Asansol added that the Centre has written to states to ensure dry leaves are removed from forests to mitigate risk of fires. “During the lockdown air is cleaner as levels of PM 2.5, PM 10 and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) have fallen drastically and states have been directed to ensure no stubble burning takes place which could lead to an increase in pollution,” he said. Asked about the rise in poaching incidents during lockdown, Supriyo said, “Poaching was more frequent until a few years ago but we have cracked down on it. The tiger population is already at over 2,900, recording a rapid growth.” The tiger population rose from 2,226 in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-elephant-death-union-environment-min-asks-conservationists-to-list-cruel-practices-that-kill-wildlife/articleshow/76238275.cms||Rohan Dua
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: From 50 coronavirus cases a day in May, Dharavi sees just ten on Saturday||MUMBAI: The Dharavi area, Mumbai’s biggest hotspot, recorded 10 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the lowest since April 27 when it had recorded 13 cases. In another indication that the situation may have improved in the congested slum pocket from mid-May, when the area was seeing about 50 cases a day, Dharavi has recorded an average of 21 cases a day in the past one week. Between May 31 and June 6, Dharavi saw 148 cases, its lowest weekly count in six weeks. Between May 10 and 16, when the Covid-19 outbreak in the area was severe, it had recorded 365 cases— an average of 52 cases a day. Civic officials said the numbers had been controlled because of large-scale screening of slumdwellers, fever clinics in which 350 local doctors were at work and isolation of high-risk contacts in quarantine facilities. Dharavi comes under GNorth ward, which has the highest number of cases in the city (3,372). Though the ward includes Mahim and Dadar, a majority of the cases—nearly 65%—are from the 2.5 sq km slum pocket. While the ward has seen 95 deaths so far, 71 of them have been in Dharavi. BMC officials said they have surveyed 4.7 lakh people in Dharavi. ‘Reduction in congestion has come to Dharavi’s aid’BMC has surveyed Dharavi by way of house visits and screened nearly 8,000 senior citizens there. Since public toilets used by many people in the densely-populated pocket have been a major source of spread of the virus, civic staff have been cleaning them several times in a 24-hour period, officials said. Assistant municipal commissioner for G-North ward Kiran Dighavkar said, “Screening of local dwellers helps us to identify symptomatic patients and their high-risk contacts in time. We started isolating symptomatic patients and high-risk contacts in large numbers, and that helped us to control the spread.” Police have also helped the BMC to implement lockdown in the pocket’s containment areas, officials noted. According to officials, nearly 75% of the Covid-19 cases in Dharavi in the 21-to-60 agegroup, and many of those affected are workers involved in essential services and healthcare professionals. Congress corporator Babbu Khan said, “The BMC roped in most of the local doctors, sent health workers to counsel people and encouraged symptomatic people to come forward for tests. Also, over two lakh people (migrants) have left Dharavi area, which has reduced congestion and helped to maintain social distancing. These things have helped to curb cases in the area.” The first Covid-19 case was found in Dharavi early in April, but after that, the number of cases shot up quickly owing to the dense population there and the difficulty in adhering to social distancing norms due to narrow spaces in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-from-50-coronavirus-cases-a-day-in-may-dharavi-sees-just-ten-on-saturday/articleshow/76240689.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 14-day home quarantine for returnees' family and contacts too||KOCHI: With new Covid-19 cases in the state reaching three-digit figures in the past two days, the health department has asked even local contacts and relatives of returnees from abroad and other states undergoing home quarantine as well as those travelling from containment zones in the state to "avoid community/social contact" for 14 days. The spike in coronavirus cases in the state has coincided with relaxations in lockdown while people returning home from Covid-affected places are increasingly sent to home-quarantine. The health department is looking to ensure that the coronavirus infection doesn't spread in the community through contacts of those violating room quarantine, as it has already been alleged that people are violating room quarantine in several places. The department's guidelines on Covid-19 testing and quarantine/isolation, updated as per the situation in the state, say the local contacts and relatives of returnees undergoing home quarantine should also "practise strict adherence to mask use, practice personal, cough, sneeze and hand hygiene". At the ground level, employees in panchayats and municipalities are being trained to sensitise them on the matter. Focus should also be on local contactsAs we go ahead, the focus has to be not just on returnees but also their local contacts. However, unlike returnees against whom cases are registered for violating home quarantine, there is no plan to register any case. The whole effort is to sensitise them,” said Dr B Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission. Health department officials said a previous infection is responsible for any new Covid case and people should take necessary care to reduce the spread of the infection. “As people are increasingly returning from highly affected areas, the probability of them testing positive is high and therefore other persons in the family also have to be very careful to reduce the risk of spreading the infection,” principal health secretary Dr Rajan N Khobragade said. The Kerala unit of Indian Medical Association has welcomed the move. It had earlier opposed home quarantine for those coming from abroad and red zones in other states in view of the risk involved. “It is important that family members of those in home quarantine don’t go out and mix in the society,” said Dr Gopikumar P, IMA (Kerala) secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-14-day-home-quarantine-for-returnees-family-and-contacts-too/articleshow/76240694.cms||Preetu Nair
June 7, 2020||Mumbai||Absolutely unjust and unfair to take redevelopment buildings for Covid-19: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has pulled up the BMC for requisitioning buildings in redevelopment projects for use as quarantine centres when their original tenants were awaiting the new homes in "pathetic circumstances''. It called the BMC's move "absolutely unjust and unfair". The HC was hearing half a dozen petitions filed by Sahyog Homes Ltd and others challenging the BMC move to requisitioning private buildings. Sahyog counsel Nilesh Gala said the BMC had sealed its 22-storeyed SRA building in Andheri (W) to use nine storeys as a quarantine facility. Advocate Karl Tamboly who appeared for a Sea Green cooperative housing society in Worli said while original occupants were waiting since 2007 when the old building constructed in 1959 was demolished, the multi storeyed redevelopment building awaiting OC, was requisitioned by the BMC. The strong words from the HC comes days after residents of a Runwal complex in Diva clashed with police over plans to take over some of the buildings for isolating people. The HC has adjourned matters challenging the requisition and ordered status quo. Scant regard for those sans roof over heads, says HCA bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade on Friday directed the BMC to file an affidavit by June 9. The civic body must give details of houses, buildings and other places where it has “started making or has made arrangements for quarantine facilities’’. It must disclose bed capacity and individuals housed there too. The HC noted that the BMC, though directed by it on May 22 to file an affidavit, had not done so. The HC observed that hundreds of families that had handed over original tenements or flats to builders by entering into agreements for redevelopment resided in transit camps or other temporary tenanted premises for which builders promised to pay rent. The judges said some builders had taken a decade to complete construction and had even stopped paying monthly compensation to the original tenants, who “virtually landed on streets’’. It added that several people had filed petitions against builders to ensure immediate completion of projects and “restoration of roofs over their heads’’. While orders had been passed to ensure work was completed, occupancy certificates were awaited in several cases, it said. “But despite pathetic circumstances of such families who are longing to secure legitimate roofs over their heads, MCGM, under the garb of its May 31, 2020, circular started requisitioning buildings for quarantine and isolation facilities. Consequently, the original tenants/owners were deprived of their residences,’’ the HC said, adding that the BMC’s action “prima facie appears to be... done with scant regard or consideration to plight of those who have no roof to call their own”. In a separate contempt petition filed in one matter, advocate Vivek Shukla for petitioner, Mohammed Umatia said developer Neelkamal Realtors Tower Pvt Ltd refused to provide transit accommodation though a portion of their building fell. Girish Godbole counsel for Neelkamal that part of the transit building collapsed and 11 tenants were shifted. Godbole also said that the BMC has provided alternate accommodation to four these in a nearby school and if the balance seven are not, the builder would. The HC then directed that the builder provide the accommodation to these seven tenants or pay their monthly compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/absolutely-unjust-and-unfair-to-take-redevelopment-buildings-for-covid-19-bombay-high-court/articleshow/76240695.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala's positive Covid-19 cases cross three digit-mark again, 108 on Saturday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Saturday reported 108 Covid-19 cases, crossing the three-digit mark for the second consecutive day. Former footballer E Hamzakoya (61) succumbed to the virus at Manjeri medical college hospital, taking the total number of Covid deaths in the state to 16. The tally includes a Mahe resident who died in Kozhikode. Of the new cases, 64 came from abroad and 34 from other states while 10 contracted the virus through contact. Kollam (19) had the maximum cases, followed by Thrissur (16), Malappuram and Kannur (12 each), Palakkad (11), Kasaragod (10), Pathanamthitta (9), Alappuzha and Kozhikode (4 each), Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Idukki (3 each) and Kottayam (2). The returnees from abroad who tested positive on Saturday included 28 persons who came from the UAE, 14 from Kuwait, 13 from Tajikistan, four from Saudi Arabia, three from Nigeria and one each from Oman and Ireland. As many as 15 persons who returned from Maharashtra, eight from Delhi, five from Tamil Nadu, four from Gujarat and one each from Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were among those infected. Those who contracted the virus through contact included seven in Palakkad, two in Malappuram and one in Thrissur, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement. 1,029 people under treatment in stateAs many as 50 patients, including six Air India employees under treatment in Kozhikode, tested negative on Saturday. The total number of persons under treatment is 1,029 while 762 have recovered from the infection. The number of people under observation in the state is 1,83,097, of whom 1,615 are admitted to hospitals. On Saturday alone, 287 persons were admitted to hospitals with Covid-19 symptoms. Till date, 1,79,294 people have returned to the state – 43,901 by air, 1,621 in ships, 1,17,232 by road and 16,540 in trains. The chief minister said 3,903 samples were sent for tests in the past 24 hours. Till date, 81,517 samples were sent for tests, of which 77,517 came negative. The number of hotspots in the state rose to 138. The new 10 hotspots are Puthupariyaram, Kannadi, Vandazhy, Wadakkanchery, Pukkottukavu, Thenkara, Pirayiri and Kollengode (all in Palakkad), Neendakara in Kollam and Olavanna in Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralas-positive-covid-19-cases-cross-three-digit-mark-again-108-on-saturday/articleshow/76240715.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala's positive Covid-19 cases cross three digit-mark again, 108 on Saturday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Saturday reported 108 Covid-19 cases, crossing the three-digit mark for the second consecutive day. Former footballer E Hamzakoya (61) succumbed to the virus at Manjeri medical college hospital, taking the total number of Covid deaths in the state to 16. The tally includes a Mahe resident who died in Kozhikode. Of the new cases, 64 came from abroad and 34 from other states while 10 contracted the virus through contact. Kollam (19) had the maximum cases, followed by Thrissur (16), Malappuram and Kannur (12 each), Palakkad (11), Kasaragod (10), Pathanamthitta (9), Alappuzha and Kozhikode (4 each), Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Idukki (3 each) and Kottayam (2). The returnees from abroad who tested positive on Saturday included 28 persons who came from the UAE, 14 from Kuwait, 13 from Tajikistan, four from Saudi Arabia, three from Nigeria and one each from Oman and Ireland. As many as 15 persons who returned from Maharashtra, eight from Delhi, five from Tamil Nadu, four from Gujarat and one each from Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were among those infected. Those who contracted the virus through contact included seven in Palakkad, two in Malappuram and one in Thrissur, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement. 1,029 people under treatment in stateAs many as 50 patients, including six Air India employees under treatment in Kozhikode, tested negative on Saturday. The total number of persons under treatment is 1,029 while 762 have recovered from the infection. The number of people under observation in the state is 1,83,097, of whom 1,615 are admitted to hospitals. On Saturday alone, 287 persons were admitted to hospitals with Covid-19 symptoms. Till date, 1,79,294 people have returned to the state – 43,901 by air, 1,621 in ships, 1,17,232 by road and 16,540 in trains. The chief minister said 3,903 samples were sent for tests in the past 24 hours. Till date, 81,517 samples were sent for tests, of which 77,517 came negative. The number of hotspots in the state rose to 138. The new 10 hotspots are Puthupariyaram, Kannadi, Vandazhy, Wadakkanchery, Pukkottukavu, Thenkara, Pirayiri and Kollengode (all in Palakkad), Neendakara in Kollam and Olavanna in Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keralas-positive-covid-19-cases-cross-three-digit-mark-again-108-on-saturday/articleshow/76240702.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala's positive Covid-19 cases cross three digit-mark again, 108 on Saturday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Saturday reported 108 Covid-19 cases, crossing the three-digit mark for the second consecutive day. Former footballer E Hamzakoya (61) succumbed to the virus at Manjeri medical college hospital, taking the total number of Covid deaths in the state to 16. The tally includes a Mahe resident who died in Kozhikode. Of the new cases, 64 came from abroad and 34 from other states while 10 contracted the virus through contact. Kollam (19) had the maximum cases, followed by Thrissur (16), Malappuram and Kannur (12 each), Palakkad (11), Kasaragod (10), Pathanamthitta (9), Alappuzha and Kozhikode (4 each), Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Idukki (3 each) and Kottayam (2). The returnees from abroad who tested positive on Saturday included 28 persons who came from the UAE, 14 from Kuwait, 13 from Tajikistan, four from Saudi Arabia, three from Nigeria and one each from Oman and Ireland. As many as 15 persons who returned from Maharashtra, eight from Delhi, five from Tamil Nadu, four from Gujarat and one each from Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were among those infected. Those who contracted the virus through contact included seven in Palakkad, two in Malappuram and one in Thrissur, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement. 1,029 people under treatment in stateAs many as 50 patients, including six Air India employees under treatment in Kozhikode, tested negative on Saturday. The total number of persons under treatment is 1,029 while 762 have recovered from the infection. The number of people under observation in the state is 1,83,097, of whom 1,615 are admitted to hospitals. On Saturday alone, 287 persons were admitted to hospitals with Covid-19 symptoms. Till date, 1,79,294 people have returned to the state – 43,901 by air, 1,621 in ships, 1,17,232 by road and 16,540 in trains. The chief minister said 3,903 samples were sent for tests in the past 24 hours. Till date, 81,517 samples were sent for tests, of which 77,517 came negative. The number of hotspots in the state rose to 138. The new 10 hotspots are Puthupariyaram, Kannadi, Vandazhy, Wadakkanchery, Pukkottukavu, Thenkara, Pirayiri and Kollengode (all in Palakkad), Neendakara in Kollam and Olavanna in Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/keralas-positive-covid-19-cases-cross-three-digit-mark-again-108-on-saturday/articleshow/76240714.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra sees 120 Covid-19 deaths, cases up by 1,274; Pune logs 342 new patients||MUMBAI/PUNE: Maharashtra recorded 120 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, its second highest toll in a day. The highest deaths so far in a day was 139, on Friday. Of the 120 deaths in the state, 58 were in Mumbai, the city's highest fatalities for a day; its toll stands at 1,577. The state's overall toll is now 2,969, just shy of the 3,000 mark. The cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged past the 9,000-mark on Saturday, with the addition of 342 positives in the 24 hours. Six more people succumbed to the contagion in the PMR on Saturday, pushing the casualty count in the PMR to 407. The state added 2,739 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 82,968. Mumbai recorded 1,274 fresh cases, taking the city's tally to 47,354 cases, with the case fatality rate at 3.33%. The state update said that of the total deaths reported on Saturday, 30 were from the last two days, while the other 90 were from May 3 to June 3. Since Monday, the state has reported 683 deaths. Of the 120 deaths, 90 were from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. State sees 120 deaths, 1,274 turn positiveThe BMC’s daily Covid update too spoke of 57 (as against the state update, which said 58). The BMC said 39 of these victims had chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes or heart problems. While 29 of the dead were in the 40-60 age-group, 21were above 60 years of age and seven were under 40. While 23 of the 57 victims were women, 34 were men. “The city’s peak was in the second fortnight of May, we are now witnessing a plateauing of cases,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of the Indian College of Physicians and a member of the state task force. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the doubling time has improved to 20 days across the city and is higher in some pockets. “We cannot say for certain that the worst is over, but we are on the proper track,” he said. “The next few days are crucial as the lockdown is being relaxed and we could see a spike in the next few weeks,” Kakani said. Senior officials in the state said newer hotspots like Solapur and Jalgaon were getting added in the state. The Solapur Municipal Corporation had a total of 1,176 cases and 90 deaths. The rate of recovery in the state was showing a steady rise and was 45% on Saturday. The state discharged 2,234 people on Saturday, taking the total number of people discharged so far to 37,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-sees-120-covid-19-deaths-cases-up-by-1274-pune-logs-342-new-patients/articleshow/76240707.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 7, 2020||Patna||233 new cases take Covid-19 count in Bihar to 4,831||PATNA: Altogether 233 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar, taking the total number of coronavirus patients to 4,831, according to state health department figures released on Saturday evening. One Covid-19 death was also reported from Muzaffarpur, but there was no official confirmation from the health department headquarters on Saturday. The official death toll remains at 29, while the number of recoveries stand at 2,298 and the statewide active cases tally is at 2,503. While there was no health department confirmation of the death in Muzaffarpur, as per information shared by the district administration, the deceased was a 51-year-old man, who had returned from New Delhi with his wife on June 1 and was under quarantine. He was admitted to the Muzaffarpur Sadar hospital on June 4 and died on June 5. "His sample was sent for Covid test on June 2 and the positive result came on Saturday evening. Even his wife has tested positive for the virus. This is the first death of a Covid-19 positive person in Muzaffarpur," said district public relations officer Kamal Singh, adding, the patient was cremated as per protocol. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh through a press statement issued on Saturday evening stated that altogether 95,473 samples have been tested so far in Bihar. "In the past 24 hours, 65 people have recovered from coronavirus and a total 2,298 people have recovered and returned to their home. Also 3,454 are migrants, who have returned after May 3, have tested positive for coronavirus," Lokesh stated. As per information shared by the health department, coronavirus cases on Saturday were reported from 21 districts, including from Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/233-new-cases-take-covid-19-count-in-bihar-to-4831/articleshow/76240711.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Rush for hospital beds as Tamil Nadu Covid-19 tally hits 30,000||CHENNAI: As Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally breached the 30,000 mark on Saturday, hospitals in Chennai struggled to accommodate patients. Chennai accounted for 1,146 of the 1,458 fresh cases that took the state tally to 30,152. The state also recorded 19 deaths, the highest daily toll so far, taking the total to 251. Several people in Chennai, which now has a total of 20,993 cases, made desperate calls and tweeted on social media about shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients. “My aunt is 80-years-old and tested positive. We called most private hospitals we knew but we just couldn’t find a bed,” said Shridharan S, a retired banker, who lives in Teynampet. Private hospitals said they were running out of ICU beds as people with comorbidities, elderly and the sick who require high dependency units, are being brought in. At government hospitals, doctors were moving several patients with no or mild symptoms to Covid-19 care centres. “We are still full,” a senior doctor said. Senior intensivists and infectious diseases experts from at least four Chennai hospitals told TOI they were seeing many patients, being brought to hospital too late. Of 13,503 patients being treated, 10,223 in ChennaiSaturday’s list of fatalities included a 30-year-old man with no-comorbidities, who died within 10 minutes of admission at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Thursday following a massive cardiopulmonary arrest. Eight of the nineteen patients whose deaths were reported on Saturday did not have any comorbidities. While it took two weeks for the state to move from 10,000 cases to 20,000 cases, it added another 10,000 cases in just 8 days. Chennai was growing at a much faster rate. While it took 11 days for the city to double its cases from 5,000, it moved to 15,000 cases in eight days and added another 5000 cases in just five days. At the end of the day, 633 patients were discharged taking the total number of people discharged to 16,395. There were 13,503 patients still being treated, including 10,223 in Chennai. tests also went up as the state increased the number of people it was testing. In the last 24 hours, the state has tested 15,389 people and 16,022 samples across 74 labs. As the number of tests increased, it was taking up to five days to get results, though lab technicians were working overtime Among Chennai’s neighbouring districts, Chengalpet reported 95 cases, Kancheepuram 16, and Tiruvallur 79. The remaining 84 cases were from 24 districts –14 in Tuticorin alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rush-for-hospital-beds-as-tamil-nadu-covid-19-tally-hits-30000/articleshow/76240720.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Kite flyers beware, cops have drones||CHENNAI: To crack down on people flying kites using the banned manja thread, the city police are keeping a close eye on them through binoculars from rooftop of highrises and drone cameras. According to police, at least 18 people, including a sub-registrar in Royapettah, have been injured by the sharp thread since April. Following this, the Chennai city police are cracking down on kite flyers and sellers. As per the instructions of police commissioner A K Viswanathan, all joint commissioners have directed inspectors a few days ago to ensure proper monitoring. The tallest building in an area has been chosen to monitor using binoculars. A police inspector in Periamet has assigned two policemen on the rooftop of a building. "In Periamet, the suburban terminal gives a clear view of the surroundings. Two police personnel work in two shifts covering the entire day," said the officer. If they spot any kites in the sky, they alert the police station with the exact location and a team rushes to the spot. On Thursday, Periamet police questioned two juveniles for flying kites. Since they were not using manja thread, their parents were warned. The Choolaimedu police have been using drones to nab kite flyers. In the past week, 15 people were booked. "Usually, when we go looking for kite flyers, they flee the spot. But with the help of drone cameras, we take snapshots of the flyers so that the suspects can be easily identified," said Choolaimedu inspector Anand Babu. The Choolaimedu police recently booked three people under culpable homicide for the first time in the city.  "We have also been conducting awareness programmes to make people realise that their action may cost a life," said Anand Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kite-flyers-beware-cops-have-drones/articleshow/76240721.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Ex-footballer who came from Maharashtra dies of Covid-19||KOZHIKODE: Former footballer Hamzakoya, 61, who played for Maharashtra in the Santosh Trophy, died at the Manjeri Medical College in Malappuram on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 deaths in the state to 15. Hamzakoya had arrived at his native Parappanangadi from Maharashtra on May 21 byroad along with his wife, son, daughter-in-law, and grandchildren. He was kept in observation after his wife and son tested positive on May 24. He was tested positive along with his daughter-in-law and two grandchildren on May 26. Koya developed respiratory problems on May 31 and was admitted to the critical care unit with a ventilator facility. During the treatment, he developed cardiac problems too. According to the medical bulletin issued by the medical college, Koya was subjected to plasma therapy as directed by the medical board. Meanwhile, the death of a two-month-old baby admitted to the Manjeri Medical College with Covid-19 symptoms raised concerns before the test result came negative. Another case of untracked Covid-19 was reported from Payyoli in Kozhikode district where a person who went to Bahrain on June 2 was tested positive at Bahrain airport. All his contacts have been sent to quarantine and the samples of his immediate relatives sent for examination. Payyoli municipal chairperson V T Usha told TOI that the shops and the bank he visited have been closed. "He came from Bahrain in February and was scheduled to return in April. The person had no symptoms of Covid-19 but was found positive in the test conducted at Bahrain airport," she said. It was the person himself who communicated the information to his family and friends. "He is very cooperative and is sharing the details of his visits with us. We are in the process of making the route map," she added. As there are no Covid-19 patients in the Municipality and the surrounding areas, the authorities are attempting to find the source of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ex-footballer-who-came-from-maharashtra-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76240731.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Soon, an app to alert availability of Covid-19 beds across hospitals in Chennai||CHENNAI: To ensure smooth hospitalisation and treatment, the Greater Chennai Corporation is working on a mobile application that will provide data on bed vacancy, Covid-19 care centres for patients and officials. After reports of some patients being turned away from Covid-19 care centres and a few private hospitals, TN chief secretary K Shanmugham put this initiative in the works. A Covid-19 positive patient with recent miscarriage was rejected by many private hospitals due to non-availability of beds, before getting admission into a private hospital at Vanagaram. In another case, an infected patient who had undergone bypass surgery earlier could not find beds in government hospitals in the city and had to wait for 24 hours before being admitted into Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, said Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam. On Saturday, a document with details on the available beds was circulated along with contact numbersof doctors.As per data from thehealthdepartment, 17,433 beds were available across government and private hospitals and covid care and healthcare centres as on June 6. Eight government hospitals and four private hospitals and colleges have been converted into Covid health centres with 2,560 beds. At least 17 colleges and other institutions have been converted into covid care centres with 5,372 beds. A corporation official said the instruction is to create at least 10,000 beds available in variouscovidcarecentres. “We are identifying various schools, halls and institutions and are purchasing beds as well,” said the official. Regarding the application, the official said each zonal official was filling the information on bed occupancy and availability. “We will allocate beds and centres only through the application once it is ready,” said an official. “The app is almost ready.There are some issues that we are resolving,” said G Prakash, Greater Chennai corporation commissioner. On Friday, health minister C Vijayabaskar said the information on the number of available beds and cost of treatment will be available on the website on a real-time basis for people to make informed choices. Treatment at government hospitals is free, he said. “This is being made available so that people don’t have to run from pillar to post. As several cases of Covid-19 positive patients being turned awayduetounavailability of beds is being reported, we wanted to make this information public,” he said. Jayaram Venkatesan said to avoid confusion, total occupancy rate should be provided a part from oxygen and ICU beds and ventilator details should also be made available, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/soon-an-app-to-alert-availability-of-covid-19-beds-across-hospitals-in-chennai/articleshow/76240737.cms||Komal Gautham
June 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM opens common website of all departments||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday inaugurated a common integrated website of the state government - state.bihar.gov.in - through remote control. The website has been developed by the state's information and public relations department (IPRD). "On this website, information related to all departments can be viewed at the click of a mouse. The information will be updated on a regular basis for the convenience of people. IT managers and nodal officers of all departments have been trained for this work," a communique from IPRD said. After inaugurating the integrated website, the CM said people now have option to get information about the state government at the click of a mouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-cm-opens-common-website-of-all-departments/articleshow/76240741.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Councillors oppose MCG’s drain cleaning project, write to mayor||GURUGRAM: MCG’s Rs 28-crore plan to clean and repair drains in areas under its jurisdiction faced opposition from councillors, who have demanded that the project be re-evaluated and a survey be conducted before it is carried out. The councillors alleged that the plan has been prepared without their consent under the pressure of some influential contractors. In order to redress recurring complaints of choked drains during the monsoon, the corporation had drafted an elaborate plan for desilting and cleaning of sewer lines and stormwater drains across the city a week ago. It planned to hire super-sucker and jetting machines and robot to clean drains and had set aside Rs 28 crore for the project. In a letter to mayor Madhu Azad earlier this week, councillors said the engineering department prepared the estimate without a survey or detailed study. Seema Pahuja, ward 15 councillor, said the desilting estimates are very high and they have sought details from MCG officials. “Spending such a huge amount without proper planning at the time when corporation is facing financial burden is not a wise move,” she said. Mayor Madhu Azad said she is yet to receive the councillors’ letter. “If there are some valid objections, I will take it up with the higher authorities,” she said. Meanwhile, Pahuja said councillors will raise the issue during the MCG House meeting on Monday. Depending on the replies of the officials concerned, the future course of action will be decided, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/councillors-oppose-mcgs-drain-cleaning-project-write-to-mayor/articleshow/76239887.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Anna University mulls online exam for engineering students||CHENNAI: As one lakh engineering students across the state wait to complete their graduation, Anna University is mulling to hold online exams for final-year students due to uncertainty in conducting pen-and-paper exams during the lockdown. The university, which expects more than 70% students to choose the online mode, may also offer offline exams for students who cannot take it online. "We cannot wait indefinitely and have to conduct exams. We are seriously considering conducting online exams for final-year students," said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor, Anna University. Even if students fail in online exams, they may get a second chance to write exams in offline mode. "If only 30% students opt for offline exams, we can accommodate them in hostels and exam halls by maintaining social distancing norms," the VC said. The online exam mode may have embedded artificial intelligence features to prevent foul play. The questions are likely to be based on multiple-choice pattern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-anna-university-varsity-mulls-online-exam-for-1-lakh-engineering-students/articleshow/76240757.cms||A Ragu Raman
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat tally set to cross 20,000; 498 new cases, 29 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat recorded 498 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Saturday, taking the tally to 19,617. The cases included 289 from Ahmedabad, 92 from Surat, 34 from Vadodara and 20 from Gandhinagar. The state recorded the death of 29 Covid-19 patients in 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,219. Ahmedabad continued to record a high number of 26 deaths while two deaths were reported in Surat and one in Vadodara. The three districts of Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara account for 91.2% of deaths in the past six days in Gujarat. The share of other districts has recorded minuscule rise from 8.4% to 8.8%. With the 498 new cases, Surat crossed 2,000 total cases and Gandhinagar 400. The state capital in fact added 127 cases or 32% of it's total cases in a matter of six days. It's not just Gandhinagar though - analysis of first six days of June reveal that the share of districts other than Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara has gone up from 11.6% of total cases to 14.4% in past six days. The three districts alone account for 85.6% of cases from June 1 to 6. A total of 313 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 13,324. Ahmedabad recorded 210 discharges, followed by 35 in Surat, 23 in Vadodara and 10 in Sabarkantha. The number of active cases again crossed 5,000-mark with 5,074 or 25.9% of total cases. With new deaths and discharges, 68% of total positive patients have got discharged so far and 6.1% of the patients have died in Gujarat. Gujarat recorded steady fall in daily testing from June 3 that recorded one of the highest daily tests at 6,288. In three subsequent days, the daily figures are 6,023, 5,990 and 5,695. In all, Gujarat has carried out 2.45 lakh tests to find new Covid-19 patients. A total of 2.16 lakh persons are under quarantine in Gujarat, out of which 2.09 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-tally-set-to-cross-20000-498-new-cases-29-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/76240762.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Aurangabad||29 Aurangabad jail inmates test positive for Covid-19||AURANGABAD: A total of 29 inmates lodged in the 'sealed' Aurangabad central prison tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, sending alarm bells ringing in the prisons administration. The jail, located in the Harsul area of the city, had imposed a complete lockdown on April 19 and the report showing the prisoners positive, though asymptomatic, for the virus has raised many questions. A random screening started three days back in the prison and swab samples of 78 prisoners were taken. Out of these, 29 tested positive for the contagion, said the jail authorities. "We are looking in to it and utmost precautions are being taken to ensure that the disease does not spread in the jail," deputy inspector general (prison) Dilip Zalke told TOI. The officer said that as a precautionary measure, 50 swabs of inmates as well as the jail staff will be taken on a daily basis from tomorrow. Additional director general of prisons Sunil Ramanand said, "We have screened 90% prisoners in jails across the state. The remaining will be screened on Sunday. Our doctors are visiting prisons daily for monitoring the health of the inmates." 29 Aurangabad jail inmates test positive for Covid-19The officer said it has been made mandatory for prisoners to wear face-masks and that systematic arrangements have been made for their stay in barracks, but social distancing is not possible in prisons. “No symptomatic cases have been reported at the eight prisons where the lockdown has been enforced. For instance in Arthur Road jail, 66 inmates have tested negative for the virus,” added Ramanand. Aurangabad prison sources said among the 29 who tested positive are suspects remanded in judicial custody for last fortnight. Prison superintendent Hiralal Jadhav said, “We have been taking precautions. Things entering the sealed prison include vegetables, groceries and milk and the virus may have penetrated while handling the same.” The officer said the staff working in the prison was not allowed to go outside after the jail was sealed. “We had tested our men before getting them posted inside,” he said. ( With inputs from Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/29-aurangabad-jail-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76240763.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath launches power infrastructure projects worth Rs 3,135 crore||LUCKNOW: Unveiling power infrastructure projects worth Rs 3,135 crore on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath claimed that during nearly three months of corona crisis and peaking summers, there was no shortage of electricity in the state which was a commitment of his government to provide power even in the challenging circumstances. He said that as per Prime Minister Narendra Modi 'Power for All' resolution, efforts are being made towards 24-hour power supply to every household. In a move to strengthen this resolution, the CM inaugurated and laid the foundation of 28 transmission substations worth Rs 3,135 crore at his residence. Out of these, projects worth 1,881.78 crore were inaugurated and foundation was laid for projects worth Rs 1253.56 crore. The chief minister said this is a new series of steps being taken towards achieving the goal of 'Power for All'. He said by promoting a better work culture in the past three years, the government has achieved considerable success in strengthening the trust of the common man towards the system. Apart from the CM, energy minister Shrikant Sharma, chief secretary RK Tewari and the principal secretary, energy, Arvind Kumar, were present on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, the CM said that power corporation had the biggest target to achieve. After Independence, there were over 1 crore 24 lakh families who had never witnessed electricity. By providing a free electricity connection to them, their homes were lit. The government has also achieved the goal of electrification of 1.75 lakh 'majras'. The CM said that this work has been possible because the Central and State government and the people's representatives are working with a positive attitude. He said that the government is continuously working towards the goal of ' Sabko bijli aur hardum bijli'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-launches-power-infrastructure-projects-worth-rs-3135-crore/articleshow/76240773.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu caps Covid-19 treatment cost at private hospitals||CHENNAI: To prevent profiteering by private hospitals, the Tamil Nadu health department has fixed treatment costs for Covid-19 patients at Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 a day. The state wing of the Indian Medical Association has asked the state to either revise the price or take over private hospitals that are willing to offer their space instead. A release from state health minister C Vijayabaskar said hospitals in the A3 and A4 categories – as listed on the state health insurance webpage (https:// www.cmchistn.com) – cannot charge more than Rs 5,000 a day for treatment of Covid-19 in the general ward, multi-specialty hospitals in A1 and A2 category can’t charge beyond Rs 7,500. For treatment in ICU, hospitals cannot charge more than Rs 15,000. “Legal action will be initiated against hospitals that charge more than the prescribed fee,” he said. Earlier this week, Vijayabaskar had said the government had received complaints that hospitals were fleecing patients. Minutes after the state released the tariff norms, IMA state secretary Dr AK Ravikumar said the doctors association will make a representation for revision. “We will not be able to run the wards at that rate. Many hospital owners are telling us that they are ready to give the Covid beds to the state government. We will just work for them,” he said. Analysis of bills by TOI showed that a Covid-19 patient who stayed for 10 days in a semi-private room of a hospital in Chennai spent Rs 1,081 towards medicines and Rs 2,550 for blood tests and x-ray. But the patient had to pay Rs 2,500 for “other packages” and Rs 44,000 towards consultation, Rs 8,800 towards nursing charges, Rs 20,000 towards room rent. The cost towards PPE for doctors and other healthcare workers was Rs 1.01 lakh out of the Rs 1.80 lakh bill. “On an average we need at least nine PPEs per patient. There is an additional cost when we have to quarantine staff on Covid-19 duty,” Dr Ravikumar said. The state health department said it was willing to help hospitals procure PPEs at government rates if they are willing to pass on the benefit to the patients. Two days ago, the state brought treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals under the chief minister’s health insurance scheme, which covers more than 1.57 crore people. Treatment at all government hospitals continues to remain free, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-caps-covid-19-treatment-cost-at-private-hospitals/articleshow/76240765.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Why eateries have many problems on their plate||Without lockdown rent relief and longer night business hours, many say running outlets won’t be viable even when permission is given, reports Amin Ali There’s at least one post daily from a restaurateur inGurugram putting up all furniture and kitchen equipment — mixers, cooking lines, salamanders — for sale. As the food and beverage industry looks at an imminent reopening, some have decided to wind up. Many others, particularly those operating from malls, are also unlikely to open their outlets unless they receive rent relief. Over the next couple of weeks, when permissions begin coming through for the food and beverage industry, it’s quite likely that many of your favourite eateries will still keep their shutters down. “There will be many instances of first-time restaurateurs simply locking their outlets and handing over keys to landlords and request to offset their dues against the equipment and furniture lying inside the premises,” said a restaurant owner, who did not wish to be named. In a difficult market where the cheapest rentals at any viable location are upwards of Rs 1 lakh a month, recapitalising the business after more than two months in lockdown is simply not viable for several owners of single restaurants, cafeterias or microbreweries, who invested significant shares of personal money in these ventures, out of love for food. It’s one of the reasons why the restaurant business thrived inGurugram and acquired the same eclectic character as its people; the city’s constellation of corporate offices drew from across India young, ambitious professionals and a sizeable expat population. As the demand for good food rose, the entrepreneurial among them opened restaurants, bars and cafes. Now, with no business for nearly 75 days and no waivers on rent, many of them simply don’t have the cash reserves. A financial analyst, who ran a small takeaway and 10-seater eatery on the outskirts of the Sector 29 market in the evenings after her office hours, says she doesn’t see herself going back to it for at least six months. Some others have even offered to leave their entire setup as it is and walk away. But even businessmen who own restaurant chains and have deeper pockets are worried about viability because the ‘crowd’ will simply not be there. “Footfalls in public spaces have already fallen to one-third of pre-lockdown days. The huge crowd that comes from Delhi and Noida will not visit in the near future. It makes no sense for us to reopen any outlet of ours,” says a leading restaurateur with a chain of eateries in the city. National Restaurant Association of India’s (NRAI)Gurugram chapter head Inderjeet Banga, himself a restaurateur, says rules need to be such that it makes business sense to reopen. His immediate concerns are working hours; he says 65% of his sales come from dinner hours after 9pm with Friday and Saturday being the big days. It’ll make sense, he says, if restaurants are allowed to remain open till 11pm. Another major concern that Banga says the entire industry has are rent negotiations with malls and landlords. “Minimum guarantee rent is no longer possible. If a mall or a market cannot guarantee minimum footfall, then how can they ask for a guarantee of rent. A revenue-sharing model has to be the way forward for us to consider reopening,” he says. Even multinational chains are not willing to reopen their dine-in facilities till rents are negotiated again. A senior executive at one such fast food chain said they have started most of their takeaway, drive-through and delivery outlets but will only consider reopening dine-ins when malls renegotiate, waive off rent for the lockdown and agree to new terms for the rest of this financial year. “In one of the meetings of food retailers, there was a consensus to move out of malls that do not support us in one of our toughest hours. There will be many closures in coming days if landlords do not relent,” he says. Running a restaurant involves steep costs. At any standard mall, a 60-70 seater would have to pay monthly rent of Rs 5-6 lakh, plus around Rs 80,000 as maintenance. Staff salaries and overheads would cost another Rs 3 lakh. To cover the costs, the eatery will need 50-70 guests a day, according to estimates shared by a popular eatery at Cross Point mall. Suvir Saran, chef and owner of House of Celeste, says the industry will have to invent a new wheel. “Business as we know it may not be the same till next year. So only those with deep pockets will be able to survive this,” he says, adding, “Rents are an issue. A restaurant in Lado Sarai does not pay the same amount as we do in fancier places. We also have to look at training of new staff because the old staffers are no longer there. I have heard of partnerships being frayed because one person feels they should shut the restaurant while another feels that they should continue.” Saran is only planning to open his restaurant in mid-July and is preparing for it with a limited takeaway menu and implementing social distancing norms. But he is hopeful that things will look up. “People have already been at home for about 80 days. We must go ahead with business by ensuring customer and employee safety,” he adds. Rahul Kumar, MD of Red Mango, stresses the need for uniform guidelines from the government. He agrees footfalls will not be anywhere near pre-Covid days, but says reopening businesses and knowing what standard operating procedures are is important. “We will have to learn to live with coronavirus till a vaccine is found. Our workers want to return and we want to reopen. But we need support from the state government and landlords,” he says. Kumar says most outlets demand a revenue-sharing model as the way forward. He says while landlords of standalone premises have been accommodating, malls have been unrelenting. “About 40% of outlets may not reopen or survive even if they reopen. It is not good for malls as well that so many brands will either shut shop or just leave. There could be weeks of discussions before brands eventually reopen due to negotiations with malls even if the state government allows reopening,” says Kumar. Pushpa Bector, executive director of DLF Malls, says they are awaiting standard operating procedures (SOPs) from the state government and are in negotiations with brands on an individual basis. She says the company had strong relations with each tenant and shares their pain. ‘Caution, slow start’ will be the new normal for the next few days, she says, hoping most outlets will be open by June-end. On concerns about footfall, Bector says premises such as Cyber Hub that follow strict hygiene protocols are better placed than others to implement hygiene and social distancing guidelines. At a time when office crowds will remain low, she is banking on the “organic following” of one of Delhi-NCR’s most popular hangout destinations that goes beyond just workforce of Cyber City. Arjun Gehlot, director of Ambience Malls, says they are prepared to deal with the ‘new normal’ of social distancing and hygiene protocols. He says the mall has updated its app to keep track of real-time footfall, sending notifications on safety and cleanliness, booking of parking slots and online food ordering, and conversations on reopening plans with tenants had happened “on a positive note”. Most outlets, he insists, are prepared to reopen. Capital problems“It is great to see the wheels turning again and doing what we, in hospitality, do best,” read a post by Delhi restaurateur A D Singh as he announced home delivery and takeaway from his brands Olive Qutub, The Grammar Room and Guppy with “ever-clean kitchens and extra precautions”. Chef Jatin Mallick has been receiving calls from patrons of his restaurant, Tres, asking when they are reopening for celebrating birthdays, anniversaries and other occasions. Mallick says rather than make long-term plans, he is focused on taking each day at a time. Explaining the emerging scenario – from border sealing and new guidelines to disruption in the supplies of ingredients and workforce and reduced capacity at eateries because of social distancing – Mallick says it is the time to unlearn and learn. While he envisions each dish as a sensory appeal, he has tweaked his menu and come up with simplistic dishes that retain the ethos of his ingredient-based cooking. With liquidity sucked out during the lockdown, some outlets have been sending out impassioned pleas to regular diners to buy vouchers they can redeem later. Daily updates are being sent about hygiene protocols, such as live feed from the kitchen noting the body temperature of kitchen and delivery persons. Riyaaz Amlani, CEO of Impresario Entertainment & Hospitality – which runs outlets like Social and Smoke House Deli – says reopening with some of the present guidelines will further bleed the industry. He suggests the focus should be on hygiene and safety than on 50% occupancy. “Old business models, especially rents, are no longer relevant. We are looking at highly reduced revenues. If landlords do not support, we will have no option but to move on to new premises,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/why-eateries-have-many-problems-on-their-plate/articleshow/76240101.cms||Amin Ali
June 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Standard XII pupils go from weeks of exams to uncertain months||PUNE: Students of standard XII across education boards are grappling with more questions than answers as the Covid-19 crisis has spun their decisions about college and careers on its head leaving behind a trail of uncertainty. A Unesco report pointed out that over 13 crore students from standards IX to XII who take their board exams in India are severely impacted by the lockdown. Thousands of these students are now hoping for the best in a situation that is fraught with the worst. Another few days in March, and Simran Sidhu would have ended her Std XII exams with a flourish. Her next task was taking the SAT and then heading to the US to join her father for a college hunting spree. "The lockdown threw a wrench in every plan I had made for two years," she said. Education experts said probably no batch of Std XII students in the recent past have had to deal with such a fluctuating situation as this batch of 2019-20. There are no dates issued for the state CET, some board examinations are yet to happen, and some students are in a study coma, unwilling to go back to the grind. Std XII students go from weeks of examinations to uncertain monthsAmid all this hangs the fear that even the dates issued by the competent authorities for NEET and JEE may be changed as various epidemiological models suggest the virus infection to peak in July when most exams are slotted. The state government on Thursday wrote to the ICSE and CBSE boards to put off the examinations planned for July. For Omkar Salokhe, a NEET aspirant from Warananagar, some 40km from Kolhapur, the morning starts by removing his cellphone from overnight charging. A fully charged phone is the only source of studies that he has. "I cannot go to Kolhapur to fetch my notes as Covid-19 cases are rising. I am dependent on online studies," he said. Many of his friends from other nearby villages share the same predicament. There are network issues, connectivity issues and server issues, which affect their studies. "It is exhausting," he said. Some feel punished by fate to be in Std XII, this year. "Everywhere, students are enjoying. Even university examinations have been cancelled and they are chilling at home, watching whatever they want on TV or streaming sites. For the first time, there is no pressure of classes, holiday homework across academia, except for us. All of us, who are preparing for competitive exams, are stuck in a vicious time loop of revision after revision," Aditee Rode, a class XII student, said. Stressed parents have started online motivational classes to make sure that their wards stay motivated. "I quit my job in Baramati and went to Pune for two years for Aditee’s NEET coaching. Just before the lockdown, we returned to Baramati. Students don’t know when the exams will be held, or the results or when the next admissions will happen. Everything is at a standstill now. I keep watching motivational videos and attend webinars so that I can keep my daughter’s spirits high," Rama Rode said. The stress of studying, the lethargy, and uncertainty has begun affecting students, say experts in the field of entrance examination coaching. "In the normal scenario, the exams would have been done by now, but with the current situation, the students are on a loop of studies, which certainly is affecting them. For the upcoming batches to our new admissions have hit hard, as parents are in a confused state of mind. The fresh batches for the year 2022 have got many inquiries but very few admissions," Durgesh Mangeshkar, director, of IIITians Prashikshan Sanstha, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-xii-pupils-go-from-weeks-of-exams-to-uncertain-months/articleshow/76240777.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kolkata||Transport panel to suggest private bus fare revision in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The transport department has formed a three-member committee to suggest fare revision for private buses that are struggling to resume full operations. The committee will look into the bus economics and find the fare vis-a-vis operating cost. After 30 days, the committee will submit its report with recommendation on fare revision. Transport minister Suvendu Aadhikari, in consultation with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, will take a call on fare revision after that. Private transport constitutes the backbone of city’s mass-transit system. Private buses now ferry close to 45 lakh passengers a day, compared to 16 lakh passengers by state buses. This is the reason why private bus operation needs robustness both financially and operationally, said a transport official. During the survey on the first few days of Unlock 1, many commuters were found ready to pay more as break-journeys and availing other modes of transport had made their daily commuting four to five times costlier. “On first three days, I had to pay Rs 70-Rs 90 one-way to travel from Behala to Karunamoyee, as I availed different vehicles. For the same distance, I used to pay Rs 12. Even if I need to pay Rs 15 now, I won’t mind,” said Gaurab Dutta, an education department employee. The transport department is also thinking of upgrading the service of some private buses to introduce special category of buses — like executive buses — to earn higher fare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/transport-panel-to-suggest-pvt-bus-fare-revision/articleshow/76239375.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Malls, eateries, temples to reopen from Monday||LUCKNOW: Malls, restaurants, hotels and places of religious worship are all set to reopen from Monday as the state allows further relaxations under Unlock 1.0. The experience of praying, shopping and eating out, however, will be quite different in new settings and conditions as all precautions to prevent Covid-19 spread will need to be followed strictly. Your favourite restaurant, if it does decide to open, will now cater to only half of its capacity. Non-vegetarian dishes may be off the plates for a while, with the menu itself becoming disposable and single-use.Hotels will seek exhaustive details of your travel history and health conditions before welcoming you to stay, and forget about enjoying hospitality in the luxurious dining areas as room service is set to be the norm for some time. ‘Ensure Covid cases don’t rise due to Unlock 1.0 easing’Announcing these measures, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said on Saturday all efforts are being made to ensure that social distancing norms are followed strict when these public places reopen after a gap or more than two months. “UP is strictly following central guidelines and chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that all safety protocols have to be followed rigorously so that Covid-19 cases do not increase due to opening of these facilities,” he said. However, hotels, malls and religious places in containment zones would not open. “All the facilities reopening need to have public address systems and have to put up posters and standees to display various precautions to be taken maintained while use of alcohol-based sanitizers and screening by infrared thermometers at entry points are must,” Awasthi said. No live devotional music by groups will be permitted in places of worship and only recordings can be played. Not more than five persons can enter a religious complex at one time and strict protocols for entry, exit in queues will have to be followed. No ‘prasad’ will be served and devotees will not be allowed to touch the idol. If anyone needs to visit a government office for some work, they will have to take prior permission from the official they need to contact. No entry passes will be issued unless a person has appointment. Employees having any comorbidity, pregnant women and those above 65 years in any organisation should be permitted to work from home, or at least not deployed in front line work. Officials said the rules and modalities of Unlock 2.0 would be determined by the experience and success of the new phase and therefore. The government would strictly enforce all rules as a spike in Covid-19 cases after the first phase could spell crisis for subsequent reopening of facilities and services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-malls-eateries-temples-to-reopen-from-monday/articleshow/76240784.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 7, 2020||Kochi||Hamzakoya, a robust player adored by all||KOCHI: Former India goalkeeper Henry Menezes remembers a smiling Hamzakoya. “When you are new in Mumbai and don’t speak a word of Hindi, all you do is smile, right?” Almost everyone who knew Hamzakoya and shared pitch-time or moments off it alludes to the cheerful persona of the former defender who died, aged 61, due to Covid-19 at Manjeri in Malappuram on Saturday. Hamzakoya was a robust defender of the 1980s, who left home in Parappanangadi shortly after his university days to play in Maharashtra, and later settled down there. He played for an array of clubs in his adopted home, starting with the Western Railways (1977-80) before moving to Union Bank (1980-1981), RCF (1981-82), Tata SC (1982-85) and finally Orkay Mills, where he had a coaching stint after retiring as a player. He also represented Maharashtra in the Santosh Trophy (1981-86), and Menezes remembers he was particularly proud that his son Lihaz, a goalkeeper, followed in his footsteps. His wife Laila is a former volleyball player. Hamzakoya first grabbed attention whilst still a teenager studying at the PSMO College, Tirurangadi. The Calicut University was his launchpad and even after relocating to Mumbai, he maintained close ties with his friends and teammates back home. “He was a life member of CUEFA (Calicut University Ex-Footballers Association) and always attended our get-togethers conducted mostly in Kozhikode,” said his former teammate Premnath Philip. “He was here last December, we sat together and talked for two hours ,” Philip said. The two had played together for Maharashtra in 1982. And it was during such an annual Santosh Trophy camp that Menezes got closer to Hamzakoya. “He had a problem with the language initially but Hamzakoya always made sure to let his football do the talking. He was like a whip on the wings (wide area on a football pitch),” Menezes said. Getting into the national side wasn’t easy back then. Yet, Hamzakoya made it to the national camp, twice. “We envied his fitness. He was so committed always,” Menezes said. Veteran goalkeeper Victor Manjila remembers Hamzakoya as ‘everyone’s friend’. “People used to go to him for help, for jobs, and he never disappointed. Football has lost a fine personality,” Manjila said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hamzakoya-a-robust-player-adored-by-all/articleshow/76240791.cms||Arun George
June 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Syro-Malabar Church prods government to ease curbs||KOCHI: The Syro-Malabar Church is exploring the possibility of giving holy communion and easing the upper age limit of priests conducting mass. The church is in talks with the government and has claimed it is equipped to manage parishioners by pre-assigning time slots and positions in the church for the mass, sources said. A senior priest with the church said that the holy communion is an inevitable part of the mass and it cannot be equated with the distribution of nercha. "The mass is complete only when the communion is consumed. We are looking for that exception at least on this aspect," said the priest. Church sources said that the majority of priests are above 60 and this would mean that most churches would have to either cancel the mass or find a replacement. "We estimate that there would be hundreds of priests who are above the age of 65. Also, most bishops are above that age limit. So, we are looking for an exception, just for them to celebrate the mass. We are conducting informal discussions on this with the government. An official set of guidelines would be issued by the church latest by Sunday," said a senior official with the Syro-Malabar Church. Meanwhile, Syro Malabar Church's media commission secretary Fr Antony Thalachelloor said that the church is already equipped to conduct a systematic rotation to ensure social distancing. "The details of every parishioner are already with the concerned vicar. The vicar can coordinate with the family units within the parish, to select the persons to attend a mass on a particular day. Hence, a list can be prepared beforehand and even locations for them to stand in the church could be allocated ahead of the mass," said Fr Thalachelloor. He said that a rotation system would be implemented with the help of the family units and the parish councils so that everyone would get to attend the mass at least once in a cycle. "We are sure that the government has announced the relaxations considering the risks. If there is a risk of the disease spreading in a church, similar risks are there in a packed bus. It shouldn't be forgotten that Churches were closed even during Easter following government directions," said Thalachelloor. Indian Medical Association has warned that allowing a large number of people inside the places of worship would result in the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-syro-malabar-church-prods-government-to-ease-curbs/articleshow/76240792.cms||Disney Tom
June 7, 2020||Noida||Noida: Held for 8 months, charges not framed yet||GREATER NOIDA: Two activists from Nigeria have been kept in illegal detention for more than eight months at Police Lines in Surajpur, a Supreme Court lawyer has alleged. Chima Paul Ugochukwu and Chinasa Victor Obioha claim to be members of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), an organisation that wants some southeastern Nigerian states to secede and regroup as an independent nation called Biafra, which existed between 1967 and 1970. The two men, who arrived in India on a six-month business visa four years ago, had been living in a rented accommodation at Sigma 3 in Greater Noida and were engaged in exporting goods. Some members of IPOB alleged that officers at Knowledge Park police station had detained them, along with 30 other men from Nigeria, on September 24 last year. Gradually, while the rest of them were either released or deported, the two men remained in police custody without any charges filed against them, said Franklin Okey, national coordinator of IPOB, India. Okey added that most people from this region of Nigeria come to India either on student visas or for business purposes after being ‘persecuted’ by Nigerians. “The two men feared they would be killed if they go back,” he said. “We are no criminals. Our people get murdered there and that’s why we run off to foreign countries for shelter. It's unfortunate that the police here do not understand our plight.” He added that police should deport the men, and if not, at least formally file charges stating the reasons for detaining them. Kamlesh Mishra, the Delhi-based SC human rights lawyer, has held talks with the Noida commissionerate on the matter. He tweeted photos of the two men, with the hashtag ‘Black Lives Matter’. The lawyer said he had filed a complaint with Noida police on May 26 asking for the men’s immediate release. He plans to file a writ petition in the Allahabad high court on Monday. Mishra told TOI that Noida police did not tell him on what charges they had held the two men. “So far, it appears to be a completely illegal, arbitrary and contemptuous arrest and detention,” he said. Sriparna Ganguly, Noida’s additional commissioner of police, said that the two men were arrested after they could not produce valid travel documents and have been detained legally. “They have not produced any document that could ascertain their nationality. The ministry of external affairs and the Nigerian embassy are aware of this. We are also making efforts to send them back. These men do not want to go back to their country, and hence the charade,” she said, adding that both the men are being given food, shelter and are allowed to use their phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/held-for-8-months-charges-not-framed-yet/articleshow/76240141.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
June 7, 2020||Lucknow||Only e-challan for flouting traffic rules across Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Come June 15 and you will be served an e-challan if you are caught jumping traffic lights or violating the speed limit anywhere in Uttar Pradesh. Until now, only 10 cities in the state including Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Varanasi, Agra, Bareilly, Prayagraj and Kanpur had this facility. However, following directions from UP Police’s traffic directorate, the rule would be implemented in all 75 districts of the state and violators would not be served manual challans any more. ‘E-challans to be integrated with virtual courts in future’ Inspector general of police (traffic) Deepak Ratan said, “An integrated e-challan system is expected to bring in more transparency in prosecution of vehicles found violating the Motor Vehicles Act. As soon as an echallan is issued, the owner of the vehicle will get an SMS. The e-challan is intended to catch repeat offenders, who are liable to pay higher fines.” The IGP also said that echallans in the future will directly be integrated with virtual courts, making it easier for litigants to get cases resolved. “From March 2020, the state government has also sanctioned each district with a certain amount of money for postal charges of sending the e-challans generated along with the offender’s photo to his/her residence,” Ratan added. The same will also be applicable to Government Railway Police (GRP). “Under the new system, cops on duty will be given portable cameras to click pictures of errant drivers and vehicles and send them to the database of the district. Policemen will be able to do this with the help of an app installed on their mobile phones,” said, additional superintendent of police (traffic), Varanasi, Shrawan Kumar Singh. Singh also said that the database will help in identifying and prosecuting repeat offenders, who will have to pay heavier penalties. In some districts like Lucknow, traffic policemen posted on important routes are also wearing body cameras to live stream interactions with offenders and share the footage with the control centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-e-challan-for-flouting-traffic-rules-across-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/76240818.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Hacker earns Rs 3.78 lakh for tracking Google bugs||LUCKNOW: Sitting in Kanpur, he can hack into a US-based MNC and terminate an employee in seconds. But he won't do it. Because he is an ethical hacker. Meet Rahul Singh, a cyber security researcher and ethical hacker from Kanpur who used his free time during the nationwide lockdown to find security issues in Google products and make some extra money. In the past one month, Singh has found three bugs in Google products, for which he was awarded a total of $5,000 (Rs 3,78,000) by Google, under their Bug Bounty programme. He told TOI on Saturday that Google has an open forum where, under Vulnerability Reward Program Rules, it has been rewarding any hacker for detecting vulnerabilities in its products since 2010. The winners are also named in its hall of fame. ‘It took 10 days to spot security issues’Singh, who was staying in Delhi during the lockdown, utilized his free time and started searching for bugs in various Google products. For his first bug report, he got a bounty of $500 which was followed by another payment of $100 for his second bug report. Later, he followed it up with another bug report for which he was paid $3133.7. As part of a special Google programme to support Covid-19 vulnerability research, Singh was rewarded with an additional $1,337 for his efforts by the American multinational technology company. Earlier, he had managed to gather full access to UPTU and Kanpur University servers, including passwords of all email accounts and their passwords and warned the two universities about the security issues in their websites. “I was sitting idle during the lockdown period just like others. While browsing one day I came across this Google programme and started to work. I was able to nail three major security issues in the Google cyberspace domain. It included termination of an employee, marking his attendance and several others,” said Singh. It took him 10 days and he devoted 2-3 hours a day to identify issues in Google security. “I was rewarded with a total of $5,000,” he said. The son of a banker, Rahul said that he was always fascinated by Hollywood films on hacking, such as Matrix. It was while pursuing BTech in information technology from a private institute in Kanpur in 2012 that Rahul simultaneously honed his skills in ethical hacking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-hacker-earns-rs-3-78-lakh-for-tracking-google-bugs/articleshow/76240840.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 7, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: Hacker earns Rs 3.78 lakh for tracking Google bugs||LUCKNOW: Sitting in Kanpur, he can hack into a US-based MNC and terminate an employee in seconds. But he won't do it. Because he is an ethical hacker. Meet Rahul Singh, a cyber security researcher and ethical hacker from Kanpur who used his free time during the nationwide lockdown to find security issues in Google products and make some extra money. In the past one month, Singh has found three bugs in Google products, for which he was awarded a total of $5,000 (Rs 3,78,000) by Google, under their Bug Bounty programme. He told TOI on Saturday that Google has an open forum where, under Vulnerability Reward Program Rules, it has been rewarding any hacker for detecting vulnerabilities in its products since 2010. The winners are also named in its hall of fame. ‘It took 10 days to spot security issues’Singh, who was staying in Delhi during the lockdown, utilized his free time and started searching for bugs in various Google products. For his first bug report, he got a bounty of $500 which was followed by another payment of $100 for his second bug report. Later, he followed it up with another bug report for which he was paid $3133.7. As part of a special Google programme to support Covid-19 vulnerability research, Singh was rewarded with an additional $1,337 for his efforts by the American multinational technology company. Earlier, he had managed to gather full access to UPTU and Kanpur University servers, including passwords of all email accounts and their passwords and warned the two universities about the security issues in their websites. “I was sitting idle during the lockdown period just like others. While browsing one day I came across this Google programme and started to work. I was able to nail three major security issues in the Google cyberspace domain. It included termination of an employee, marking his attendance and several others,” said Singh. It took him 10 days and he devoted 2-3 hours a day to identify issues in Google security. “I was rewarded with a total of $5,000,” he said. The son of a banker, Rahul said that he was always fascinated by Hollywood films on hacking, such as Matrix. It was while pursuing BTech in information technology from a private institute in Kanpur in 2012 that Rahul simultaneously honed his skills in ethical hacking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-hacker-earns-rs-3-78-lakh-for-tracking-google-bugs/articleshow/76240828.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Nano spray gun to sanitize devotees at Naka Hindola gurdwara||LUCKNOW: Gurdwara Naka Hindola will use a nano spray gun to sanitize devotees as a precaution against novel coronavirus (Covid-19), once it reopens on Monday. The move is a part of the three-step safety plan floated by Lucknow Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee for Sikh places of worship in the city. Following the guidelines issued by the district administration under Unlock 1.0, LGPC has mandated many safety measures to welcome devotees after three months. A devotee would have to undergo a thermal scan and sanitise their hands while entring. They would then have to undergo a full-body sanitization process via a nano spray gun. Volunteers operating the machine would fill the tank at the base of the gun with a sanitizer with a 75% alcohol content. The volunteer would switch on the machine, adjust the regulator and then spray the sanitizer on the devotee, while avoiding his/her eyes. One will only be allowed inside the gurdwara after going through the three-step sanitization process.  "The sanitizer we are using is safe for humans. A person with a temperature above 98 degrees Celsius will not be allowed to enter the gurdwara. Using hand sanitizers and wearing face masks is compulsory for visitors. Only 20 people will be allowed to enter the gurdwara a time. We have put 20 mats at a distance of six feet on both sides. These mats will be disinfected daily, along with the entire premises," said LGPC president Rajendra Singh Bagga. At the Gurdwara Yahiyaganj, 10-15 devotees will be allowed to enter the premises at a time, while maintaining a distance of four feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-nano-spray-gun-to-sanitize-devotees-at-naka-hindola-gurdwara/articleshow/76240844.cms||Aditi Singh
June 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||44 test +ve in Ghaziabad, highest 1-day spike||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: In the biggest single day spike in Covid cases, 44 people tested positive in Ghaziabad on Saturday. Of them 33 are from government laboratories and 11 are from private facilities. The district’s tally has now risen to 442. With 297 patients discharged, the number of active cases stands at 136. Nine deaths have been reported so far. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the number of cases reached 591 after 21 fresh cases were confirmed. In all, 29 patients were discharged, 21 from GIMS and eight from Child PGI. All patients were from different areas in the city and no two were from the same family or area. The total recovered patients in the district is at 382 with a recovery rate of 59%. Active cases are at 201, highest in the state as of now. Meanwhile, health camps were organised at 12 sensitive places in the district, including Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola and Sectors 8, 9 and 10. A total of 668 people were screened at the camps. Ten were found to have fever and they have been referred to the district hospital. In another development, health officials said that a 41-year-old man from Sector 53 in Noida died in GIMS on Saturday. His Covid-19 test reports are pending. However, the person was suffering from diabetes and the cause of death was acute respiratory distress syndrome with pneumonia, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/44-test-ve-in-gzb-highest-1-day-spike/articleshow/76240164.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Congress moves MLAs to hotels after 3 resignations||AHMEDABAD: Social distancing might be the norm world over during Covid-19 pandemic but a desperate Gujarat Congress has packed its flock of 65 MLAs in three resorts and hotels to keep them together ahead of crucial Rajya Sabha polls. With eight Congress MLAs resigning ever since RS polls were announced - of these three namely Akshay Patel (Karjan), Jitu Chaudhary (Kaprada) and Brijesh Merja (Morbi) resigned in past two days -- the beleaguered party, yet again, packed off its remaining 65 MLAs to three resorts near Ambaji, Rajkot and Vadodara, on Saturday. Congress leaders confirmed that the 65 MLAs have been housed at Neel City Resort in Rajkot, at Wild Winds Resort in neighbouring Congress-ruled Rajasthan and at Aries Riverside Farmhouse located near Vadodara. Sources in the party said that about 40 MLAs have been housed at Neel City in Rajkot, the remaining have been lodged at the two other locations. Neel City resort is owned by Congress leader Indranil Rajyaguru, who contested against CM Vijay Rupani in the 2017 assembly polls. 2 more likely to resignThe move came amid sources insisting on a strong possibility that two more Congress MLAs, who are disgruntled with the leadership, could tender their resignations before the June 19 RS polls. Congress spokesperson Jayrajsinh Parmar said that there is no restriction of movement of MLAs out of the resorts, but the step has been taken to ensure that the BJP does not use coercive means to poach Congress MLAs. “There will not be any more defections now. The MLAs will go through training sessions on how the RS election is held and how they will be supposed to cast their votes,” he said. In Covid pandemic, this is truly a desperate measure as Congress MLAs were seen standing in close proximity of each other, many not even wearing masks. State BJP president Jitu Vaghani said the Congress’ move to shift its MLAs to safe locations was an internal matter of the party. “Going by the resignations, it is clear that not just the people of Gujarat, but even elected MLAs have lost confidence in the leadership. The Congress does not have the numbers to get two candidates elected, while the BJP is comfortably placed to ensure victory of all its three candidates,” Vaghani said. This is the third time in less than three years and the second time in three months that the Congress has had to move its Gujarat legislators to safe locations in a bid to prevent defections. While the party airlifted its MLAs to a resort in Karnataka before the 2017 Rajya Sabha election which senior party leader Ahmed Patel won by a whisker, earlier this year, in March, the Congress flew its MLAs to Rajasthan in the wake of five MLAs resigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-congress-moves-mlas-to-hotels-after-3-resignations/articleshow/76240853.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR witness rain on Sunday morning||NEW DELHI: Rain lashed some parts of Delhi-NCR on Sunday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted partly cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder lightning for three days from June 10 onwards with minimum and maximum temperature will hover around 29° Celcius and 42° Celcius respectively. Strong surface winds during day time have been predicted for today by IMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ncr-witness-rain-on-sunday-morning/articleshow/76240852.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru lockdown news: Today's updates||As the Central and state governments allow phase-wise relaxation in curbs to get the life up and running again following over two months of lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, we bring you the latest updates from your city. *Update at 11.30pm: Karnataka registered 239 fresh coronavirus cases in 24 hours, comprising largely inter-state returnees, raising the state's tally to 5,452, an official said on Sunday. Of the 183 domestic returnees, 177 or 97 per cent of them are from the neighbouring Maharashtra state. Other patients are from Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. There are also 9 international returnees from Kuwait and United Arab Emirates (UAE). *Update at 9.15pm: Mandatory wearing of face masks and thermal screening will be the norm when the Bengaluru Bannerghatta Biological Park opens on Monday with restrictions in place after almost a three month gap due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The BBBP said it has obtained approval from the Karnataka government to allow entry of the public from June 8, with restrictions to be followed. *Update at 8pm: Fatalities due to coronavirus reached 61 in Karnataka with two more deaths, the health department said on Sunday. *Update at 6.45pm: Facing a shortage of labour, some top builders in the city have initiated efforts to bring back the migrant workers, who have returned to their native places following the Covid-19 lockdown, and are holding parleys with Railway authorities for operation of special trains to ferry them. *Update at 5.15pm: 239 new Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka in the last 24 hours; total number of cases in the state is now 5,452: State health department *Update at 3.45pm: Social distancing will be the 'mantra' while traditional practices such as 'archana' and giving 'teertha' (holy water) will be missing in places of worship in Karnataka when they open for devotees from Monday with a slew of restrictions after almost a three-month long hiatus due to coronavirus lockdown. *After a hiatus of 75 days, Bengaluru eateries are gearing up to reopen for dining in from Monday. From reducing the number of tables to ensuring use of masks and gloves by staff, the establishments are ushering in changes to abide by social-distancing and health norms. *Places of worship gear up to welcome devotees in Karnataka *Minister of primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar is expected to decide on Monday whether online teaching should continue. According to an official, Kumar will discuss the matter with subject experts and take a call based on their suggestions. *Karnataka Government Rural Primary School Teachers’ Association has urged education officials to reconsider the decision to call staff back to campuses, citing concerns over coronavirus and transport availability. *Teachers of government schools have been asked to report for work from June 8. *Four districts have over 300 active coronavirus cases each, accounting for nearly 62 per cent of Karnataka’s current infections. *Bengaluru police, led by Bhaskar Rao, strictly implemented the lockdown, ensuring citizens didn’t roam around without a genuine reason. In containment zones where trouble erupted, cops swiftly detained troublemakers and provided protection to health workers. *Mosques on the west coast and Madikeri too will not open. *ANI update at 10.07am: Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed re-opening of places of worship from tomorrow; visuals from Sri Mookambika Temple in Kollur. *ANI update at 10.05am: As per Ministry of Health guidelines, touching of idols/holy books, choir or singing groups, will not be allowed. *Update at 9.43am: India reports the highest single-day spike of 9,971 new Covid-19 cases; 287 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total number of cases in the country now at 2,46,628, including 1,20,406 active cases *Mapping of containment zones and predictive modelling are key factors, according to BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar, who was instrumental in setting up the Covid-19 Control Room. *In the biggest push to restoring normalcy in Unlock 1.0, malls, restaurants and places of worship across Karnataka are all set to open tomorrow after over 70 days, though with strict adherence to central government’s guidelines on social distancing norms and public safety and health. *Restaurants across Karnataka are gearing up to open their doors for patrons. *Eateries in Bengaluru have been providing takeaways and online deliveries for some time, customers can sit and dine there from Monday with strict conditions regulating their eating out. *While coronavirus cases are increasing sharply in many parts of the country, Bengaluru has contained the contagion with great success so far. The tech capital, which has a population of over 1 crore, has recorded 452 Covid-19 cases. Of these, only 162 are active. *Karnataka has recorded 5,213 cases, and of these, 3,184 are active. The rest of the patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-in-bengaluru-latest-news-updates-on-bengaluru-corona-cases-deaths-7-june-2020/articleshow/76240894.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Testing in NCR rose gradually, but Covid cases went up much faster||GURUGRAM: While the average weekly sample collection in NCR cities has gone up just a notch, increasing gradually, the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a much sharper rise over the past fortnight. More samples among those who were tested were positive. Haryana is testing more people than states that have been witnessing massive surges. The state is conducting 5,506 tests per million, Delhi is conducting 2,018 and Maharashtra 4,177. The national average is 3,344. But more people in the state’s NCR cities are testing positive as well. Gurugram saw the sharpest spike in positivity rate (ratio of positive cases to the number of tests) — from 0.97% in April to 5.7% in May and 9.97% in the first week of June. In Faridabad, positivity rate went from 1.83% in April to 3.01% in May and is 4.3% now. In Jhajjar, it went from 1.6% to 2.5% between April and May and is at 2.7% now. Sonipat’s positivity rate went straight from 0.52% to 2.8% and then 3.33%. Since May 26, Gurugram has been adding 100-odd cases every day. In the last four days alone, it has added more than 500 new cases. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram is going up because we are conducting more tests. People are travelling and getting exposed to the virus more,” a Gurugram health department official said. But the increase in tests and the increase in cases has not been proportionate. The weekly average number of samples collected in this period did go up, marginally, in Gurugram (from 1,450 in April to 1,889 in May) and Jhajjar (from 1,723 to 1,972). The increase was much larger in Faridabad (from 247 to 2,359) and Sonipat (from 214 to 2,385) between April and May. But during this latest surge, most of which has been in the first week of June, the average sample collection actually dipped in three of the four districts — down to 1,123 in Faridabad, 623 in Jhajjar and just 409 in Sonipat. Only Gurugram saw a slight increase — to 2,255. The number of tests, in any case, does not translate into the number of people tested because each person is tested more than once. Jhajjar and Sonipat attributed the increase in cases to the Delhi connection. Jhajjar chief medical officer Randeep Singh Poonia said it had to do with the mandi and government staff members who work in Delhi and Sonipat chief medical officer BK Rajora said most cases had Delhi links. With 129 more cases, Gurugram is leading the state’s Covid count. It has 1,692 cases. Faridabad has 620 (it has the second highest), followed by Sonipat (350) and Jhajjar (107). Exactly half the state’s active cases are also in Gurugram — 1,345 of 2,648. Faridabad has 427 active cases, Sonipat 185 and Jhajjar 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/testing-in-ncr-rose-gradually-but-covid-cases-went-up-much-faster/articleshow/76239976.cms||Ipsita Pati
June 7, 2020||Faridabad||Testing in NCR rose gradually, but Covid cases went up much faster||GURUGRAM: While the average weekly sample collection in NCR cities has gone up just a notch, increasing gradually, the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a much sharper rise over the past fortnight. More samples among those who were tested were positive. Haryana is testing more people than states that have been witnessing massive surges. The state is conducting 5,506 tests per million, Delhi is conducting 2,018 and Maharashtra 4,177. The national average is 3,344. But more people in the state’s NCR cities are testing positive as well. Gurugram saw the sharpest spike in positivity rate (ratio of positive cases to the number of tests) — from 0.97% in April to 5.7% in May and 9.97% in the first week of June. In Faridabad, positivity rate went from 1.83% in April to 3.01% in May and is 4.3% now. In Jhajjar, it went from 1.6% to 2.5% between April and May and is at 2.7% now. Sonipat’s positivity rate went straight from 0.52% to 2.8% and then 3.33%. Since May 26, Gurugram has been adding 100-odd cases every day. In the last four days alone, it has added more than 500 new cases. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram is going up because we are conducting more tests. People are travelling and getting exposed to the virus more,” a Gurugram health department official said. But the increase in tests and the increase in cases has not been proportionate. The weekly average number of samples collected in this period did go up, marginally, in Gurugram (from 1,450 in April to 1,889 in May) and Jhajjar (from 1,723 to 1,972). The increase was much larger in Faridabad (from 247 to 2,359) and Sonipat (from 214 to 2,385) between April and May. But during this latest surge, most of which has been in the first week of June, the average sample collection actually dipped in three of the four districts — down to 1,123 in Faridabad, 623 in Jhajjar and just 409 in Sonipat. Only Gurugram saw a slight increase — to 2,255. The number of tests, in any case, does not translate into the number of people tested because each person is tested more than once. Jhajjar and Sonipat attributed the increase in cases to the Delhi connection. Jhajjar chief medical officer Randeep Singh Poonia said it had to do with the mandi and government staff members who work in Delhi and Sonipat chief medical officer BK Rajora said most cases had Delhi links. With 129 more cases, Gurugram is leading the state’s Covid count. It has 1,692 cases. Faridabad has 620 (it has the second highest), followed by Sonipat (350) and Jhajjar (107). Exactly half the state’s active cases are also in Gurugram — 1,345 of 2,648. Faridabad has 427 active cases, Sonipat 185 and Jhajjar 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/testing-in-ncr-rose-gradually-but-covid-cases-went-up-much-faster/articleshow/76240835.cms||Ipsita Pati
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Sexism is rampant and in our midst. It’s time we ‘woke’ up to it||The genesis of this article lies in two disparate but equally disturbing pieces of news that I read about these past few weeks. The first is the Bois Locker Room incident – we all know what happened there, so I see no reason to rehash it on this forum. The second is far less dramatic, but no less shocking. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Indian women do the most unpaid care and domestic work of any country globally – except for Kazakhstan. The average Indian woman spends 352 minutes per day on domestic work, which is 577% more than the average Indian man, who spends just 52 minutes. The lockdown has only exacerbated an already appalling situation, with women under more pressure than ever before to ‘take care’ of their families. Both these stories point to the same basic problem, albeit in very different ways: India has amongst the most rigid and regressive socio-cultural definitions of gender roles in the world. And while the easiest thing to do is denounce gender stereotyping and bemoan the patriarchy that has defined our nation for centuries, the truth is that the blame lies far closer to home. Sexism and stereotyping aren’t just functions of socio-culture, they’re also functions of popular culture, which advertising plays a huge role in shaping. Last year, I wrote about what I call ‘wokevertising’, award-friendly work that focuses singularly on addressing the many social injustices that plague our world. Racism, body shaming, gun violence, domestic violence, gender inequality, LGBTQ rights – whatever social issue you can come up with, chances are there’s already a Cannes Lion-winning campaign that’s been done on it. But, here’s the thing. Award-winning advertising rarely enters the mainstream, especially here in India. Which means it never gets to truly influence the ebb and flow of popular culture. What does, however, is the bread-and-butter, mainstream ‘brand work’. And therein lies the problem. This is the work behind which clients invest huge media monies. The work that will drive sales and move the business. The ‘iconic’ work we’ve all grown up with. Unfortunately, these are also the campaigns that add to the Indian narrative of how women are viewed. We all remember them. The one in which a woman’s self-worth is defined by the quality of the meal she serves her family (extra points if her stoic father-in-law or disapproving mother-in-law nod in acknowledgement!). The one in which a woman’s performance as a wife, homemaker and overall human being is measured by the whiteness of her husband’s shirt. The one in which a woman is celebrated for her ability to juggle the many responsibilities of everyday life – after all, that’s what makes her a superwoman! The one in which a woman can’t help but seduce her own brother-in law (but only because he’s wearing that supremely irresistible deodorant). And if we’re really talking about iconic, how about that one in which a woman can’t get a job or a husband because of the colour of her skin? And lest we think this gender narrative is getting too one-sided, what about the one in which the heroic, vest-clad alpha male beats up a bunch of eve-teasers/bank robbers, only to be rewarded by the damsel in distress draping herself over his broad shoulders in gratitude? Or the one in which an everyday guy (because, hey, relatability) has to fend off legions of supermodelesque women throwing themselves at him because of that deodorant he unknowingly sprayed on (poor guy). And my personal favorite: The one in which a husband forgets the name of his spouse, or better still, hands his phone to his friend while he bends down to tie his shoelaces as his (presumably clueless) nag of a wife drones on and on. We’ve all watched these, we’ve all smiled, and we’ve all laughed because, after all, ‘men will be men’. The truth, as hard as it may be for us to face, is that advertising has been built on the back of creating insecurity and reinforcing gender and cultural stereotypes. So, while it feels good to condemn sexism and patriarchy in all its forms in our personal capacities as progressive, forward-thinking individuals, it doesn’t really count for much when we reinforce the same regressive stereotypes in our professional capacities as marketers. Of course, one could argue that advertising needs to reflect consumer behaviour. But I’d like to aspire to create advertising that can drive new, more progressive, less stereotyped consumer behaviour altogether. Ultimately, the choice is ours. Regardless of where your personal opinion may lie on the matter, it’s time to take a good, hard, collective look at ourselves in the mirror. We may not like what we see.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sexism-is-rampant-and-in-our-midst-its-time-we-woke-up-to-it/articleshow/76240026.cms||---
June 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Malls, shrines not to open in Gurugram, Faridabad from June 8||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Saturday allowed opening of religious places, hotels and malls in the state under Unlock 1.0 starting from Monday, barring Gurugram and Faridabad districts, which have seen a spurt of Covid-19 cases. Most of the areas in the two districts fall in red zones. In the rest of Haryana, the government has permitted opening of religious places, hotels and malls as per standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be framed by various departments and enforcement agencies. All this was decided at a high-level review meeting called on Saturday to plan for Unlock 1.0 starting from June 8. The meeting, chaired by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday, was attended by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, home minister Anil Vij and senior bureaucrats. DMs will give permission for opening restaurantsIt has been unanimously decided that the religious places and malls falling under the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) shall not be allowed to open from June 8. However, in the rest of Haryana, the hotels and restaurants can run at 50% strength,’’ said Dushyant Chautala. The district magistrates will give permission related to opening of restaurants and eateries, etc. The standard operating procedures (SoPs) for religious places will be out soon and the visitors will have to strictly follow social distancing norms as laid down by the government. Wearing masks has also been made mandatory by the government. It is learnt that holding of religious gatherings and community programmes would continue to be barred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-malls-shrines-not-to-open-in-gurugram-faridabad-from-june-8/articleshow/76242284.cms||Manvir Saini
June 7, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana: Malls, shrines not to open in Gurugram, Faridabad from June 8||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Saturday allowed opening of religious places, hotels and malls in the state under Unlock 1.0 starting from Monday, barring Gurugram and Faridabad districts, which have seen a spurt of Covid-19 cases. Most of the areas in the two districts fall in red zones. In the rest of Haryana, the government has permitted opening of religious places, hotels and malls as per standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be framed by various departments and enforcement agencies. All this was decided at a high-level review meeting called on Saturday to plan for Unlock 1.0 starting from June 8. The meeting, chaired by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday, was attended by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, home minister Anil Vij and senior bureaucrats. DMs will give permission for opening restaurantsIt has been unanimously decided that the religious places and malls falling under the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) shall not be allowed to open from June 8. However, in the rest of Haryana, the hotels and restaurants can run at 50% strength,’’ said Dushyant Chautala. The district magistrates will give permission related to opening of restaurants and eateries, etc. The standard operating procedures (SoPs) for religious places will be out soon and the visitors will have to strictly follow social distancing norms as laid down by the government. Wearing masks has also been made mandatory by the government. It is learnt that holding of religious gatherings and community programmes would continue to be barred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-malls-shrines-not-to-open-in-gurugram-faridabad-from-june-8/articleshow/76242383.cms||Manvir Saini
