June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Unlock 1.0: Bengalureans apprehensive about stepping out||June 8 is a big day for the city’s restaurants, cafes, religious spaces and malls, as they open doors to patrons after over two months of lockdown. It’s a happy time for the stakeholders of these businesses/public spaces, but will Bengalureans make a beeline for them? We asked a few city celebrities if they would head out tomorrow, considering that malls, restaurants and religious centres have stepped up sanitation protocols and have been reassuring patrons that their safety is priority and this is what they had to say… Need to control the urge to step out These are tough times and we need to try and contain our urge to step out as much as possible. I am not sure if I will visit any of these places soon, unless and until I am convinced about the venue, like, for instance, a hot spot run by people personally known to me who can guarantee me that I'm going to be fine. - Sriimurali, actor Not going out till the end of this year I will definitely not be stepping out. I think this will be the case for most of us till the end of this year, since there seems to be no containing of the virus at least for now. I see no point in anyone visiting these spaces, when you can cook at home. I might be fine with takeaway, but I'm not revisiting my favourite cafes anytime soon. Meghana Gaonkar, actress Those with kids and older people at home need to be extra careful Coronavirus has not gone anywheret. I have a young son at home, so I need to be all the more careful. I feel there are enough people on the streets who have reasons to be there. Unless and until I have pressing matters, I will not head out. Sheetal Sharma, choreographer Cannot live in a bubble forever; just exercise caution People must not panic and need to be cautious. They need not change their lives completely. We have to accept that this virus is here to stay for a while. However, you cannot live in a bubble forever. We must exercise caution, so I will carry a bottle of sanitiser with me, wear a mask in public and maintain physical distancing. While stepping out into the new normal, remember...  In crowded areas, strictly follow mandatory precautions - use a mask, sanitise your hands and maintain social distance. Do not carry used disposable masks back home, dispose them with precaution. If using a cloth /reusable mask, disinfect it every single day.  A general heightened awareness on social distancing and sanitisation is vital at this phase. Remember, normal is a double-sided coin now.  Once home, ensure that the footwear used outside is disinfected and sanitize too.  -- Inputs from Dr Ravindra Mehta, Senior Consultant Interventional Pulmonologist at a city hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unlock-1-0-bengalureans-apprehensive-about-stepping-out/articleshow/76249421.cms||Sunayana Suresh
June 8, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar holds e-interaction with JD(U) workers in five districts||PATNA: Launching his virtual election campaign through social media platform, JD(U) chief and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday called upon the party’s grassroots workers to ask common people as to what was the condition of road and power supply in their area during the 15-year RJD rule of Lalu Prasad-Rabri Devi. Addressing the party’s booth level office-bearers of East Champaran, West Champaran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar and Madhubani districts in four separate sessions through a video calling app, Nitish told them that new generation might not be knowing about the very poor situation of law and order during the RJD regime before 2005. “You should inform the young boys and girls as to how massacres and kidnappings for ransom used to take place in the state on a regular basis in the RJD rule and how things have improved during the JD(U)-BJP rule,” he said. He was addressing the party’s office-bearers on the first day of his six-day interaction programme. “More than 7,000 office-bearers are being connected to the CM through the app in a particular session. The CM on Sunday addressed altogether four sessions, each of one hour,” senior JD(U) leader and minister Ashok Choudhary told TOI. He said booth to district level office-bearers of an average 10 assembly constituencies are being connected with the CM in a particular session. Senior JD(U) leaders like RCP Singh, Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, besides Choudhary and Sanjay Kumar Jha also addressed the party workers. Addressing the session, Jha said, “Our party chief Nitish Kumar is man of masses. He loves to remain with people and interact directly with the party workers. Had an abnormal situation like Covid-19 pandemic not arisen, he would have gone to the districts to have a direct interaction with the party workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-holds-e-interaction-with-jdu-workers-in-5-districts/articleshow/76250601.cms||Madan Kumar
June 8, 2020||India||820 monuments with places of worship to reopen today||NEW DELHI: As part of efforts to reopen public facilities as the lockdown eases, culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel announced on Sunday that 820 monuments managed by the Archaeological Survey of India, and which have places of worship on their premises, will be thrown open to public from Monday. These will not, however, include Maharashtra, where there are 65 such monuments under the ASI, because of the large number of coronavirus cases in the state. Access to monuments will be partially restored elsewhere with Karnataka topping the list with 153 monuments with places of worship. Uttar Pradesh follows with 111 monuments, including the Jami Masjid and Humayun Masjid in Agra, and the temples of Govind Deo, Radha Ballabh and Madan Mohan in Mathura. Gujarat and Tamil Nadu with 77 and 75 protected monuments follow with the largest number of monuments with places of worship on their premises. Delhi, which is home to 14 such ‘living monuments’ will have the Nila Mosque at Hauz Khas enclave, the Qutub archaeological area and the Lal Gumbad, among others, open to public. The ministry also named 10 archaeological sites which it said host “unauthorised worship”, but will be opened nevertheless. Prominent among these, are the tomb of Safdurjung, the tomb of Nizamuddin Aulia and Kotla Feroz Shah. A total of 3,691 centrally-protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by ASI were shut down from March 17. Patel, however, said all archaeological sites are expected to follow all safety and hygiene norms laid down by the ministries of health. Sources in the ministry said wearing of masks is likely to be made mandatory when the sites are opened. “All protocols issued by the MHA and the health ministry will be followed,” Patel said. According to region-wise distribution, ASI monuments with places of worship that will open from Monday include 114 from the northern region, 155 from the central region, 120 from the western region, 279 from the southern region and around 100 from the eastern region. Given the criteria that these are not places of worship, some of the bigger monuments like Red Fort in Delhi or the Taj in Agra are not on the list. According to government guidelines, the use of hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening provisions are to be made compulsory at the entrance and only asymptomatic persons shall be permitted entry at premises. All persons will be permitted entry only if they are using masks or face covers. It also stated that footwear or shoes should be preferably taken off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/820-monuments-with-places-of-worship-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76251094.cms||Swati Mathur
June 8, 2020||India||India, China will resolve border stand-off peacefully, says MEA||NEW DELHI: A day after Indian and Chinese army commanders met at the Chushul-Moldo point on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, the foreign ministry said both sides have agreed to peacefully resolve the month-long confrontation triggered by the intrusion of Chinese troops into areas patrolled by India. "Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements,” the ministry of external affairs said. There was no official statement on Saturday after an Indian delegation crossed into Chinese-held territory to hold extensive discussions seen to be purposeful in setting into motion the process of de-escalation along points in the Galwan Valley, Gogra and Pangong Tso. TOI had reported on June 7 that the talks had ended on a positive note. Describing the talks as being held in a “cordial and positive atmosphere”, the MEA statement made it clear that India would hinge its assessment of the bilateral relationship on peace on the borders, “keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquillity in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations”. The meeting between the military brass, which went on for over five hours, will be repeated in the coming days and weeks. “The two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the MEA said. “Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to further development of the relationship,” it added. India and China had planned 70 events to mark the seven decades of diplomatic ties, a decision taken at the Mamallapuram informal summit. The India-China military meeting on Saturday was followed on Sunday by slickly made videos by the Chinese government showing army movements to the India-China border in Ladakh, as part of information warfare tactics, all intended to intimidate the Indian side. The Indian military build-up at the points of intrusion and in supporting positions, however, is significant and the political leadership is clear that the Chinese army will need to withdraw. The military meeting followed a virtual conference on Friday between Naveen Srivastava, joint secretary, east Asia, in MEA and his counterpart Wu Jianghao, director general in the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs, on bilateral relations with a special focus on the current stand-off. “Both sides agreed that in accordance with the guidance provided by the leadership, the two sides should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes,” the MEA had said after the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-will-resolve-border-stand-off-peacefully-says-mea/articleshow/76251148.cms||---
June 8, 2020||India||Hit by Covid-19, Census-NPR may be pushed to next year||NEW DELHI: As Census houselisting and NPR operations, due to be held during April-September 2020, remain suspended on account of Covid-19, an assessment may need to be taken whether the remaining three month-period after June is an ideal and ample window for all states and Union territories to start and complete Phase 1 of the decennial exercise or if the entire exercise be rescheduled for April next year. Census 2021, as per current timelines, is to be held in two phases — Phase 1 covering houselisting and housing, to be conducted along with the National Population Register (NPR) exercise, between April and September, followed by population enumeration between February 9 and 28, 2021 with March 1, 2021 as reference date. While TOI has learnt that government is monitoring the pandemic situation before exploring a revised Census-NPR schedule, some experts including two former Registrars General of India (RGI) & Census Commissioners – A R Nanda and J K Banthia who oversaw 1991 and 2001 Census respectively – are of the view that a reworking of Census time-lines may be inevitable. In fact, an option they back is deferring the census reference date to March 1, 2022 instead of March 1, 2021, with houselisting in April-September next year and population enumeration in February 2022. “There is a reason why India follows this schedule of conducting population enumeration every 10 years in February as agriculture season, climatic factors, festivals, availability of enumerators and other factors are taken into account and migration is the lowest,” Banthia told TOI. A government official who did not want to be named said census schedules in many countries had either been put on hold, delayed, largely shifted to online means or were being resumed in a phased manner in line with area-specific health and safety norms. “Ideally, census must be held in ‘normal’ year to ensure comparability of data,” said the officer. Some factors that Nanda and Banthia said could weigh on the government’s mind while taking a call on Census-NPR schedule are monsoon and agricultural season, preoccupation of state and UT administration with containing Covid-19 as cases rise, possible non-availability of teachers due to need to prioritise lessons in view of disturbed school schedules, health and safety challenges faced by enumerators during fieldwork. Also big upheavals in economic activity and outmigration caused by the pandemic that could affect quality and comparability of data. “In view of the situation since March until now and Covid-19 cases continuing to rise, rescheduling of Census dates is necessary for maintaining operational sanctity and convenience to ensure the integrity and acceptability of the demographic data, since it is an exercise with huge statutory implications,” said Banthia. Nanda too felt the first stage of Census may have to be rescheduled as “we are already in June and the remaining period may not be enough for all states and UTs to start and complete the Houselisting phase”. The former RGI said delaying Census, whether to October-November or even next year, will not affect quality and comparability of data as population on March 1, 2021 can be worked out based on extrapolation and projection. Banthia however added that for other data relating to economic indices and education, the period of 11 years instead of 10 may have to be taken. In the past, Census reference date was delayed nationally only once, that too by a month. This was in 1971, in view of Bangladesh war and elections. Also, there are instances of non-synchronous census when the exercise in some parts of India is held separately. “Like non synchronous enumeration in snow-bound areas is done earlier than the rest of the country. In 1991, census could not be held in J&K but population estimate was worked out by other methods for comparability of data. Thus there are different reference dates for certain parts of the country in certain censuses. In 1971, the reference date was shifted by one month. But in the current scenario, for the first time in history of Indian census, the reference date for the entire country will have to be reconsidered and that too by a considerable period of time,” said Banthia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hit-by-covid-19-census-npr-may-be-pushed-to-next-year/articleshow/76251240.cms||Bharti Jain
June 8, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Ulhasnagar witnesses highest 83 patients in 24 hours||ULHASNAGAR: The city on Sunday witnessed highest 83 Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours and three deaths, taking the total numbers of patients to 580 in region, including 23 deaths so far. Earlier on Friday, maximum 40 patients were reported in a day in the city. As per a press note issued by health department of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), out of total 580 patients so far, 283 patients have been cured, while remaining 274 active patients are still undergoing treatment in different hospitals. The health officials said that out of total 274 active cases, 212 are asymptomatic, 32 have mild fever, 12 are kept on oxygen and 18 serious patients are kept in the ICU. Out of 83 new cases, maximum 14 were reported from Gaikwadpada area, 6 Anand Nagar, 6 Sahahd Phatak, 5 Bhim Nagar, 4 Hiraghat and three from a family reported from posh Gol Maidan locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-ulhasnagar-witnesses-highest-83-patients-in-24-hours/articleshow/76249404.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three dead in separate incidents in Kadapa||TIRUPATI: Three people died in separate incidents in Kadapa district on Sunday. A truck driver and a cleaner were burnt alive after their vehicle met with an accident on Kadapa-Kurnool national highway near Chintakunta in Duvvur mandal. Police said the truck caught fire after hitting a road divider. Both the driver and the cleaner of the truck, who were stuck inside the cabin, could not come out to safety and were burnt alive inside the vehicle. Police shifted the bodies of the deceased to the local government hospital and have registered a case. The identities of the deceased are yet to be established. Meanwhile, some locals, who were digging up a land near a hillock at Ulimella in Pulivendula mandal, found the body of a person. Pulivendula police, who shifted the body of the deceased from the excavation spot to the local government hospital, have registered a case in this regard. The deceased was identified as Vijay, a resident of Pulivendula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-three-dead-in-separate-incidents-in-kadapa/articleshow/76251335.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Moose Wala controversy: Investigations shifted to Sangrur||PATIALA: Almost a month after a case was registered against Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala and eight others including five cops at Dhanuala in Barnala for firing shots from an AK-47 automatic weapon at the Badbar police firing range, the Patiala inspector general of police has transferred the supervision of investigations to Sangrur SSP. At present, the case registered on May 4 at Barnala under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and under the Disaster Management Act, along with certain sections of the Arms Act, is being investigated by an SP-rank officer. Besides, a separate case was registered against the same nine persons, including the singer, at Dhuri police station in Sangrur on May 5 after the singer used his personal 9mm pistol to fire a few shots at Ladda Kothi firing range. Roopinder Kumar Bhardwaj, SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, who is probing the case, said while the team deputed to conduct investigations would continue to work, the case would now be supervised by Sangrur SSP. Sangrur SSP Dr Sandeep Garg confirmed that he has received a letter to this effect and now investigations in both cases — one registered at Dhanaula and the other at Dhuri police station against the singer, five cops including one assistant sub-inspector, two head constables and two constables — would be investigated concurrently. A Sangrur court has granted bail to all the accused persons barring Moose Wala, who is yet to apply for the same. However, the bail plea of six persons, including the five cops and a shooting player, has been rejected by the Baranala court. Surprisingly, even as the singer is wanted by the police of both Sangrur and Barnala districts and is on the run, he was on Saturday challaned by the Nabha police, who despite being detained for riding an SUV with tinted glasses, had let him go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/moose-wala-controversy-investigations-shifted-to-sangrur/articleshow/76251318.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 8, 2020||Goa||SAG likely to act against erring TT coach||Panaji: Sports Authority of Goa's table tennis coach Amit Naik, posted at Chicalim Sports Complex, finds himself in hot water after a complaint was filed against him with SAG recently. Sandeep Heble, a table tennis promoter and member of Khelo India Committee, brought Naik's negligence and dereliction of duty to SAG’s notice. "For a long time now, Naik hasn't had any trainees under him. Due to his lack of interest, many players from Vasco are compelled to travel to Margao and other places to avail training with private coaches. When SAG coaches keep drawing 100 % salaries with no results, then there is a serious issue which cannot be neglected," Heble said in his complaint.Heble said the coach rarely remains present and mostly turns up to mark his biometric attendance. "There have only been verbal complaints against him in the past. An inquiry must be conducted and his records for the past one year or more, prior to lockdown must be examined," said Heble.Private coaching is flourishing in the state and numbers of trainees at Don Bosco Oratory, BPS and Mushtifund indicate that there is a growing interest for table tennis. Ujwala Redkar, a mother of table tennis player from Vasco, has also got her own list of complaints. “He always discouraged new and talented players to take up the game or ensured that they give up or go to other academies. We had to take our son to Margao to train,” said Redkar, sharing the concern of other parents. In the past, Goa Table Tennis Association (GTTA) president Vero Nunes said, they have asked SAG to look the issue."I have told SAG that not only Naik but all coaches' performances have to be evaluated from time to time. Coaches don’t perform at all. Let’s hope that something comes out from the complaint,” said Nunes. According to sources, SAG is likely to act against Naik, who has since refuted the charges in a written reply. “I am a NIS coach and know how to train kids. I have given complete details of whom I am training, who are the players that have excelled under me. Even with inadequate infrastructure, I have given my best. We have to prove ourselves and deliver in whatever conditions,” said Naik. According to the coach, the complaint is a result of personal vendetta. “Some parents are against me. As a coach, I must focus on each and every player. I was threatened too. I am answerable to SAG and am bound by my duty. I can’t train their children alone. They interfere with my method and object to my training. Many times, people don’t see me at the complex because I am posted elsewhere for a long time like Margao or Panaji or I could be in a training camp," said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sag-likely-to-act-against-erring-tt-coach/articleshow/76251472.cms||Paresh Mokani
June 8, 2020||Noida||Noida woman has a stillborn on the road||NOIDA: A 26-year-old woman allegedly refused admission by the Noida District Hospital in Sector 30 delivered a stillborn on a pavement outside the government health facility on Thursday, reports Shikha Salaria. The incident happened a day before another woman died of pregnancy-related complications after being turned away by eight hospitals. Poonam, a 26-year-old woman from Sadarpur, a containment zone, was taken to the District Hospital around 9.30pm on Thursday after she went into labour. Her husband, Shailendra Kumar, a daily wage labourer, alleged that the hospital authorities refused to admit her on the pretext that she had gone to a midwife earlier. "They asked us where we had come from. We told them we were from Sadarpur and it was a containment zone. They examined my wife for a while and asked her why we had gone to a midwife. Then they took my signatures on a few papers and referred us to GIMS (Government Institute of Medical Sciences — a designated Covid facility)," Shailendra told TOI. The family, which had come to the hospital in an autorickshaw, tried in vain to arrange an ambulance even as Poonam cried in agony. After a few minutes, she delivered a stillborn girl on the pavement near the main gate, her family said."Had she got timely treatment, the baby could have survived. We admit we had taken her to a midwife earlier, but we brought her to the hospital immediately after the labour pains started," said Bablu, Poonam’s brother. Shailendra said Poonam had not been keeping well for the past few days, but he did not have the money to get her treated in a private healthcare facility. "I used to get some work at Labour Chowk before the lockdown. But now, I am out of both work and money," he added. The family said they also didn’t get free ration under any of the schemes as they are yet to get a ration card. "I had filled my form but never got the ration card. At the time of application, the officials had said they would call me when the card was ready. But I have not heard anything from them since," Shailendra said. Vandana Sharma, the chief medical superintendent, denied that the woman had delivered a baby on the pavement. "The woman was initially taken to a midwife. However, she was examined here. There have been instances of deliveries on the road, but certainly not that day," Dr Sharma said. This is the third case of a patient from a containment zone allegedly being turned away by a hospital. On Friday evening, a 30-year-old pregnant woman died after being denied treatment at eight hospitals. On May 24, another pregnant woman was allegedly refused admission at the District Hospital. ‘Asthmatic mother denied treatment’ In yet another case, a youth from Noida’s Hoshiarpur has alleged that his 46-year-old mother was denied admission at GIMS, where the authorities cited lack of oxygen cylinders. Shakuntala, who has a history of asthma, was taken to ESIC Hospital on June 3 after she developed breathing problems and remained admitted there for two days. But after that, she was apparently told to get admitted to the District Hospital, which, in turn, referred her to GIMS. While the District Hospital cited lack of vacant beds, GIMS said they did not have oxygen cylinders, her son Dheeraj alleged. A group of journalists informed the district magistrate, and it was only after his intervention that the woman was admitted to the District Hospital on Sunday. Contacted, DM Suhas LY said, "I had enquired about the incident and was told that the patient had spoken to a few doctors and exaggerated the matter. She has now been admitted to the District Hospital."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-woman-has-a-stillborn-on-the-road/articleshow/76251433.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 8, 2020||Business||Bankers, government officials oppose interest sop in moratorium period||NEW DELHI: It is not just the Reserve Bank of India but even bankers and government officials are not in favour of waiving or offering interest concessions to borrowers who opt for the special loan moratorium facility. Last week, the Supreme Court asked the finance ministry to look at the demand raised before it. The government is yet to firm up its stand on the matter. Officials, however, said that interest should be levied on amount that has been lent since banks have also borrowed that amount from depositors who need to be paid. The moratorium, which is now available for six months starting March 2020, was meant to provide some temporary relief to borrowers – both individuals and companies – in case they were facing a cash crunch due to the coronavirus pandemic. Bankers said that a waiver would upset the payment culture especially because a majority of the borrowers had not opted for the moratorium and were continuing to repay their instalments. On its part, as several states offered farm loan waivers and reliefs, the Centre has maintained a stance that such moves impact the overall payment culture and those who are paying on time are at a disadvantage. As a result, it has offered incentives to farmers repaying loans on time. Sources said that the RBI has allowed borrowers to spread the interest accrued so that the amount can be amortised over the tenure of the loan instead of the payment being in one shot. Some of the borrowers are, however, unhappy with the scheme as the loan tenure goes up by more than six months since interest is charged during this period. Typically, new borrowers or those with a longer loan tenure will have to pay more, prompting banks also to advise customers against opting for the facility. In its reply, RBI had told the apex court that it would not be prudent to waive interest during the moratorium period which has been extended up to August 31. The regulator said that a waiver would “risk the financial viability” of banks and put the interests of depositors in “jeopardy”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bankers-govt-officials-oppose-interest-sop-in-moratorium-period/articleshow/76251598.cms||Sidhartha
June 8, 2020||Business||Banks reassess loans, home buyers in soup||MUMBAI: In the season of salary cuts and job losses, builders and people who booked flats in their projects now have to deal with another challenge. Flat buyers whose loans were sanctioned by banks have been asked to resubmit their new salary slips, before fresh disbursement, to prove they are capable of paying their EMIs. Due to salary cuts and large-scale retrenchment across businesses, banks want to ensure that homebuyers can service their loans in future. A leading Mumbai-based builder said many of his clients have complained that banks have stopped disbursing loans for the past two months. “There are cases where the bank had already released 20% of the home loan of a flat buyer but has now stopped following the lockdown,’’ he said. Lenders say that their norms require them to ascertain at the time of disbursement whether the borrower is in a position to repay the loan. “If at the time of disbursement, the borrower finds that his income is not enough to pay the monthly instalment, it would be in his interest to exit the transaction. If he subsequently defaults at an early stage of the loan (before he can take possession), he will have neither a home nor the access to credit to buy a cheaper house,” said an official in a private bank. “Banks are revalidating home loans of their clients because of salary corrections. Further disbursements have been kept on hold. This has affected many builders because banks are delaying payments to them,’’ said Ajay Ashar, Maharrashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (Thane) president. Ashar said he has sold 1,000 under-construction apartments, booked by people who have taken home loans. “We were getting regular payments from the banks but this stopped after the lockdown,’’ he said. Read AlsoAadhar offers Covid warriors cheaper loans, health coverMumbai: Blackstone-owned Aadhar Housing Finance, a provider of loans for the affordable segment, has said that it would reduce rates for essential service providers who were in the frontline during the Covid-19 lockdown. The product also has a complementary health insurance cover with a Rs 1-lakhDeveloper and president of CREDAI-MCHI Nayan Shah, said, “Every home loan of more than Rs 50 lakh is being taken up for re-assessment even when two to three disbursements have already been made. Banks neither want to lend nor want to support the economy. They want us to pay double interest so that they cover up the loss in revenue on the money that they don’t lend and sit on liquidity to park with RBI.’’ A default on a home loan results in a fall in the credit bureau score which makes future borrowing difficult. A spokesperson for HDFC, the largest private home loan lender in the country, said: “It is not something new that we are doing. We do look at the latest income statements as part of our normal appraisal process.’’ Another private sector banker said it has asked clients to resubmit their financial details for loans that were sanctioned pre-lockdown but not disbursed, or for under-construction loans where a substantial portion is yet to be disbursed. There are also instances where home buyers have asked banks for a three-month moratorium on their EMIs. In such cases, the bank stopped disbursing money. “Once the moratorium’s over, we will be assessing these cases separately,’’ said a private bank official. State Bank chairman Rajnish Kumar, on the other hand, has said SBI had already applied stringent eligibility criteria in terms of credit score while sanctioning loans. There was therefore no need to be any stricter in disbursing loans, he said. “Most of our borrowers are salaried and we do not see any stress in the home loan portfolio,” Kumar added. According to RBI data, the home loan book of banks shrunk by Rs 8,255 crore between March 27 and April 24 (when it stood at Rs 13.3 lakh crore). Bankers said that while they are still receiving loan repayments, fresh sanctions have dried up and only some disbursals of loans cleared earlier have taken place during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-reassess-loans-home-buyers-in-soup/articleshow/76251637.cms||Nauzer K Bharucha
June 8, 2020||India||Delhi, UP pay resident doctors most, interns in Maharashtra among worst paid||Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar pay resident doctors (MBBS degree holders pursuing postgraduation) the most. Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Gujarat and Haryana are also among the better paymasters for doctors at different levels in government-run hospitals. Interns (those in the final year of their MBBS course) in Maharashtra are among the worst paid even after a recent hike; only three other states, Rajasthan, MP and UP, pay lower. And specialists – senior residents pursuing a superspecialty course – are better off in the rural parts of Chhattisgarh, Haryana and UP where they earn Rs 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh a month, compared to Maharashtra where they get an average Rs 59,000. At a time when resident doctors across the country are on the frontlines attending to Covid-19 patients, there is wide variation in their stipend depending on which part of India they serve. Chhattisgarh pays the maximum. UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana, all pay Rs 80,000-Rs 1 lakh a month while Maharashtra and the southern states lie in the mid-range, paying a monthly stipend of Rs 40,000-Rs 60,000. The Medical Council of India plans to make stipend post-MBBS uniform across the country, but the plan is yet to be cleared by all states. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesInterns posted in central government-run hospitals are paid the highest, Rs 23,500 a month. Across India in state-run hospitals, their stipend varies from as low as Rs 7,000 in Rajasthan to the highest in Karnataka now at Rs 30,000. Medical interns are students who have completed four-and-a-half years at a med school and do their compulsory rotational residential internship at a hospital attached to the medical college before getting the MBBS degree. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageWhile interns in Maharashtra get a stipend of Rs 6,000, it was recently hiked to Rs 11,000 by the state. But BMC hospitals in Mumbai are yet to effect the change. Residents and senior residents in the state get Rs 54,000 and Rs 59,000, respectively (average of three years). The BMC recently announced a temporary stipend of Rs 50,000 for MBBS interns for their work in the Covid-19 wards. But a permanent increase of Rs 10,000 is expected for residents, said the head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research in Maharashtra Dr T P Lahane. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “Even after the recent hike of Rs 5,000, the state has among the lowest stipend that we pay our medical interns. That has a lot of scope for improvement,” said Dr Praveen Shingare, former DMER head. “Moreover, some hospitals like Yavatmal and the BMC-run hospitals slash tax on stipend, what residents get in hand varies across Maharashtra too,” he added. At the postgraduate level, the stipend varies for every state as also for each year of the resident. In some states, there are multiple scales; to attract talent, the stipend offered to residents in rural areas is higher compared to what is paid in urban centres. For instance, in Chhattisgarh, residents in rural areas are paid Rs 20,000-30,000 more and seniors are paid Rs 1.5 lakh as compared to their counterparts in city hospitals who take home Rs 1.3 lakh a month. One of the reasons Bihar, UP, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand pay government doctors much higher, experts say, is because of the dependence on the public healthcare network in these states as compared to Maharashtra, TN or Karnataka, which have more hospitals driven by charitable trusts and private practitioners. Founder member of Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Healthcare Dr Babu KV has for long been writing to the MCI for a uniform stipend for interns, residents and seniors. “Just before the lockdown, the MCI was going to clear that rule for interns. Step two would be to bring about parity for PG residents and super-specialists too,” he said. In Maharashtra, doctors complain that not only does the stipend vary across states, so does their tuition and tax rules. While most states do not cut tax from the stipend, some do. Apart from that, resident doctors also pay an annual tuition cost. “Nowhere in the world do resident doctors pay hospitals for training. Why should they (postgraduates and superspecialty candidates) pay tuition fees? This is an anomaly we first need to straighten out in India. They are made to pay because there are only a few slots for PG and superspecialty. If these seats are increased, the business model of medical education will collapse,” said cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty. Watch Delhi, UP pay resident doctors most, interns in Maharashtra among worst paid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-up-pay-resident-doctors-most-interns-in-maharashtra-among-worst-paid/articleshow/76251641.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 8, 2020||India||Mountaineering schools to start online theory classes||The Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) in Uttarkashi, one of India’s premier mountaineering institutes, will start offering digital classes next month. The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute — India’s oldest mountaineering institution set up in 1954 in Darjeeling — also has similar plans. The online courses include theoretical lessons on mountaineering. They consist of map-reading, dietary and survival tips, other dos and don’ts, first-aid training, history and ethics of mountaineering, types of peaks, risk factors and lessons on team spirit. At NIM, 600 students in multiple batches will start their online training in July. The batches include students whose classes were disrupted in March due to Covid-19 lockdown and those who were supposed to join sessions in July. Colonel Amit Bisht, principal of NIM, told TOI, “We have planned online theory classes for all regular courses that we run such as basic, advance, search and rescue and adventure. These courses last up to 28 days, including both theory and field training.” Bisht said the decision to hold online classes was made to ensure future batches don’t get postponed. “After taking part in week-long online classes, each batch will be allowed to start field training as soon as the institution becomes fully operational,” he said. The principal said that at least eight batches that were supposed to complete training by May have not been able to do so. Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal of Himalayan Mountaineering Institute in Darjeeling, told TOI that they were also drawing similar lesson plans. “There is no clarity on when institutes can resume classes. So we will launch online classes for the theory part and then start field training when we reopen.” Indian mountaineer Bachendri Pal, who works as a mentor at Tata Steels Adventure Foundation in Jamshedpur, told TOI: “Twenty instructors have so far attended online classes where they learned leadership skills, medical and technical training.” Some institutes have, however, questioned the rationale for online classes for students. “Classroom training makes up for only 15% of the course structure and this can easily be conducted once institutes reopen, we don’t see the reason for this hurry,” said Colonel Neeraj Rana, director of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports in Himachal Pradesh. Jawed Ahmed Lone, in charge of training at Jawahar Institute of Mountaineering, J&K, said, “In online classes, it’s hard to tell whether students are being attentive and these may be theoretical lessons but they are crucial for survival when someone is at 20,000 feet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mountaineering-schools-to-start-online-theory-classes/articleshow/76251689.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 8, 2020||India||NDA will get 2/3rd majority in Bihar under Nitish, says Amit Shah||PATNA/NEW DELHI: In the first-ever virtual political rally of the country, home minister Amit Shah on Sunday made it clear that the saffron party and its allies would contest the assembly polls in Bihar under the leadership of chief minister and JD(U) boss Nitish Kumar and garner a two-thirds majority. Although Shah clarified at the beginning of his speech that the rally was not the launch of the party’s poll campaign but a bid to connect with people in an hour of crisis, the virtual rally has set the stage for the campaign for Bihar polls, due later this year. There were indications in the rally that the handling of the coronavirus pandemic by the Centre and the state government would be one of the dominant themes. This was evident from the angry response Shah‘s engagement drew from RJD whose workers clanged steel ‘thalis’ to accuse BJP of neglecting the poor. “There are elections in Bihar in the coming days, I believe that under Nitish Kumarji’s leadership, NDA will form the government with two-thirds majority,” Shah said. Shah said the event was one of the 75 virtual public meetings that the party has organised for ‘Jan Samvad’ (public dialogue) after completion of the Modi government’s first year. He took a dig at RJD by saying it was good that they were finally following what PM Narendra Modi had exhorted them to do — to clap and clang thalis — to boost the morale of doctors and other health professionals as well as police who have been on the frontline in the fight against the virus. “Today, people came out to bang utensils to oppose the virtual rally. I am happy that people at last paid heed to Modiji’s advice,” he added. Shah on several occasions hailed the leadership of Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Modi for handling the coronavirus crisis and transforming the state from the “lantern” era to “LED”, a dig at the RJD’s poll symbol. Reacting to Shah’s speech, RJD spokesman Manoj Jha told TOI that the virtual rally was a desperate attempt to skirt real issues. “Full of lies and half-truths. He did not explain the brazen and insensitive silence of his government for several weeks since the first lockdown with respect to the plight of migrant workers, particularly from Bihar,” he said. Referring to how the country was battling the coronavirus crisis with unity, Shah said Modi was the only PM other than Lal Bahadur Shastri on whose call the entire country responded in unison, be it expressing solidarity with corona warriors or compliance with janta curfew. Shah floated the slogan ‘Ek Jan, Ek Man’ and said people from all walks responded to the PM’s call to wage war against coronavirus. Shah also said the Modi government had fulfilled its electoral promises — from nullifying Article 370 to abolishing triple talaq. Shah said Modi had told chief ministers of all states that migrant labourers should be treated with respect and had given Rs 11,000 crore to states to feed them. He said Bihar's growth rate was 3.9% when RJD was in office and it reached 11.3% under Kumar, with the state “moving from lalten raj to LED raj”. He also took dig at Rahul Gandhi and said, "Somebody sitting here interviews people in the US while the prime minister united the entire country in the fight against coronavirus.” Later, BJP claimed that the rally got 14 lakh views on Facebook and 1.40 lakh on YouTube while over 66,000 people watched it on Twitter. Reacting to Shah’s speech, RJD spokesman Manoj Jha told TOI that the virtual rally was a desperate attempt to skirt real issues. “Full of lies and half-truths. He did not explain the brazen and insensitive silence of his government for several weeks since the first lockdown with respect to the plight of migrant workers, particularly from Bihar. His satirical comment about ‘thali banging’ exposes his ignorance that it was an idea of the JP movement,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nda-will-get-2/3rd-majority-in-bihar-under-nitish-says-amit-shah/articleshow/76251715.cms||Abhay Singh
June 8, 2020||India||‘Rudrabhishek’ on June 10 for beginning work on Ram temple||AYODHYA: A rudrabhishek, to be organised at Kuber Tila temple on the Ramjanambhoomi’s premises on June 10, will mark the start of work on Ram temple. “By offering prayers to Lord Shiva we are following the tradition set by Lord Rama,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor and spokesperson of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, president of the Ram Mandir Trust told TOI. Meanwhile, engineers and technical staff of L&T, camping on the premises of Ramjanmabhoomi, have started preparations for foundation-laying. Chief priest of Ram Janmabhoomi temple Acharya Satyendra Das said, “L&T personnel are supervising the levelling work. They, too, are waiting eagerly for becoming a part of history,” he added. Triloki Nath Pandey, decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi awarded by the Supreme Court, said that there is an ancient temple of Shiva on Kuber Tila. The prayers would be held there, he said, adding that the special prayers would be performed by Mahant Kamal Nayan Das and other priests on behalf of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rudrabhishek-on-june-10-for-beginning-work-on-ram-temple/articleshow/76251747.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 8, 2020||India||De-escalation in Ladakh to be a long-drawn process||NEW DELHI: India is prepared for the long haul in the actual de-escalation of the month-long troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh with China, though the dialogue between senior military officers on Saturday has set the ball rolling in the right direction. India, having pumped in thousands of additional troops and heavy weaponry into the high-altitude region, will continue to press for return to the ground situation as it existed in mid-April along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the follow-up military and diplomatic talks that will now take place, said sources on Sunday. The two sides resolved to defuse the confrontation in “a peaceful manner”, without any further escalation and violence between the rival troops, in the seven-hour long meeting between 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin on Saturday. Read AlsoLadakh stand-off: Talks between senior army officers of India and China end with ‘positive trajectory’Sources said the meeting was “positive” and could eventually lead to restoration of status quo ante in eastern Ladakh, with both sides de-inducting soldiers and heavy weaponry from the confrontation sites at the northern bank of Pangong Tso (Tso means lake), Gogra-Hot Springs area and Galwan ValleyThe Indian side, while asserting it was upgrading infrastructure well within its own territory, asked the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to adhere to the bilateral agreements and laid-down border management protocols, including specific provisions in the Border Defence Cooperation Agreement (BDCA) of 2013, said sources. The actual de-escalation process, if and when it takes place, is likely to be a long-drawn one. There will be hard-nosed negotiations between the local commanders on the “different points of differences” and the subsequent working out of the modalities for the mutual and verifiable de-induction of troops, said sources. The psychological warfare from across the LAC meanwhile continues unabated, as was the case during the 73-day Doklam face-off in 2017. In yet another veiled threat on Sunday, communist party-run Global Times said PLA recently held “a large-scale manoeuver” exercise to swiftly move thousands of paratroopers along with armoured vehicles to the country’s high-altitude northwestern region from central China “amid the border tensions” with India. This demonstrates China’s capabilities to “quickly reinforce border defences when necessary”, it proclaimed. India, however, is determined to restore status quo ante, which will be hinge on three things. One, the PLA will to have to withdraw its troops who intruded into Indian territory at the four to five confrontation sites at Pangong Tso (Tso means lake), Gogra-Hot Springs area and Galwan Valley region. Two, the PLA will have to demolish its bunkers and other fortifications built at these sites, especially in the “Finger-4 to Finger 8” (mountainous spurs that are separated by a distance of 8-km) area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. The PLA since early-May has blocked all Indian patrols going west to east beyond Finger-4 by physically occupying the area right till Finger-8, the point where the LAC runs from north to south. And three, China will have to pull-back the 5,000-7,000 PLA troops, who are backed by artillery guns and tanks, from areas along the LAC close to the face-off sites. “With enough acclimatized troops, including additional battalions of Ladakh Scouts, along with artillery guns and tanks, the Indian Army is prepared for the long haul if it comes to that. IAF is also working closely with the Army to keep an eye on the overall situation in the region,” said a source. China’s main grouse in the military domain is the fact that India is challenging its infrastructure dominance by constructing feeder links and bridges to its new 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road, which will allow Indian troops swifter and easier access to areas like the strategically-important Karakoram Pass, Depsang plains and Galwan Valley, among other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/de-escalation-in-ladakh-to-be-a-long-drawn-process/articleshow/76251795.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 8, 2020||India||Cong ex-legislator opens his resort to MLAs, booked for lockdown violations||Former Congress MLA from Rajkot Indranill Rajyaguru was booked on Sunday for “violating” Gujarat government’s lockdown order by opening his resort here to house five party legislators to shield them from any possible poaching attempt by BJP ahead of Rajya Sabha elections, scheduled to be held on June 19. During the ongoing Lockdown 5.0, hotels and resorts were ordered to remain shut till Sunday. These establishments are likely to reopen on Monday. After three MLAs resigned from the party ahead of the RS elections, Congress shifted its 65 legislators to three resorts in Rajkot, Ambaji and Anand to keep them away from ‘poaching’ by BJP. Along with Rajyaguru, Samarth Mehta, the manager of Neelcity Resort and Club, was also booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-ex-legislator-opens-his-resort-to-mlas-booked-for-lockdown-violations/articleshow/76251800.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Business||High duty, crude rebound lead to fuel price hike||NEW DELHI: State-run retailers raised petrol and diesel prices by 60 paise each on Sunday, resuming daily price revision after 82 days as absorbing two rounds of hike in central fuel taxes and a rebound in international benchmark prices squeezed their margins dry. In Delhi, petrol price went up to Rs 71.86 per litre from Rs 71.26, while diesel price increased to Rs 69.99 per litre from Rs 69.39. In Mumbai, petrol sold at Rs 78.91 per litre and diesel Rs 68.79. The retailers had held the price line for petrol and diesel since March 16, a day after the Centre raised excise duty by Rs 3 per litre. Again on May 6, central levies were raised by Rs 10 per litre on petrol and Rs 13 per litre on diesel. The same day, the Delhi government raised VAT by Rs 7 per litre to mop up funds for corona measures. On both those occasions, the state-run oil marketing companies offset the higher central taxes against their margins that had widened to double digits as global crude prices collapsed. Oil prices had dipped to a 21-year low at $16/barrel as the coronavirus pandemic severely curtailed practically all economic activities around the world. The prices have now recovered to $40/barrel level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-duty-crude-rebound-lead-to-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76251804.cms||---
June 8, 2020||India||Congress now moves 2 dozen Gujarat MLAs to resort in Rajasthan||JODHPUR/NEW DELHI: About two dozen Congress MLAs from Gujarat were moved to a resort at Sirohi in Rajasthan on Sunday evening, fearing poaching by Gujarat BJP ahead of RS polls slated to be held on June 19. According to sources, these MLAs were among 65 Congress legislators who were shifted to three resorts in Gujarat’s Rajkot, Ambaji and Anand on Saturday. These two dozen MLAs were among those who were housed in the Ambaji resort, the sources said. The MLAs have been moved to Sirohi’s Wild Winds resort, which is located on Gujarat-Rajasthan border near Ambaji. The sources said that Gujarat Congress made this move as it was thought that the MLAs would be safer in Congress-governed Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Congress brass is livid with its state leadership for not taking adequate precautions despite evidence. Party sources said the party had specifically asked the state leadership to call a meeting of MLAs and to pack them in groups to safe places so that they were beyond the reach of BJP managers. “The specific instruction was to hold a meeting the very first day after the announcement of RS polls and to huddle the MLAs together,” a leader said. The laxity in dealing with the situation earned rebuke from Delhi, following which the state brass has acted to now divide the MLAs in three groups and lodge them in different resorts. Congress had adopted this approach in the past in Gujarat. Ruing the strategic gaffes and the embarrassment it has caused the pary, a party leader lashed out at the Gujarat PCC, headed by Amit Chavda. “The state leadership is weak. That is its biggest problem. While the temptations offered are too much to resist for many MLAs, we could have taken the obvious precautions, especially when there were clear instructions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-now-moves-2-dozen-gujarat-mlas-to-resort-in-rajasthan/articleshow/76251807.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Surat||SVNIT targets to keep up with its campus recruitment record intact||SURAT: Looking at the uncertainties arising out of the two-month long lockdown, over 70% of eligible engineering graduates are already recruited in campus placement from Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT). The students appeared in the online interviews during the lockdown period and the institute is now targeting to match past year’s percentage of campus recruitment. Out of the 626 eligible Bachelor of Technology (BTech) students, 438 have already been offered jobs while the institute is hoping that nearly 60 more students will get recruited in the next few days. “Few companies are contacting the institute for recruitment even now and the placement process will continue. Companies who have already recruited students are requesting us to complete the exams so that the students can join at the earliest,” said Dr R A Christian, in-charge, training and placement cell, SVNIT. “In 2019, 80 % students were recruited in campus placement and this year too we will match those numbers. There is the effect of global pandemic and lockdown on overall economy but the placements are showing positive sign,” Christian added. Despite adversities, the institute is to hold online exams for final year students of B.Tech from Monday and they will be provided results before July 4. “We are holding the online exams from Monday so that the final year students can be issued results soon. Engineers will always be in demand but we are nurturing students to deal with tough situations,” said S R Gandhi, director, SVNIT. The institute’s T&P Cell is to start giving training to students for recruitment from first year. The new training modules are being introduced, considering the difficult employment conditions during the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/svnit-targets-to-keep-up-with-its-campus-recruitment-record-intact/articleshow/76248678.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 8, 2020||Surat||Surat enters into 'Unlock 2.0' amid surge in Covid-19 cases||SURAT: The number of Covid-19 cases kept mounting in Surat city with 62 more testing positive on Sunday, a day ahead of unlock 2.0 when hotels, malls, restaurants, religious places among others will be opened for public with laid down standard operating procedure (SOPs). The highest number of cases (17) were reported from Katargam zone followed by 12 in Limbayat (12), 11 in Varachha (A) and nine in Rander zone. There has been a sharp rise in the number of positive cases after the lockdown was eased on June 1.  “We have noticed that cases are continuously coming from containment zones which have been made to contain the virus spread. People in these zones are requested to stay at home and take more precautions,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, said. Two persons also succumbed to the infection. SMC officials said that both were elders and suffering from co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, about 55 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. "I would like to tell those people taking the virus threat lightly that infection requires hospitalization if there are co-morbid conditions. In some cases, the stay in hospitals could be longer and there could be even deaths,” he said. "From Monday onwards, the government has allowed hotels, restaurants and religious places to be opened outside the containment zones. Everyone has to follow the SPO issued by the government and SMC. Those areas where Covid-19 case is reported will be sealed,'' he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-enters-into-unlock-2-0-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76248720.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Surat||Bootlegger killed in gang rivalry over illegal liquor trade||SURAT: A bootlegger Shankar alias Kalu Nikam died during early hours on Sunday after he was stabbed multiple times in a violent attack by his one-time associates. The deceased was attacked outside his residence. The entire incident was captured on CCTV camera. Meanwhile, crime branch sleuths rounded-up five persons for their suspected involvement in the murder. The accused are likely to be arrested after their Covid-19 tests. The murder is suspected to be the result of dispute between two gangs involved in bootlegging. It should be noted that Gujarat is a dry state and liquor is prohibited but after relaxation in lockdown, criminal groups are now active to take control of the illegal networks. Police booked Ajay alias Ajju Sirsath, Pavan alias Fariyo, Rupesh Marathe and six others in Dindoli police station for allegedly killing Nikam. The accused were booked for murder, rioting and unlawful assembly along with other charges under the Indian Penal Code. The complaint was lodged by Rakesh Savle, brother-in-law of the deceased. In the incident, Nikam returned to his home at Sai Nagar Society in Dindoli at around 12 midnight on Saturday. He was parking his car when the group of assailants gheraoed the car and attacked him. Few of the attackers stabbed Nikam in hand and neck when he was seated in the car’s driver seat. Trapped in the car, he escaped from the other door and ran towards his home. The attackers tried to enter his home but were stopped. In the attack, Nikam suffered serious injuries in neck under left ear due to which he died. Sources in police informed that Nikam was attacked to take revenge of a recent attack on another bootlegger Ganesh. Sirsath worked with Nikam in the past but parted way. Sirsath started working with Ganesh. Recently Ganesh was attacked and an offence of attempt to murder was lodged in Udhna police station. Sirsath suspected that Nikam to be involved in the attack on Ganesh hence he attacked the deceased and killed him. Both Ganesh and Nikam were running their bootlegging network from Udhna area and the dispute between them is the result of the fight to take supremacy in the illegal liquor trade, police suspect. “Police have rounded-up few suspects and they will be arrested after Covid-19 tests. Police are collecting evidences,” said a police officer in Dindoli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bootlegger-killed-in-gang-rivalry-over-illegal-liquor-trade/articleshow/76248802.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Surat||Pay within a week or face boycott: Traders told||SURAT: The Federation of Gujarat Weavers Welfare Association (FOGWA), apex body of the powerloom sector has set new business rules to cope up with the present situation in the industry due to the lockdown and global pandemic. FOGWA office bearers have decided that the textile traders are required to make payment of the unfinished fabric within seven days of the delivery or else the powerloom weavers will boycott those traders flouting the norms. A meeting in this connection was held at Ring Road under the leadership of FOGWA president, Ashok Jirawala and more than a dozen leaders of various associations in the city on Saturday evening. President of FOGWA, Ashok Jirawala told TOI, “All the payments due to the weavers fraternity during lockdown period will attract interest payment by the traders.” FOGWA has decided that the weavers will not pay the electricity bills of the last two months till the further notice. Importantly, powerloom leaders have unanimously decided to make representation to the Gujarat government for arranging Shramik special trains to bring back the migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Orrisa. Jirawala said, “The powerloom sector is united over the new business rules. All the rules will have to be strictly followed by each and every weaver in the industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pay-within-a-week-or-face-boycott-traders-told/articleshow/76248851.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Woman barber gets Rs 50,000 as loan to fulfil her dream||PATNA: It’s like a dream come true for the 35-year-old woman barber Sukhchain Devi from Sitamarhi, who took up the responsibility to be a bread winner for her family after her husband, a migrant worker, lost the job of an electrician during the lockdown. On Saturday, Sukhchain, a resident of Basaul village under Bajpatti block in Sitamarhi district was given Rs 50,000 as Mudra loan for setting up a beauty parlour. The loan was granted to her at the behest of Sitamarhi district magistrate Abhilasha Kumari Sharma. In fact, TOI had published a report on Sukchain, who is breaking stereotypes in her village to run her family, on June 2. The tricenarian had said that if she manages to save some money, she will open a beauty parlour either in the local market or in the district headquarters town. “I am now elated and thankful to the DM for her support during my hour of crisis. Now, I can fulfill my long cherished dream of opening a beauty parlour at my village with the loan amount,” Sukhchain said on Saturday. A senior officer of the Sitamarhi district administration said, “Sukhchain’s proposal for Mudra loan was submitted to the district industries centre, which approved the same within a record time and submitted it to the bank concerned for granting the loan. The proposal was also processed very quickly.” Barre Phulwaria panchayat mukhiya Kamal Ahmad said that Sukhchain Devi would also be given other benefits of the government’s scheme on the directive of the DM. Her husband, Ramesh Thakur, who was stranded in Chandigarh, said, “The DM is the real protector of our family.” Thakur, an electrician by profession, said that he didn’t have money to return to his native village. “Whatever I had saved was spent during the lockdown. My wife took up this non-conventional work to eke-out a living,” he said with a heavy heart. “She has now become a source of inspiration for hundreds of migrant workers who returned to their native villages across the state. She took up scissors, comb and a razor to trim and shave hair which is unheard of in villages,” said a neighbour Sunil Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-barber-gets-rs-50k-as-loan-to-fulfil-her-dream/articleshow/76249192.cms||Ramashankar
June 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Interstate gang of gold robbers busted, four held||PATNA: The Vaishali police arrested four members of an interstate gang of gold robbers, including its kingpin Dharmendra Rai alias Dharmendra Gope, on Saturday. The gang members were involved in looting gold from the offices of private finance companies in and outside the state. Vaishali SP Gaurav Mangla on Sunday said the gang had earlier done recce of at least two private finance companies in Siliguri and Kolkata in West Bengal; Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Darbhanga in Bihar for committing crime. The startling revelation was made Dharmendra, a native of Khapura village under the Bidupur police station area in Vaishali district, during interrogation. Over 8kg of gold, two country-made pistols, a double barrel gun, 16 live cartridges, charas weighing 4,875kg and Rs.1.5 lakh in cash were seized during raids at different hideouts of the gang in Vaishali district. The raid was carried out by a joint team of the STF and the district armed police, the SP said, adding two women – Ampi Devi and Shanti Devi – were among those arrested. The gold jewellery looted from the office of a private finance company at Hajipur on November 23 last year was stocked inside a defunct hand pump at Khapura. Dharmendra was involved in at least 30 cases in Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Saran and Sitamarhi districts. The SP said the antecedents of the two arrested women were being verified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/interstate-gang-of-gold-robbers-busted-4-held/articleshow/76249244.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Rajkot||Four attack a 55-yr-old man||Rajkot: A 55-year-old man was attacked by four assailants over alleged financial dispute in Kuwadawa GIDC on the outskirts of Rajkot on Sunday morning. The victim was identified as Jiva Susara and the accused as Sagar Dav and Vijay Makwana, who attacked Susara with the help of their two unidentified aides. “Susara was attacked with swords, scythes and iron pipes. His both hands and feet have been fractured. The accused hit Susara’s bike with their car and then attacked him,” said Kuwadawa police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-attack-a-55-yr-old-man/articleshow/76248751.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Patna||Vande Bharat Mission: Over 2,000 reach Bihar||GAYA: More than 2,200 Bihar natives stranded in foreign countries have come back under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ between May 18 to June 6. Of these, the maximum number is from Dubai and Oman. As per details released by the public relations department and the Gaya airport director, no less than 524 returnees are from Dubai. The number of returnees from Oman stands at 282. Besides Air India, Myanmar National Airways, Jazeera Airways and Fly Dubai have ferried the stranded Biharis. Apart from Dubai and Oman, Biharis stranded in UK, Bangladesh, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Russia and Kazakstan etc have also been evacuated under the harat Mission. The first flight carrying stranded Bihar natives was from London (UK) carrying 28 persons from Bihar and another 13 from Jharkhand. Gaya airport, it may be recalled, has been made the disembarkation point for all Bihar-bound evacuees. Different airlines, have, so far operated not less than 18 flights to bring Bihar natives back. Besides, more than 2,200 Bihar natives, some of these flights also brought back natives from neighbouring Jharkhand. Nearly 250 Jharkhand natives too landed in Gaya. Nearly 40% of foreign returnees have already completed their mandatory institutional quarantine period. The number of those who have completed the quarantine period is more than 900. According to district magistrate Abhishek Singh, those who completed seven days of institutional quarantine on or after June 3, have gone home. Such people will have to remain under home quarantine for another seven days, Singh said. When special flight operations began on May 18, the institutional quarantine period was 14 days. The state government on June 3, reduced the period of institutional quarantine from 14 days to seven days. Meanwhile, no less than four lockdown related deaths have been reported in the district till date. Whereas, the body of a migrant worker who walked all the way from Pune was found on the railway track under Neemchak Bathani police station area of the district after he was allegedly denied entry at home and was asked to go for quarantine, a six-year-old boy died of snake bite in a quarantine centre in Mohanpur police station area. Two lockdown related deaths were reported from Bodh Gaya police station area on Friday. Both these deaths are said to be cases of suicide. Whereas one returnee from Saudi Arabia jumped to death at a quarantine centre, a Bodh Gaya shopkeeper facing eviction threat from his land lord hanged himself by the roadside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vande-bharat-mission-over-2k-reach-state/articleshow/76249262.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 8, 2020||Patna||CNLU alumni reach out to poor migrants||PATNA: ‘Shramik Saarthi’ (SS), a dedicated Covid-19 resource centre set up by Chanakya National Law University (CNLU) students and alumni, have been rendering yeoman service in providing relief to the poor migrant workers by facilitating their rescue and rehabilitation. Tying up with ‘India Against Corona’ initiative of Turn Your Concern Into Action (TYCIA) foundation, SS arranged an airconditioned bus for 30 migrant workers from Bihar stranded in Delhi during lockdown and facilitated their safe return to Sitamarhi on June 6. All the migrants were subjected to medical screening before boarding the bus. They were also provided with gloves, masks and sanitizers besides food packets before the commencement of the journey. SS coordinators Harshit Anand and Yashwant Singh said the students and alumni of CNLU are extending their help to mitigate the sufferings of poor people of the state. SS volunteers also provided food packets to the migrants at Sitapur in UP on their way to Madhepura. They further tied up with an NGO and facilitated distribution of ‘dignity kits’ to 30 poor families. Each kit contained sufficient foodgrains, milk, masks and sanitary pads for families of four to five members for a period of at least three weeks. Similarly, they tied up with United Religions Initiative (URI) -- a global grassroots interfaith network based in Delhi and facilitated distribution of 250 dignity kits to the members of the underprivileged community. Each kit contained 5kg each of rice and flour, 1kg each of pulses and Sugar, 1 litre of cooking oil, besides spices and salt. They are also facilitating all possible assistance to the migrant workers in their rehabilitation at their own native places through various government and non-government organizations, said Anand. The CNLU Covid-9 resource centre is also collecting relevant data from all sources for future studies and research, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cnlu-alumni-reach-out-to-poor-migrants/articleshow/76249276.cms||B K Mishra
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Restaurants ready for good turnout despite reduced hrs||Kolkata: With seating capacity reduced by half, city restaurants could remain full on the first day of reopening on Monday. The two-and-a-half-month shutdown has whetted the appetite for dining out and there could be queues despite the stringent anti-Covid measures, felt owners. Around half of those who visit restaurants, however, could prefer to place orders on phone instead of interacting with waiters and opt for disposable crockery, they felt. Requests for bookings poured in at restaurants on Sunday. Most restaurants, however, have chosen to stick to the first-come-first-served system. “We expect a decent crowd for lunch and the footfall could rise in the evening, though dinner time has been cut short. We must down shutters by 9pm, but we still expect a short queue by late evening,” said Sudesh Poddar, owner of Song-Hai. Some of the Park Street restaurants are expecting a ‘good crowd’ as well. “It would have helped if we could serve alcohol, but we still expect a good turnout,” said Mocambo and Peter Cat owner Nitin Kothari. Trincas, known for its live music, has decided to wait a few days and plans to open later in the week. “We will resume with a curtailed workforce since the number of guests has been halved. For a fortnight, we have been delivering food via online services. Now it seems people are ready to dine out,” said Anand Puri of Trincas. Mughlai chain Oudh 1590 received several requests for bookings at its flagship outlet at Deshapriya Park on Sunday. But they were turned down. “We are keeping fingers crossed and expect a good turnout. We will be offering the option of remaining ‘contact-free’ once guests are inside. They can order on phone from the table by calling a number that we will provide. That apart, menus and bills will be virtual,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restaurants-ready-for-good-turnout-despite-reduced-hrs/articleshow/76250877.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Simpark Mall to resume business on Tuesday||KOLKATA: Simpark Mall, the underground mall on Lindsay Street, is gearing up to reopen its gates on Tuesday. The mall located just beside the main entrance to New Market is a Kolkata Municipal Corporation property leased out to traders. According to a KMC market department official, permission to resume business for the stall owners of Simpark Mall was granted after they assured the civic authorities that all mandatory Covid-19 norms will be followed. “We will be visiting the mall to check the arrangements,” said a KMC official. On behalf of Simpark Mall Traders’ Association, Afroz Khan assured all efforts were being taken to follow safety rules at the entrance and inside. In fact, the traders sought extra time to set right a central AC system and build a disinfection tunnel. “We were supposed to reopen on June 1. But we wanted to offer the shoppers comfort and also assure them that they won’t have to fear the virus. We will offer sanitizers to customers and maintain the mandatory distance required under Covid-19 norms,” Khan said. Traders at the market admitted they were expecting a new beginning as they had to incur a huge loss over the past three months. “We know it will take time to regain our business. But we assure our customers that we will extend all cooperation,” said a trader. A KMC market department official said they will keep watch on customers’ complaints after the mall reopens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/simpark-to-resume-business-tomorrow/articleshow/76250894.cms||Saikat Ray
June 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Woman, who moved SC for repatriation, loses husband||KOZHIKODE: Nithin Chandran (28), husband of Athira Geetha Chandran – who moved the Supreme Court to get repatriated from the Gulf during lockdown – died in Dubai on Monday. The cause of death is suspected to be a cardiac arrest. Athira hit the headlines after the pregnant woman approached the apex court seeking intervention for the early repatriation of stranded Indians in the Gulf as part of Vande Bharat Mission. Nithin, who was an activist and social worker, was the inspiration behind the move. Athira flew down to Kerala with the first batch of NRKs using the ticket provided by the organization INCAS. Later as a gesture of support, Nithin provided money for the purchase of two tickets to be used by needy NRKs to return home to Kerala. Born in Perambra, Nithin was working with a construction company while Athira was employed at a computer firm. She was planning to return to Kerala but was stranded after lockdown was imposed. Nithin’s friend Bibin Jacob said Nithin died in his sleep at his apartment. “Nithin was living with two other roommates and today (Monday) morning he didn't wake up. He might have passed away in sleep,” Jacob said. He added Nithin might have died of a heart attack. “Nithin had some heart-related ailments and was hospitalized some months ago after he experienced chest pain,” he added. He said Nithin was very active in social work and was a dynamic member of INCAS Youth Wing and the Blood Donors Group, Kerala in the UAE. “He was active in volunteering for community work and was at the forefront to distribute food kits even a few days ago,” Jacob added. He added that efforts are on to repatriate the body back home after completing the mandatory Covid-19 test. Expressing shock over Nithin's death Congress leader P C Vishnunadh said Nithin had fought for the rights of hundreds of Malayalees in the Gulf when central and state governments turned a blind eye on their plight. Nithin was instrumental in making the governments to take a favourable decision, Vishnunadh wrote in the Facebook post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/woman-who-moved-sc-for-repatriation-loses-husband/articleshow/76270561.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Delay in issuing passes to Mangaluru resolved||KOZHIKODE: BJP workers staged a protest in Thalappady at Kerala-Karnataka border in Kasaragod on Monday against the delay on the part of officials in Mangaluru in issuing daily passes to people in Kerala who frequent the city in Karnataka for different reasons. BJP district president K Srikanth said that the issue was settled earlier between the two governments and a website was opened for issuing passes. “But, Karnataka officials are summarily rejecting requests for passes without ascribing any reason,” he said. Hundreds of people from Kerala travel to Mangaluru each day. Travel restrictions were imposed by both sides after the spread of Covid-19. Srikanth added that the issue was sorted out after a discussion was held with Karnataka officials and BJP MLAs in Karnataka. “Officials have agreed that there will not be a delay and promised to look into rejected requests,” he said. Meanwhile, a total of 13 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Kozhikode, taking the total of patients under treatment to 70. Six among them came from Abu Dhabi, five from Kuwait and the remaining two from Chennai. They are currently at the first line treatment centre and their health condition is stable. Meanwhile, the district Collector has removed seven panchayats from the list of containment zone as situation has improved in these areas. But Thuneri, Mavoor, Purameri and Olavanna panchayats continue to be in the list. Also, the sample taken from a person who died while being kept under observation on Monday at Perumanna tested negative. Beerankutty (56), who arrived from Bengaluru, was suffering from diabetics and hypertension. He collapsed on Sunday night and was rushed to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/delay-in-issuing-passes-to-mangaluru-resolved/articleshow/76270590.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Left parties protest rally||PATNA: The Left parties on Sunday organised dharnas and demonstrations maintaining social distancing across the state to protest against the ‘virtual rally’ of the BJP addressed by Union minister Amit Shah, calling it insensitive and dubbing the event as "vishwasghat diwas".  At Patna, the leaders of the Left parties sat on dharna in the open space in front of the CPI’s Janshakti Bhavan. They included CPI(ML) secretary Kunal, its senior functionary Dhirendra Jha, Vijay Narayan Mishra and Ravindra Nath Rai from the CPI, as well as Arun Kumar Mishra from the CPM, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-parties-protest-rally/articleshow/76250081.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Patna||Mumbai-bound trains register poor turnout||PATNA: The passenger turnout in Mumbai-bound special trains from Bihar is poor due to sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Perhaps panicked people seem to be reluctant to visit Mumbai. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said only 568 passengers left for Mumbai by Patliputra-Lokmanya Tilak Superfast Express (02142) on Saturday though it had 1,538 berths available in the train. The occupancy rate was hardly 37% in this particular train. Besides, Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Lokmanya Tilak Express (13201) is also having poor occupancy for Mumbai these days, he said. Similarly, Darbhanga-Lokmanya Tilak special (01062) is also having poor occupancy rate of passengers. Out of 1583 berths, only 550 passengers travelled by this train on Friday. More or less similar is the position in other Mumbai-bound trains originating from other places falling under the ECR jurisdiction, CPRO said. In the Danapur-Pune Express (02150) occupancy rate is hardly 36 to 38% these days. Out of 1585 total berths, 607 passengers (38%) travelled by the train on Friday. In comparison, the occupancy rate in Karnataka-bound trains was better. The Danapur- Bengaluru Sanghmitra special (02296) had 67% occupancy rate as 995 passengers travelled against the available 1,496 berths on Saturday, the CPRO said, adding Danapur-Secunderabad Express (02792) was having 90 to 94% occupancy rate. Though Delhi is also under severe Covid-19 pandemic, special trains leaving Bihar for Delhi are having better occupancy rate. Out of 1380 berths in the Rajendra Nagar-New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti Express special (02393), 851 passengers travelled on Friday with 62% occupancy on Saturday while Saharsa-New Delhi special, Darbhanga-New Delhi special and Muzaffarpur- Anand Vihar special trains were running with an average of 90 to 96% occupancy rate, the CPRO said. However, the turnout of passengers from Raxaul to Delhi was hardly 44% on Friday while Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad special registered about 94% occupancy rate on Friday. Likewise, the occupancy rate was good in other special trains to Howrah, Jamshedpur and Ranchi, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mumbai-bound-trains-register-poor-turnout/articleshow/76249237.cms||Kumod Verma
June 8, 2020||Rajkot||Two charred to death as trailer explodes into flames||PALANPUR: Driver and cleaner of a truck trailer got charred to death after the vehicle overturned and caught fire on the national highway in Patan district on Sunday. The accident happened at around 4am between Radhanpur and Santalpur, police said. The truck trailer loaded with plastic granules was coming from Gandhidham. Police suspect that the driver lost control as one of the tyres burst and a spark due to overturning might have resulted in the fire. The driver Baldeo Ram Ranwa, a resident of Rajasthan’s Nagaur district and the cleaner Keshav Kumar Ardoke got no time to escape as flames engulfed the vehicle rapidly. Both were charred inside the truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-charred-to-death-as-trailer-explodes-into-flames/articleshow/76248989.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops on alert as week 2 of Unlock 1.0 starts today||KOLKATA: Cops will be on their toes to thoroughly check if social distancing norms are being maintained when malls and religious places reopen on Monday. According to Lalbazar sources, every police station and traffic guard has formed small teams that will visit all those sectors that open on Monday. They will provide a status report, based on which a response will be generated. All police stations have been reminded that the lockdown is still in force and that only economic activities were being allowed. “We have been asked to ensure that there is no gathering on roads and that all attempts at joyrides and needless roaming — especially near the micro-containment zones — are nipped in the bud,” a divisional DC said. “We will ensure that people wear masks. There will be naka checkings as well,” he added. Cops on the ground, though, wondered how much of it will be possible given that relaxations had been offered in nearly every segment and the public was yet to grasp the necessity of social distancing. “On multiple occasions in the past week, we had been challenged on the road and asked to spell out specifics on why people cannot be allowed to sit at a tea stall,” said an officer from a south suburban police station. Traffic cops said several bus owners had approached them seeking to know if crowded buses would be stopped for raids. “We have told them that our daily checks will continue. Some buses are plying with their doors shut. We have assured all support, but have asked drivers to stop at important stops on Monday as passengers keep rushing to the doors,” another officer said, adding that raids to check autos and unruly bikes, too, have been planned with the transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-on-alert-as-week-2-of-unlock-1-0-starts-today/articleshow/76250928.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 8, 2020||Surat||Eight booked for clicking photos inside Lajpore jail||SURAT: Eight accused have been booked at the Sachin police station for allegedly using mobile phones at the Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) and clicking photos. They later shared the photos on social media as well. The incident has exposed security lapses at the LCJ, which is claimed to be a high-security-system prison. Police booked Jamil Pathan, Nashir Pathan, Mujahid Hongolja, Rahul Piple , Alok Dalai, Shailesh Patel, Shivo Srivastav and Irfan Liyakat Khan. All are undertrials arrested for different crimes. The complaint was lodged by Kundansinh Dharge, jailor at the LCJ. According to the complaint registered on June 3, police suspect that the photos were clicked on May 9. The accused have posed in front of the camera after having food during Ramadan. The photos came to light after one of the accused shared the photos as status on his social media account. The photos soon went viral as many were surprised to notice that despite being in jail, the accused clicked the photos inside and shared it. Inaugurated in February 2012, LCJ is yet to get mobile signal jammer system installed in its premises. A number of incidents were reported in which prisoners were found using mobile phones. Surat rural police had busted a racket how jail staff helped prisoners to get mobile phones. “A senior jail official will conduct the inquiry if there is negligence of any jail official in the incident,” said Manoj Ninama, superintendent of LCJ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-booked-for-clicking-photos-inside-lajpore-jail/articleshow/76248922.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Business||Paytm, Flipkart founders back new VC Arkam||BENGALURU: Top entrepreneurs like Paytm’s Vijay Shekhar Sharma and Flipkart’s Binny Bansal along with US-based impact investor Capria and India’s Sidbi (Small Industries Development Bank of India) have backed Arkam Ventures’ maiden fund. The new fund, which is looking to raise Rs 700 crore by March 2021, has already mopped up Rs 325 crore for the first close of the fund as it starts backing early stage technology startups in areas like financial services, healthcare, agriculture and education. Arkam, which was earlier known as Unitary Helion, had been launched by Helion Venture Partners co-founder Rahul Chandra and Kalaari Capital’s Bala Srinivasa three years ago. While Chandra has over two decades of experience in venture capital, Srinivasa had senior operating roles at analytics companies including Amba Research before it was acquired by Moody’s, after which he worked as a partner at Kalaari Capital. Arkam has already made two investments — digital lending platform KrazyBee and Jumbotail, which provides supply chain solutions to kiranas. The focus for the fund is backing companies that are building solutions for the next 400 million consumers in middle India. The fund, which will back a total portfolio of 15-18 companies across series-A and -B stages, is in talks to close another three investments over the next few months. “The venture ecosystem values our past investment experience of partnering founders from seed stage to IPO. We recognise that exits, especially IPOs, are rare in India and we are excited to bring this experience to our portfolio,” said Chandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-flipkart-founders-back-new-vc-arkam/articleshow/76250254.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Religious places, malls set to reopen||PATNA: The state home department on Sunday issued an order for reopening of religious places, hotels, restaurants, malls and shopping complexes from Monday as per the directive issued by Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on May 30. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani has asked the DGP, heads of all departments, divisional commissioners and district magistrates to ensure proper implementation of MHA guidelines for reopening of such places. However, cinema halls inside malls, children play area and gaming arcades will remain closed till further orders. Large congregation will not be allowed at religious places and malls. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said action would be taken against those found guilty of violating the MHA guidelines. Precautionary measures are being taken at all religious places to keep Covid-19 at bay. Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary Kishore Kunal said the temple management committee has fixed time slots for ‘darshan’. “Those whose names start with A,B,C,D and E will visit the temple on Sunday, the ones with F,G,H,I and J on Monday, K,L,M,N and O on Wednesday, P,Q,R,S and T on Thursday and U,V,W,X,Y and Z on Friday. The temple will be open to public from 6am to 9pm,” he said, adding the online delivery of ‘naivedyam’ will also begin from Monday. Maulana Shibli Al Quasmi, general manager of Imarat-e-Shariah, an Islamic religious body, which has its jurisdiction over Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, has asked the administration of mosques to remove mats, curtains and sanitise the floor after each prayer services. Takhat Shri Harmandir Gurudwara Committee’s secretary M S Dhillon said additional measures were being taken to regulate the crowds from Monday. “Even though our langar halls are quite huge, we have decided to maintain a distance of few feets in between two devotees,” he said. As far as churches are concerned, not all will reopen on Monday. The Bishop House, St Joseph’s Pro-Cathedral Church and Queen of the Apostles church will remain closed. The hospitality sector, however, is not so amused with the reopening of hotels and restaurants as expenses of these establishments would increase to ensure social distancing and implement safety measures. Mohd Ziaullah Khan, owner of two private hotels on Bailey Road, said the additional expanses of sanitisation would result in financial losses for them. A senior official of a private hotel on Exhibition Road said, “We paid salary to all our employees even during the lockdown. It was a huge loss for us.” Gaurav Jha, who runs a restaurant on Boring Canal Road said, “Our top priority now is finding an efficient way of protecting the customers and maintaining regular workflow. We will figure out how we are going to make up for the financial losses which we incurred during the lockdown.” Meanwhile, foodies are eager to visit their eateries with family, relatives and friends. Ankush Kumar, a resident of Patliputra, said, “I learned to cook several dishes during the lockdown. However, I am looking forward to eating non-veg food at restaurants after they reopen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/religious-places-malls-set-to-reopen/articleshow/76249221.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Back to school, online, after summer vacation||KOLKATA: As schools reopen after the summer break, students will once again enter the online classroom. But the experience will be different from the first innings — less boring and more inclusive — promise authorities. Assessments of the previous online classes and feedback from parents have led schools to hold lengthy meetings with teachers to make them understand the new normal which will require a lot of application and breaking of moulds. While some schools, like DPS Ruby Park, Adamas International School and Tribeni Tissues Vidyapeath, have resumed classes this week, others, like the La Martiniere schools and DPS Howrah, will start on Monday. Yet others, like Birla High School, Mukundapur, and Asian International School, will resume classes on June 15. But they have all prepared new guidelines for online classes that focus on holding a child’s attention by bringing in variety to the virtual classroom. Teachers have been asked not to read out lengthy lectures or chapters from text books and expect students to learn by rote. Instead, they had been advised to practice lecturing on-camera, self study these lectures, edit them and re-record for practice. “The lessons are in the books, but it is in the storytelling mode that you need to summarize these concepts for kids. The vacation gave our teachers a chance to practice so that every class becomes interactive and offers each child an opportunity to practice,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Science teachers will now take help of kitchen experiments to educate the middle school. For instance, in DPS Howrah, students will be taught chemical reactions of acid, base and salts through simple experiments like turmeric mixed with soap turning red, explained principal Sunita Arora. Virtual laboratory sessions will be being brought in at Asian International School and teachers have been trained for this, explained principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. “We can no longer stick to theory. We have to re-adjust,” she explained. Classroom quizzes will be routine in the second virtual innings at DPS Ruby Park. Teachers have been asked to quiz kids at the end of teaching a concept. “Students of classes VIII to X will be asked to compare the economic slowdown caused by Covid-19 with that of the slump of 1929,” said vice principal Indrani Chattopadhyay. While recording presence in class is easy in the virtual classroom, it does not serve the purpose of an assembly and many schools will introduce this now. “Prayers and assembly bring students and teachers together and set in the work mode, which is essential to instil discipline since we are attending online sessions from informal situations,” said principal Mitra Sinha Roy. Most schools, like Birla High School, Mukundapur, and Heritage School, have set up routines for online classes to weave in co-curricular activities like yoga, music, dance and art in order to bring in longer online class hours — which parents have requested — and to break screen time to relieve the eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/back-to-school-online-after-summer-vacation/articleshow/76250866.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 8, 2020||Rajkot||Man accused of raping woman for seven years||RAJKOT: A 30-year-old widow has lodged a rape complaint against a resident of Marwadinagar in Raiyadhar locality of Rajkot on Saturday night. The complainant alleged that the accused Bharat Vanzara had raped her several times in the past seven years. “Vanzara had made physical relationship with the survivor after promising to marry her. However after Vanzara reneged on his promise, the survivor lodged a complaint against him,” said an official from University police station. During her relationship with Vanzara, the survivor became pregnant and gave birth to a daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-accused-of-raping-woman-for-seven-years/articleshow/76248981.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||MSU will declare results on exam portal||Vadodara: M S University has become the first university in Gujarat to develop its own examination portal for declaring statement of marks, results as per directives of Gujarat government. “We have declared results of intermediate examinations based on the Gujarat government resolution on merit-based progression scheme,” said MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas. MSU is also the first public university in Gujarat to declare the results of first and second year Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) programme on its examination portal. “We have also informed students of FY BBA and SY BBA through text messages on a one-to-one basis,” he said. Last month, university had decided that it will conduct only final year exams of both bachelors and masters programmes. Results of the rest of the students will be declared considering the average of 50% marks of their internal exams and 50% marks of their previous semester. “We are also providing students option form throrugh which those wanting to enhance their academic performance, can appear for the exam in Oct-Nov,” he said, adding that those who failed in internal exams or previous semester-end exams, will be promoted provided they clear exams to be held in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-will-declare-results-on-exam-portal/articleshow/76248710.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Operators promise to run 50% of pvt buses||Kolkata: Private bus operators on Sunday assured the transport department to run at least 50% of the vehicles on Monday to ease commute woes. With workplaces set to function at 100% capacity from Monday, the travel demand is expected to peak. Over the last few days, passengers faced serious challenges in commuting to their workplaces as most private buses stayed off the roads since the Metro is still non-operational. Tram operations, too, could not be rest-ored as Amphan had snapped the overhead wires. Transport minister Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday held a video conference with STUs and other key transport department officials so that full-fledged operations can be resumed on Monday. It was decided that 1,600+ state transport undertaking buses will ply in the city. Earlier, public vehicles department officials held a meeting with private bus operators and, later, with auto and cab operators, urging them to scale up services. Private bus operators have assured that they will run at least 2,500 buses. Adhikari will monitor the operations on Monday. He has asked officers to ensure that no passenger remains stranded. Services on routes that have massive numbers of office-goers will be substantially reinforced to reduce waiting time. Buses of south Bengal State Transport Corporation (SBSTC), which ferry people to Kolkata from south Bengal districts, will also ply on some routes. West Bengal Transport Corporation has borrowed 40 drivers from SBSTC to fill in vacant posts to run full operations, said a transport department officer. Besides, special focus will be on the operations of autos, cabs and ferry services. Tapan Bandyopdhyay, secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicate, said that the first meeting of the fare regulatory committee will be held on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/operators-promise-to-run-50-of-pvt-buses/articleshow/76250937.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 8, 2020||Business||AstraZeneca faces Sebi heat in India over delisting||Mumbai: Sebi has “strongly censured” global pharma major AstraZeneca Pharma AB of Sweden, the parent of AstraZeneca Pharma India, for trying to game the delisting process in 2013. A Sebi order against AstraZeneca Pharma AB said that the company had private arrangements with Elliot Group of Hong Kong, a foriegn fund, and indulged in professional misconduct and unfair trade practices, which were intended at diluting Sebi’s reverse book-building procedure “thereby jeopardising the interests of the retail public shareholders and investors of the company at large”. The regulator has now asked the BSE and the NSE to be vigilant against any such future moves by the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/astrazeneca-faces-sebi-heat-in-india-over-delisting/articleshow/76250153.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Business||Yatra to sue Ebix as $338m deal off||Bengaluru: Online travel portal Yatra has terminated its $338-million merger with US-based software firm Ebix over a year after the deal was announced. The Nasdaq-listed company said it will sue Ebix in the US even as the travel sector has been battered by the pandemic-induced lockdown. “The complaint seeks to hold Ebix accountable for breaches of its representations, warranties, and covenants in the merger agreement and an ancillary extension agreement, and seeks substantial damages,” said Yatra’s statement, adding that Ebix’s conduct breached material terms of the agreements and frustrated Yatra’s ability to close the transaction. The two companies first announced the deal in March 2019 but had been pushing the date for the final closure of the deal. Ebix had made over 18 acquisitions across travel, payments, remittance, foreign exchange. This was part of the company’s broader plan to build a financial and insurance exchange that will offer full-stack solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yatra-to-sue-ebix-as-338m-deal-off/articleshow/76250502.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Hawkers trained in anti-Covid norms||Kolkata: Hawkers across the city — especially at the hubs such as Gariahat, Hatibagan and Chowringhe-New Market area — on Sunday finished the last-minute preparations to resume business from Monday. At Gariahat, hawkers were asked to take position on the pavements following social distancing norms. Union leaders and cops trained hawkers on how to adhere to Covid-19 norms. Many hawkers were given on-spot training on Sunday on how to deal with customers. “Besides wearing a mask, the hawkers need to keep sanitizers and offer the same if demanded by a customer,” said Debraj Ghosh, a hawker union leader at Gariahat. At Hatibagan, too, hawkers were preparing to resume business. Here, over 200 hawkers were back in business on June 1. “From Monday, all hawkers of Hatibagan-Shyambazar area will be back on the pavements. We expect 500 more to join us on Monday,” said a hawker union leader at Hatibagan. A section of hawkers at Chowringhee is expected to start its business afresh from Monday as well. Hawkers who had left the pavements in the officepara of Salt Lake, Sector V and New Town at the start of the lockdown were gradually returning. Most of them are set to resume business this week as offices and commercial establishments open from Monday. In Salt Lake, about 30%-40% of hawkers have already returned in front of the CGO complex. The same was seen on the stretches from Purta Bhavan to Mayukh Bhavan extending up to Bikash Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hawkers-trained-in-anti-covid-norms/articleshow/76250917.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Last-minute rehearsals at Kolkata malls to ensure faultless reopening||KOLKATA: Last-minute SOP checks, final briefing of retailers, security personnel and housekeeping staff, emergency situation drill — malls on Sunday witnessed frenzied activity as various stakeholders assembled for an eleventh-hour rehearsal before South City, Acropolis, Quest, Lake and the twin City Centres open doors on Monday morning. And while there was excitement about resuming business after two and a half months, a current of anxiety was unmistakable. Aware that any misstep could prove costly, the mall authorities attempted to leave nothing to chance. “After the airport and hospitals, malls will probably see the largest convergence of people. Though the maximum head count has been stipulated and screening measures are in place, one cannot detect asymptomatic carriers,” said an executive in charge of a mall operation. TimesViewThe return to life of commercial establishments is more than welcome. But all safety measures must be followed in letter and spirit. Violations should be dealt with strictly as they can put the community at risk.While markets are more risky due to absence of hygiene factors and compliance issues, the top boss of a mall management felt malls will be under scanner due to their profile and needed to be doubly careful that safety rules are not breached. Forum Courtyard, however, has decided to watch how the bigger malls function before opening on June 18. “We want to implement additional customer-centric safeguards and technology solutions, and will open a week later than the rest,” said Forum group deputy MD Vidyut Saraf. Many mall retailers have invested in safety steps “We will have an attendant to screen and sanitize shoppers, and another to disinfect counter tops,” said Shiv Daswani, proprietor of children’s wear chain Little Shop. However, some retailers haven’t taken a call on reopening on Monday due to the uncertainty over rentals during closure as well as the months ahead when business is expected to be lukewarm. Most mall operators, however, are bullish about 80% stores opening on Day 1. “It will take a while for customers to gain confidence, but it will be accepted as the new normal,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. Sanjeev Mehra, vice-president of Quest, felt people will be desperate to step into a mall and has put in place a pre-book facility in its app. “Covid-19 has forced us to review the way we do business and is driving innovations that will be a part of our lives,” he said. The mall has also installed an anti-microbial spray. After the spray on dries on a surface, it forms a coating with millions of spikes that can attract, pierce and kill the membrane of pathogens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-minute-rehearsals-at-malls-to-ensure-faultless-reopening/articleshow/76250841.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 8, 2020||Rajkot||Ex-Congress leader booked for opening his resort to MLAs||RAJKOT: Indranill Rajyaguru, former Congress MLA from Rajkot, was booked on Sunday for alleged violation of lockdown order, by opening his resort for Congress MLAs.Hotels and resorts have been ordered to remain shut by the state government which are likely to reopen them on Monday. After its three MLAs resigned from the party ahead of June19 Rajya Sabha elections, the Congress shifted its 65 legislators to three resorts in Rajkot, Ambaji and Anand to keep them away from ‘poaching’ by the BJP.  Samarth Mehta, the manager of Neelcity Resort and Club, was also booked. On Saturday, Congress MLAs from Saurashtra — Lalit Kagathara (Tankara), Lalit Vasoya (Dhoraji), Mohammed Pirzada (Wankaner), Ambarish Der (Rajula) and Paresh Dhanani (Amreli)— were shifted to Rajyaguru’s resort. “As we found Neelcity Resort and Club reopened without permission from government, we booked its owner Rajyaguru and manager Mehta,” said Manoharsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police, west zone. Rajyaguru, who unsuccessfully contested against CM Vijay Rupani in 2017 assembly polls, resigned from Congress on June 18 saying he was unhappy with its functioning and leadership. Rajyaguru, however, said he won’t give in to state government’s intimidations. “Though I am not with Congress, I oppose ideology of BJP. The state government can’t intimidate me,” said Rajyaguru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ex-cong-leader-booked-for-opening-his-resort-to-mlas/articleshow/76250111.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jardalu mangoes to be sent to VVIPs today||BHAGALPUR: The state government has directed the district administration and the agriculture department to make gift packs of juicy ‘Jardalu mangoes’ for delivering it to the VVIPs in the country. This year, the decision was delayed due to lockdown, lack of transportation and shortage of manpower besides hassles of plucking the mangoes and packing them. According to agriculture department sources, 1500 gift packs of Jardalu mangoes will be sent to Delhi as gifts to country’s VVIPs and across the states besides 500 gift packs to the state capital for VIPs of the state. Each packet, containing 20 pieces of choicest mangoes, will be dispatched on June 8 by Bramhaputra Mail. It may be worth mentioning here that since 2007, the unique variety of Jardalu mangoes, which got the prestigious GI tag in 2018 due to its exceptional quality, is selected from the Madhuban Farm at Maheshi-Tilakpur village under Sultanganj block of Ashok Choudhary by the state government and sent in box packs to dignitaries including Prime Minister, President, vice-president, Lok Sabha speaker, chief ministers across the states among others. District agriculture officer Krishna Kant Jha said, “This time, we are procuring Jardalu mangoes from the orchards at Kahalgaon, Pirpainty and other parts of the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jardalu-mangoes-to-be-sent-to-vvips-today/articleshow/76249255.cms||Kumar Rajesh
June 8, 2020||Business||India Inc may keep 50% of employees in WFH mode||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: In what is emerging as an interesting contradiction, even as restrictions for the Covid-19 lockdown are gradually easing, organisations are framing long-term policies to enable almost half of employees to work from home (WFH). Marico is working with an external consultant to bring about a critical shift in the way the company has traditionally operated. This is to ensure that at least 40% of its office-based staff would be in WFH mode. Advertising firm Wunderman Thompson is looking at a 50:50 solution, so that not more than half of its staff on any given day are in office. Mercedes-Benz India, on the other hand, is looking to mandate only three working days in office each week, and two days of WFH, as it resumes operations in the corporate office and factory, MD & CEO Martin Schwenk said. The company’s pre-corona HR policy also had a provision for WFH, but it capped them at three days per month. “The new normal is a mix of online and offline. It is a mix of both. I am impressed how well it works. I now find that WFH works really well and I am very comfortable,” Schwenk told TOI. Wunderman Thompson South Asia chairman & group CEO Tarun Rai said WHF has been a revelation. “I have always been focused on our people’s output than how many hours they spend in office. So, for me, it came as no surprise to find that our people worked efficiently and responsibly from home. They have been as productive, if not more, than before. It would be such a shame to not take some of the lessons of WFH into our regular work lives once things go back to normal. I believe in a 50:50 solution — which is, to make it mandatory to have no more than 50% of the staff on any given day in office. It can be done. If we can operate with 100% of our staff at home, we can certainly attempt the 50% option and make it work.” Prior to the lockdown, Wunderman Thompson had already adopted an agile office concept at its new office in Mumbai, where the number of seats is 20% less than the number of people. This was done on the assumption that, on any given day, 20% of the staff would either be travelling for work or be on leave, and would not be using their work stations. Marico chief HR officer Amit Prakash said, while Covid-19 pushed the firm into operating from home, “there have been many learnings on the advantages and productivity benefits that work from home bring”. He added, “We have broadly decided at Marico to continue with WFH for 40% of our office-based employees. For this, we are gearing towards required processes and system changes.” Out of a total strength of 1,500, Marico has 650 people who are office-based. “We will continue to operate out-of-home in June. In July, we will take a call on whether we need to allow a certain percentage of employees to work out of office. We are more concerned with the safety of our employees, and WFH is delivering the desired results. Our junior managers in Mumbai have managed to finish critical projects at a quicker pace because they now save two-three hours of travel time,” said Prakash. At KPMG India, 33% of the staff will have access to office in phase 1 on a rotational basis. “We are encouraging our employees to work from home or clients’ location, as the need may be, and asking then to avoid unnecessary commute. KPMG already has flexi policies wherein employees can work from home, based on their needs,” said KPMG India partner and head (people performance & culture) Unmesh Pawar. Companies believe enabling WFH for a significant chunk of staff would give them access to better talent as physical location would no longer be of importance. Besides, Rai said, it would also reduce the load on public transport networks across cities if a large number of companies were to institute this 50% solution. Less travel stress for employees would also lead to better productivity, said Rai. Schwenk said, “This new normal is a clever idea. It reduces travel, reduces emissions, saves hours in both directions of travelling. We should work two days per week after this experience.” On the other hand, as reported by TOI in its May 11 edition, there are organisations like Axis Group and Motilal Oswal Financial Services that are drawing up employee readiness programmes for return to work. This is to prepare for a post-lockdown scenario to enable employees to remain safe while working in the office. In its workplace, Nestle India has assigned specific desks to returning employees, ensuring 2-metre distancing. Desks have been marked out where no seating is to happen to ensure this. In breakout areas/visitor spaces too, the furniture has been marked where no seating must happen to ensure social distancing. A Nestle India spokesperson said, “Our office-based employees largely continue to work from home. Only those specific employees who have critical activities that necessitate their presence at the workplace have been allowed recently to visit the office, if needed and if all precautions are followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-inc-may-keep-50-of-employees-in-wfh-mode/articleshow/76250102.cms||Namrata Singh
June 8, 2020||Business||‘Spends on health more vital than fifth airline’||NEW DELHI: Uday Kotak is the first banker to head CII since K V Kamath took up the mantle in 2008. He sees no conflict in his role as a lender and as the head of an industry lobby group, and says that anyone holding a public position must do what is right for the country. How do you see the economy in the next year?Rather than the year’s average, I would look at data and parameters for each month as we return to normalcy. April was a complete lockdown month and the economy was non-functional. From here, the curve will start gradually, which is what is happening. By end-March 2021, I hope to see us recover to February 2020 level. As industry restarts, do you fear a return of inspector raj because of the number of conditions that need to be adhered to?Getting out of a lockdown is like getting out of a chakravyuh. This is true for any society when there is complexity, there is a vested interest and misuse of that. We have to guard against that and, finally, each individual has to work towards self-discipline, beyond a point nobody can protect ourselves against ourselves. How do you come out of this “chakravyuh”?Even if we open up now in a calibrated manner, people would be more disciplined as they fear the virus and know it’s not life as usual. In cities, people living in small apartments have tough choices. It’s not easy for younger ones to go to work and older people to stay at home. What happens when they return? The big news is the first-time migration from urban to rural. Those who came to the city with aspirations but had to put up with slum housing, job insecurity and now the fear of the virus have chosen to go back. One of the biggest pluses now, compared to three years ago, is connectivity. How can we transform India’s rural-urban rebalancing? Whether it is e-medicine or healthcare or rural infrastructure or digital, we can transform India once and for all. Some sectors, like airlines, have sought government bailout. Your view...The distribution of the economic pain is between three parties — the direct recipient, the government and the financial sector. The government’s contribution is the Rs 10 lakh crore from the five-percentage-point increase in combined fiscal deficit from the estimated 6.5% of GDP pre-Covid-19 to about 11-12% now. The government also faces demands from healthcare, education… in the medium term. Our healthcare spends, which need to be at defence levels, are 1.3% of GDP. Education is a bedrock of the system. Besides, there are natural calamities — locust attacks and cyclones. Unlike the US, we do not have a reserve currency and the government has limited resources. The choice is do we put money for the next two to three years in healthcare and sanitation, or try and save airline number 5? The noise of airline number 5 is very high today. I use a matrix for decisions — first decide on what is urgent and important, second decide on what is important, and the third priority is urgent. Last year, your predecessor spoke of government-industry trust deficit. Is it still there?The most important signal of things getting better was the PM speaking as chief guest at our annual session. He said, “We stand by industry and will work with you for an Atma Nirbhar Bharat”. From our point of view, an Atma Nirbhar Bharat is one which is competitive and engaged with the world. I certainly credit my predecessor Vikram (Kirloskar) for having worked on it. Circumstances have also changed and Covid is a big event where we all need to be together. What’s your view on IBA’s proposal for a bad bank?The big challenge is fair transfer pricing to this entity. Very often, a bad bank is a big black hole from which information is sketchy. For example, post Asian crisis, a bad bank was created by moving a large piece out of IDBI into the Stressed Asset Stabilisation Fund. Now, in the last 17 years, do you know what’s there and what is not? I am not saying “NO”, but it has to have well-defined governance and process mechanisms. The end game is the recovery of money. We have to judge it not by accounting solutions but actual recovery of the nation’s assets. So far, outcomes have not been great. The government has frozen fresh IBC proceedings for the lockdown period. Your thoughts...My view on this is reasonably clear — a cooling period of at least six months was required. We can debate whether it should have been one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spends-on-health-more-vital-than-fifth-airline/articleshow/76250346.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 8, 2020||Business||ADIA latest to buy stake in Jio, gets 1.2% for Rs 5,684cr||MUMBAI: After Mubadala, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) — the second sovereign wealth fund from the emirate — has agreed to invest in Jio Platforms, part of Mukesh Ambani’s sprawling Reliance Industries (RIL) empire. ADIA will invest Rs 5,684 crore in Jio for a 1.16% stake in the four-year-old entity, which runs India’s largest cellular services network as well as music & video streaming apps. With the ADIA deal, RIL has now sold 21.06% of Jio to seven foreign investors, mainly from the US and Middle East, securing Rs 97,886 crore ($12.96 billion) in as many weeks. RIL is also in discussions with Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund to sell a stake in Jio, which probably could be the last tranche of share-sale in the company to external investors. While RIL has announced several fund-raises over the last seven weeks, all the transactions are pending regulatory approvals. Last week, RIL and Facebook — the first investor to dial into Jio on April 22 — approached India’s anti-trust regulator for approval to the latter’s Rs 43,574-crore investment in the telecom-cum-digital services company. Facebook will be routing its investment in Jio through Jaadhu Holdings, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary set up in March in Delaware. The external money has set a valuation for Jio, which will help RIL as it plans to take the subsidiary public in the near future. The ADIA deal pegs an enterprise valuation of Rs 5.16 lakh crore for Jio. Jio is ADIA’s latest bet on the India story following its investments in ReNew Power, HDFC, Infosys, Greenko, Bandhan Bank, Kotak Realty Fund and Reliance Nippon Life AMC, among other companies. The world’s third-largest sovereign wealth fund (SWF) after China Investment Corporation and Norway Government Pension Fund Global is also a sponsor of India’s SWF, National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF). Last year, ADIA along with NIIF acquired a stake in GVK Airports, which manages the Mumbai airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adia-latest-to-buy-stake-in-jio-gets-1-2-for-rs-5684cr/articleshow/76250045.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 8, 2020||Patna||Amit Shah sets Bihar poll agenda, opposition flays BJP||PATNA: Union home minister Amit Shah sounded the poll bugle in Bihar on Sunday, literally. Though he termed his virtual rally as ‘Bihar Jan Samvad’ for BJP workers across the state to enumerate the achievements of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government 2.0 in the last one year, his message was loud and clear – BJP-led NDA did what the main opposition RJD-Congress could not do during their long stint at the helm in state as well as at the Centre. Shah set the agenda for BJP workers and allies in the upcoming election. “The NDA changed the scenario in state from ‘loot & order’ to law & order and from ‘bahubal’ to ‘vikas bal’,” he said while referring to alleged corruption during the RJD-Congress regime. He said Bihar's growth rate was 3.9% when RJD was in power and it reached 11.3% under Nitish, with the state “moving from lalten raj to LED raj”. Shah said the NDA would win the state assembly election under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy and BJP senior Sushil Kumar Modi, and made it clear again to the ally and LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who has issued statements on the leadership issue time and again. The home minister also sent a clear message to the people by remembering Babu Jagjivan Ram, Jayaprakash Narayan, George Fernandes and Ram Manohar Lohia, who fought against “dynasty” rule in the country. It was a dig at RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s son Rahul Gandhi. The two will spearhead the opposition campaign in Bihar. Fully aware that migrant workers will be a major election issue, Shah said it was their hard work which had laid the foundation of developed states in the country. “What have you (RJD) done for them,” the home minister asked the party led by Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in the fodder scam cases. The opposition, however, flayed the rally at a time when the poor are struggling for survival in the face of job loss and no work available on their return home from other states due to Covid-19 pandemic. Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said over 12 crore people have lost their jobs and 13 crore others came under the BPL category in the corona period. “The NDA government is power hungry and hardly bothered about the 1.4 crore poor who are on the verge of starvation,” Tejashwi said.  RJD spokesman and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha told TOI that the virtual rally was a desperate attempt of BJP to skirt real issues. “Shah did not explain the brazen and insensitive silence of his government for several weeks since the first lockdown with respect to the plight of migrant workers, particularly from Bihar. His satirical comment about ‘thali banging’ exposes his ignorance that it was an idea of the JP movement. The expenditure incurred on arranging the LED TVs could have been used for thousands of migrant families,” Jha said. Shah had referred to the ‘thali’ clanging by RJD across the state on Sunday to lodge protest against the BJP’s rally. The home minister’s speech was replete with political references when he said Indira Gandhi died with her ‘Garibi Hatoa’ slogan, but it is PM Modi who initiated solid measures to alleviate poverty through several schemes like Ujjwala Yojana, Ayushman Bharat Yojana and direct benefit transfer (DBT) of money into the Jan Dhan accounts and to small farmers. However, AICC national media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra questioned the BJP’s priority by spending “no less than Rs 140 crore on buying 72,000 LED TVs for the rally”. Mishra told TOI, “It was an election rally and exposed the BJP, which should have spent such huge amount on the welfare of the poor struggling for survival in Bihar. It also indicates how much more BJP is going to spend on Bihar elections.” JD(U) said the NDA recognised the potential of digital platforms for use in electioneering in the new age. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said Shah actually made it clear how the government helped the poor in coronavirus pandemic and used the digital platforms for that. “JD(U) is also holding meetings with party workers through digital platforms. Our alliance has recognised the use of virtual mode of electioneering much before others. This is the new-age technique to communicate with people during pandemic like Covid-19,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shah-sets-bihar-poll-agenda-oppn-flays-bjp/articleshow/76250019.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
June 8, 2020||Rajkot||Pre-monsoon showers lash Saurashtra, south Gujarat||RAJKOT/SURAT: Several districts of Saurashtra continued to rejoice under the wet spell while Surat city also got its first showers before the actual setting in of monsoon on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more pre-monsoon rainfall accompanied by lightening and gusty winds for several districts of Saurashtra and south Gujarat for four days beginning Monday. In Saurashtra, pre-monsoon showers were reported from Amreli, Bhavnagar, Surendranagar, Morbi, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Kutch districts. Rain and wind left many trees uprooted, which forced closure of state highways and internal roads in Amreli, where Khambha received maximum 65 mm rainfall while other places got between 13mm-55mm rain. The river in Dungar village of Rajula taluka started flooding due to heavy water inflow while four trees were uprooted on Kukavav-Bagasara Road and eight on Khambha-Nagesari Road. In Damnagar, the compound wall of Swaminarayan Gurukul collapsed. That apart, two trees and a hoarding were uprooted in Damnagar. In Nani Khavdi village of Jamnagar, Mala Dudhabhai (52) received burn injuries when he was struck by lightning. In Kutch too, wet weather prevailed in Rapar, Nakhatrana, Anjar and Bhuj talukas. The coastal Mahuva town of Bhavnagar recorded 31mm followed by Jesar which got 20mm. In Rajkot, sharp intermitted showers lashed Kotda Sangani, Jamkandorana and Jetpur (14 mm). An IMD bulletin stated that the rainfall was induced by an upper air cyclonic circulation lying over north Gujarat and south Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Surat city received season’s first pre-monsoon showers on Sunday bringing respite from the sultry weather over the past week. Most parts of the city saw significant rainfall with Katargam zone receiving the the highest 90 mm rainfall, leaving many places waterlogged. Waterlogging was also reported on Ved Road, near Rajeshree Cinema, Kailashnagar and Dabholi in the city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) control room, Rander received 72 mm rain, Central zone 40 mm and Athwa zone 30 mm. IMD said thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with winds gusting up to 30-40kmph is very likely at many places in all the districts of Gujarat region and in Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli on Monday. Rain showers are expected in Surendranagar, Morbi, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Botad, Junagadh, Amreli, Bhavnagar, Gir Somnath, Diu and at isolated places in Kutch district on Monday too, while heavy rains are expected at isolated places in Banaskantha and Sabarkantha districts during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pre-monsoon-showers-lash-saurashtra-south-gujarat/articleshow/76248774.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Varanasi||Admin issues SOP checklist, to ensure compliance before reopening facilities||Varanasi: The state government had allowed the reopening of malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship from Monday, but the Varanasi district administration on Sunday issued a 24-point checklist of standard operating procedure (SOP) to prevent any lapses that could result in increase of Covid cases. The facilities would open only after they meet all the norms in the checklist and hence most of them are unlikely to start operations from Monday. The state government had issued guidelines for reopening of malls, hotels and restaurants on Saturday afternoon. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also issued many directives to officials through video conferencing later in the evening. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We have to ensure compliance of government guidelines and CM’s directives. So, we drafted a checklist and provided it to operators of malls, hotels and restaurants as well as the authorities of places of worship.” ADM City V K Singh said, “The checklist has been given to malls, hotels and restaurants and all authorities managing religious sites through police stations concerned. They have to submit compliance of the checklist by 4pm on Monday. The magistrates and circle officers will set up teams to check the arrangements as per the checklist. Only then reopening will be allowed.” “A similar exercise is being carried out in rural belts under the supervision of ADM (administration),” said Sharma. All temple authorities have been asked to arrange volunteers or paid staff for crowd regulation and enforcement of prescribed norms, including sanitisation of premises, social distancing, and other guidelines. There has to be no touching of idols in temples, holy books and images in religious sites while mass prayer, religious recitals and discourses are also prohibited, he DM said. Precautions have been prescribed for holding ‘bhandara’ and ‘langar’ (community feasting) in temples, gurdwaras, mosques and churches, he added. Only one priest will perform Ganga Aarti on ghats. No boating is allowed for pilgrims and tourists, the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-issues-sop-checklist-to-ensure-compliance-before-reopening-facilities/articleshow/76249924.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL, beer, worth Rs 6.7 lakh seized; four bootleggers arrested||RAJKOT: A total 2,225 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 444 cans of beer, all worth Rs 6.7 lakh were seized from three different raids carried out in Bhavnagar, Lodhika and Kotada Sangani of Rajkot district on Saturday night. Four bootleggers were arrested. In Bhavnagar, a total of 1,080 IMFL bottles worth Rs 4,05,000 were seized from the secret cabins created in a mini bus. “We had received a tip-off about the bus, subsequent of which we kept a watch at Bhad Bheed village and intercepted it,” said R H Bar, sub-inspector with Bhavnagar rapid response cell. Three bootleggers, identified as Rajiv Rana (38), Siddharajsinh Zala (30) and Jagdish Padhiyar (22), were arrested for ferrying alcohol. “The accused said that one bootlegger from Ahmedabad, identified as Bharat Rabari, had supplied them with the IMFL cache in Ahmedabad and that they were going to Bhavnagar,” said Bar. The second raid was conducted at Haripar Pal village of Lodhika taluka on the outskirts of Rajkot, where 202 IMFL bottles worth Rs one lakh were seized and a bootlegger arrested. “The accused, identified as Naresh Bagada (24), had kept the IMFL bottles in a waste land belonging to the government,” said H M Dhandhal, sub-inspector with Lodhika police station. Meanwhile in Panch Talavada village of Kotada Sangani taluka in Rajkot district, a total of 943 IMFL bottles and 444 cans of beer, all worth Rs 1.65 lakh, were seized from a farm. “We have booked the farm owner, identified as Pradeepsinh Jadeja, for the crime,” said an official from Kotada Sangani police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-beer-worth-rs-6-7l-seized-four-bootleggers-arrested/articleshow/76248963.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||As cases surge, contact tracing poses a challenge for officials||Coimbatore: Contact tracing is getting tougher for health officials as Covid-19 cases are going up by more than 1,000 cases a day in the state. A classic case of the challenge faced by the contact tracing field staff was a Nagercoil man, who reached the southern town without an e-pass. He travelled from Mumbai to Pune on road, took a flight to Bengaluru, another flight to Trichy where he stayed in a hotel and boarded a train to Nagercoil the next day. The officials tested him at the railway station in Nagercoil and found him positive. But till date they are not sure of the number of people he had come into contact with during his stay in Trichy and train travel. “We don’t know whether we will be able to trace all the contacts in this case,” said a health officer. In yet another instance, two men from Chennai visited Tuticorin for a funeral recently. After the funeral, they tested positive, sending health staff in a scurrying to trace everyone who attended the event. Out of the 100 people who were traced and tested, 35 have tested positive so far. Officials are not sure if they have managed to trace the people, who came into contact with the 35 positive cases. Health officials, assisted by police, were diligent in contract tracing when Covid cases were trickling into the state in March and April. But as cases starts surging, contact tracing has become a challenge, especially for districts that report higher number of cases. Health officials say major part of the challenge could be overcome if people are responsible enough to voluntarily declare their travel and contact history. “They either hide the travel history or don’t share complete details of all their contacts,” said a district health officer. The state has a relatively better record of contact tracing, compared to other states with high infection rate. According to a paper published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR), of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the number of contacts tested per positive case was 14 in Tamil Nadu, which was higher than the national average of six. According to the paper, in Maharashtra it was 2.3 and in Delhi it was 2.1 contacts per positive case. J Radhakrishnan, special nodal officer for Greater Chennai Corporation, says they have been consistently tracing contacts of all positive cases, despite rising numbers. “There is no better way other than to trace, isolate, test and treat people, for now.” However, epidemiologists are sceptical about the efficiency of contact tracing when positive cases are skyrocketing. Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, renowned epidemiologist, says contact tracing helps when there are a few cases to get rid of the virus. “In Chennai, it’s too late for contact tracing. It doesn’t mean anything now, when there are practically Covid cases everywhere. What we should do is believe every other person has the virus and keep distance from each other.” (With inputs from Sukshma and Sampath)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/as-cases-surge-contact-tracing-poses-a-challenge-for-officials/articleshow/76251347.cms||Mayilvaganan
June 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur restaurants in no hurry to reopen||KOLHAPUR: Restaurant owners in Kolhapur city seem unmoved by the state government’s ‘mission begin again’ and do not seem to be in a hurry to restart their businesses soon. Most restaurant owners in the city have said that they are in no rush to open their hotels as they fear that the sudden opening of restaurants would invite a lot of crowd which could mean unnecessary trouble for them. Given the experience of the salon operators who were asked to shut their shops after rush was observed outside their shops, restaurant owners said that they can wait for some more time before they restart their operations. At present, the restaurants are providing take away services. Earlier this month, saloons in the city were allowed to restart their operations. However, a couple of days ago, the district administration asked them to shut their saloons for indefinite period. Officials of the district administration found huge rush outside saloon shops. They feared that it may lead to community transmission of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-restaurants-in-no-hurry-to-reopen/articleshow/76249970.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Business||Celkon forays into healthcare devices||Hyderabad: City-based mobile handset maker Celkon has diversified into the healthcare devices segment with the expansion of its existing mobile manufacturing facility at Fab City near Shamshabad airport. “We have invested Rs 100 crore in Celkon Health, the healthcare devices manufacturing business. This investment includes working capital for the venture. We are procuring components like sensors from Germany, Taiwan and Korea,” Murali Retineni, executive director, Celkon, said. Retineni said the company has set up a 5 lakh units per month capacity at its existing cellphone and accessories manufacturing unit to make over a dozen healthcare offerings right from N95 masks and face shields to contactless sanitiser dispensers and sprays as well as UV light enabled sterilisers and handheld thermometers. He pointed out that the company was already planning a foray into healthcare before Covid-19 struck and speeded up plans. “We are eyeing sales of around 1 lakh units in the first month given the heightened interest in sanitisation and disinfection in the wake of Covid-19. We are looking at B2G, B2B and retail segments and are targeting a total turnover of Rs 600 crore in the current financial year, up from Rs 400 crore in FY20, with the addition of the healthcare devices business,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/celkon-forays-into-healthcare-devices/articleshow/76249975.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Pallette of the pandemic||Chennai: Things have always been quiet and peaceful on the campus of Cholamandal Artists Village. But more so since the lockdown, says artist and sculptor B O Shailesh. "Hardly anyone goes outside now." He doesn’t either. For Shailesh, the days since March 23 have been spent indoors, working on what he terms "laptop" sculptures — as they are tiny enough to be created without getting up — using wood waste and paper scraps, material, he says, he would have otherwise discarded."It’s definitely a departure from my sculptures that are 8ft tall and made from single blocks of wood," says Shailesh. "The lockdown has taught me there is beauty in simplicity not just in the grandiose. It has taught me to conserve, to use what I have. In the piece of wood I see how our whole style of living has been broken into bits and I feel like I am picking up the pieces and putting them together."The only other person that Shailesh can see from his boundary wall is artist Bhagwan Chavan, who too has been trying to come to terms with the way the pandemic has changed life as he knows it. "He is an abstract artist, but ever since the lockdown, he has been sitting outside his home and sketching the trees around him for hours at a stretch. I’ve never seen him do that."Chavan says the lockdown has drawn him outdoors. "I just want to sketch nature everyday," he says. His pencil sketches of Cholamandal’s numerous trees are the second in his lockdown series. At the very beginning of the lockdown, he did an ink series dedicated to the frontline workers – doctors, police personnel and so on. All days, says Chavan, he would sit inside his studio and draw the resilience and spirit of the Covid warriors. When he reached a hundred, he put down his ink, walked out of the studio and into nature.Across the country, artists are attempting to put their thoughts on Covid-19 down on canvas. Sunaparanta – Goa Centre for the Arts, for instance, launched an online series in March, called ‘Surviving SQ (Self Quarantine)’, inviting artists to share creative strategies of survival.Dhruvi Acharya has been making a watercolour painting each day as part of her ‘Painting In The Time Of Corona’ series, almost like a visual journal of the social impact of the pandemic. In fact, she began the series on March 22, the day of the nationwide janata curfew. "I have painted the isolation one feels during lockdown, people communicating with each other only via social media, the fear of the virus, of a touch or a sneeze, of crowds, the body on a ventilator," says the Mumbai-based artist. Even before the lockdown in India, Goa-based Kedar Dhondu was mulling creating a series of sketches on the way lockdowns across Europe were changing lifestyles. "When the lockdown was announced in India, I got my series ‘Lonely Residents’ started for the Sunaparanta initiative," says Dhondu. The artist put up a post on his social media handles urging people to send in pictures of themselves at home, which he then began sketching, as a reflection of the times. "I wanted to draw them as an onlooker would see them through a window," says Dhondu, who has had pictures coming in from across the world. He has completed 35 sketches so far and has begun filling them in with watercolour, which is his forte. "I have posted the sketches online so the people who sent in the photographs can see them. It’s just my way of spreading joy. For me, it is a way of recording the emotions of the times."Sarala Banerjee of Artworld, one of the oldest art galleries in Chennai, says the pandemic is going to change the way most artists work. "Right now, people are still reeling from the daily effects of the pandemic. After a while, it will enter the psyche of the artist and will result in them transitioning to new styles, themes or techniques," she says. "Art has always captured moments in history." Take for instance, she says, Pablo Picasso’s Guernica (1937), following the German bombing of the Spanish city, or the way artists like Chittaprosad Bhattacharya portrayed the Bengal famine of 1943. Amitabh Sengupta has been inspired by the events of the lockdown and did a series on the displacement and suffering of migrants during the lockdown "Art is often a reflection of the times and that is what makes it powerful."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallette-of-the-pandemic/articleshow/76246141.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mysuru||Minister has close shave||Mandya: District in-charge minister K C Narayanagowda had a narrow escape on Sunday, after boulders almost hit his convoy near Bankapura village in Nagamangala taluk. According to police, when Narayanagowda’s convoy was moving towards KR Pete, rocks were blasted for highway construction works, which caused the boulders to fly into the air and fall on to the road the minister’s convoy was moving on. Narayanagowda vented his anger at contractor Srinivas and his workmen for carrying out the work in the daytime, without taking precautionary measures like stopping traffic on the road. He directed the police to take action against the contractor. A senior police officer said that Srinivas, to whom the work was entrusted under the Karnataka State Highway Improvement Project (KSHIP), was taken into custody and booked under relevant provisions of the penal code as well Explosives Act. “We booked him for negligence which could have caused death, and invoked relevant provisions of the Explosives Act as well,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-has-close-shave/articleshow/76249969.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Vadnere panel repeats 2007 committee suggestions’||PUNE: Nothing much has happened on the ground to prevent floods in Maharashtra in the 13 years since two committees were appointed to make recommendations. The suggestions made by the nine-member Vadnere committee, set up last August, are the same as those made by another committee in 2007. State experts said the real problem lies in not implementing the earlier flood prevention measures. Civil engineer Pradeep Purandare, who resigned from the committee before it submitted the report in May, told TOI that many recommendations are the same and many suggestions that were made in 2007 have not been implemented. The recommendations include revision of reservoir operations schedules, staggered release of dam water and action against encroachments, said Purandare. While the report was submitted end of May, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the expert who was part of the committee told TOI had dropped out with his recommendations “being accepted” but not being included in the final draft. Purandare said the committee did not review the implementation of the earlier committee’s recommendations and ended up repeating the same. “Things would have been different if the water resources department had implemented the earlier report’s recommendations. The department has wasted 13 precious years and the state is again back to square one. If we again experience heavy rainfall this year, we are not ready from engineering point of view,” he said. Another expert, Satish Bhingare, said he was told that one of the problems identified by the committee was the constriction of the river flow by man-made structures. “An expert body having access to the complete database and support for analysis is expected to give specific numbers and implementation of the recommendations” said Bhingare, a former director-general of the Water and Land Management Institute. Committee chair Nandkumar Vadnere, however, insisted that both the committees’ findings were different and demanded that the report be released to public and that the government implement its recommendations at the earliest. He told TOI the 2007 committee was appointed just for guidance on reservoir release, while his committee was appointed last year was to investigate why the floods occurred and to suggest preventive measures. “Both the committees’ objectives were different, so the findings are different. The main recommendations include removal of encroachments, perfect robust flood forecasting, integrated reservoir implementation, flood-zoning bill, proper drainage system in the urban areas, using remote sensing maps to map the areas especially for Kolhapur and Sangli and real-time alert system for flood management,” Vadnere, retia red principal secretary of water resources, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vadnere-panel-repeats-2007-committee-suggestions/articleshow/76251358.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Stranded in tiger territory, British diplomat fixes tyre||BENGALURU: A British diplomat on a rescue mission during the peak of the lockdown in April rose above his call of duty when his vehicle got a flat tyre in the heart of tiger territory, threatening to thwart the operation. As police escort and other staffers looked on, the diplomat got down from his vehicle and changed the tyre. British deputy high commissioner for Karnataka & Kerala Jeremy Pilmore-Bedford and his team of four were on their way from Bengaluru to Kochi to ensure the safe return of 260 British nationals home from India on an emergency Foreign Office flight. It was on their 12-hour journey to Kochi that a tyre of one of their two vehicles was punctured. Pilmore-Bedford was accompanied by James Godber, deputy head for science & innovation in India, M Murugan, protocol officer, two other staffers and a police escort vehicle when they had to stop abruptly in the middle of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. With help from Murugan, the deputy high commissioner volunteered to change the tyre under the blazing sun and rising humidity of the forest in time to get to Kochi. According to an official, the road ran through the middle of an elephant- migration corridor, and the group encountered a female elephant during the ordeal. “The breakdown was definitely a low point in our journey, but we had so many people counting on us, we couldn’t end up as a tiger’s tiffin. Changing tyres isn’t your average diplomatic activity, but there was nothing we weren’t prepared to do to get our people home,” Pilmore-Bedford said. After successfully changing the tyre, the team reached Kochi to arrive just in time to help the 260 stranded travellers on to the emergency UK government-sponsored repatriation flight. The British nationals had been stranded across south India for four weeks after flight operations were halted when the pandemic escalated. Many of them had spent six to 12 hours on transport arranged by the high commission to catch the flight from Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stranded-in-tiger-territory-british-diplomat-fixes-tyre/articleshow/76250869.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Plasma therapy to continue in state, banks to be set up||Thiruvananthapuram: The state will go ahead with the plasma therapy on critically ill Covid patients despite the death of veteran footballer E Hamza Koya on whom plasma therapy was first used in the state. Presently, 12 Covid patients are reported to be critically ill and admitted to various ICUs. The medical boards can decide on the plasma therapy as a last resort if the condition worsens. Since the availability of plasma has become an issue, steps are on to create a plasma bank.“We decided to start the plasma therapy on compassionate grounds. In order to provide all possible care and support for critically ill patients we have decided to continue with this,” said Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health).The medical board decided to go for the plasma therapy at Manjeri medical college to treat Koya. The plasma was donated by two Covid survivors. “It was the first plasma therapy that we conducted. This will continue if the patient needs it and if the life can be saved through this. The medical boards have been asked to take a decision on this,” said the health secretary.“It is a new infection and no remedy has yet been found in the world. Hence we have to go through all the scientifically acceptable methods of treating the patients. Hence we are using this convalescent plasma as a last resort in critically ill Covid-19 patients. A detailed protocol has been issued for this treatment and the medical boards are taking decision based on this,” he said.However, the state at present has no plasma bank facility. Hence the health department has decided to go ahead with the setting up of plasma bank centres in select hospitals. It is learnt that major government medical college hospitals will be having such facilities soon.Since the critically ill patients are admitted in medical colleges, the health department has decided on having such centres attached with the blood bank facilities of these hospitals. As per protocol, no pooling of plasma from different donors will be done. Successful plasma donors will be requested to repeat the donation. Earlier, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology was selected by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the plasma therapy clinical trial. However, later this directive was withdrawn and ICMR decided to conduct the clinical trial directly and asked the hospitals to join them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/plasma-therapy-to-continue-in-state-banks-to-be-set-up/articleshow/76249972.cms||Rajiv G
June 8, 2020||Pune||230 more test positive in Pune region, eight patients succumb||PUNE: With 230 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), the tally is inching closer to the 10,000 mark. With the new cases, as many as 9,537 people have so far been infected by the contagion. The region had 9,307 positive cases on Saturday. Of newly added 230 patients, 165 were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation Limits, 50 were from the limits of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, four from the rural areas and 11 together from the cantonments and civil surgeon areas. Also on Saturday, eight people succumbed to the infection, pushing the death toll in the region to 415. Seven of the eight patients died in private hospitals, while the other died at Sassoon General Hospital. All eight were suffering from comorbidity issue, including respiratory trouble, high-blood pressure and diabetes. According PMC’s health officials, six people died in PMC’s limits. They included three men and three women, most of them from the Peth areas or densely populated locations. They included a 42-year-old female resident of Panmala, a 46-year-old man from Wadarwadi, a 45-year-old woman from Vaiduwadi in Hadapsar, an 83-year-old man from Laxminagar in Yerawada, a 53-year-old woman resident of Nayaran Peth and a 36-year-old man from Raviwar Peth. The other two men were from outside Pune — a 37-year-old from Bhusawal and a 48-year-old from Solapur. On May 25, TOI — based on Pune Municipal Corporation’s data — had reported that the doubling rate in the city limits has slowed down. Doubling rate refers to the number of days it takes for the number of cases to double. From six days in early March when the first case was reported, the doubling rate as on May 21 stood at 14 days. Since then, the doubling rate has remained steady at 14 days, with the number cases in PMR crossing the 8,000-mark on June 5. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has said it was a good sign, but a closer reading of the PMC data showed that while the doubling rate increased, the average number of daily cases too had gone up. Civic officials, however, attributed this increase to a rise in the number of daily tests being done. The first case in Pune municipal limits was reported on May 2, when a man and his wife, who had recently gone to Dubai, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/230-more-test-positive-in-pune-region-eight-patients-succumb/articleshow/76251350.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 8, 2020||Varanasi||Covid cases soar in east UP region with migrants’ influx||Varanasi: The huge influx of migrant workers from various states to Varanasi and surrounding districts increased the number of Covid-19 cases which had been quite less during the lockdown. The novel coronavirus cases suddenly started rising after migrants started returning via roads and Shramik Special trains later. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Sunday, “In Jaunpur, the number of migrants returning from Mumbai, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR has gone above 2.34 lakhs, the highest among all districts of this region. There has been an alarming rise in number of Covid-19 cases in Jaunpur in just 20 days.” Only 17 infected persons had been found in Jaunpur since the beginning of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic in March till May 17, but in just 20 days the positive cases have increased to 264. As many as 36 positive cases were detected in the district on Saturday. “The return of migrants in high numbers to Jaunpur is not unexpected as migration from here to other states and Gulf is very high. But, the rise in Covid-19 cases is alarming for us,” said Agrawal. Among the total cases in Jaunpur, 90% are migrants who have returned to rural belts. The good thing is that there has been no community transmission among locals due to the migrants so far and the new cases are of migrants only. Due to the high number of cases, a Covid Level-1 facility with 450 beds has been set up in Jaunpur, while Varanasi has 1,000 beds in L-1, L-2 and L-3 facilities, he said. Banaras Hindu University microbiology laboratory officials said up to 1,700 samples had started coming from 10 linked districts of Varanasi zone while the lab’s testing capacity was only 1,000 samples per day. Maximum samples had been coming from Jaunpur and started increasing backlog. “We had to link Jaunpur with KGMU, Lucknow, to reduce load on BHU lab,” the commissioner said. In Varanasi, around 60% cases are in city areas, said Agrawal. As the figure of infections in migrants is increasing, an app is being developed locally for real time monitoring of admissions, discharge of patients at L-1, L-2 and L-3 facilities and availability of beds. There were 10 cases in Azamgarh and 27 in Ghazipur till May 17, but both districts crossed 150-mark in past 20 days. ADM Azamgarh Guru Prasad Gupta said, “More than 83,000 migrants returned by trains and buses. As per rough estimate, the total number of migrants who have returned is above 1.50 lakh. Maximum cases are being detected in migrants.” District magistrate Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi said, “Over 65,000 migrants have returned. There were only three infected persons in Mau till May 17 but now the tally has gone above 57.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-cases-soar-in-east-up-region-with-migrants-influx/articleshow/76249952.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Monsoon yet to become active in the upper plateau of Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris has been experiencing wet weather for the past few days. However, the southwest monsoon is yet to become active in the upper plateau of the hills. While places such as Devala, Pandalur Padanthorai and Cherumulli, all located on Kerala border of the district, have been receiving good rain, Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri have only recorded moderate rain accompanied by strong wind so far. Ooty town has been experiencing frequent power interruptions due to wind. While Devala recorded 127mm rainfall over a period of 24 hours that ended on Sunday 7am, Pandalur received 118mm, Padanthorai 89mm and Cherumulli 95mm. A horticulture department official said, “The southwest monsoon is active in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks in the district. Rain received in Kotagiri and Ooty in the past few days will benefit tea gardens and farmlands.” According to the official, this is the time for farmers to prepare field and apply manure. Ooty has registered only 8.3mm rainfall and Kotagiri, 24mm. “We expect the monsoon to become active in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri taluks in another few days,” the official said. Collector J Innocent Divya said they have identified 233 identified vulnerable locations across the six taluks in the district and formed 42 zonal teams as part of disaster management measures. The hill retreat has also set up early warning committee, search and rescue committee, evacuation committee and relief centre management committee, which would remain on high alert round the clock. “With monsoon gradually gaining momentum, disaster management is in place in the district,” Divya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/monsoon-yet-to-become-active-in-the-upper-plateau-of-nilgiris/articleshow/76251352.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Two slum pockets in Bopodi fresh Covid-19 hotspots in Pune||PUNE: Two closely connected slum pockets in Bopodi, with about 1,000 households in total, are now the newest coronavirus hotspots in the city. Both pockets, which come under the Aundh-Baner ward of the Pune Municipal Coporation, reported 71 positive cases and one death between May 24 and June 6. Official said 47 of the 71 cases were within just the last two days. Both slums have now been sealed. Bopodi corporator Prakash Dhore, said, "The first case from the slum pockets was on May 24 when a nurse tested positive. She died two days later. The PMC sealed the area three days ago when the cases started surging." There are three slum pockets along the railway line in Bopodi: survey numbers 24, 25 and 26 with an estimate total population of nearly 2,500. "Survey numbers 24 and 25 are the worst hit. In 26, there has been only one positive case," Dhore said. Civic health officials, conducting mass screenings among the slums' at-risk residents, said they have tested swabs of nearly 450 people in the last week. "We are now awaiting test results of 88 people with comorbidities," said ward medical officer Ganesh Damale. Nearly 80% of the households here have personal toilets. "For the rest of the 20% of households, we have been disinfecting the community toilets many times a day," Damale said. Experts have said that community toilets in slums need to be monitored closely. “These toilets need to be regularly disinfected. The PMC should provide slums with mobile toilets as per the recommendations by central government teams that recently visited Mumbai’s Worli and Dharavi areas," said health activist and medical practitioner Sanjay Dabhade. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has declared 65 slum pockets in the city as micro containment zones. Residents of these areas are not permitted to step out of their homes or have guests over. All shops are ordered shut. In both Pune and Mumbai, densely populated low-income neighbourhoods and slum pockets have emerged to become challenging Covid-19 hotspots because of indequate space for social distancing and lack of proper toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-slum-pockets-in-bopodi-fresh-covid-19-hotspots-in-pune/articleshow/76251376.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Industrial court upholds employer’s right to transfer employees||AURANGABAD: The industrial court in Aurangabad, while hearing a case filed by Wockhardt Employees Union challenging the decision of the Wockhardt Ltd management to transfer 54 workmen, upheld the right of the employer to transfer employees. The court refused to interfere with the transfer orders of 36 employees. However, it directed the management to accommodate 18 workmen at Ankleshwar near Aurangabad on humanitarian grounds. The workers union and the company management had entered into a settlement on August 5, 2013, which was to remain in effect from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2016. In October 2016, the workers’ union expressed its intention to terminate the settlement and went ahead with 32 demands. When the management of Wockhardt Ltd’s plant in Chikalthana could not accept the demands, the union reached out to the conciliation officer. As the union and the management could not arrive at settlement, the conciliation officer referred the matter to an industrial tribunal. Meanwhile, production activities at the Chikalthana plant came to a halt by July 2017. Instead of retrenching the employees, the management decided to transfer 36 of them to Waluj and Shendra units in Aurangabad district and 18 to Baddi in Himachal Pradesh. Instead of joining at their new postings, all the employees returned to Chikalthana plant and demanded that their transfers be withdrawn but in vain. The union filed a complaint of unfair labour practices at the industrial court stating that the management was trying to break the union by means of transfers. Representing the management, lawyer Yugant Marlapalle contested that appointment letters stipulated the condition to transfer the employees. He further said that the transfer was an incidence of their service and no illegality had been committed by the respondent while transferring the employees. The industrial court concluded as per the appointment orders and settlement signed with the union, the company was entitled to transfer its employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/indl-court-upholds-employers-right-to-transfer-employees/articleshow/76249983.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Banquets, organisers offer all-inclusive wedding packages with new mandates||PUNE: The coronavirus outbreak has downsized the big, fat wedding into a short and simple affair, prompting banquet halls and event organisers to come up with all-inclusive packages that rule out the involvement of too many people. Marriage hall representatives and wedding organisers said they have designed the packages in accordance with government guidelines. Most establishments have mandated certain measures, including disinfection and sanitisation of premises, thermal screening of staff and guests, artificial flower decoration and use of masks to ensure safety. Packages announced by banquet halls and event organisers include decoration, invitation cards, mehendi and make-up artists, car decoration, photography and videography, sound system, DJ or band, catering and many other services, such as providing small sanitiser bottles and masks to all guests as well. Aruna Dhoble, owner, Siddhi Gardens and Banquets, said, “We have planned several measures like handing over the premises for ceremony only after completion of decor and use of artificial flower decor to prevent contamination. One floor manager will wait outside the hall to ensure smooth functioning. We are also providing the services of priests and bringing basic wedding essentials like garlands so that no person from other agencies need to come to the venue. We are only providing the option of third-party catering as most people have their food preferences. However, the food must be prepared by the caterer and brought to the venue with minimum service staff,” she stated. Deepak Chavan, owner, Dream Place Hall in Pimpri Chinchwad, said, “We will provide all the services under one roof so that my staff and guests are safe. We will provide masks to all guests to ensure safety.” Kashi Events, an event organiser, has 3 weddings lined up this month. “There are only a few auspicious dates this month and we are getting many enquiries. We are offering inclusive packages starting at Rs80,000, covering venue, decoration, catering, stay for few hours, basic photography, priest, garlands etc. While the government has permitted gathering of 50 people for weddings, many are making enquiries for packages with only 15 guests and functions spread across 2 days,” said owner Harshwardhan Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/banquets-organisers-offer-all-inclusive-wedding-packages-with-new-mandates/articleshow/76251367.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 8, 2020||Pune||Offices open with caution after deep cleaning||Pune: In normal times, Monday blues greet most office-goers. But after staying at home for over two months, the 10% employees who arrive to a new way of working, a different job culture and mandatory office etiquettes dictated by Covid-19, are feeling the excitement mixed with trepidation. The new normal begin at the entry gate. The Pune Municipal Corporation has advised all private offices to train the reception staff for primary health screening with pulse oximeter and infra-red thermometer reading of every employee and visitor. So, those reporting to work can expect a through screening. A private office in Deccan area has been busy cleaning and sanitizing over the last few days. “Since we knew that private offices can begin operations on Monday, we had our premises cleaned and sanitized in advance. Family members cleaned and re-arranged everything instead of calling for external help. We will work with minimum manpower each day in rotation. We have advised mandatory use of masks for the employees and installed sanitizers at their work stations. We will not be entertaining many in personal meetings with outsiders and stick to virtual meetings till the situation improves,” a businessman who did not want to be named said. According to architect Amay Shah, their firm Delta is set to start operations from Monday with five employees each day. “We have planned to discontinue biometric attendance till further notice. We have spaced out the seating arrangement for social distancing. All other safety measures and precautions will be taken,” he added.There are plenty of hiccups in bigger places of work in Pune where information asymmetry has emerged as a big challenge to start operations. Many in the human resource function continue to be unaware about the conditions under which work can start again and this has impaired planning.“We do not know if passes are still required to bring employees who are stuck in other places in the state and outside. There is no clarity on the number of days that a person needs to stay home after coming from a green zone to a red zone. Passes that have been applied for are not getting approved. There is much confusion and we are expected to know it all,” a human resource manager of a large private firm in Pune said.Personnel and human resource managers are planning the 10% back-to-work and sorting people based on their roles and immediate requirements of the project.Although the minimal workforce will be allowed in office, big companies do not expect to reach that figure till late June.A foreign bank has told its employees that they expect to get back 10% of their staff by June-end, and the rest in phases not earlier than August, as things stand now.Personnel planning managers are also caught up in the jurisdiction issues of the civic bodies.While PCMC has imposed restrictions on employees travelling from PMC limits that require special permissions, PMC has imposed no such restrictions. However, PCMC has allowed up to 50% of employees in private offices to attend work and in most places this number has already breached about 20% and is growing by the week.Employees are on the edge about joining back having worked-from-home for the longest continuous periods in their careers.“I am scared as I have old parents at home. I just realised that in IT, it is possible to work-from home and deliver just as well as from office if a few barriers are brought down. All the trust issues that gripped projects that I have been a part of, suddenly seem so meaningless,” a young mother, who works in Yerawada, said.A senior IT executive said there still are many issues that surround the secrecy requirement of clients. He said about 20% of clients did not agree to employees taking work home citing “sensitive nature of data”. “It looks like we will have to call such employees back to work at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/offices-open-with-caution-after-deep-cleaning/articleshow/76251365.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Devendra Fadnavis should refrain from politicizing pandemic: Minister||PUNE: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said here on Sunday that former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis must refrain from indulging in politics when all parties in the state are working together in the fight against the pandemic. Deshmukh was responding to a query at a press conference regarding Fadnavis’ recent remarks wherein he was being critical of the state government’s handling of the pandemic. “Even union minister Nitin Gadkari has praised the state government for its effort in tackling the crisis,” the home minister said. On the rising coronavirus cases among police personnel, prison inmates and jail staffers, Deshmukh stated, “There are about 12,000 policemen above 55 years of age, who have been asked to stay at home. We have arranged dedicated hospitals for the police in 24 districts. They can also avail an advance of Rs1 lakh for their treatment.” The minister said the authorities were working on reducing the jail population to around 17,000 by releasing more prisoners on temporary bail and parole in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fadnavis-should-refrain-from-politicizing-pandemic-min/articleshow/76251378.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Asymptomatic Covid patients to be lodged at Adlux from Tue||Kochi: Health officials will start admitting asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients at Adlux Convention Centre in Angamaly from Tuesday. Initially, asymptomatic patients undergoing treatment at government medical college hospital (MCH) in Kalamassery will be shifted to the convention centre. Later, patients with mild symptoms will also be shifted from the MCH depending on the number of cases admitted to the hospital. The health department decided to shift asymptomatic and mild symptoms cases to Adlux once the number of Covid positive cases undergoing treatment at MCH touches 50. Currently, 44 people are undergoing treatment at MCH. The move is to reduce the burden on doctors and nurses at MCH, and helping provide treatment to patients with serious cases. “Of this 45, only less than five people have serious symptoms and10 have mild symptoms. Rest are asymptomatic patients. Decision on whether all asymptomatic patients should be shifted from MCH will be taken later. People testing positive in sentinel surveillance will be lodged at Adlux. New cases in the district that are reported from Tuesday will be lodged here. Lodging of mild symptomatic cases at Adlux will be in the second stage after examining the number of cases being reported,” said a medical official. Two doctors and eight nurses will be posted at the centre initially. The number of medical staff will be increased in proportion to the number of patients admitted. Doctor-on-call facility will be available. Each doctor will do rounds every day. Two ambulances will also be parked outside to transport patients from the centre to the hospital, if needed. The centre house 200 patients, and it has 51 toilets. Patients should clean their own bed and a worker will clean the hall. There will be four volunteers to support the medical team. About 200 cubicles have been arranged at the exhibition centre spread over 50,000 sqft. Four television sets and Wi-Fi facility will be arranged. Accommodation facility for health officials have been arranged at a nearby hotel. “Medicine, wheelchairs, trolley and PPE kits for health workers have brought to the centre. There is separate donning and douffing area for health workers to wear PPE kits and take them off, besides separate entry and exit points. These places will be disinfected frequently. Food waste will be treated in Thumburmuzhy model aerobic composting technic and IMAGE will treat medical waste. A discussion in this regard is going on,” said Dr Naseema Najeeb, Angamaly government taluk hospital superintendent. KSEB has installed a transformer at the centre. The arrangements are for 125 male patients and the rest for females. Fire and rescue officials will disinfect the compound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/asymptomatic-covid-patients-to-be-lodged-at-adlux-from-tue/articleshow/76249997.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Very few takers for Delhi, but Delhi to Ludh reaches more than 50% occupancy||Ludhiana: About two weeks after the Ludhiana-Delhi flight resumed, it is witnessing increase in the passengers coming to the city. The airport and Air India officials expect the number to rise significantly as the hotels are set to open from Monday. They said lack of options to stay in Ludhiana was one of the major reasons for low occupancy in flights. The flight operations between Ludhiana and Delhi had resumed on May 25, after Covid-19 lockdown, and, on the first day, 11 passengers had arrived from Delhi whereas just five passengers had boarded the flight to Delhi from here. But the data of arrivals and departures of passengers in the 70-seater flight suggests that the number of passengers coming to Ludhiana from Delhi has risen since the resumption of flight. A senior officer of Air India said now as many as 47 passengers are travelling in a flight. He added that this is mainly because of the fact that standard operating procedures have been eased from then to now when Unlock 1.0 has started and also there is increase in the awareness among the people about the resumption of flight. “The less number of passengers from Ludhiana to Delhi might be because of the fact that Delhi is witnessing more number of cases of Covid-19 as compared with Ludhiana so people are avoiding visiting the national capital,” said a source in Air India. Meanwhile, the airport officials expect the number of passengers to rise. Airport director S K Sharan said the number of passengers is expected to increase after opening of hotels in Ludhiana as those coming from outside will have option to stay. He added that previously the closed hotels did seem to affect the arrival from Delhi. “It is good that government is opening hotels, which is expected to increase the number of passengers in flights and trains, but the authorities must ensure strict adherence to guidelines by the hotels,” said Mandeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/very-few-takers-for-delhi-but-delhi-to-ludh-reaches-more-than-50-occupancy/articleshow/76251383.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Criminal on run for 2 years held in Nigdi||KOLHAPUR: The local crime branch (LCB) of Kolhapur police has arrested a man, who was charged under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and was absconding for two years, from Nigdi in Pune district on Saturday. Upendra Roy alias Mintu (34), a native of Vaishali district in Bihar, was charged for organised crime of looting jewellery from a woman in Hatkanangle tehsil at gunpoint and threatened to take her life. The woman had lodged a complaint against him and his accomplice Ajit Mali, who is also absconding. He was associated with a local gang as per the police records. Roy was on the run for the last two years. Police got a tip-off from its sources that Upendra Roy was working in a factory at Nigdi. District police superintendent Abhinav Deshmukh sent a team of police to arrest him and accordingly, he was detained in front of the factory on Saturday. A case for absconding has been registered against him at Shahapur police station in Hatkanangle tehsil.Police are tracing the whereabouts of Roy's accomplice. Both were reportedly working for a local gang run by a person named Amol Mali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/criminal-on-run-for-2-yrs-held-in-nigdi/articleshow/76249994.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi will soon have world’s longest railway platform||HUBBALLI: The railway station in Hubballi, the commercial capital of the state and also the headquarters of South Western Railway (SWR), will have the world’s longest railway platform in a year. E Vijaya, chief public relation officer of SWR, said the work is being done as part of doubling between Hubballi and Bengaluru. “At present, Hubballi has five platforms, and the number will be increased to eight. Inspection carriage line is getting converted to full platform . Platform No. 1 will be extended from 550m to 1,400m with 10m width. At present, Gorakhpur’s 1,366m platform is the world’s longest facility,” the officer said . She added that one more entry point is coming up at Gadag Road. “Rs 90 crore is being spent on the works related to full yard, signalling, electrical and building. The works, started in November 2019, will be completed in the next one year,” said Vijaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-will-soon-have-worlds-longest-railway-platform/articleshow/76251674.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Scottish weaves gets TN twist||Chennai: What could a community of islanders in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland have in common with a bunch of women in Chennimalai in rural Tamil Nadu? When left to Catriona Maciver, they become the force driving one of the most unique and inclusive revival movements of ancient weaving traditions in recent times. The young designer and the face behind Studio Tolsta is an entrepreneur with an eye for novelty, and a strong, rooted vision to empower a bunch of dwindling craft markets across the globe through smart, creative collaboration.The Chennai-based design studio was initially founded in Scotland, and offers accessories and home crafts made from sustainable, locally sourced materials. She uses Harris Tweed, a handwoven woollen fabric produced as part of an ancient weaving tradition in the Outer Hebrides; kala cotton, an indigenous, rain-fed strain grown in Kutch; and handwoven denim created out of organic cotton produced by a struggling community of weavers in Chennimalai, Erode. "What brings these people together is that their heritage crafts and livelihoods have been threatened, undercut by cheap mechanisation and changing market trends," says Catriona. "The weavers in Erode, for instance, were known for making cotton bedsheets. But over a decade ago some major merchant exporters decided to switch to powerloom fabrics. At one point there had been more than a lakh of weavers, but now they number less than 3,000. This is also why it is important for craft clusters like this to have access to different types of markets, including online, instead of being reliant on one big outsider," she says.To Catriona, originally a graphic design student, textiles happened by accident when she moved back to her ancestral village of Tolsta on the Isle of Lewis. After working with ceramic and screenprinted textiles, she was drawn to Harris Tweed, the fabric, which is produced on the island. Soon after, a graphic design residency brought her to Chennai where she met her now husband and made connections with rural artisans and practitioners of rich textile heritages. "The weaving tradition in Bhujodi in Kutch, for instance, goes back at least 500 years. Their work features unique triangular motifs and stripes unique to that village. We get the fabric for our cushion covers from them," says Catriona.In Erode, many of the women employed at the weaving unit run by a social enterprise are from oppressed castes, and have found financial independence. "My interest in this work also lies in providing opportunities to young people from rural communities, who would otherwise head to bigger cities to find jobs. If their highly skilled labour becomes sought after locally, they can find the means as well as dignity of labour where they are. This has become even more significant as we deal with the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic," says Catriona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/scottish-weaves-gets-tn-twist/articleshow/76246169.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: E-classes spur demand for laptops and Wi-Fi routers||PUNE: With the state government expected to begin the new academic session online from June 15, parents are rushing to stores to buy laptops and wireless routers for their children. In most families with more than one child, a single laptop is often not enough to meet the requirements of everybody, including parents, who are currently working from home. Moreover, with interactive online classes requiring more data for uninterrupted access, demand for faster internet has increased. Raji Nair, a mother of two, said, "Till now, only my daughter who is in Class XII was using my laptop. My son was using my husband’s laptop for about two hours every day when he had online lectures. But now we need three laptops as both my children have to use them full time." Pawan Joshi of Kothrud HP World said that sale of laptops has increased over the past few days. "Most enquiries are for new laptops. The budget is generally between Rs45,000 and Rs50,000. Except for engineering students, others do not need high-end laptops and this budget is enough for an ordinary laptop," said Joshi. Vishal Mali from Laptop Stores said that while enquiries have increased, requests are more for laptop repairs. "The demand is for low-budget laptops that can be used by children when their online classes start. However, we have received many requests for laptop repairs. Since there was a long lockdown, and almost everyone is working from home, there were many people who wanted to repair their gadgets like tablets or laptops," said Mali. Along with gadgets, internet connection is the next thing on people’s must-buy list. "I am getting a lot of enquiries as well as orders for broadband connection. We service the entire Sinhagad Road area. The largest demand currently is from the IT crowd and from students," said Rohit Khule, director, Cloud 9 Broadband Services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-classes-spur-demand-for-laptops-and-wi-fi-routers/articleshow/76251381.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 8, 2020||Pune||Migrants of 4 states can’t avail government health schemes||PUNE: Lakhan Ghosh can neither depend on West Bengal, his home state, nor Maharashtra, where he had migrated to in search of livelihood, to avail of government health schemes for the treatment of his 16-year-old son’s brain tumour. Ghosh’s son, Manas, is battling for life after being detected with brain tumour and has gone into coma at a state government-run hospital in the city. Ghosh works as a watchman, while his wife supports the family by working as a domestic help and their income is inadequate to bear the treatment cost for Manas’s illness. To make matter worse, the couple cannot avail of the Prime Minister's Ayushman Bharat Yojana benefits with their home state opting out of the scheme. Health department officials here said Ghosh and his wife could not also apply for the Maharashtra government’s Mahatama Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana because all their essential documents were from West Bengal. Under such circumstances, hospital officials said they were in talks with the Centre to see if Ghosh was covered under the scheme and conduct the surgery on Manas. Ghosh has already spent over Rs60,000 for his son’s treatment. “Such technical issues are coming in the way of treatment of poor patients hailing from a few states, whose state governments have opted out of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana,” a senior state health department official said. Besides West Bengal, people from Delhi, Telangana and Odisha were unable to avail of the health benefits with the states opting out of the scheme. A central government functionary managing the scheme said a lot of technical intervention was needed to ensure treatment of such patients. “We will try and help, but the states are not cooperating,” the functionary said. In a reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha last year, health minister Harsh Vardhan had told the House: “Ayushman Bharat is being implemented in the entire country. There are four states — Delhi, Telangana, Odisha and West Bengal — which have not implemented the Ayushman Bharat scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrants-of-4-states-cant-avail-govt-health-schemes/articleshow/76251385.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Third chartered flight lands at MIA||MANGALURU: The third chartered flight from King Fahd International Airport, Dammam, Saudi Arabia, landed at Mangaluru International Airport with 180 expatriates at 6.20pm on Sunday. The flight was chartered by K S Sheikh Karnire, director of Expertise-Contracting Co Limited, Saudi Arabia. It was earlier scheduled on May 5. The airport authorities said that another chartered flight carrying 169 passengers is expected to land on Monday. This is chartered by Zakariya Jokatte, CEO of Al Muzain Company, Saudi Arabia. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/third-chartered-flight-lands-at-mia/articleshow/76249993.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Varanasi||One tests positive, 871 Covid samples pending for test||VARANASI: One new case of Covid-19 positive came to light in Varanasi on Sunday as Banaras Hindu University lab could release only six reports while number of pending samples for test has reached to 871. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that only six reports of the Covid-19 samples were released by the BHU lab confirming one as positive. The person, who was tested positive, is a 23-year-old man, who works as an accountant in a private hospital and dwells in Janakinagar colony of Bhelupur area, which is already a hotspot. He was infected by a person, who had already been tested positive in past. With it the newly detected case, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached to 237. Two more patients were discharged from ESI hospital after which the number of cured patients reached to 137. Five had died and total active cases in the district are 95. No new hotspot was declared on Sunday. Among the previously declared 119 hotspots, 51 were included in green zone after which active hotspots reduced to 68. A total of 128 new samples were collected in the district. Reports of 871 samples are awaited from the BHU lab, he added. In Ballia, three more positive cases came to light on Sunday, said chief medical officer Dr AK Mishra adding that, now total number of infected persons in district has reached to 57. Of them 26 have become cured. The new infected persons are from Murli Chhapra, Harpur and Kajipura areas. All three are migrants and had returned home recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-tests-positive-871-covid-samples-pending-for-test/articleshow/76251289.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Private schools in a quandary over new academic session||PUNE: Private schools in the city are facing a dilemma over reopening. Some educational institutes are brainstorming about precautions to be observed in any space where students generally congregate. School representatives said they require clarity from the government on the plan for schools so that they can make preparations to restart. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on May 31 announced that government schools would reopen in June. However, there was no mention of the reopening process for private schools. Due to the lack of clarity, school administrations have taken the decision on how to reopen on their own. Principal of Narhe-based Vidya Alankar High School Seema Lad said, “Normally, schools start reopening after June 5. So as we approach the date, anxious parents want to know what schools are planning for their children. As of now, with no clear government directive, we have notified parents that if the school is reopening, we will let them know at least a week in advance so they are prepared.” Trustee of Sanskriti Group of Schools Praneet Mungali has already circulated a draft plan detailing the school’s plan among all parents. The school also plans to conduct an orientation programme for parents 10-14 days before re-opening. “We have already replaced our seating arrangements keeping in mind 6-feet distance among students. The average strength in each class is 35 students. The school is exploring several options, from conducting alternate-day classes to staggered shifts. The options are being assessed in detail keeping in mind transportation and academic activities.” Schools are opting for online classes, at least initially. “Many schools will be starting digital classrooms from June 1. We will start our online classes from tomorrow for grades 9 and 10. For the rest of the grades, classes will begin from June 8,” said Kajal Chhatija, principal of Rims International School, Undri. Ritu Mendiratta, principal of The Stepping Stone School, added that right now, with no directives, each school is following what it finds to be practical. “Our school had conducted four online orientation meets for parents where we have kept them abreast about all that the school had been doing and will be doing in future, without jeopardizing our children’s health. We had also formed WhatsApp groups per grade in the last week of March and we were clear in our communication.” Kendriya Vidyalayas in the city have received guidelines from the central government on procedures to follow upon reopening. “We are yet to receive a formal notification from the government about when to reopen. We are planning to go ahead with our online classes and e-learning for all grades from nursery to secondary section as we did in April. We shall take a strategic decision by mid-June depending on the outcome of Unlock 1.0, each school’s preparedness to welcome students and the schools’ location,” said Garima Goel, principal of Air Force School at Chandannagar 9 BRD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-schools-in-a-quandary-over-new-academic-session/articleshow/76251395.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 8, 2020||Pune||PMC shelter homes down from 17 to 12||PUNE: The occupancy at the civic body’s shelter homes accommodating migrant workers in the time of Covid-19 has gone down after the government’s decision to allow them travel home. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is currently operating 12 shelter homes, down from 17 such facilities. More than 1,700 migrant workers were staying in the shelter homes and, as on Thursday, only 250 were left in the facilities. “Most of the people currently staying in the shelter homes are local people. They are mostly homeless. They will soon be moved to safety and all the shelter homes will be vacated,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI. A PMC official said the shelter homes were set up in various areas under the municipal corporation. The official added that mostly civic schools were converted into the makeshift arrangements. The official added that the occupants of the shelter homes were daily wage earners, cooks at local hotels and construction workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-shelter-homes-down-from-17-to-12/articleshow/76251393.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Student union demands tablets for pupils||PUNE: The student union Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) recently wrote to the school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, demanding provision of tablets for every government school student. The MNVS said the state education department was preparing digitized chapters for all classes, but these needed to reach every student. In the letter, the MNVS stated that without enough provisions from the government, virtual classrooms would be a failure. The Pune president of MNVS, Kalpesh Yadav, said it was a good decision to continue classes via the online mode so that students did not suffer academically. “This decision should be thought from all sides. First, every student needs to have a tablet. Students from economically weaker sections should be given preference as some of their parents don’t even own a smartphone. This will directly affect their learning process,” he said. Yadav added that some parents couldn’t even afford to pay the nominal school fees. “These students should be handled on priority. ,” he said. Many schools in the state had already informed the department about their unwillingness to conduct online classes because of the lack of equipment and devices. The schools notified the department that many parents are yet to pay fees so it would be difficult to conduct e-classes, he said. Vishal Solanki, the commissioner of education, said, “We are trying to reach out to all children via the available media including television, radio and others for the classes. For those from economically weaker sections, volunteers will engage with them at a local level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/student-union-demands-tablets-for-pupils/articleshow/76251391.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gets challans for more than Rs 20 lakh||Ludhiana: The district administration and police have intensified strictness against people who are violating Lockdown 5.0 and Unlock 1.0. Till date, challans worth Rs 20,61,600 have been issued in Ludhiana district, under Mission Fateh of the Punjab government. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal stated that 6,770 challans worth Rs 18,31,400 were issued to people for not wearing masks, 2,178 challans worth Rs 2,23,200 were issued to people for spitting in public, besides three challans worth Rs 6,000 have been issued for not maintaining social distancing and persons caught violating home quarantine rules have been fined Rs 1,000. Agrawal said if any person came out of his/her house for purchasing essential commodities, then strict action will be taken against them. He said he has already directed the police to take strict action against people not wearing masks. He stated that any relaxation in curfew will be given under strict protocol and people will have to follow it. According to him, challans can be issued by sub-divisional magistrate, tehsildar, naib tehsildar, sub-registrar, police officials or gazetted officials. He said the amount collected from challans is being deposited at Civil Surgeon Office in Ludhiana. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said according to the directions of the Punjab government, any person not wearing mask will be fined Rs 500, if any bus owner, car owner or auto rickshaw/two-wheeler owner does not follow social distancing rules, then they would be fined Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 respectively. Any person breaking home quarantine will be fined Rs 2,000 and any person spitting in public place would be fined Rs 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludhiana-gets-challans-for-more-than-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/76251392.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Drunk men rough up, injure ex-MLA Medha Kulkarni||PUNE: Former Kothrud MLA Medha Kulkarni on Saturday suffered bruises on her fingers after she was roughed up by four men in an inebriated condition. The incident occurred around 5.30pm on Saturday, when Kulkarni intervened as the four men were assaulting an elderly man and abusing his relatives outside her residence, near Sahajanand Society. The elderly man’s 34-year-old daughter-in-law registered a complaint with the police, following which Amar Bansode (26), Vinod Gende (26) and Rohidas Kamble (19), all from Shravandhara Vasahat, Gananjay Society in Kothrud, were arrested. The police have registered offences under sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. “On a hearing commotion outside my house, I went out to check and saw four men, who were clearly drunk, abusing the elderly man and his relatives. When I tried to intervene, the suspects twisted my hand. Two fingers are been swollen. However, we managed to apprehend two of the men and later handed them over to police,” Kulkarni, a BJP functionary, said. Sub-inspector Amol Ghodke of the Kothrud police said the suspects noticed the man walking his dog and alleged that the man was deliberately letting his dog attack them. “They slapped him and hurled a bottle and stones at him,” Ghodke said. The frightened man ran towards his society and raised an alarm. The suspects chased him and began abusing him. His relatives and other residents of the society came out to intervene. “The suspects abused and threatened to kill them,” Ghodke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drunk-men-rough-up-injure-ex-mla-medha-kulkarni/articleshow/76251390.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||19-year-old held, for dragging dog with bike in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A day after Aurangabad city police booked two youths under sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, the detection branch of Kranti Chowk police on Sunday evening arrested the 19-year-old accused and detained his minor accomplice. The accused has been identified as Chirag Rajpal Bidla, a resident of Valmiki Nagar of the city. The short video that went viral on Friday saw the two bike-borne youths dragging a dog on the road by tying a rope around its neck. The video attracted attention of the authorities after netizens from Aurangabad tagged state environment minister Aditya Thackeray on Twitter. The minister immediately responded to the tweet by tagging district guardian minister Subhas Desai, Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astikkumar Pandey and director general of police’s official handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/19-yr-old-held-for-dragging-dog-with-bike/articleshow/76249999.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kochi||‘Work from home means extra workload for many’||Kochi: Employees who worked from home due to the pandemic faced increased work pressure, stress and loss of personal time during the work arrangement, found a study conducted by Your Amigos Foundation, a non-profit organization based in Kochi working for psychosocial well-being of families and children. As per the study, the employees were most affected by the change in working hours during work from home (WFH) days. “As much as 55.2% worked more than their usual working hours and 91% of them were not given any incentives for this. 59.4% of the respondents claimed that they faced heavy workload at the time and 33.3% have had trouble requesting personal leaves,” said Your Amigos founder Devas Boban. Boban said that the study was held by sending an online questionnaire to respondents from Kerala (38.2%), Karnataka (36.4%) and Tamil Nadu (12.7%) and a few from other states. A total of 165 working professionals participated in the study and around 70% of them were from the IT sector and the remaining from BPO and other private organizations. A software engineer working with a company at Infopark, Kochi, said: “In IT, it is natural that the work hours exceed the usual eight hours. But before WFH, I used to finish work and leave office by around 8pm. But during WFH, I have been getting calls past 8pm asking me to work and it has always been something ‘urgent’ or an ‘emergency’. There were times I worked late into the night,” he said. He added that such calls ate into his personal time. “The calls come when I am about to watch a movie or have dinner with my parents. I think they should compensate for extra productive hours put in by employees during WFH days and give them an option to turn down such additional work,” he said. A whopping 90% of the respondents said that they faced distractions and interruptions during WFH. “Internet connectivity and power supply was worse in rural areas and it affected my work. If WFH continues, I am worried about monsoon. When there is black out for over eight hours, there is no other option but to mark leave,” said an employee. He added that power and communication expenses have increased. “In my case, the company is reimbursing the communication expense but there are many who are spending the added expense from their pockets. Travel expenses are obviously saved but staying home always has taken a toll on the psychological wellness,” he said. Frequent headaches, back pain, change in sleep patterns were the health issues raised by the employees. On the other hand, as many 28% of respondents claimed to have started regular physical exercise during WFH days. A majority did household chores during work hours, however 54% opined that they faced a considerable decline in the amount of time that they got for themselves. At the same time, 41.8% felt that were able to spend quality time with their families during WFH. “While many enrolled in online courses to enhance their knowledge and skills, only 58.2% among them were able to pursue the same,” found the study. The study concluded that sustainable policies should be made when working from home becomes necessary in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/work-from-home-means-extra-workload-for-many/articleshow/76250005.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath inspects district hospitals in Basti, Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the district hospitals in Basti and Gorakhpur on Sunday and checked the arrangements and preparedness for Covid treatment. CM Yogi first reached Basti district hospital where he inaugurated a TrueNat machine for fast testing for coronavirus infection. He also inspected the emergency section of the hospital. On Sunday afternoon, Yogi reached Gorakhpur and directly went to the district hospital where he inspected the emergency wing, facilities and arrangements. Yogi questioned CMO Dr Shrikant Tiwari and chief medical superintendent Dr Satish Kumar whether Covid protocol was being followed duly. The doctors told CM that they first check symptoms and travel history of each patient. The samples of suspect patients are sent for test and if the result is positive the patient is shifted to isolation ward immediately. Yogi said that surgeries should not stop due to corona scare and each patient should be tested before surgery. The government has provided a TrueNat machine for speedy testing of coronavirus, the CM said. After district hospital inspection, CM Yogi headed to the circuit house where he held meetings with administrative officials. He also met BJP office-bearers and people’s representatives at circuit house. CM Yogi will stay at his residence in the Gorakhnath temple at night, said temple staffer Vinay Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-inspects-dist-hosps-in-basti-gorakhpur/articleshow/76251295.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||Unemployed man ends life on Vadsar road||VADODARA: A 40-year-old man, son of a retired army personnel, ended life at his house on Vadsar road on Saturday evening. The deceased Ravi Shinde hanged himself from the ceiling fan when his father was at work and wife and mother were sitting outside their house. Police said that when Shinde’s wife and mother checked inside the bedroom, they found Shinde’s body hanging. “No suicide note was found and the family members said that there was no problem in the family too so the reason has not been known,” said a cop probing the case. He added that Shinde was not employed and the family survived from his father Chandrakant Shinde’s pension and salary. Chandrakant works as a security guard in a private security firm. After postmortem at SSG Hospital on Sunday, Shinde’s body was handed over to his family and a case of accidental death was registered at Manjalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/unemployed-man-ends-life-on-vadsar-road/articleshow/76248749.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Virtual court to begin on trial basis from June 15||Kochi: Virtual court, which had received high court’s nod in February, would start functioning in the district from June 15. The HC had issued a notification in this regard in May. Initially, the virtual court would address cases related to traffic violations. It would be introduced on trial basis in Ernakulam district. Judicial first class magistrate will be in charge of the court for hearing non-compoundable offences — the fines of which is less than Rs 10,000. The chief judicial magistrate would hear cases — fine of which are above Rs 10,000. It envisages, motor vehicle inspectors will install e-challan app on their mobile phones and enter details and photos of vehicles, which were found violating traffic rules during inspection. Judges can access them directly on the app, linked to both Sarathi and Vahan websites of the central motor vehicle department. The person, who violated traffic rule and failed to remit the fine, will not get the service at RTO offices he approaches as the websites would have his records. Motor vehicle officials expect the virtual court system would speed up fine collection from violators. MVD inspectors can directly collect fine on the spot or through online from violators who falls under compoundable offence category. If the driver or owner of the vehicle fails to remit the fine, the checksheet will be sent to the virtual court. “The person need not appear before the court in person as the court will send him a message about the fine. As per Section 208 of MVD Act, if one pleads guilty to the charge, he can pay fine through lawyers. If the person fails to pay fine, the case will be transferred to regular court where the person will have to fight it legally. The virtual court will function as a median for traffic rule violators to pay fine. Currently, all non-compoundable cases and delay in paying fine under compoundable cases are coming up before regular courts,” said an MVD official in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virtual-court-to-begin-on-trial-basis-from-june-15/articleshow/76250017.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Taleigao man drowns off Zalor beach||Colva: Clive Paiva, 28, drowned off Zalor beach, Varca, on Saturday evening. Locals informed Colva PSI Swapna Sawas that they heard some cries at around 7.45pm, who then rushed to the beach. Juliana Vaz, 24, from Colva and Ernestino D’souza, 29, from Caranzalem, were in distress as their friend Paiva, who had ventured into the sea was pulled in by the currents. The police said that the deceased and his friends distributed food packets to the migrants being sheltered at the Jawaharlal Nehru and then went to the beach which is more than 12 kms away from the stadium. The police said that both the men went for a swim in the rough sea and were caught in undercurrents. Colva police, along with Dhristi lifeguards tried to locate the body but due to choppy condition of the sea could not carry out the search. They subsequently called in the coast guard, who undertook aerial search but were unsuccessful.  Over 24 hours have passed, but the body is yet to be traced or washed ashore, said Gawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taleigao-man-drowns-off-zalor-beach/articleshow/76251676.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mysuru||Police facing tough times by miscreants||MYSURU: Police personnel may have been showered with praise from all sections of society for their services during the lockdown. But still, they are facing tough times because of their run-ins with miscreants. To alleviate related fears, senior officers are sensitising cops on duty and speaking to their family to reduce their anxiety level. IGP Vipul Kumar, who heads southern police range of five districts — Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu — admitted that police personnel who are at the forefront of Covid-19 duty are under stress. The department has taken necessary steps to keep them confident and also boost their morale during the crisis. Incidents of attack on police have left them demoralised, and this is adding to their work pressure. A woman constable posted at a containment zone was recently bitten by youth in a bid to escape from the police in Mysuru city while another head constable was allegedly assaulted by a drunken individual in Mandya while the cop was attending to the distress call by the man’s wife. Though there hasn’t been any major incident, cops are facing challenges each passing day. To avoid visiting is home regularly, a constable with Mysuru district police has been staying at the workplace itself. He visits home once in five days, and the reason is obvious. Of late, the nature of police job has changed. “We have to ensure the safety to medical staff while quarantining contacts, and also educate public about the lockdown rules. I have faced some unsavoury situations while dealing with people in rural areas. Unlike earlier, we have to take care of ourselves, else there are chances of contracting the virus,” he said. A N Prakash Gowda, deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Mysuru city, said the youth who bit the hand of woman constable has been arrested and sent behind the bars. “This would act as deterrent. We have asked senior officers to take care of personnel working at sensitive places like hospitals and containment zones,” the DCP added. Wine shop challenge After wine shops were opened, police have been facing another challenge of attending to incidents of assault by drunkards. Two murders have happened in the recent past in Mysuru, as also two chain-snatching incidents. An officer said police are dealing with law and order issues even while prioritising Covid-19-related duty. “The challenge lies in taking precautions as it is difficult to make out an infected person,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-facing-tough-times-by-miscreants/articleshow/76244890.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 8, 2020||Pune||Pune Metro tunnel crosses Shivajinagar station site; efficiency down to 25%||PUNE: The tunnel being excavated for the underground section of the Pune Metro rail project as progressed beyond the Shivajinagar station, despite a 25% dip in work efficiency because of the Covid-19 lockdown. Officials of the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) attributed the drop in efficiency to a lack of workers at the site for over a month. The tunnelling work, which had commenced last December, is now being executed in a single shift, as opposed to the earlier two shifts. “Despite the challenges, the underground tunnel has progressed. Of the two tunnel-boring machines, one has crossed 200 metres beyond Shivajinagar station, while the other is 20 metres past the location. The machines will now reach Civil Court via Simla office chowk and CoEP ground,” a MahaMetro official added. At the moment, only 1,000 workers are on duty at the various Metro sites across the city, compared to the pre-lockdown strength of 2,800. MahaMetro said they have reached out to the respective district administrations in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh after some workers expressed a desire to return to Pune. “The labour contractors attached to us are working on this,” an official said. MahaMetro said due to the reduced strength, work is progressing steadily, albeit slowly, t its sites. “We are managing with existing work force, but efficiency has come down to 25%. We deployed the workers as per requirement,” another official said. MahaMetro said it has expedited viaduct and pillar work on some crucial stretches — RTO and Pune railway station, Paud Phata and Paud Road. “Work on the depots too — at College of Agriculture and Vanaz — is also progressing steadily,” an official said. MahaMetro further said it has almost removed all obstacles — such as temporary ramps — from the riverbed at Sangam Bridge, Bund Garden and Harris Bridge ahead of the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/underground-metro-tunnel-crosses-shivajingar-station-site/articleshow/76251405.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||With MLAs in resorts, Congress launches ‘Bolshe Gujarat’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat unit of the Congress party launched its ‘Bolshe Gujarat’ social media and online campaign on Sunday, seeking to give voice to demands of common people who have suffered setbacks because of the lockdown. The Congress launched the campaign while all of its remaining 65 MLAs remain housed in three different resorts ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha election. Launching the campaign through a video chat, GPCC president Amit Chavda said the lockdonw extending for more than two months have left people without money, but the government has not been able to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Through the `Bolshe Gujarat’ campaign, we will exert pressure on the government to pay first-term school fees of all middle class students, we will demand waiver of all taxes between April and June and also waiver of electricity bills for the middle-class and poor people,” Chavda said. Party spokesperson Jayrajsinh Parmar added that people from all walks of life will join the `Bolshe Gujarat’ campaign and will post their video and audio messages on social media platforms. Party MLAs staged a dharna at the three resorts where they have been housed, even as the `Bolshe Gujarat’ campaign was launched on Sunday. Meanwhile, Rajeev Satav, Congress in-charge for Gujarat, said on Sunday that the party needs only one vote to win the second Rajya Sabha seat as well, but refused to elaborate on the claim. “We need only one more vote to win the second seat. We are not going to discuss the numbers here as it is part of our strategy to win the seat,” Satav said. The Congress strength has dropped to 65 after eight MLas resigned in the run-up to the Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-mlas-in-resorts-cong-launches-bolshe-gujarat/articleshow/76250013.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Man mistakes sanitizer for water, dies||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 55-year-old man died after he consumed alcohol-based sanitizer believing that it was drinking water, at Nakkapalle area in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as S Satyanarayana, a native of Saripallivani Palem of Nakkapalle Mandal. He was working as an attender in the Mandal Revenue Officer at Nakkapalle. The police said that on Saturday evening, Satyanarayana consumed sanitizer kept on the office table assuming that it was drinking water. Later he complained of vomiting and a few other symptoms. He was shifted to the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Nakkapalle. After treatment, he was discharged on Saturday night and he went home. However, he again complained of vomiting and loose motions on Saturday night. Though he was rushed to the government hospital at Anakapalle, he breathed his last while availing treatment on Saturday night. The police have registered a case and shifted the body to morgue for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-mistakes-sanitizer-for-water-dies/articleshow/76250008.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Division gets Rs 35 crore cyclone relief||PUNE: Vijay Wadettiwar, minister of disaster management, and relief and rehabilitation, said on Sunday that the state government has sanctioned an aid of Rs35 crore for those affected by Cyclone Nisarga in Pune division.  Wadettiwar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and minister Vishwajeet Kadam attended a meeting here on Saturday to review the damage wreaked by the cyclone and monsoon preparedness, Wadettiwar said the process to assess the cyclone damage would be completed in the next two days. “We have sanctioned an aid of Rs35 crore to Pune division, of which Rs23.4 crore is for Pune district, Rs3.15 crore for Satara, Rs2.65 crore each for Sangli and Solapur, and Rs3.15 crore for Kolhapur,” Wadettiwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/division-gets-rs-35-crore-cyclone-relief/articleshow/76251403.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Census enumeration takes a back seat thanks to Covid-19||PUNE: In the wake of the pandemic, the census houselisting process that was to commence statewide last month and be completed by June 15 has taken a back seat. As of now, there is no time frame given to the process. The census, which collects individual-level demographic, socio-cultural, occupational, educational and migration-related information, is scheduled to be conducted in February-March 2021 followed by enumeration of population in February next year. The census forms the basis for reviewing the country’s progress in the past decade, monitoring ongoing government schemes and plan for the future. There were doubts about the launch of the phase even before the Covid-19 lockdown, especially as it was clubbed with updation of the National Population Register, opposed by many states headed by non-BJP governments. State census officials, who were to commence work by mid-May, said that in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it looks highly unlikely that the process can take place anytime soon. “We have been told to stop all our operations and our staff has been roped in for other work related to Covid-19. We trained our officers but now we will have to wait until further instructions. We are not even sure the process will happen this year,” shared an official. The field investigators travel to remote areas and spend roughly two hours with each household. Census officers added it looks unlikely that even by year-end there will be a change in the present condition and they would possibly have to wait for the 2021-22 survey. While the first phase was house listing with basic details, it was to be followed by a detailed analysis of individuals in the second phase. In 2011, the state had registered a population of 11.3 crore. “Now without this data, assessment for various sectors would be difficult. For example, in terms of migrant population analysis, which is expected to have risen to nearly 40% from 30% in 2001 and 2011 there is no current date for comparison. The census considers a person a migrant if s/he, on the date of enumeration, is at a place different from his/her place of birth. In an unusual year such as this, where many migrant workers have gone back to their villages, you might end up with data different from the actual overall decadal trend,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/census-enumeration-takes-a-back-seat-thanks-to-covid-19/articleshow/76251412.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Should have taken minor to her home instead of eloping’||AHMEDABAD: A sessions court has denied bail to a Pocso accused and said that as an adult the accused’s primary duty was to take the minor girl, who wanted to flee from her adoptive father, back to her parents instead of eloping with her. Pravin Parmar, 23, has been jailed on charges of rape and abduction of a 14-year-old girl from Narol. Parmar and the girl disappeared in May last year only to be traced through mobile phone in October. He was arrested and booked under provisions of IPC as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Parmar sought bail on grounds that it was a love affair and the girl herself had insisted that they should run away. The victim was not treated well by her mother and her adoptive father. She was fed up and wanted to flee. He submitted that the girl travelled and stayed with him of her free will and there was no force involved. He asserted that he had to elope with her because the victim pressurized him to do so, as she wanted to escape the ill treatment at her home. The court took into consideration the state government’s opposition to the bail on the ground that the minor’s consent does not count and the gesture still falls under the category of statutory rape. The additional sessions judge at the Mirzapur rural court campus, M S Rawal refused bail to Parmar and said, “Even if the girl was pressurizing the accused for elopement because of ill treatment on part of her father and mother, as an adult, he could have explained things to her. Even if the victim had herself rushed to the accused’s house, still it was his primary responsibility to take her back to her home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/should-have-taken-minor-to-her-home-instead-of-eloping/articleshow/76250040.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Allahabad||Vendors ofpuja items clueless about guidelines||Prayagraj: Even as all temples of the city are reopening on Monday, owners of several makeshift shops selling flowers, prasaad, coconut and other puja paraphernalia are clueless about the guidelines issued by the state government regarding the same. Small traders selling prasaad and other puja materials in Rambagh, Naini, Attarsuiya, Daraganj, Rajapur and other areas rued that sale has been vastly affected due to the lockdown. “If devotees continue to abstain from buying puja items, we won’t be able to run our households,” said Rajesh, a shopkeeper in Rambagh. Ironically, priests of many temples were also not aware whether the devotees would be allowed to take prasaad and other puja items with them. A chief priest of a prominent city temple said, “Things will be clear only after district authorities issue a guideline for devotees.” “We, on our part, have sanitized the campus and placed hand wash and sanitizers at the entrance gate. Besides, volunteers will also be conduct thermal screening of devotees,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vendors-ofpuja-items-clueless-about-guidelines/articleshow/76251314.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Temghar dam wall repair faces delay; storage not an issue||PUNE: The lockdown has delayed seasonal repairs to the wall of the Temghar dam, but the state water resources department is confident the reservoir can store water to full capacity. With the monsoon around the corner, the department now plans to finish the incomplete work after the rains. Though some repairs are pending, latest inspections at the dam show that the structure is completely safe, officials said. The dam has a live storage of 3.7 TMC and is among the four dams that supply water to Pune city. The dam’s wall had developed major leaks, which had compelled the state government to initiate repairs. The state irrigation department said that over 90% of the leaks have been plugged. “We were expecting to complete the work of shortcrete treatment before the monsoon, but it got delayed by the lockdown. There was no work during April due to a shortage of workers and unavailability of material. A special proposal was put up before the district collector to procure the material and work had restarted in May, but has yet to be completed,” a department official said. Rough estimates indicate that two months will be required to complete the remaining work. The department now plans to take up the pending work next summer, when there will be less water in the dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temghar-wall-repair-faces-delay-storage-not-an-issue/articleshow/76251409.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||To enter malls, Cova app must||Ludhiana: The DC said for shopping malls, every person entering the mall should have Cova app on their phone, but in case of a family, one member with Cova app is sufficient. “Loitering in the mall will not be allowed. Entry into the mall shall be based on a token system to adhere to the maximum capacity. Ideally, a maximum time limit for a person/a group of persons entering the mall, should also be enforced. The maximum capacity of the persons allowed in each shop in the mall shall be fixed on the basis of maintenance of 6 feet distance. Further, an additional 25% shall be allowed for common areas to determine the total capacity of the mall,” the DC said. “The management shall be responsible for ensuring the maximum capacity of the mall and of each shop displayed and no more than 50 percent of the maximum capacity shall at any point of time enter the mall/ be present in any single shop”. Deputy commissioner said that each shop shall have markers to indicate social distancing for those waiting to enter, lifts shall not be used except in case of disabled persons or in medical emergency, escalators may only be used, with distancing, trial of clothing/accessories shall not be permitted, the health team of the district shall regularly check the employees working in the shops of the mall, restaurants/Food Courts shall not operate in any of the malls except for takeaway/home-delivery, the managements of these ensure hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-enter-malls-cova-app-must/articleshow/76251408.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Mobile fish-vending kiosk designed by CIFT gets patent||Kochi: An innovation to ensure safe and fresh fish for consumers has received recognition from the controller general of patents. Kochi-headquartered central institute of fisheries technology (CIFT) received certificate of registration of design for its refrigerated mobile fish vending kiosk which would ensure hygiene and freshness in retail fish-sale. The certificate of registration of design recognizes the creation of new and original features of new shape, configuration, surface pattern, ornamentations and composition of lines or colours applied to articles etc., and is valid for five years. The refrigerated mobile fish vending kiosk serves the purpose of selling fish at consumer’s doorstep while keeping its freshness intact by maintaining it inside a closed refrigerated chamber with a temperature level of 0C to 4C under hygienic conditions. This will address the concerns of stale or adulterated fishes which is of constant concern for consumers. The machine was designed and developed by CIFT engineering division headed by Manoj P Samuel. The main components of the kiosk are fish storage and display chamber, hand-operated descaling machine, fish dressing deck with inbuilt wash basin, water tank, cutting tool, waste collection chamber and working space. The descaling machine attached with the kiosk helps to remove the scales while cleaning the fish. This would help to extend the edible quality of fish for four to five days, thus increasing the marginal benefit for fish vendors. The cost of a standard kiosk which can display 30kg of fish and separately store 100kg in ice-box is Rs.52,000/- plus taxes. The vending kiosks are manufactures and distributed through CIFT approved empanelled agencies and so far seven kioks have been commercialized to various fish vendors in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Apart from this, under a scheme of Kerala state fisheries department, 20 kiosks have been fabricated for the benefit of fisherwomen SHGs under the aegis of society for assistance to fisherwomen (SAF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mobile-fish-vending-kiosk-designed-by-cift-gets-patent/articleshow/76250048.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Allahabad||RLVDs put up at 7 crossings in Prayagraj, e-challans to be issued||Prayagraj: Come June 8 and be ready to receive e-challan SMS on your registered mobile phone if you were caught on camera jumping a red light and scoot. Inspector general of police Prayagraj range KP Singh, said that e-challan would be served to violators on their registered mobile number and home address from June 8. He told TO, “In the first phase, we have selected seven city crossings, including Fire Brigade, Hindu Hostel, Maharana Pratap, Medical College, Teliyarganj, Dhobi Ghat crossings and Traffic Police Line Chauraha where Red Light Violation Detector (RLVD) system installed on the crossings would catch the offenders while jumping the red light and generating an e-challan on their registered mobile phones. A total 11 crossings have been identified where the RLVD system would be introduced in a phased manner, he added. The IG said, “After installation of Red Light Violation Detector’ (RLVD) at seven main crossings, we have chalked out a strategy to teach traffic violators a strict lesson. Those caught jumping traffic signals, an e-challan would be issued on the registered mobile of a violator or dispatching challans to his/her home address, he added. Experts claim the RLVD system is a tool for mass surveillance and can automatically capture an image of any vehicle found violating traffic norms. The RLVD system will capture an image of the vehicle’s licence plate and then read the number after performing an optical character recognition. Once a traffic light turns red, the RLVD system’s camera will automatically capture an image of a vehicle which hovers over its sensors for less than the stipulated time. The system will encrypt and transfer the data collected to the police control room. The system would speed up generation of e-challans along with photo evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rlvds-put-up-at-7-crossings-in-prayagraj-e-challans-to-be-issued/articleshow/76251308.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Doctors can pursue higher studies on giving bank surety||Madurai: The state government has informed Madras high court that it had passed a GO recently permitting medical practitioners who have not completed the period of compulsory service as per the bond executed, to pursue higher studies after obtaining bank guarantee equivalent to the bond amount. The court was hearing a petition filed by K Gautham, who had completed MBBS in 2013 and was selected for diploma in Ophthalmology at Madurai Medical College under all India quota in May 2017. Though he had executed a bond to serve the state for two years after this course, he did not join duty on being posted as assistant surgeon after completing his course in 2019. In mean time, he qualified for DNB (post diploma) with all India merit position and sought his certificates back to pursue the course and executed a bond for Rs 20lakh undertaking that he would complete the compulsory service after higher studies. The court had earlier directed the dean to return his original certificates stating that the authorities could encash the bond amount if the petitioner fails to join duty after the course. During the course of hearing, the state informed that a GO has been passed by the health and family welfare department to permit medical practitioners who have not completed the period of compulsory service to pursue further studies after they furnish bank guarantee equivalent to the bond amount for the period of course of higher studies. After executing the bank guarantee, the original documents would be returned for that limited period on the understanding that they would re-submit them on reporting for duty and complete the required period of compulsory service. Taking cognizance of the GO and the fact that the certificates were returned to Gautham, Justice P D Audikesavalu disposed of the petition directing the authorities to issue posting order after the petitioner reports for duty on completing his higher studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-can-pursue-higher-studies-on-giving-bank-surety/articleshow/76251411.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||108 Covid patients discharged from hosp on coast||MANGALURU/UDUPI: In a major relief for the district administrations in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, the combined tally of Covid19 positive cases on Sunday slumped to less than 50, for the first time since June 1. The coastal districts reported 30 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, with Dakshina Kannada accounting for 17 and Udupi 13. A total 108 patients were discharged from hospital, including 103 from Udupi. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that a dozen of the 13 fresh cases were returnees from Maharashtra, and the contact history of a patient designated P-5451 is being traced. The administration received test reports of 168 samples, out of which 155 tested negative, the DC said, adding the health authorities are now awaiting reports of 264 samples. The district presently has 626 active cases and 274 patients have been discharged thus far. In Dakshina Kannada, 16 out of 17 cases were from among those who returned from Maharashtra and one was from Goa. These include two groups of 11, and four each from Maharashtra, who had completed their quarantine in Udupi and returned to Moodbidri and Belthangady, respectively. The other two are individuals who returned from Mumbai and Goa, respectively. Their swab sample reports tested positive, and they have been referred to the designated Covid-19 hospital for treatment. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, DUDC, in-charge of the Dakshina Kannada bulletin, said five patients were discharged from Wenlock Hospital on Sunday, taking the total number of discharged patients to 96. The district now has 89 active cases, against 192 positive cases reported so far, including 182 resident of Dakshina Kannada alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/108-covid-patients-discharged-from-hosp-on-coast/articleshow/76250021.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 8, 2020||Allahabad||City temples reopen today; scanning must for devotees||Prayajraj: Temples of the city will reopen from Monday with all social distancing norms in place. Devotees will be allowed to enter only after undergoing thermal scanning. At Maa Kalyani Devi Temple, authorities informed that a volunteer would screen each devotee entering the temple premises and ensure that they follow all social distancing norms. The temple has also been sanitized before it reopens on Monday. Chief priest of Maa Kalyani Devi temple, Pt Shyam Ji Pathak, told TOI, “We have made special arrangements to follow the guidelines issued by the district authorities. Apart from thermal scanning, devotees will be made to stand in circles drawn on the temple floor. They will also asked to sanitize their hands before entering.” Several notices have been put up on the temple premises, urging devotees to wear masks and not to touch idols, bells and other articles. “Shitla Asthami is round the corner, and many devotees will attend special prayers that will be organised on temple premises. We have already apprised the police station concerned to manage the crowd,” added the chief priest. Head priest at Rajapur Hanuman temple, Pt Shri Krishna Pandey, said, “We have appealed to the devotees to maintain social distancing. Only five devotees will be allowed to enter the temple at a time. A team of volunteers guide the devotees.” At Bhayharan Nath Dham in Pratapgarh, volunteers of Har Har Gange Sewa Trust, along with the priest of the Dham, conducted sanitization drive in and around Dham campus. Temple authorities have, however, made it clear that no devotees would be allowed to offer flowers or prasad within the temple, informed general secretary of the Dham, Samaj Shekhar.Meanwhile, the gate of the famous Bade Hanuman temple located at Sangam will reopen for devotees on Monday after a gap of more than 10 weeks. However, no devotees will be allowed to enter without mask or sanitized hands. Touching idols placed inside any of the temples of the city is strictly prohibited. . Authorities of all prominent temples of the city sanitized their premises and drew circles on the floor in order to ensure proper social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-temples-reopen-today-scanning-must-for-devotees/articleshow/76251321.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||HC orders status quo in land acquisition for highway||Madurai: Observing that the rights of individual land owners should be preserved, Madras high court ordered to maintain status quo in land acquisition for the highway project connecting Vadipatti and Chittampatti in Madurai district. A division bench of Justice S S Sundar and Justice C Saravanan passed the order while hearing the petition filed by A M M Ambigapathy against the land acquisition for the proposed ring road phase I highway project, stating that several parcels of fertile land would be lost if the process continues. The NHAI’s standing counsel submitted that most of the land owners had handed over possession after obtaining the amount that was determined by mutual consent. Since more people have consented to give their land for the project, the petitioner cannot stall the project merely because it is inconvenient to some land owners, he said. Refusing to accept this argument, the judges said the right of individual land owners is protected by the Constitution. If the authorities are allowed to carry out the project, a situation might arise by which the court would be embarrassed to redo the whole process in public interest. The judges said instead of allowing the project to be continued and then hear the concerned parties reporting fait accompli, the order of status quo has to be maintained to preserve the rights of several individual land owners. Hence, the judges said that there shall be an order of status quo till further orders. The case was adjourned to June 16 for further hearing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-status-quo-in-land-acquisition-for-highway/articleshow/76251413.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Trichy||Newly laid road dug up by Tangedco to repair power cables||Trichy: Just a few months after the Trichy corporation laid a new bituminous layer on Moolathoppu-Melur Road in Srirangam, a portion of the road was dug up by Tangedco to rectify underground electricity cables. The corporation had laid a portion of Moolathoppu-Melur Road in Srirangam at the end of March. However, the vacant space adjacent to the road was already identified by Tangedco, Srirangam division, to repair a faulty cable. Tangedco officials said that they had informed the civic body in February itself and sought permission to dig a trench along the road to repair the cables connecting 80 transformers with Srirangam Tangedco substation. As the machinery required for the work needed to arrive from Chennai, the repair work was delayed. Meanwhile, sources said that the corporation completed laying the road. “We informed the civic body about the scope of our repair work well in advance,” a Tangedco official said.  “The road will deteriorate soon as the side portions were dug, making way for rainwater to seep in. Such poor coordination between departments should be avoided,” said R Govindaraju, a retired revenue department official in Srirangam. Corporation officials refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/newly-laid-road-dug-up-by-tangedco-to-repair-power-cables/articleshow/76251420.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Clubs, cultural groups help bridge digital divide||Kochi: Arts and sports clubs and libraries in the district have come to the aid of students who are finding it difficult to access online classes aired via KITE Victers channel. Around 40 students attended the first day of the classes at Chaithanya Arts Club at Thuruthikkara near Mulanthuruthy. The club offered the students the facility to attend classes using their big screen and a projector. “Students in Classes IX and X have lot of notes to jot down. While listening to classes on TV channels at home they cannot do this. We used live feed from the YouTube in the computer and projected it to the screen,” said Jerin P Elias, secretary, Chaithanya Arts Club, which was formed in 1974. The club has a library, and the screen and projector were purchased as part of attracting new generation to the club. Elias said they preferred the YouTube channel of Victers as it offers the facility to pause the visuals thereby enabling the students to take down the notes. The club also provided free notebooks and pen for the students. The number of students attending classes using the club facility came down on second and third day. “Students who are using dish antennas at homes have trouble viewing the aired content when it rains or the sky is cloudy,” said Elias. Mulanthuruthy panchayat has also transformed their panchayat community hall to a classroom to help students without access. Ala Centre for Culture and Alternative Education at Mulanthuruthy is also offering their building so far used as a theatre space to facilitate online learning. “Though we are primarily a theatre space we had plans to develop it as a centre for alternative education. The space was lying unused due to the lockdown and we thought why not use it to facilitate classes for students who may have digital access issues,” said Manu Jose, who founded Ala Centre two years ago. The centre has a large hall which can accommodate 30 to 35 students by adhering to social distancing norms and gadgets like laptops, projector and speaker. Jose said while they opened up the facility on Monday no students have turned up yet. “According to data collected by Mulanthuruthy panchayat there are 44 students who do not have access to online learning. Even if the students have devices at home they can use this facility to experience a larger screen which can facilitate learning,” said Jose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/clubs-cultural-groups-help-bridge-digital-divide/articleshow/76250072.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||36 mobiles seized from Ludh jail in a week||Ludhiana: The security at Ludhiana Central Jail seem to have failed, as 36 mobiles have been recovered from the jail inmates in the last one week. When lockdown is imposed, everyone was allowed to meet inmates. The recovery of mobiles from jail inmates raises question over the arrangements of jail authority. According to jail officials, slum behind Ludhiana Central Jail has become the major cause of concern for them. Aides of inmates use to throw mobile phones and other contrabands from outside the jail premises. On June 2, the jail officials have recovered 15 mobile phones from jail and lodged FIR against eight inmates. Further, on June 3, the jail officials have recovered 1 mobile phone and 32 packets of tobacco alongside compound wall of the jail. According to the officials, the tobacco packs and the phone was thrown from outside the jail premises. Rajiv Arora, superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail, said “Due to lockdown the inmates are not being taken to court complex for court hearing. Moreover, the newly arrested accused are also being accommodated separately in Brostal jail. Thus, it is suspected that either some of the inmates already had mobiles, hidden somewhere in the jail. Beides, the major issue is that people thrown mobile from outside the jail premises.” He added that the Central Reserve Police Force personnel and jail security guards conduct patrolling through the day. Recently, during patrolling, the staff recovered a mobile and 32 packets of tobacco from near the compound wall of the jail. “Surprise checking is often conducted and as result we manage to recover mobiles,” he added. At present, the Ludhiana Central Jail has 2,500 inmates. Earlier, there were 3,300 inmates. 800 inmates were shifted to other jails due to coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/36-mobiles-seized-from-ludh-jail-in-a-week/articleshow/76251410.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||With Cong crisis in Guj, Diggy calls for amendment of anti-defection law||Bhopal: With political uncertainty in Gujarat before the Rajya Sabha elections and Congress shifting its MLAs to resorts, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday called for an amendment in the anti-defection law. The defection by 22 MLAs in March brought down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. “The anti-defection law was enacted by the Rajiv Gandhi-led Congress government in 1985. The law had a provision that an elected member who left a political party could not contest the election or hold a position for the next six years,” Digvijaya said, while speaking to the media here on Sunday afternoon. “Later, that was changed following court orders and a wrong practice is being followed. Anyone who wins an election through the people’s mandate and faith, no matter which party he belongs to, should not be permitted to contest any election or hold a post for six years,” the former chief minister said. “I believe the anti-defection law should be changed again and the old provision included,” he added. Digvijaya is a Congress party candidate from Madhya Pradesh for the Rajya Sabha polls slated for June 19. Targeting BJP, Digvijaya said, “BJP has amassed so much ill-gotten wealth that it has started a mandi for buying and selling MLAs. All other political parties should discuss this distrust that has been born and mandate which is being purchased. Otherwise, democracy will be dead. If this carries on, then no one needs to contest elections. In a 200-seat assembly, a political party can afford to spend Rs1,000 crore and purchase a majority.” Digvijaya said a Gujarat-like situation will not arise here in MP since those who had to leave the party, left in March. “In MP, the Gujarat frenzy will not happen because those who had to leave have already left. The remaining Congress MLAs have passed a tough test of party loyalty,” Digvijaya said. Congress now has 92 MLAs in the assembly, enough to ensure Digvijaya’s second term in the Upper House, but party’s second candidate Phool Singh Baraiya may fall short of required numbers. Digvijaya appealed to voters to defeat those who betray their trust and mandate. After 22 MLAs of the Jyotiraditya Scindia faction left Congress bringing down the Kamal Nath government, Digvijaya had appealed to voters to defeat them in the bypolls. These 22 seats and two other assembly segments vacated after the demise of sitting MLAs are due for bypolls. “People should teach defectors a lesson, whether voters are supporters of Congress, BJP or any other party. Those who sell people’s mandate should be defeated,” Digvijaya said. Regarding news of differences between him and Kamal Nath, the senior Congress leader said, “My relations with Nath goes back to 40 years. We are like brothers and friends. In these four decades, many, including journalists and politicians tried to create differences between us. But we sit down and resolve issues. So, no one should have that misconception.” Digvijaya said that Scindia, who left Congress and joined the BJP, will not get the respect he received in his old party. “When I was CM, Scindia used to come and stay in my residence. I always supported him. After his Lok Sabha defeat, he used to talk to me for hours and I made him understand that he should not be distraught because he had a lot of respect in Congress,” he recalled. Digvijaya said Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi used to go to Scindia’s residence and held workers’ meetings there. “But, after the Lok Sabha elections, he made friends with those who defeated him. He made friends with the enemy and betrayed those who supported him. He was national general secretary of the party. So far as Rajya Sabha nomination was concerned, he could have told me if he wanted to be the first option, I would have agreed to be the number 2,” he said. “Scindia will not get respect in BJP. I have seen the Rajya Sabha list where he has been called Shri Jyotiraditya Scindia and no longer the Shrimant (title of the Gwalior royal family members). BJP works differently. It is led by the RSS and there will be no respect for him,” Digvijaya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-cong-crisis-in-guj-diggy-calls-for-amendment-of-anti-defection-law/articleshow/76250940.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 8, 2020||Goa||Mining recoveries delayed as dept gets new head||Panaji: The change of guard at the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) has delayed the recovery of money from 42 leases in the illegal mining cases in the state. A senior government officer said that the director has to first hear the cases before passing recovery orders. The mines department completed the hearings in December 2019 and the orders were supposed to passed in January. However, since then, due to a new director taking over, the orders have not been issued. Since Prasanna Acharya’s transfer, the department has seen three directors, but there has never been any delay in issuing orders. Ashutosh Apte replaced Acharya as mines director, and he was followed by Arvind Bugde, who was followed by the present appointee Vivek H P. “The new director may hold at least one hearing before issuing orders,” the senior officer said. The DMG had issued notices to 42 lease holders to file their final replies in the matter and commenced final hearings in October 2019. Before that, it had evaluated replies from the holders of 118 mining leases to the audit report. In 2015, the government had appointed 15 chartered accountants to undertake a comprehensive audit of lease holders and traders of mineral ore in Goa for a five-year period, when exports peaked. They were asked to examine the exact quantity of ore extracted and exported, the amount of royalties paid, export duty, and ore (if any) sourced from other states. The accountants had submitted an audit report of 118 mining leases to the mines department. The latter analysed the report to ascertain the exact loss to the state exchequer due to illegal mining. Based on the analysis, showcause notices were issued to the mining companies. The companies then submitted their replies and hearings were conducted. However, the charter accountants are yet to begin the audit of 260 iron ore traders. Around 464 traders are registered with the mines department, out of which over 260 were involved in the mining business from 2007 till September 2012, the officer said. The Shah Commission report on illegal mining, which had exposed a series of irregularities in the state’s mining activities, had pegged the loss of revenue to the government from the mining scam at Rs 35,000 crore. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had assured the Goa assembly in July 2012 that a team of chartered accountants would be engaged to conduct an audit of all ore export-related activities during the past five years. Since Prasanna Acharya’s transfer, the department has seen three directors, but there has never been any delay in issuing orders. Ashutosh Apte replaced Acharya as mines director, and he was followed by Arvind Bugde, who was followed by the present appointee Vivek H P||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-recoveries-delayed-as-dept-gets-new-head/articleshow/76251679.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||BCG requests CJ to let lower courts reopen||Ahmedabad: The representatives of the Bar Council of Gujarat on Sunday requested the Chief Justice Vikram Nath to allow Gujarat’s lower courts to open and start regular judicial work.The Bar members told the chief justice that the state government has granted relaxation in lockdown and religious places, malls and multiplexes too are going to start from Monday. In such scenario, the courts, except those falling under containment zones, could start functioning by June 15. Even those courts within containment zone could be started for limited hours for physical work.The Bar representatives told the CJ that the courts have been closed for more than two months now and the advocates, particularly the junior lawyers, are facing financial difficulties because there is no regular judicial work that is taking place.A statement from the Bar said that the chief justice has assured the lawyers that a decision in this regard will be taken soon. The chief justice has sought reports from all districts and a committee of judges will soon take a decision in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bcg-requests-cj-to-let-lower-courts-reopen/articleshow/76250053.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Sunday turns hot, putting brake on city’s pleasant weather spell||Ludhiana: After remaining pleasant for many days, weather turned bit hot on Sunday, especially around afternoon. The met department, meanwhile, predicts weather disturbances to continue for the next few days. The impact of sunshine was witnessed on the maximum (day) temperature, which was recorded at 33.6 degrees Celsius, which was six degrees less than normal. On Saturday, the day temperature in city was recorded at 30.6 degrees Celsius, which was nine degrees less than normal. Meanwhile, minimum (night) temperature in city on Sunday was 23.3 degrees Celsius, which was a degree less than normal, but 3.3 degrees more than on Saturday.  met department official at Chandigarh said the weather is likely to remain partly cloudy on Monday and Tuesday and then again on Wednesday and Thursday there are chances of rain. He added that rainfall might be light on these days. The met department official further said both day and night temperatures are expected to rise in a few days. Meanwhile, met department website predicts day temperature to rise to 38 degrees till Thursday, whereas night temperature is expected to rise to 25 degrees till Tuesday and remain stagnant at 24 degrees till Friday. “The weather was pleasant for last few days, but today around afternoon it was a bit hot. However, by evening, it again turned pleasant. We are still not using air conditioners, as we don’t feel the need for them. Also, it is quite pleasant to go for walks in the park near my home, especially in the morning and evening hours,” said Varun Gupta, a trader from Chandigarh road area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sunday-turns-hot-putting-brake-on-citys-pleasant-weather-spell/articleshow/76251416.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court entrusts custody of baby boy to Madurai home||MADURAI: Madras high court has entrusted the custody of a male child given in illegal adoption to a children’s home in Madurai, a specialized adoption agency in the district, after the state government informed that DNA test should be performed to determine its parentage. The court was hearing the petition filed by a woman from Salem district who sought the custody of her nearly seven-month-old child currently with the child welfare committee (CWC) in Virudhunagar. She claims to have given birth to the child in October 2019 and since her family was under financial distress she had given the baby for adoption to a couple in Virudhunagar district. Since no legal procedures were followed, the CWC took custody of the child and is inquiring into the incident. A police complaint was also lodged. During the hearing, the special government pleader submitted that it appears from the statements of the couple that they paid Rs 40,000 to the petitioner. She further submitted that even though medical records have been produced for the birth of the child, it would be in the interest of the child that DNA test is conducted to establish parentage. On perusal of the submissions, Justice C V Karthikeyan observed that in cases like this, the onus is on the CWC which is the authorized agency under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, to examine the circumstances surrounding abandonment, if it is a case of abandonment, and the circumstances surrounding the rescue of the child, and also enquire with the parents to determine their financial viability to take care of the child and their intention. Since the CWC and police are examining the issues, it may not be appropriate for the court to give its view on the matter. The judge said that on completion of inquiry and after establishment of the DNA test, the CWC may take a considered decision either to hand over the child to the petitioner or the specialized adoption agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-entrusts-custody-of-baby-boy-to-madurai-home/articleshow/76251417.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Security beefed up after 'threat call'||Haridwar: Bomb disposal unit and dog squad teams were deployed at Har-ki-Pauri and other religious places in Haridwar after receiving an alleged threat call on Saturday. The caller, who was later found to be mentally unsound, had claimed that "he was underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and the Har Ki Pauri ghat would be blown up". The police traced the caller and he was identified. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Kirshna Raj S told TOI on Sunday, "We received some information from Mumbai police about a threat call. So, we tightened our security of all the major religious places. The caller was later traced by the local police and was said to be mentally unsound."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/security-beefed-up-after-threat-call/articleshow/76250049.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Mutton lovers flock to Sivaganga village where it costs just Rs 360 a kg||Madurai: Mutton may be selling for as high as Rs1,000 a kg in many cities, and not less than Rs700, but in this tiny village in Sivaganga district, it is available for just Rs360 a kg, thanks to the lockdown. Residents of Panangudi, near Karaikudi, with a population of about 1,000 people, found it very difficult to purchase mutton during the Covid-induced lockdown due to its exorbitant price. “People here prefer mutton to chicken and consider it as healthier. They regularly buy about half a kilogram or less as it is expensive,” said Saravanan, a villager. But when the price went beyond Rs800, many could not afford it. That was when the villagers came together and issued a ‘decree’ to their only butcher, A Azarudeen, that he would have to fix the price at Rs360 a kg and not more. Azarudeen told TOI that the village rule is law here and the village allows him once a year to hike the price of meat. Before the lockdown he was selling mutton for Rs600 per kg. His family has been into selling meat for the last 50 years and they have shops in other parts of Sivaganga district, where they sell the meat for Rs500 now, when others are selling it at Rs700. “We had 200 customers in Panangudi this Sunday against the usual crowd of about 50. So we slaughtered 20 goats instead of two, which was good for our business,” he said. This is because people from other parts of Sivaganga have been flocking to the village on Sundays after word got out that mutton was cheap here. “A village is a place where you can get the best quality mutton because people know meat and the quality by just looking at it. If you get that cheap then there is nothing better than that. I purchased two kg,” said T Kumar of Pallavankudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mutton-lovers-flock-to-sivaganga-village-where-it-costs-just-rs-360-a-kg/articleshow/76251427.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hubballi||MLA Bellad vents ire at contractors||DHARWAD: Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad has once again vented his ire against BRTS officials, engineers and contractors and written to the chief minister, chief secretary and district minister asking them to withhold bills of the contractors for executing the project poorly. Bellad said here on Saturday that poor planning and execution has defeated the very purpose of the BRTS project. “The BRTS lane at several junctions is getting waterlogged during rainy season. Even after holding series of meeting with officials, engineers and contractors, they have miserably failed to restructure the project,” he charged. On Amrut scheme, Bellad said UGD work worth Rs 170 crore was sanctioned for the twin cities but officials and contractors have been negligent. The proposed sewage treatment plant at Kelgeri has not come up and people have complained about unscientific placing of UGD in some parts of the cities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mla-bellad-vents-ire-at-contractors/articleshow/76250079.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Two cane officials suspended for distributing fake pesticides||Roorkee: State’s sugarcane department has suspended two officials for their alleged involvement in distribution of fake pesticides to sugarcane growers of Haridwar district. The accused were identified as cane supervisors — Anil Rathi and Idrish Ahmed. Reportedly, some Roorkee farmers had complained that the two cane supervisors distributed duplicate pesticides among them. “As it was a serious offence, we immediately constituted a committee to probe the matter. In its report, the committee confirmed the allegations of the farmers. We have suspended the accused duo and have directed the district cane office to register a complaint against them with the police,” said Lalit Mohan Rayal, joint cane and sugar commissioner. Meanwhile, the accused officials deny any wrongdoing. “It is one-sided action as no official called us to record our statements. It is a completely false case fabricated by some people for their vested interests,” said Anil Rathi, one of the accused officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-cane-officials-suspended-for-distributing-fake-pesticides/articleshow/76250074.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||BJP ropes in netas to strategise for upcoming bypolls||Bhopal: Ahead of bypolls, BJP has begun to win over dissidents in Gwalior-Chambal and Malwa region to wrest seats from Congress. The party has bestowed the responsibility of pacifying the dissidents to prominent leaders, including state home minister Narottam Mishra, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, his close confidant and MLA from Indore-2, Ramesh Mendola, and former mayor of Indore, Krishna Moghe. During his daylong tour to Chambal-Gwalior region, Mishra held a series of meetings with senior party leaders, including former ministers Anup Mishra, Narayan Singh Kushwah, Jaibhan Singh Pawaiya and Maya Singh. He also discussed poll strategy with the leaders. The meeting continued till late night after which Mishra also held discussions with senior leaders of the RSS. “Mishra is a popular leader in Gwalior region. He is on a routine visit to discuss party issues with the workers. Top leaders who had been earlier key players in the region had already discussed the party plan with the state leadership, so there is no issue to pacify anybody. The party is united and will win all the seats in the region,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.BJP is assessing the situation in Gwalior and Malwa regions after former minister Balendu Shukla and former MP Premchand Guddu quit the party to join Congress, opposing former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. The leaders are also eyeing on dissidents who are allegedly being lured and promised tickets by the opposition Congress ahead of the upcoming bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-ropes-in-netas-to-strategise-for-upcoming-bypolls/articleshow/76250947.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Burglary in AMC school||Ahmedabad: The principal of a school run by the AMC on Saturday filed a complaint with Satellite police stating that burglars broke into the Ellisbridge Municipal School Number 29 in Rajivnagar. In her FIR, Vandana Prajapati, 33, a resident of Nikol, stated that she works as headteacher in the school and they had installed an LED TV worth Rs 70,000 in the school. On Saturday, when a sanitation worker went to the school to clean, he found that the TV was not there. Satellite police registered a complaint of burglary and criminal trespassing against unknown persons and began an investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/burglary-in-amc-school/articleshow/76250075.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy MSMEs ready to make 16 components||Trichy: Trichy-based MSMEs have identified 16 components of high import value for indigenous manufacturing from among the 66 put forward by the Union government as part of the self-reliant India scheme. Deprived of orders in recent years, particularly after the lockdown, the companies have zeroed in on automobile components, plugs, sockets, tricycle toys, briefcases, valves and boiler shells among other things to be produced locally under the initiative. The ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises had shared a list of components with the MSME associations across Tamil Nadu for local production. The constraints and capacity development needed to produce the components could be conveyed to the MSME ministry for solutions. “Several MSMEs in Trichy are already into the business of producing automobile components. We have shared the list of components that can be produced locally with our members, interested MSMEs will be supported to avail orders,” N Kanagasabapathy, past president, Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Tiditssia), said. Trichy MSMEs which are into engineering said the opportunity can be well-utilised provided financial support was made available to upgrade machinery and skillset. MSMEs here will convey their willingness to produce a certain number of components. MSME Development Institute (DI), Chennai, the nodal agency, will subsequently update the ministry about the possibilities for indigenous production. The ministry will examine the possible scale of production and support required for the MSMEs. While the MSMEs were lamenting the decline in orders, the government initiative was well received by entrepreneurs. “The import substitution scheme is envisioned for the long run. We are willing to support and guide MSMEs with the support schemes available,” S Dharmaselvan, deputy director, MSME DI, Chennai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-msmes-ready-to-make-16-components/articleshow/76251428.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 toll past 800, Delhi sees 1,282 fresh cases||NEW DELHI: The death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi crossed 800 mark to reach 812 with 51 more persons being declared dead due to the infection on Sunday. Of the total deaths, data shows, 339 (45%) fatalities have been confirmed in the last one week alone, between June 1 and 7. Officials said some of the deaths took place earlier, but they were added into the list of fatalities caused by Covid-19 following due perusal of case summaries by the death audit committee. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital rose to 28,936 with 1,282 fresh infections, according to the health bulletin issued by Delhi government. There are 17,125 active cases, while 10,999 people have either been cured or discharged or have migrated, the bulletin said. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 1,320 fresh coronavirus cases taking the Covid-19 tally in the city to more than 27,500, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 761. The highest single-day spike in fresh cases—1,513—was recorded on June 3. After Maharashtra, Delhi has maximum active cases of Covid-19. The spike in active cases in the national capital, officials said, has been caused due to sudden increase in new cases. Delhi’s daily count of Covid-19 crossed the 1,000 mark for the first time on May 28 when 1,024 new cases were reported. Since then, the numbers have been going up daily, except on June 1 when only 990 new cases were reported. Epidemiologists say the chances of cases coming down anytime soon are unlikely because the infection is spreading. “We need to be prepared to deal with more patients by arranging more hospital beds, in government as well as private facilities,” said a senior doctor. To deal with the critically ill, the government has directed state-run hospitals to upgrade their facilities in three weeks. It will include adding more ventilator beds, beds equipped with oxygen support and recovery or observation beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-toll-past-800-delhi-sees-1282-fresh-cases/articleshow/76251682.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chennai||For first time, Tamil Nadu records over 1,500 Covid-19 cases in a day||CHENNAI: Covid-19 infections showed no signs of abating in Tamil Nadu with fresh cases topping 1,500 in a day for the first time on Sunday, taking the tally to 31,667. The state also recorded 18 deaths, including that of a pregnant woman, pushing the toll to 269. Chennai continued to bear the brunt, with 1,156 of the 1,515 new cases, pushing up the demand for hospital beds. For the first time in days, the number of people under treatment in the city, 10,982, exceeded the number of those cured, 10,954, on Sunday. Government hospitals in Chennai remained crowded and patients had to be rushed to private hospitals, which were also filling up. Private hospitals in the city had 1,048 beds free as of Sunday, as per the dashboard of the government. And their ICUs had just 97 beds vacant. Beds are available on demand only in private medical college hospitals in the southern and western suburbs. This means, the patients, even those with severe symptoms, have to be driven more than 10 to 15km for a bed. Chennai’s neighbouring districts didn’t have a respite either. Chengalpet topped the list with 135 cases, Tiruvallur had 55, and Kancheepuram 16. The pregnant woman who died was a 20-year-old admitted to the Vellore government medical college and hospital with gestational hypertension. She was admitted on May 31, tested positive on June 6 and died the next day. The state government tested 15,671 people on Sunday and allowed two more private labs to do Covid-19 tests. As testing has been stepped up, the government has also put in place a system to ensure quality of testing at these labs. Under the scheme, each lab will send 10 samples to apex labs in their district. The apex lab, which doesn't know the results of these 10 samples, will test again and send results to DPH. The results are cross-checked at DPH. By this, the government will get to know if all labs are releasing correct results. Currently, tests are done in 44 government labs and 34 private labs in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-1st-time-tn-records-over-1500-covid-19-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76251432.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kanpur||Religious places not to open today in city||Kanpur: The religious places of the city will not open from Monday because the leaders of all religions have expressed their inability to control the crowd of devotees. The religious leaders at a meeting with the district administration said that as a large number of devotees would be thronging temples, mosques, churches and gurudwaras opening after two-and- a-half months, it would be difficult to manage such a big crowd. They said that opening of religious places should be deferred for some more time because it would be very difficult to check sanitization of religious places, hand washing and social distancing. Moreover, the presence of an infected person might cause havoc, they added. Later, it was unanimously decided to suspend opening of religious places till June 10, and thereafter the matter would be discussed again in the next meeting. ey said in the meantime they would meet members of their respective communities and then convene meetings as per the government guidelines regarding opening of religious places. Till then all religious places should remain closed. Before opening the religious places, the religious leaders will have to fill a proforma. They assured the authorities that they would comply with the Covid-19 protocol whenever religious places opened. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari , ADM (City) Vivek Kumar Srivastava, DIG/SSP Anant Deo and SPs (East and west) represented the government while priests and preachers of all religions were from the other side. It may be mentioned that under unlock 1.0, the state government had issued guidelines to open religious places all over the state from June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/religious-places-not-to-open-today-in-city/articleshow/76251370.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 8, 2020||Kanpur||21 more tested Covid +ve, tally reaches 525||Kanpur: In the first week of June itself, the city has recorded 156 Covid-19 positive cases against 152 positive cases recorded in May. Taking the count of the Covid-19 cases higher, the districy health department reported 21 fresh cases on Sunday. The steep hike in Corona cases in the city has led to increase in total tally of the state. The total Corona count has reached 525 of which 316 Covid positive persons had recovered. Now, 193 persons tested Corona positive are undergoing treatment. District health department, on Sunday, stated that while 21 new cases were reported, one person succumbed to the disease. One death was reported on Saturday also. With the new figures the death toll in the city has reached 16. The first Corona case was registered in the city on March 23. From March 23 till June 7, total Corona count had reached 525 in the city. The highest single day spike in Corona cases was recorded on June 5 with 57 persons confirmed as Covid-19 positive. Health department said that the new cases reported on Sunday were from Salempur, Sarsaul Mada Ghantaghar, Umri Bharatgaon, Kakwan, Sarvodaya Nagar, Allenganj, Barra-2, Ratanpur, Ahirwan, Laxmipurwa, Kakadeo, Patkapur and Lal Bangla. While no patient was discharged from hospital on Sunday, 84 persons who were quarantined were discharged as they had completed their quarantine period. Health department also collected 220 samples for Covid tests the results of which would arrive soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/21-more-tested-covid-ve-tally-reaches-525/articleshow/76251354.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 8, 2020||Kanpur||Courts in Kanpur Nagar to resume work from today||KANPUR: Courts in Kanpur Nagar, which had to be closed due to the lockdown on March 24, will resume all judicial work except civil matters, from Monday. Litigants and advocates have been allowed entry in the courts. Last month, the Allahabad high court had directed that except in containment zones, the courts could resume limited work from May 22 but the courts remained closed due to the last Friday of Ramzan, Eid-ul-Fitr and the second Saturday. The courts resumed judicial work from May 27 when district judge Ashok Kumar Singh (III) had directed that after sanitization of the premises, the courts could resume limited judicial work in virtual courts through video conferencing. In the absence of the district judge, in-charge district judge Mohd Riyaz on Saturday evening directed to open the courts subject to the condition that the district administration/health department would sanitize the court campus. He asked the court administration to provide sanitizer at the main gate and ensure that social distancing was maintained inside the campus. The in-charge district judge said that except civil matters, the courts would hear criminal appeals, criminal revisions, cases in which final arguments were pending and the cases related to under-trials. Family courts would hear matters of compromise, succession and cases listed for final arguments. The civil matters would be heard in July, he said. General secretary, Kanpur Bar Association, Kapil Deep Sachan said, “After discussion with the judicial officers, it was decided that litigants and advocates will get entry from the Shatabadi gate. Mask and sanitizer is mandatory for everyone entering the court campus. Advocates and litigants will have to leave the court once their work is over”. He said no food item would be allowed inside the campus and vendors could not sell their items inside the court premises. It is the duty of reader to check that unwanted people do not get entry inside the campus, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/courts-in-kanpur-nagar-to-resume-work-from-today/articleshow/76251380.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Man arrested for raping 9-year-old girl||Madurai: A 66-year-old man from Sathyasai Nagar in Madurai was arrested for raping a nine-year-old girl on Saturday.The girl was a Class III student of a private school. The accused was identified as S Rangasamy, from Roja Street in Sathyasai Nagar who knew the girl’s family and visited them often. On Saturday, Rangasamy visited the girl’s family and meanwhile, her mother went to a nearby shop. When she returned, she found her daughter crying of pain and immediately suspected that Rangasamy sexually assaulted her. She reported the incident to the local police and based on the direction from the police, they reached Town AWPS. The girl was shifted to government Rajaji hospital, where a medical examination was conducted, which revealed that the girl was assaulted. Subsequently, Rangasamy was immediately arrested. A case was registered under the sections of protection of children from sexual offences Act (POCSO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-raping-9-year-old-girl/articleshow/76251431.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Many entering Madurai city sans e-pass a worry: Corpn||Madurai: The city may see Covid-19 cases spike till August before it starts dropping gradually, according to Madurai corporation officials. Although the civic body is leaving no stone unturned to control the spread of infection, it has been facing various problems in containing the disease. At present, the number of people reaching Madurai from places such as Chennai is a challenge as it pushes the count up, said officials. An official, who did not want to be quoted, said that more than 1,800 e-passes have been issued for people to visit the city. Moreover, there is an influx of people without e-passes on a large-scale, making the containment difficult. “We think that the number of cases will keep increasing till August, before we could see a drop. But, what is baffling is the fact that many people keep entering the city without e-passes. People should inform us if anyone returns to their area, particularly from Chennai,” he said. According to the data available with Madurai Corporation, only six cases were reported in the city in March. The first case was reported on March 21. Subsequently, 45 positive cases in April and 74 cases in May were reported. Already 18 cases were reported till June 5, taking the total number of cases to 143. As on June 4, there were 21 active cases and 12 containment streets in the city. Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that they are focusing on ‘detection and prevention’ measures. Special focus is being given to high risk areas. Sellur has been identified as a high risk area. It has been divided into 10 sectors and fever check is being done door-to-door regularly. As many as 120 nursing students have been involved in the work. Those identified with fever will be taken to fever clinics established in each sector. They will be isolated and treated. Testing is being done if Covid-19 symptoms are identified, he said. He said that immunity boosters are being distributed to 1.5 lakh families with the help of sponsors. Health workers ensure that immunity boosters like kabasur kudineer, multi vitamin and zinc tablets are consumed by people. So far, immunity boosters have been distributed to more than 80,000 families. They are also planning to cover the old, who are in high risk category with separate programmes to improve their immunity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-entering-madurai-city-sans-e-pass-a-worry-corpn/articleshow/76251441.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mysuru||NDRF team visits Malethirike Hills||MADIKERI: A 25-member team of the National Disaster Response Force visited the landslide-prone area of Malethirike Betta in Virajpet town on Sunday. The team is in the district to carry out rescue operations during the monsoon, and carried out an inspection of the vulnerable hill at Virajpet. The Malethirike Betta in Virajpet developed a crack due to incessant rain in August last year. Residents staying in this vulnerable area were shifted to a secure relief centre last year, and officials from the Geological Survey of India had declared this hill to be vulnerable. However, nearly a year after the crack appeared on the hill, no relief work has been carried out, even as residents stay put atop and around the hill. Observing the cracked area of the hill, the head of the NDRF team, Amulya Vasudev, said, “The crack on the hill is nearly 60ft deep. This place is highly vulnerable, and a retaining wall should be built in the surrounding area. It is necessary that residents residing in this vulnerable area are shifted elsewhere, in case of incessant rain this monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ndrf-team-visits-malethirike-hills/articleshow/76250118.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man attacked with sword, dies on spot||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday night,one Jatin Chandekar was killed by one Dilip alias Tiger while heavy rains kept traffic off the streets. Police sources said that Chandekar, who died on the spot, had at least 20 sword wounds on his body. According to case details, Chandekar had a relation with Dilip’s sister about a year ago, but was warned off by Dilip. He was trying to rebuild the relation, and learning of it Dilip called Chandekar to meet him at the spot in Amraidwadi, and then killed him. DCP Zone-5, Ravi Teja said the accused has been caught and will be sent for Covid-19 test, after which his formal arrest will be made. “The case is being probed by inspector B Z Jhala of Khokra police station as the inspector of Amraiwadi police station, R T Udavat, is on leave,” Teja said. Police sources said Chandekar had left his home to buy vegetables on Saturday night, but when he didn’t return his family started to search for him. Meanwhile, his brother Nitin was informed by a friend that Chandekar’s body was lying near Satyanarayan Society, and it had sword wounds all over. Police said Nitin rushed to the spot and from there dialled 100 and informed cops about his brother’s murder. “We sent the body for postmortem and began investigation. Nitin said Chandekar had been killed by Dilip alias Tiger who lives in Patel Chawl,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-attacked-with-sword-dies-on-spot/articleshow/76250122.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Peeping Tom held for harassing neighbour||VADODARA: A 27-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for indulging in voyeurism. The accused Rahul Parmar was nabbed after a 36-year-old woman living in his neighbourhood at Dabhoi Road called 181 Abhayam Helpline and then approached police. The woman alleged that Parmar used to peep inside her bathroom through the window whenever she used to go for taking bath. Around 10 days back, the woman’s sister-in-law who also lives in the same neighbourhood, had noticed Parmar peeping inside the bathroom from the terrace of the building and she had warned her. A day later, the sister-in-law took a video using her phone when Parmar was again peeping. When the woman confronted Parmar, he said that he used to go to the terrace while brushing his teeth and has never peeped inside the bathroom. The woman told police that for few days Parmar stopped coming to the terrace, but on June 5 again he started peeping inside the bathroom which she noticed on Saturday too. On Sunday morning, when the woman noticed from inside the bathroom that Parmar was peeping, she called 181 Abhayam Helpline. However, when the counsellors told her that they can only counsel Parmar and cannot take any legal action against him, the woman went to Wadi police station and lodged an offence against Parmar. “Based on the complaint, we have arrested the accused and interrogating him,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/peeping-tom-held-for-harassing-neighbour/articleshow/76248763.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kanpur||Elderly couple crushed by loader in Kannauj||KANPUR: An elderly couple who went out for a morning walk were killed after they were hit by a pick-up loader in Tirwa area of Kannauj district on Sunday morning. The accident occurred on the Tirwa-Bela road around 5 am, when Baijnath (63), his wife Savitri (60), of Lohia Nagar area, had gone out on a morning stroll, Tirwa police station incharge Indrajeet Saroj told TOI. “As soon as they reached near Sukhrani Inter college, a pick-up vehicle laden with vegetables and fruits, hit Baijnath and his wife Savitri from behind killing them both on the spot,” said inspector further and added, “Locals of the area tried to chase the pick-up loader driver, but he managed to flee from the site along with the vehicle.” The bodies have been sent to mortuatry for postmortem examination, said the police. Inspector said that the driver of the loader has been booked under relevant sections of MV Act. “Baijnath, a class IV employee at Indra Devi Girls Inter college, had retired about three years ago. Searches are underway to make the arrest of the erring driver possible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/elderly-couple-crushed-by-loader-in-kannauj/articleshow/76251388.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kanpur||Mumbai flight cancelled once again||Kanpur: Around 267 air passengers were shocked after they came to know on Sunday that the Mumbai- Kanpur- Mumbai flight has been cancelled and will remain suspended till June 15. Flight operator Spice Jet informed the airport authorities that Mumbai-Kanpur flight would remain suspended till June 15. VK Jha, director, Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial airport Chakeri, Kanpur confirmed that the flight had been suspended. He said earlier this flight was scheduled to operate from May 25 but since the Maharashtra government had not given permission to domestic operators to resume flights due to corona pandemic, the flight has been suspended till May 31. Thereafter, it was cancelled and suspended twice on June 3 and June7. He said that all arrangements had been made at the airport to receive the flight. The Delhi- Kanpur- Delhi flight is being operated successfully, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mumbai-flight-cancelled-once-again/articleshow/76251394.cms||Anant Chandak
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Uproar in Dwarka as sole pvt lab is stopped from testing||New Delhi: Resident welfare associations from the Dwarka sub-city are complaining that the only functional private centre located in Sector 19 has been stopped from corona testing. The group housing society federation has written to the lieutenant governor and other officials concerned to intervene in the matter, so that the testing for the novel coronavirus can be restarted. Sudha Sinha, president of Co-operative Group Housing Societies, said while Dwarka was witnessing a large number of Covid-19 cases, the only private lab catering to the area had been removed from the list causing huge inconvenience to the residents. “The lab was barred from corona testing because it carried out tests of asymptomatic patients. When every alternate society of Dwarka is affected by Covid-19, most of the residents are dejected at the present state of affairs,” Sinha claimed. RWAs say that the decision to stop the lab from conducting Covid-19 tests will increase the burden on the area’s government hospital. The letter, which has also been sent to the DM, CM and health minister, states that patients are struggling to obtain medical support as the only lab at Sector-19 has been debarred from conducting Covid-19 tests. “No resident of Dwarka should be deprived of any facility he/she wants to use. We demand that guidelines be modified and complete facilities of testing medication and hospitalisation of even asymptomatic cases be made available,” the letter reads. Meanwhile, the testing has also been affected at the north corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital which was forced to stop testing from June 3. After a total halt in corona testing at Hindu Rao Hospital for a few days, the civic body has now sought cooperation from the army’s RR Hospital to restart limited testing for at least in-house patients. Senior doctors at the tertiary care facility said that following directions from Delhi government, the hospital was forced to stop sending samples to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) from June 3 onwards. Now, the tie-up with RR Hospital is being used to process high priority samples of admitted patients and healthcare staff. “The hospital has started sending limited samples to RR Hospital as a temporary arrangement till NCDC is allowed to take samples of Hindu Rao Hospital in full strength. We are sending a few samples everyday. We are giving priority to our admitted patients,” said a senior corporation official. A doctor working in the sample collection centre at Hindu Rao Hospital rued that in the past few days, they were not able to take samples of even healthcare workers. “Recently, doctors from Rajan Babu Hospital had come for the corona testing, but we had to turn them away,” the doctor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uproar-in-dwarka-as-sole-pvt-lab-is-stopped-from-testing/articleshow/76251684.cms||Paras Singh
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||Recoveries outnumber fresh infections in MP||Bhopal: There were more recoveries than fresh infections yet again in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. As of now, 67% of 9,401 people who have tested positive in the state so far have already recovered from Covid-19. It is noteworthy that barring June 1 and June 6 — the number of people recovering from the disease in a day has always outnumbered the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state. On Sunday, 223 patients recovered from the disease and 173 people tested positive. In addition, 13 persons also died in the state of the virus on Sunday. The districts where the deaths were reported are Indore (3), Bhopal (3), Ujjain (2), Khandwa (2), Burhanpur (1), Sagar (1) and Mandsaur (1). With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state has now reached 412. Fresh infections were reported in 19 of the 51 Covid-hit districts of the state. Double digit cases were reported from Bhopal (39), Indore (27), Sheopur (18), Gwalior (12), Khargone (10) and Morena (10). The state’s Covid tally is 9401. The total recoveries in the state are now 6331, which is more than double of 2658 active patients who are admitted at different hospitals of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recoveries-outnumber-fresh-infections-in-mp/articleshow/76250967.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Probe on to find how croc found its way to well||Madurai: The forest department has started investigation to ascertain if the 3.5-foot-long crocodile that was rescued from an open well, in Vannamparaipatty village near Melur, had washed away from its natural habitat or was smuggled by someone who later abandoned it as they could not handle it during the lockdown. Forest personnel said this is the first time a crocodile was rescued in Madurai. “The agriculture dependant village where it was rescued by locals has many ponds for which Vaigai river is the source. So a team is checking if it was washed away from Vaigai Dam or upstream,” Madurai district forest officer (DFO) S Anand told TOI. In coordination with the department and public works department in Theni, they will check if there is a habitat upstream. Preliminary inquiries with fishermen and locals suggests none in Vaigai Dam. Further inquiries are underway in this aspect. It has also led to suspicion that it was smuggled and abandoned in the well. The crocodile is still under observation at the Madurai DFO office. “Though there were no external injuries there could be internal injuries in the process of capturing it, since it was captured by locals. It will be under observation till Monday to see if its food intake and activities are normal,” the DFO said. Department sources said there have been instances of wild animals suffering from internal injuries during the rescue. Since there is no natural crocodile habitation in Madurai or other southern districts, the department is in coordination with their counterparts in other districts including Cuddalore and Tirupur that have a good natural habitat and presence of crocodiles. Forest department officials said that they would not reveal the place where it will be released, as it is protected under Schedule I of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. They expressed concern that revealing the location could draw the attention of poachers and smugglers who are after it or outcry from locals in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/probe-on-to-find-how-croc-found-its-way-to-well/articleshow/76251444.cms||M K Ananth
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers cut down on cotton area, go for soyabean instead||NAGPUR: Disappointed with last years’ experience, farmers of the region are expected to cut down the area under cotton, the main cash crop of the region. They are with sizable unsold stock from the last harvest and have seen low prices for cotton throughout the year. Even procurement at minimum support price (MSP) has been not to their satisfaction. Farmers and dealers in agriculture inputs say initial trends show area under cotton may go down by 10% in Vidarbha. A 10% reduction is substantial, said sources in the business. Farmers are replacing the area under cotton with soyabean whose seeds have become costlier this season. Dealers said the subsidy available on the seeds sold by state government undertaking Mahabeej had not been received yet. This had increased the cost of seeds by Rs 25 a kg, they said. Thirty kgs of seeds are needed per acre to cultivate soyabean. Soyabean seeds are sold by private players and Mahabeej. A subsidy is available on the latter. “This year soyabean seeds from Mahabeej are available at Rs 82 a kg without subsidy. Normally, subsidy from state government is received by Mahabeej by May end,” said Sharad Chandak of the Nagpur District Agro Dealers’ Association. When the subsidy is released, dealers are informed by Mahabeej to sell the seeds at reduced price. So far there has been no intimation, he said. Even private companies have increased by rates by around Rs 20 to Rs 70 per kg. Farmers TOI talked to complained of soyabean seeds getting costlier but also said they planned to reduce the area under cotton. Azeem Shah from Amravati said due to low prices and leftover stock, a number of farmers had decided to reduce cotton cultivation. “The rates were down in the private market and even MSP purchases were slow,” he said. There were similar reports from Yavatmal too. A farmer at Jalka village near Pandharkawda said he planned to reduce the area under cotton by half. Arjun Timande from Taroda village in Wardha district said last year he had sown cotton on eight of his 10-acre farm. This year he will do it on two acres and keep rest of the area for other crops. Wages of farm hands increasing and lack of workers are also a reason, said Chandak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-cut-down-on-cotton-area-go-for-soyabean-instead/articleshow/76251457.cms||Shishir Arya
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU offers option of online exams||AHMEDABAD: After announcing the schedule for college-level exams across various centres, Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has now offered candidates the option of taking the tests online. The varsity is planning to conduct online exams for terminal semester undergraduate and diploma students as well as for second and fourth semester postgraduate candidates from July 20, said sources. “Many parents have expressed concern about their wards getting infected with Covid-19 while taking the written test at exam centres,” said Navin Sheth, the vice-chancellor of GTU. “As a result, we are planning to hold online exams as well. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the same will be announced soon.” The online exam format will be similar to that of the conventional test. It will not be an OMR-based test as proposed by many parents and the results will be declared simultaneously with the exams that are to begin from June 25, said sources. “There is already a provision in the state government’s guidelines for conducting online exams for students who are residing outside Gujarat and for overseas candidates,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher education. “If any varsity wants to conduct exams online, it will have to issue a detailed SOP to be followed. Based on this, we may consider their proposal.” As many as 1.2 lakh students of diploma engineering, diploma pharmacy, degree engineering, degree pharmacy, architecture, MBA, MCA, ME and MPharm, among others, are expected to take the annual college exams at GTU. The exams beginning from June 25 will be conducted in line with the guidelines issued by the state government which include wearing masks, social distancing, and proper sanitization measures. Each exam room will have about 15 candidates. Persons not wearing masks will not be allowed inside the exam centre. For intermediate semester in undergraduate and diploma courses, merit-based progression will be implemented as suggested in the state government’s recent notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-offers-option-of-online-exams/articleshow/76250164.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Thousands coming via road, train not tested: Madurai MP||Madurai: Madurai should not become another New York, Chennai or Mumbai, due to the carelessness of the officials who are not testing those who are coming to the district by road and train, Su Venkatesan MP has said. In a statement on Sunday, the MP said that there is concern over Madurai city reporting many cases in the last few days. There is a need for an emergency planning to prevent a major outbreak in Madurai. According to available statistics and records, the number of people who had come to Madurai from Chennai by car in the last 10 days after obtaining e-passes was 8,000. The number of people who had come by train was around 5,000. Two thousand people came by flight during the same period. But for the past five days, Covid-19 testing and screening were done only for those who came by air. The situation may turn worse in the next few weeks. The authorities should step up the testing immediately. All those who entered Madurai should be screened in the next two days. The railways should step up screening its passengers who are coming to the city, he said. If the government machinery does not step up its testing mechanism and intensify screening, the disease would spread in large scale and it would be the poor and people below the poverty line who would be most affected, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thousands-coming-via-road-train-not-tested-madurai-mp/articleshow/76251447.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auto driver beaten for demanding fare||Ahmedabad: An auto driver, Mukesh Khatik of Odhav, was beaten by two men for demanding fare for dropping them. The men were dropped in Khatwada on Saturday night. The auto driver has registered a complaint with the Nikol police station. Hailing from Jaipur in Rajasthan and currently residing in Odhav, Khatik was going towards his house. “The sons of his relative, Hitesh and Vishal, were standing on the ring road,” said a police official. “The men stopped Khatik and told him to drop them at their house in Kathwada. After the ride, Khatik asked for Rs 20 fare from them.” Police sources said the brothers got angry and started abusing and beating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-driver-beaten-for-demanding-fare/articleshow/76250148.cms||---
June 8, 2020||India||Congress neta’s column draws flak from party||NEW DELHI: The criticism by Congress spokesman Sanjay Jha that the party was in a state of drift and lacked the mechanism to consider suggestions to rebuild itself triggered an uproar while drawing strong disapproval from the AICC. Jha expressed his views on Congress in a column in the TOI. Amid social media chatter on Jha’s criticism of Congress, there were murmurs within the party of leadership vacuum after Rahul Gandhi’s resignation following the 2019 poll disaster. Asked about the charge that Congress had failed to provide effective direction to the opposition during the coronavirus pandemic and lacked the internal mechanism to consider grievances, party spokesman Ajay Maken said, “We will reach out to Jha and find out what is on his mind. The Congress chief has created a consultative group. Why does not Jha speak to its members? I don’t think there is any dearth of internal mechanisms in the party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-netas-column-draws-flak-from-party/articleshow/76251830.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Kalavasal flyover in Madurai to open today, ease congestion||Madurai: The flyover constructed at Kalavasal, the second busiest junction in Madurai, will be inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday through video conferencing. Built at a cost of Rs 54.07 crore, it is expected to ease traffic congestion and reduce waiting time for commuters at the Kalavasal junction. Commuters have expressed happiness at the completion of the project though it caused inconvenience to them for about two years. The construction of the flyover was announced by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa during the collector’s conference in 2012-13. Though it was proposed to be completed by 2019-end, it got delayed. Apart from the flyover, the road on both sides of Bypass Road has been widened to facilitate free movement of vehicles. S Bakthavachalam, a resident of Kochadai said, “All agencies like state highways, Madurai Corporation and police department should work in tandem to make sure vehicles are being parked on widened roads and on corners. Buses and share autorickshaws should not be allowed to stop at corners as it will cause snarls,” he said. A traffic police officer said that wait of commuters at the junction might reduce by 30 to 45 seconds. He said old signal posts should be replaced by bright LED ones to improve visibility. High quality CCTV cameras should also be installed covering all roads, he added. V Alagesan, an autorickshaw driver, said that the empty space under the flyover should be fenced so that people do not urinate there or deface the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kalavasal-flyover-in-madurai-to-open-today-ease-congestion/articleshow/76251452.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hubballi||Classical dancers’ video pays tribute to corona warriors||HUBBALLI: A troupe of classical dancers from Hubballi has performed in a music video to pay tribute to corona warriors. Sahana Bhat of Natyanjali Nrutya Kala Kendra and her 25 disciples have performed to the song ‘Teri Mitti’ from the Hindi film ‘Kesari’. Each of them has performed at their homes and all of it was edited together by Sahana’s son Prithviraj. The six-minute video has now gone viral on social media and has also been appreciated by Bharatanatyam artistes from various places. Natyanjali Nrutya Kala Kendra conducted online dance classes for its students during the lockdown as part of its 25th anniversary celebrations. Sahana, who directed the video, said, “We decided to create a video to pay respect to corona warriors by performing mixed forms of dance including classical. The disciples who were taking online classes from different parts of the state and from abroad were asked to make and send their videos.” “We wanted to motivate the doctors, police and other personnel fighting against the pandemic round the clock,” she added. In the video Bhavana Koushik, Krutika Kulkarni and Mahima Hegde of Bengaluru, Gouri Kanthi of Bagalkot, Meghana Angadi and Anushree Shetty of Dharwad, Siri Kini of Honnavar, Amruta Naik of Dandeli, Mangala Bhat of Yellapur, Sampreetha Bhat of Germany are among those who have performed in the video. “We have also used the soundtrack ‘Shaabaashiyaan’ from the film Mission Mangal in the video. Both songs increase the spirit of patriotism among listeners,” added Sahana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/classical-dancers-video-pays-tribute-to-corona-warriors/articleshow/76250171.cms||J Abbas Mulla
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held for thrashing traffic cop||AHMEDABAD: Two persons, Raj Dantani and Akshay Dantani of Khokhra, were rounded up by Khokhra police for entering into a violent altercation with traffic cops on duty and beating head constable Lalji Bariya who told them not blow their vehicle horn loudly and avoid stopping their bike on the middle of the road. The incident happened on Saturday noon. The duo will be sent for Covid-19 test before they are officially arrested in the case. Khokhra police station sources said Bariya and his team, who are deployed with I division traffic police station, were on vehicle checking duty when the incident happened near Hatkeshwar Traffic Circle. “The two accused were driving their bike through the middle of the road and shouting loudly and blowing the vehicle horn while driving. They also stopped their bike in the middle of the road on Hatkeshwar Bridge. Head constable Bariya told them to take their bike to the side of the road. This enraged the two accused and they told Bariya that they will drive the bike as they wished,” said a Khokhra police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-for-thrashing-traffic-cop/articleshow/76250175.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy nets Rs 9,600 as mask penalty||Trichy: Trichy City Corporation has collected Rs 9,600 as penalty in the five days from the residents and commercial establishments for flouting the Covid-19 preventive protocols. Shops were penalised for not ensuring social distancing, and individuals stepping out without facemasks were also penalised. “he At least 37 field workers of the corporation will inspect shops. If employees in the shops were caught without facemasks and if social distancing was not followed at the shops, sanitary officials will be informed to levy the spot penalty,” an official source with corporation said. Penalty varies from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 on shops and individuals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-nets-rs-9600-as-mask-penalty/articleshow/76251454.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||TN: Navy ship with 700 stranded Indians arrives from Maldives||TUTICORIN: With 700 repatriated Indians from Maldives, Indian Navy Ship Jalashwa docked at V O Chidambaranar Port Trust in Tuticorin on Sunday as part of the ‘Samudra Setu’ operation. The ship with its full capacity set off from Port of Male in Maldives at 9.30 pm on Friday and arrived at the outer anchorage of Tuticorin port at 9 am. The vessel was docked at 9.30 am at berth no 14, where the repatriates including 655 men and 45 women disembarked. More than 470 people requested repatriation citing job loss due to the lockdown. Many others were returning due to personal reasons and on health grounds. Eleven people including eight from the state were stranded tourists. On disembarking the port, their hands and luggage was sanitized before screening by the district and port health officials. “As many as 508 of them are from different parts of the state, including the majority from Kanyakumari district (158),” Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri said and added that the rest are from other states. After basic health screening, the passengers underwent customs and immigration check. “Twenty five buses are arranged through the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) for those from the state to return home,” the collector said and added that they will be subjected to Covid-19 test on reaching their destinations and will be under institution quarantine for seven days. All the passengers were provided PPE kits after screening. The 192 repatriates from other states and those from Tuticorin will be under institutional quarantine in Tuticorin. They will be subjected to tests twice – on the first day and on the seventh day - before they are allowed to go home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/navy-ship-with-700-stranded-indians-arrives-from-maldives/articleshow/76251455.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's town planning wing to amend building bylaws||JAIPUR: Buffeted by Covid-19 headwinds, the state’s town planning wing is mulling a proposal to frame a new set of building bylaws, which will allow construction in a way to maintain social distancing. The department will permit small plot owners (90 sq metre) to increase the height of the construction. A senior town planner said, “The basic requirement for per person is nine square metre area. As per the assessments, in hotspots of the city, where infections were transmitted, people were living in less than 5sqm area. Considering the fact, the department is devising low rise, high density plan.” Sources further said, after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi appointed Charles Mark Correa chairman of the National Commission on Urbanisation, a blue print of cities development was drafted. “At that time too, low rise, high density plan was proposed for the development of Jaipur to sync it with the compact Walled City.” Known for its independent housing culture and residential vibe, Jaipur is now witnessing scarcity of land. “Crammed living space is making it difficult for families to maintain social distancing. If height relaxation is given on smaller plots, it would provide relief to those who cannot afford bigger plots.” At present, on a 90sqm plot, the department allows construction upto 8 metre height (G+1). Similarly, 12.5 metre height is allowed to be constructed on a plot size that measures between 91sqm and 350sqm. Above 350sqm plot size, 15 metre height is allowed. Sources said, “Deliberations are going on to fix a uniform height norm, upto 15 metres for every plot size. This would not prevent sparse development of cities.” As per the department records, there are 50 lakh constructed houses in the state. Of which, 15 lakh fall outside the municipal limits. “If new rules are implemented, over 60% plot owners will be benefited,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/town-planning-wing-to-amend-building-bylaws/articleshow/76251450.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Trichy||NIT-T asst professor tests positive in Trichy||Trichy: A 26-year-old assistant professor who arrived in Trichy from Haryana to join the National Institute of Technology tested positive on Sunday. He landed at the airport on June 4 and was taken to the quarantine centre at Government College of Engineering in Sethurapatti village near Srirangam after his swab was taken for testing. After he tested positive, he was shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. NIT Trichy had selected 71 assistant professors in the second phase of faculty recruitment in March. While five of the faculty members joined that month, the lockdown delayed the arrival of others. NIT Trichy director Mini Shaji Thomas said the assistant professor didn’t enter the campus where safety measures were in place since March. She said they were undertaking screening at both the gates apart from implementing standard operating procedure. “We have already formed Covid-19 task force in April, masks have been distributed to all in the campus. The hospital staff and security are conducting awareness sessions and we are fully geared up,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-t-asst-professor-tests-positive-in-trichy/articleshow/76251458.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Malls, hotels gear up for customers||JAIPUR: The state government’s decision on Saturday to allow malls, hotels and restaurants to operate caught many off guard as they were resigned to the fact that they would have to keep their doors shut at least till June 30 as per Lockdown 5.0 order. Many establishments, who had allowed their staff leave till June 30, hurried mobilised whatever resources they were left with to get their businesses up and running as soon as possible. “We were rather pleasantly surprised by the decision. Since last evening, we have been calling up our people to resume work. But not all staff will turn up, some will take time. But we are now certain that we will open our doors after two-and-a-half months. It’s a happy feeling, but the road ahead is challenging,” said Rajendra Pachar of Indian Heritage Hotels Association. He said while they don’t expect guests on the very first day, they will make the properties ready keeping in view the safety protocols and standard operating procedures (SOPs). However, there are some malls which have already been preparing for the day to reopen albeit in a limited way. “We will open the gates as the outlets will also need to maintain these SOPs. Some outlets are already in a position to welcome buyers. But there are many who need at least a couple of days,” said a mall manager. There are many restaurants in the city which had let their staff to return to their home states. Travelling is still an issue not only because of the frequency of trains or limited flights, but because of the fear factor. “Our workers have left for their villages from where it is not easy to travel in current circumstances. So, we need at least 15 days to restart. But at the end of the day, it depends what is the cost of running and the businesses we make. But we cannot postpone the reopening for long,” said Aziz Panwar, a restaurant owner. There are many restaurants who are already offering takeaway services. The operation involves a limited people because the volume of orders are not much. Even for them, restart needs times because they have to remodel the seating arrangements and flow of people. It was Sunday, but behind the shutters and gates, the activities were happening on a war footing to realign the operational procedures to the needs of the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/malls-hotels-gear-up-for-customers/articleshow/76251460.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Ensnared leopard rescued after 9-hour operation in Wayanad||KOZHIKODE: A leopard that got stuck in a snare inside a private plantation and later escaped midway during the rescue attempt was tranquillized by forest department officials after a nine hour-long operation at Pallipadi near Moolankavu under Sulthan Bathery forest range of Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary on Sunday evening. The leopard was found stuck in a snare suspectedly laid to capture wild boars in the homestead plantation early on Sunday morning. It escaped from the trap around 1pm when forest authorities were making arrangements to tranquillize the animal. The leopard ran into an area interspersed with human habitations, spreading panic among residents of nearby areas of Odappalam, Kuppadi and Valluvadi and forest authorities asked people to remain indoors. Following a search operation, the leopard was spotted by the forest officials less than a kilometre away. A team led by forest veterinary surgeon Dr Arun Zachariah tranquillized the animal around 7pm and the animal has been shifted to the forest department laboratory facility at Kuppadi. Zachariah said the male leopard is around four years of age. “The hip of the leopard was trapped in the snare. We will be providing treatment to the animal,” he said. WWS warden P K Asif said a case has been registered in connection with laying of the snare. A carcass of a tiger that had died of injury caused by wire snare was found by forest authorities in the Kurichiad range of WWS in April. Snare made by locals using clutch and brake cables of motorcycles to trap wild animals like wild pig, spotted deer and sambar deer had killed two leopards and injured another in the south Wayanad forest division during the last two years. The snares are mostly laid by locals along animal tracks. Leopards walk through the tracks and are caught in the snares. Councillor of the Odappalam ward Sarath M C said while there was a tiger-straying incident in the area two years back, it is the first time a leopard was sighted inside human habitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ensnared-leopard-rescued-after-9-hour-op-in-wayanad/articleshow/76250185.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Migrant exodus a jolt as many first-generation learners at corporation schools leave||NEW DELHI: Vibha Singh, a principal at a municipal primary school in east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar, is worried that a large number of her students — mostly children of migrant labourers and domestic workers — may have permanently left the city, undoing even the slow progress that these first-generation learners have made in classes. Most of the students enrolled in the three municipal corporations’ primary schools come from extremely vulnerable sections of the society and the novel coronavirus lockdown has not only impacted them economically but have also affected the literary progress of an entire generation, said their teachers. While the actual number will become clear only after a survey is carried out following the summer breaks, the loss of enrollment is expected to be massive, said Singh, vice-president of the teachers’ association. “In my school, most students are children of labourers who worked in shops and manufacturing units of Gandhi Nagar. At least half of them have left the city and are not likely to return this year,” she added. An indicator may be the WhatsApp groups formed for online education during the lockdown. Teachers are reporting that many students have messaged saying they have reached home. Singh estimated that at least 20% of the students in east Delhi schools must have left. The situation may be worse in the north. Kuldeep Khatri, who heads the Shikshak Nigam Nyay Manch, said at least 50% of the students must have gone back to their villages and it would also impact teachers as merger of schools would be inevitable if the enrollment fell severely. “At least 20% students had already left when WhatsApp classes started in April. It has more than doubled since trains have started,” Khatri said. “We get messages requesting for financial help and phone recharge,” he added. After a recent high court order for doorstep delivery of ration to those who could not get it due to old coupons, a team of 30 teachers and civil defence personnel went to 469 houses, but couldn’t find anybody. “Houses are closed, phones are mostly switched off. Some say they have reached Madhya Pradesh, some say Cuttack in Odisha,” said a teacher at a Shalimar Bagh school. Ashok Agarwal, a Supreme Court lawyer involved with education sector reforms, tweeted, “Over 25% (2 lakhs) students studying in MCD schools are yet to receive various kinds of scholarships and book subsidy and MCD Officials unable to trace students as their contacts unavailable. It seems impact of mass exodus of workers from Delhi (sic).” The corporations’ 1,653 schools have 7.9 lakh students. While the estimates vary from area to area, teachers said schools had lost at least 25-30% of the students and many WhatsApp groups had fallen silent. A corporation official said the real situation could be assessed only in July when schools might reopen. “Right now both schools and online groups are closed due to the summer break. Enrollments have not taken place as the lockdown started in March. Hopefully our students will return,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrant-exodus-a-jolt-as-many-first-gen-learners-at-corporation-schools-leave/articleshow/76251686.cms||Paras Singh
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Private offices play it safe, call in only those who own vehicles||MUMBAI: With 10% of employees across sectors set to resume work from Monday, organisations across the city have implemented strict safety norms to prevent further spread of Covid-19. At most organisations, only employees who own vehicles have been asked to come to work. Masks, and in some cases gloves too, have been made mandatory on premises. In a note to employees, Axis Bank has set out necessary precautions and asked employees to volunteer information about their health. Before entering, employees will need to cooperate with the health checks, self-declare any symptoms of cough, fever or any other infection, if anyone in their family has developed symptoms, and also if they have travelled recently or participated in any large gathering. An RPG Enterprises spokesperson said only 10% of its staff or less are expected to come to work Monday onwards. “Those who don’t have personal vehicles will continue to work from home. Outstation travel needs approval from management,” said the spokesperson. The head office of RPG Enterprises is located in Worli, with around 500 employees. At Godrej One in Vikhroli, which houses Godrej Industries and associate companies, only a select group of team members will be allowed to come to office from June 15. “We will encourage everyone else to continue to work from home till further notice,” said a Godrej spokesperson. Surrounding areas are being sanitised by drones at Godrej One. Hourly cleaning of high-frequency touchpoints is also carried out. Team members are advised to ensure they have an empty workstation between them and the next person and they only eat at their desk. Employees have also been asked to do their self-assessment on Aarogya Setu app, carry a face mask and their company ID cards. They have been told to avoid public transport and follow parking guidelines. There are guidelines for Godrej employees to follow once they return to their home as well, such as sanitising their hands before entering their house and taking a shower and change their clothes before interacting with family members. At the offices of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, posters directing employees to practise social distancing have been put up at the entrance lobby. Squares have been demarcated in front of lifts to ensure social distancing. Only four employees can travel in the lift at a given time. Sudhir Dhar, executive director and HR Head, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said: “We have prepared our offices with basic norms/prevention measures so that employees can feel safe while attending office. We have two main locations in Mumbai—Malad and Prabhadevi—each having approximately 2,000 employees.” While many companies are discouraging visitors, some have instructed employees to inform their management before inviting guests/family to the office. “If anyone has guests or family visiting them, they must inform the management. Canteen facility has been withdrawn for the time being and visitor meetings must be in the lobby,” said the RPG Enterprises’ spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-offices-play-it-safe-call-in-only-those-who-own-vehicles/articleshow/76251468.cms||Namrata Singh
June 8, 2020||Goa||City youth take up beach cleaning to mark environ day||Panaji: Lockdown was no reason for a small group of youngsters from Panaji to do their bit for the environment. Wearing masks and gloves, besides ensuring that there were no large gatherings, a small group of Ponjekars collected about 300 kgs of garbage from the Vainguinim beach near Dona Paula to mark the World Environment Day. “It started when a couple of us had visited various beaches, separately, and saw a mess there. A lot of garbage including plastic packets and bottles was strewn by picnickers prior to the lockdown. This same non-decomposable waste would get washed into the sea after the onset of monsoon. We discussed the same amongst each other and decided to do something about it,” Alexandra Faye, a Panaji resident said. Together, they coordinated with the waste management organisation and spent three hours at the beach gathering the waste. By the end of that evening, 48 bags full of waste were collected by the group. “Only a few friends were invited keeping in mind that we have to follow the norms of social distancing and no large gatherings given the current situation,” Faye said. “All the different materials were segregated in separate bags. With the help of the Taleigao panchayat, the trash was collected and sent for sorting and baling to a garbage sorting centre.” Adhvay Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/city-youth-take-up-beach-cleaning-to-mark-environ-day/articleshow/76251687.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Trichy||PG biotech aspirants can get scholarship through GAT-B||Trichy: Students seeking post graduate admissions in biotechnology and allied courses at institutions supported by the department of biotechnology (DBT), Government of India, can get scholarships by writing the graduate aptitude test – biotechnology (GAT-B). Students who get selected under it will be paid stipend apart from having to pay a low fee structure. GAT-B 2020 is the admission eligibility test for DBT-supported PG programmes in the various institutions. Regional Centre for Biotechnology is conducting GAT-B on behalf of DBT this year and June 18 is the last date for online registration. This year a total 10 seats in the MSc Biotechnology program in National College Trichy (NCT), one of the few institutions in the country offering DBT supported programmes. “Aspirants should apply for the entrance test as competition is less for such programmes,” said M S Mohamed Jaabir, head of biotechnology and microbiology department, NCT. “The fee for DBT supported seats with be less than Rs50,000 for two years. Students will be paid stipend of Rs5,000 per month throughout the programme,” said Jaabir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pg-biotech-aspirants-can-get-scholarship-through-gat-b/articleshow/76251463.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Madurai||Source untraceable in many cases in south TN; second death in Trichy||Madurai/ Trichy: Trichy district recorded its second Covid-19 death after a 54-year-old man from Thiruvallur died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Sunday. The co-morbid patient with cardiac issues was in Perambalur for a marriage in the last week of May. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Trichy, but later he was taken to MGMGH where he tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, southern districts reported 61 new ‘indigenous’ Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total count to 1,789. While last month the spike in cases in the region was mainly due to the influx of infected people from other states, during the past few days, the region has been witnessing a steep rise in cases in which the source of infection could not be traced. The highest number of cases on Sunday in the south were in Madurai and Tuticorin with 14 cases each. In Tuticorin district, the total number of cases is 329. Madurai recorded 312 Covid-19 cases so far. The total Covid-19 cases in Dindigul reached 167 after 11 more cases were reported on Sunday. Ramanathapuram recorded nine more cases taking the total tally in the district to 106. In Virudhunagar district, five cases were reported, all with either contact or travel history to Chennai. Tirunelveli reported two more cases, while Theni and Tenkasi districts recorded three cases each. Sivagangai and Kanyakumari reported no Covid-19 cases. In Trichy, four more new positive cases were reported, which include a 38-year-old employee of Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP). Health officials have shut a unit in HAPP where the staff was working and sealed a Tasmac shop on Sunday in Navalpattu after confirming that the staff visited the outlet a few days ago. In Thanjavur, seven more cases, including four of a family were recorded taking the toll to 113. One new case was registered in Tiruvarur where the total cases have reached 59. A 53-year-old woman tested positive in Ariyalur district on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has climbed to 380. In Pudukottai, two boys aged 12 and 7 who had returned to their native at Nagudi with family from Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The district’s total tally is 33. No new cases were registered in Karur, Nagapattinam and Perambalur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/source-untraceable-in-many-cases-in-south-tn-second-death-in-trichy/articleshow/76251466.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||DK admin delaying commuter passes: Kasaragod residents||MANGALURU: Though the Dakshina Kannada district administration has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for inter-state travel of daily commuters, many students and professionals from Kasaragod in Kerala working in Mangaluru have not received passes yet. According to the SOP issued on June 3, medical and other professionals, government officials and students from Kasaragod may register on http://bit.ly/dkpermit to obtain regular commuter’s pass. However, many from Kasaragod who are working in government or private offices and students allege they are unable to cross Talapady border as they have not been issued passes yet. BJP plans protest BJP Kasaragod district president K Shrikanth said, “The central government has announced there is no need for restrictions for inter-state travel. The Karnataka government too has issued directions to Dakshina Kannada district administration. Yet, passes are not being issued for professionals and students from Kasaragod.” BJP’s Kasaragod unit is also gearing up to protest against Dakshina Kannada district administration. While there are thousands of regular commuters from Kasaragod waiting for regular entry permission, the district administration has issued less than 200 passes as on Saturday. Not uploaded valid documents, says DC When contacted, Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told TOI the district administration is scrutinising over 3,000 applications received from people of Kasaragod. “In most cases, the applicants have not attached necessary documents and identity proofs. Professionals and students applying for daily commuter pass should submit proof from their employers or institutions. However, most of them have not submitted valid documents. We will issue passes after scrutinising documents,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-admin-delaying-commuter-passes-kasaragod-residents/articleshow/76250192.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: NREGA workforce nears 50 lakh as migrants seek employment||JAIPUR: With 17.79 lakh extra workforce over the previous year, the labour engagement under MGNREGA on Sunday touched nearly 50 lakh (49.99 lakh) in the state. The number is expected to cross 51 lakh on Monday. On June 7, 2019, the labour engagement was 32.2 lakh. Bhilwara district has registered highest labour management with 4.1 lakh. The department said that pressure from the migrant workers to seek jobs under the scheme has shot up the demand for work in the state in an unprecedented manner. “There is an unprecedented demand for work in all states including Rajasthan. But, we have responded well to the demand of the workers much better than other states. So, till we open more works, we cannot engage so many workers on the ground. The desperation to get work under the scheme will continue till August-September,” said state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “The ‘ek gram-chaar kaam’ campaign has made it imperative for the staff on the ground to sanction at least four works in each revenue village. There are about 44,000 revenue villages in the state. So, in the whole state, it adds up to 1.80 lakh works which was our target. We have sanctioned at least four to five works in each gram panchayat and it may go up to 15 works. On an average, 500 labourers are engaged in one gram panchayat. Now, district collectors can engage engineers more in other departments, including watershed,” he added. “Districts like Ajmer and Bhilwara have done good job in plantation work. However, Ganganagar and Hanumangarh don’t have much scope in developing pasture lands because of shortage of lands. Therefore, in order to engage workers, we have started irrigation works in these districts,” he added. Kishan also said, “We want to do massive plantation work in the state and for which we need large number of workers. We are also focusing on building playgrounds, model ponds, grazing ground and cemeteries/crematorium in every village. So, these are quite labour-intensive works. For payment of wages in time, the officials are working overtime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-workforce-nears-50l-as-migrants-seek-employment/articleshow/76251464.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism looks up, footfalls rise in Rajasthan monuments & museums||JAIPUR: The monuments and museums in Rajasthan opened for public from June 2 and have received over 3,000 visitors in four days, according to the department of tourism, art and culture. Rajasthan is the first state in the country to open the monuments under its control. The Union culture ministry on Sunday gave its nod to open the ASI monuments and museums across the country from Monday. The monuments, except for the ones falling in containment zones and curfew areas, are open four days a week (Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday) for the first two weeks with social distancing protocols in place. Sreya Guha, principal secretary of tourism, art and culture, said, “Most of the visitors are local people. It is a good sign that they are now coming out and willing to follow all the protocols and social distancing norms that have been put in place. We wanted it this way, to start things locally first. This will create confidence among travellers when domestic travel opens up in coming months. This also sends out a message that Rajasthan is safe to travel.” People have been cooped up in their homes for close to two-and-a-half months. With schools and colleges closed and malls and restaurants out of bounds, the monuments and museums have given them an opportunity to come out. In Jaipur, eight monuments and museums have been allowed to reopen. Amber has received 608 visitors, the highest among all the monuments. Collectively, the monuments in Jaipur has attracted 1,806 people while the number for the rest of Rajasthan is 1,450, taking the total to 3,256 as on Sunday. In order to lure visitors, the department had waived off the ticket fees for the first and second week while 50% of the ticket amount will be charged from the third week onwards, as per a notification. For visitors, the department has put in place SOPs. Visitors without masks will not be allowed and also only each batch of five people will be given entry at a time. After a gap of five minutes, another group will be allowed in order to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-looks-up-footfalls-risein-raj-monuments-museums/articleshow/76251465.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 positive cases cross 1,300-mark in Vadodara city||VADODARA: Covid-19 positive cases register a surge with 35 new cases pushing the city to cross the 1,300 mark. The total number of positive cases in the city stand at 1,305 since Saturday evening Fresh cases were reported from Warasiya Ring Road, Fatepura, Waghodiya Road, Nagarwada, Mandvi, Panigate, Wadi, Jetalpur Road and Gotri Road areas. New cases were reported in rural Vadodara from Karodiya, Waghodia, Undera and Muval (Padra). Of 144 samples tested, 109 have come negative. The ‘official’ death toll remained at 47 even as the actual number of Covid-19 related deaths are more. Currently, 463 patients are being treated at different hospitals. Of these, condition of 394 patients is stable, 43 are being treated with oxygen support while 26 are being treated with the support of ventilator or BI-PAP. The total number of discharged patients now stand at 795 with 28 new including four discharged from private hospitals, 10 from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri and 14 from state-run SSG Hospital. At present, 1,204 individuals are under quarantine. Of these, majority of them are under quarantine at their home while nine at under quarantine at private facilities. Nobody is under quarantine at any government facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-positive-cases-cross-1300-mark-in-vadodara-city/articleshow/76248788.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Neighbour booked for raping 14-yr-old||Ludhiana: A 30-year-old man has been booked for allegedly raping a 14-year-old neighbour. Both the families lived in shanties and the man, who is married and has kids, had been going to the girl’s house when her parents, both street vendors, used to go for work and allegedly raping her. The girl’s mother claimed that on Friday, her daughter told her about the crime following which the family lodged a police complaint. Sub-inspector Manju, investigating officer, said the girl had claimed that the accused has been raping her for the past few months. He had also threatened her to keep mum. When her parents came to know about the incident, they talked to the accused. However, he refused allegations. Thereafter, the family approached police, the cop added. Meanwhile, the accused managed to flee. The SI said the police are trying to trace down the accused. Meanwhile, medical examination of girl will be conducted on Saturday. The police have registered a case under Sections 376 (rape) of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/neighbour-booked-for-raping-14-yr-old/articleshow/76247943.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man kills father to secure mine job on compassionate grounds||HYDERABAD: To secure a job in PSU Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) on compassionate grounds, an unemployed youth strangled his 58-year-old father, a pump operator at SCCL, to death few days before his superannuation. In fact, the police recovered the body from the pyre just before the cremation was to take place. The incident took place on May 26 at Kothur village of Peddapalli district and came to light on Saturday after police arrested the two sons of the deceased. The main accused, M Tirupati (25), an unemployed polytechnic diploma holder, killed his father, M Narsaiah, at their house in Kothur. Police said Tirupati’s younger brother Rakesh (19), an ITI student, and their mother Tara, were also part of the plot to kill Narsaiah. Narsaiah was to retire on May 31 and his farewell function was to be held on May 26 by his colleagues. “Tirupati hatched a plan to kill his father. He told Tara and Rakesh about the plan and they moved to a relative’s house in Godavari Khani three days before the murder. On the night of May 25, Narsaiah consumed liquor at a function. During the early hours of May 26, Tirupati strangled Narsaiah using a towel while he was asleep,” Dharmaram SI, K Prem Kumar, said. The next morning the family informed others that Narsaiah died of a heart attack and prepared for his funeral. As some people raised doubts over the death, Tirupati was forced to inform the police. The police rushed to the spot and removed the body from the funeral pyre and sent it for post-mortem. “Doctors said the death appears to be due to strangulation. Subsequently, we collected the cellphone details of the suspects and picked them up for questioning. During interrogation, Tirupati confessed to having killed his father,” the SI said. Two years ago, Narsaiah suffered a heart attack and subsequently tried to get a medically unfit certificate so his job could be given to his elder son. “But he could not get the medical certificate,” the SI said. The brothers have been arrested. Their mother, who is bed-ridden, is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-father-to-secure-mine-job-on-compassionate-grounds/articleshow/76250998.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Trichy||Covid makes focus shift to home-cooked food||Madurai: To observe ‘World Food Safety Day’ on June 7, dieticians, amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic this year, urged the public to follow safe practices of handling food and have a balanced diet to stay safe and healthy. With restaurants being closed down during lockdown and fear over hygiene, the emphasis was back on home-cooked food. Dieticians urged for precautions and to continue having home-cooked food more, especially for children and elderly, even post lockdown. “During this pandemic, any boiled food is best for health. In this era, we had shifted to fast food and preferred it though it was not healthy. But, this time has shown the importance of home-cooked food. In our culture, idli is one of the healthiest and safest foods in terms of nutrition and method of preparation,” said Dr Jeyanthi, chief dietician, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC). Dieticians on the other hand also pointed out how food habits affect immunity and that a healthy diet is required to boost one’s immunity to protect against any disease. “These days, many children are avoiding food which contain garlic, onion, ginger but actually it boosts immunity,” explained Dr Jeyanthi. Fears about eating meat during times of the pandemic were also dispelled. “There is no reason to believe Covid-19 spreads through eating meat. There is nothing to fear if we use proper cooking method . Meat and eggs carry proteins which is nutritious. ,” added the dietician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-makes-focus-shift-to-home-cooked-food/articleshow/76251470.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||‘Stop attending to Muslim patients’: Rajasthan hospital staff chats leaked, probe on||JAIPUR: A private hospital in Churu’s Sardarshahar has become embroiled in a controversy after the police started investigating allegations that the medical facility is denying treatment to Muslims. Screenshots of a group chat of hospital staff went viral on WhatsApp which had messages like “stop attending to Muslims patients”. The messages allegedly follows the same theme with one member saying that 'Muslims should be asked to go to a Muslim doctor'. With the screenshots doing the rounds on social media, a complaint was lodged with the police control room in Churu, following which the cops started an investigation. “We received a complaint that a private hospital was not attending to Muslim patients and a WhatsApp group chat’s screenshots were being shown. No FIR has been filed yet and we are checking the veracity of the allegations. It appears that the chats occured during the lockdown period.” said sub-inspector Ramesh Pannu, Sardarshahar police station, where the complaint has been filed. Confirming the development, Churu superintendent of police Tejaswini Gautam said, “We have received a complaint following which we are taking action to register FIR in the matter.” Meanwhile, Dr Sunil Choudhary, who runs the hospital, posted an apology on social media which said, "I apologise for the chats between my hospital staff which have gone viral. Neither I nor my staff had any intention of hurting any community’s feelings. We exclude no community from treatment.” Speaking to TOI, the doctor added, “I have been running this hospital for the last two years and have never denied treatment to any patient irrespective of their religious beliefs.” The doctor said, “I have records of all our patients and can prove that we have treated Muslim patients as well. I was not even aware of the chat by the staff and have rendered my apology. I am also ready to face police investigation as well.” According to Choudhary, the chats are of April 8 after Tablighi Jamat attendees were found Covid-19 positive. He also claimed that it was a way to spoil his hospital’s reputation and a conspiracy against him. “We have patients who come under government’s Bhamashah scheme and more than half the patients are Muslims. We upload that data on website which cannot be manipulated. I do not know if it is some political conspiracy to undo all the hardwork that I have put in”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stop-attending-to-muslim-patients-rajasthan-hosp-staff-chats-leaked-probe-on/articleshow/76251476.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatpur’s Kumher Gate vegetable market turns into hotspot||JAIPUR: A vegetable wholesaler in Bharatpur has been identified as the primary source of Covid-19 infection in more than 300 persons. He had made frequent trips to Agra from where he would procure vegetables and sell it in Bharatpur. He tested positive during random sampling, following which health officials traced his customers. A number of people, including vendors from nearby villages, who had visited his shop also tested positive. Kumher Gate Sabzi Mandi in Bharatpur has become a hotspot. “A vegetable wholesaler had made frequent visits to Agra, which is a hotspot, for bringing vegetables. We conducted random sampling in the last week of May and the vendor tested positive,” said a health department official. He tested positive on May 27. Following that the health authorities took samples of other vendors from Kumher Gate. They found 45 people infected on May 29. Taking it on serious note, health authorities conducted intense contact tracing and found that many vegetable vendors purchased vegetable from the mandi at Kumher Gate. Even vendors in villages purchase vegetable from Kumher Gate and sell it in their villages. “Some vendors who purchased vegetable from Kumher Gate started reaching hospitals on their own and they also tested positive,” said the official. Till May 27, there were only 153 cases in Bharatpur, but on Sunday morning the number of infected persons rose to 613. In the past 10 days, 460 cases have been reported in Bharatpur, out of those 76 are migrants while over 300 cases are linked to Kumher vegetable mandi. Kumher vegetable mandi is the second hotspot in Bharatpur. Earlier, Kasai Pada area reported around 100 cases but all of them have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatpurs-kumher-gate-vegetable-market-turns-into-hotspot/articleshow/76251475.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Few Vande Bharat flights to state irk expat Kannadigas||MANGALURU: Though more than 10,000 Kannadigas are stranded in the Gulf, and have registered themselves to return home, they can’t return due to a lack of flights. Ever since the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights commenced, in the first and second phase, only three flights from Dubai, and one each from Qatar, Muscat and Saudi Arabia, landed in Karnataka. The third phase will see the first flights from Kuwait and Bahrain landing in the state. Mumbai North BJP MP Gopal Shetty has written to chief minister BS Yediyurappa to ensure all Kannadigas are safely repatriated to the state. The letter stressed that a lot of parents had gone to visit their children staying in the Gulf countries, and are stranded there. Shetty said Kerala has arranged a lot of flights under the VBM, but not Karnataka. Shetty has shot off letters to Yediyurappa and minister for external affairs S Jaishankar, after he received a memorandum from Kannadigas working in Qatar. According to former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka, Dr Arathi Krishna, with not many flights under VBM, Kannadigas in the Gulf are forced to charter flights. “If Kerala can land flights every single day from Gulf countries, why not Karnataka? All those who wished to return are jobless, pregnant, elderly, ailing, visit visa holders and students. The state government is not taking any initiative to demand flights to the state,” she criticised. “What I noticed is that the Karnataka government is reluctant to allow chartered flights from abroad,” says Arathi. An expatriate who works in Kuwait said, “Isn’t it shameful that Karnataka has 25 BJP MPs, including a few Union ministers, but a BJP MP from Maharashtra is urging a BJP-run state government to arrange flights for Kannadigas? The state government and MPs from Karnataka must act now.” Several anxious Kannadiga expatriates have termed the VBM as Vande Kerala Mission, as a majority of flights from the Gulf are scheduled to land in Kerala. Madhukar Prabhu, an expatriate in Qatar, tweeted that he is waiting since the past three months to return to Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/few-vande-bharat-flights-to-state-irk-expat-kannadigas/articleshow/76250216.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 8, 2020||Goa||Parts of state drenched, but heat soars in North Goa||Panaji: Parts of Goa experienced heavy rainfall on Sunday. But while there was no large change in the maximum temperature over South Goa, Sunday saw a considerable rise in maximum temperature over North Goa. The highest maximum temperature, 32.3°C, was recorded at Panaji. No weather warning has been issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the state on June 8 and 9, but heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places on June 10 and 11, an advisory read. Meanwhile, a warning has been issued for high sea and other coasts (beyond 75km from the coast) of strong winds with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph likely to prevail over southwest and the adjoining west-central Arabian Sea till June 11. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into these areas during this period. Owing to rainfall activity since June 1, some rain gauge stations across the state have crossed the 200mm mark. These include Pernem, Panaji, Canacona, Quepem and Sanguem. The highest amount of rainfall has been recorded by the Mormugao rain gauge station which has already received a seasonal total of 306.6mm rainfall since the start of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-state-drenched-but-heat-soars-in-north-goa/articleshow/76251690.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||93 infected, 1 dies in Punjab||Chandigarh/Barnala/Jalandhar: Punjab recorded 93 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday - highest in the first week of June - taking the total number of cases to 2,608 till now. With the death of one Covid-19 patient in Ludhiana, the total number of deaths in the state has reached 51. As many as 345 positive cases have been reported in Punjab in the first week of June. On June 3, 34 positive cases were reported and the numbers have climbed since then. The highest number of 35 positive cases were reported in Amritsar district on Sunday, followed by 23 in Jalandhar and 10 in Ludhiana. Seven samples tested positive in Patiala, five in Sangrur, three each in Faridkot and Gurdaspur and two in Pathankot. One positive case each was reported in Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, Mohali and Barnala district. Amritsar district has the highest number of 117 active Covid-19 cases, 77 in Ludhiana, 65 in Jalandhar, 34 in Pathankot and 22 in Patiala. Among the 93 positive cases reported on Sunday, 14 cases have a source of infection from outside Punjab. They had either travelled from abroad or other states. As many as 42 cases were contacts of positive patients. A total of 14 patients were discharged from hospitals on Sunday after recovery. They include seven from Pathankot, four from Jalandhar, and three from Patiala. In Barnala, two more policemen tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The patients, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a home guard volunteer, are posted at Mehal Kalan police station. They had come in contact with a person from Malerkotla, who was arrested under NDPS Act on May 23. Earlier, a constable of Mehal Kalan police station tested positive on Saturday. In all, 50 police personnel, including Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel, SP (investigations) Sukhdev Singh Virk, ASP Pragya Jain and chief judicial magistrate Vineet Kumar Narang were asked to go for home quarantine. In Faridkot, an ASI posted at Bajakhana tested positive on Sunday. Besides, two more persons from Faridkot district have tested positive. They had come in contact with another ASI of Faridkot police, who had tested positive. The three patients have been sent into isolation at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot. In Jalandhar, with 10 patients testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, the tally reached the 300 mark on Sunday. A total of 48 patients have been admitted in the isolation centre of the civil hospital. Nine deaths have been registered till date. Another strongly suspected death due to the Coronavirus infection is that of astrologer Neeraj Tiwari, who died on June 3 and was not tested before or after his death. On Saturday, four members of his family tested positive after some people raised an alarm that he could have been infected by the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/93-infected-1-dies-in-punjab/articleshow/76251480.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter-caste marriage: Dalit man moves SHRC||HYDERABAD: Fearing for his and his family’s safety, a 30-year-old Dalit PhD scholar has approached the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) after his 19-year-old wife, who is from an upper caste, was reportedly taken away forcibly by her parents to Nalgonda. The man claimed a sub-inspector (SI) and a constable of Gurramapode police station allegedly helped the girl’s family. The SHRC on Friday directed the Nalgonda superintendent of police to submit a report on the incident by June 29. PhD scholar A Nagarjun, also a private employee, from Penpahad area of Suryapet district, had married Mamtha Reddy, 19, from Gurramapode of Nalgonda district on May 24. “Four days after our marriage, her parents took her away forcibly with the help of Gurramapode police personnel. The cops told us that a missing complaint was registered and will let us go after recording the statement, but her family instead took her home and threatened me,” Nagarjun told TOI. The couple was taken to the Gurramapode police station for recording their statement on May 28. In his petition to SHRC, he alleged that the Gurramapode SI and constable mentally harassed them and even asked them to part ways. “They have been threatening my family. We are scared,” Nagarjun said, adding he did not want to become a victim of another honour killing. “I haven’t spoken to my wife since May 28. Her phone is switched off, I don’t know whether she is alive,” he said. The Nalgonda police denied the allegations. “The girl’s family filed a missing complaint. In her statement, she said she wanted to go back to her parent’s house so she was sent home. The allegations against police officers are false,” Nalgonda DSP Anand Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-caste-marriage-dalit-man-moves-shrc/articleshow/76251001.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||As cases rise, health dept sticks to civil hosp for Covid wing||Ludhiana: With cases of coronavirus rising, the health department has deferred the decision to shift OPD and emergency services back to the Ludhiana civil hospital, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga informed during a function organized by ITBP to encourage frontline workers at the hospital on Saturday. Earlier, the health department has decided to convert Covid-19 wing at the civil hospital into an OPD, but now again all Covid-19 treatment will continue at the hospital. Dr Bagga said, “The health department has taken note of the fact that more than 1,200 passengers are deboarding in Ludhiana and most of them are commuting from high-risk states which have seen very high number of cases. So, our main focus is screening of these travellers. Thus, we need space and we have all the facilities operational at the civil hospital.” He said, “We would seek the help of police officials if we open OPD services here. But for now, OPDs will continue at ESIC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-cases-rise-health-dept-sticks-to-civil-hosp-for-covid-wing/articleshow/76247953.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Left jobless, man kills son over washing dishes||Ludhiana: Having lost his job following the lockdown in the country, a 65-year-old man ended up killing his 22-year-old son following an argument over washing dishes late on Friday night. The accused, Rameshwar Pal of Jageer Colony of Tibba area, attacked his younger son Sudhir with a griddle and then with a wooden block. As the youth fainted in the attack, Rameshwar placed gunny bags over top of him and set him on fire. Seeing the flames coming out of the house, neighbours raised an alarm and dialed the police. Rameshwar worked as a security guard at a private hospital, but lost his job due to his age and lockdown, police said citing neighbours. Assistant commissioner of police (East) Devinder Chaudhary said, “By midnight, police received a call from the village sarpanch about the incident. While Sudhir lived with Rameshwar, his elder son lived separately in Subhash Nagar with his family. The accused’s wife resided in their home town in Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh.” The ACP said on Friday night, the duo had dinner together. After a while, the father asked his son to wash dishes but the latter refused. This triggered a heated argument following which Sudhir smashed a griddle on father’s head. In a state of panic, he ran towards the roof. His father, however, chased him and attacked with the same griddle. Later, he also hit Sudhir with a wooden block on his head. When Sudhir fell unconscious, he covered his body with gunny bags and set him ablaze. But neighbours witnessed flames and raised an alarm. Chaudhary said, “The father was remorseful after the incident. He committed crime in a fit of rage. The police have arrested him and registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/left-jobless-man-kills-son-over-washing-dishes/articleshow/76247965.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala police comes up with reaction videos of social media post||Kochi: At a time when videos of people roasting and reacting to Tik-Tok, Facebook and WhatsApp status videos of other people, is becoming the new trend in social media, the Kerala police, which has already marked its significant presence on Facebook with 1.5 million followers, too have started doing reaction videos on its official YouTube channel. Monitored by the police department’s social media team, the YouTube handle started a web series called ‘P C Kuttanpillai Speaking’ on Saturday with a message that the online activities of all are being watched by the ‘two eyes’ of the police. Part one of the series titled ‘Pani Varunnund Avaracha’ (Trouble awaits you Avarachan), named after the hit and vengeful dialogue from recent Malayalam movie Trance, presents a policeman (civil police officer Gibin Gopinath) assisted by fictional character P C Kuttan Pillai’s two eyes (symbol of the police cyber cell). They sit together, criticize and react to certain videos, posts and comment that have received negative criticism widely for its content, presentation, abusive language etc., using puns and a good sense of humour. The video received wide appreciation among netizens with over two lakh views in two days and users are picking targets for the police to add in the next reaction video. “Tik Tok and Facebook now have many posts and videos that are immoral, abusive, offensive etc., in nature. The new series aims to make aware of offensive vloggers and trollers that they are being watched by the police. Also, we want to show them how responsible and moralistic the reaction videos and trolls should be,” said ADGP Manoj Abraham, cyberdome nodal officer. The video criticizes a long-bearded guy who throws away the face mask due to discomfort of wearing it over the beard and instead uses his own beard as a mask by twirling it up. As a reaction to this, it presents another Tik Tok video in which a health worker shows the injuries on her face caused due to prolonged use of a mask. The video shows those posts and Tik Tok videos that use abusive words and warns users to behave and be aware that social media is not a private space. Arun B T, a civil police officer part of the social media team and the man behind the concept of the new web series said that it will help the popularity of police’s social media. “The police’s YouTube channel has doubled its followers after the launch of the video. The videos are scripted within the moral limitations of the police and received a good response,” he said. The officers also said that the initiative will help them to identify cyber offences easily as many users themselves are reporting abusive and offensive posts and videos to the police. “Though the purpose is purely the creation of awareness among social media users and warning that they are being watched, the new series will help police to identify offenders and initiate legal action against them,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-police-comes-up-with-reaction-videos-of-social-media-post/articleshow/76250243.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Four more test positive in dist, total no. of cases cross 100||Thiruvananthapuram: The total number of confirmed cases in four months crossed 100 on Sunday in the district with four more persons testing positive for Covid-19.  A 34-year-old man from Attingal, a 39-year-old man from Attingal, a 24-year-old man from Neyyatinkara and a 38-year-old man from Karakkonam were tested positive on Sunday. While two of them came from Abu Dhabi, two persons came from Hyderabad and Karakkonam. The district had recorded the first Covid case on March 13 and till May 4, the district had a total of 17 confirmed cases. Since May 18, the number of cases has risen sharply in the district. The number of confirmed cases increased from 21 to 62 from May 18 to May 31. In the past seven days, 41 more confirmed cases were reported in the district. The case load was relatively lesser in March, April and first two weeks of May. The increase in number of persons coming from red zone had caused concerns of an outbreak initially as 1,698 persons came from red zones especially from states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra in the first two weeks. However, all the active cases in the district till the third week of May had come by flight, ship and one person who was tested positive reached the state by road through a different check post. The district now has a total of 16,289 persons under observation of which 16,072 persons are under home and institutional quarantine. As many as 217 persons have been hospitalized. A total of 36 persons were hospitalized on Sunday. Since May 18, the district had to deal with cases from local community which otherwise do not figure in the sentinel surveillance. Three remand prisoners were tested positive at Nellanad, Pullampara and Pulimath while another person from Anad was also tested positive. A health worker was tested positive at Navaikulam. A man who hailed from Pozhiyur had also tested positive while he came to RCC. The disease investigation team has not been able to identify sources of infection in any of these cases. Samples of high-risk contacts, primary contacts and secondary contacts have been tested which also came out negative. As many as 343 samples were sent for testing on Sunday and results of 336 samples received were negative. A total of 2,005 vehicles were inspected on Sunday. Twelve persons have tested negative since May 18. In some cases, the recovery rate has been really swift. There have been three cases in the district which tested negative in less than seven days of hospital admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/four-more-test-positive-in-dist-total-no-of-cases-cross-100/articleshow/76250238.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth goes to Delhi after test, found +ve||Hisar: The general practice in the handling of Covid-19 is that if samples are taken for investigation on the basis of travel and contact history, the suspected patient is quarantined. However, on Saturday, a Covid-19 positive person left for Delhi after giving his sample for testing. The patient, a resident of Delhi, is a technician at Sarvodaya Hospital. He may have come in contact with Covid-19 positive police personnel from Jind. Earlier, a few other employees of the hospital were also found to be Covid-19 positive. The 22-year-old said he works as a technician in Sarvodaya hospital and lives in Bank Colony, Hisar. After giving the sample, he left for Delhi on his motorcycle and is now in Delhi, he said. When the matter was discussed with chief medical officer, Hisar, Dr Yogesh Sharma, he said there is no such rule that every person will be quarantined after taking sample. When contacted, Ramesh Poonia, in-charge, quarantine, Hisar, said according to the directions issued to him, those whose samples are taken are quarantined at least till the test report is received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-goes-to-delhi-after-test-found-ve/articleshow/76251490.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Bihar, UP, Jharkhand pay doctors more than Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar pay resident doctors (MBBS degree holders pursuing post-graduation) the most. Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Gujarat and Haryana are also among the better paymasters for doctors at different levels in government-run hospitals. Closer home, interns (those in the final year of their MBBS course) in Maharashtra are among the worst paid even after a recent hike; only three other Indian states, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and UP, pay lower. And specialists – senior residents pursuing a superspeciality course – are better off in the rural parts of Chhattisgarh, Haryana and UP where they earn Rs 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh a month, compared to Maharashtra where they get an average Rs 59,000. At a time when resident doctors across the country are on the frontlines attending to Covid-19 patients, there is wide variation in their stipend depending on which part of India they serve. Chhattisgarh pays the maximum. UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana, all pay Rs 80,000-Rs 1 lakh a month while Maharashtra and the southern states lie in the mid-range, paying a monthly stipend of Rs 40,000-Rs 60,000. The Medical Council of India plans to make stipend post-MBBS uniform across the country, but the plan is yet to be cleared by all states. Interns posted in central government-run hospitals are paid the highest, Rs 23,500 a month. Across India in state-run hospitals, their stipend varies from as low as Rs 7,000 in Rajasthan to the highest in Karnataka now at Rs 30,000. Medical interns are students who have completed four-and-a-half years at a med school and do their compulsory rotational residential internship at a hospital attached to the medical college before getting the MBBS degree. While interns in Maharashtra get a stipend of Rs 6,000, it was recently hiked to Rs 11,000 by the state. But BMC hospitals in Mumbai are yet to effect the change. Residents and senior residents in the state get Rs 54,000 and Rs 59,000 respectively (average of three years). The BMC recently announced a temporary stipend of Rs 50,000 for MBBS interns for their work in the Covid-19 wards. But a permanent increase of Rs 10,000 is expected for residents, said the head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research in Maharashtra Dr T P Lahane. “Even after the recent hike of Rs 5,000, the state has among the lowest stipend that we pay our medical interns. That has a lot of scope for improvement,” said Dr Praveen Shingare, former DMER head. “Moreover, some hospitals like Yavatmal and the BMC-run hospitals slash tax on stipend, what residents get in hand varies across Maharashtra too,” added he. At the post graduate level, the stipend varies for every state as also for each year of the resident. In some states, there are multiple scales; to attract talent, the stipend offered to residents in rural areas is higher compared to what is paid in urban centres. For instance, in Chhattisgarh, residents in rural areas are paid Rs 20,000-30,000 more and seniors are paid Rs 1.5 lakh as compared to their counterparts in city hospitals who take home Rs 1.3 lakh a month. One of the reasons Bihar, UP, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand pay government doctors much higher, experts say, is because of the dependence on the public healthcare network in these states as compared to, say, Maharashtra, TN or Karnataka which have more hospitals driven by charitable trusts and private practitioners. Founder member of Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Healthcare Dr Babu KV has for long been writing to the MCI for a uniform stipend for interns, residents and seniors. “Just before the lockdown, the MCI was going to clear that rule for interns. Step two would be to bring about parity for PG residents and super-specialists too,” he said. In Maharashtra, doctors complain that not only does the stipend vary across Indian states, so does their tuition and tax rules. While most states do not cut tax from the stipend, some do. Apart from that, resident doctors also pay an annual tuition cost. “Nowhere in the world do resident doctors pay hospitals for training. Why should they (post graduates and superspecialty candidates) pay tuition fees? This is an anomaly we first need to straighten out in India. They are made to pay because there are only a few slots for PG and superspecialty. If these seats are increased, the business model of medical education will collapse,” said cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bihar-up-jkhand-pay-docs-more-than-maha/articleshow/76251481.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Worry over Kolkata airport operations after staffer tests positive||KOLKATA: The detection of the first Covid case at Kolkata airport terminal and quarantining others in that shift as well as an official in another department away from the terminal at air traffic services wing have led to further tightening of anti-Covid measures with roving minders to ensure that passengers and staff adhere to social distancing. But with integrated terminal spread over 25 lakh sqft, fool-proof monitoring is impossible. According to sources, a housekeeping staff has tested positive for Covid-19 as has the spouse of a deputy general manager in the air traffic control, leading to the latter being quarantined. Even though the staff have been frequently and repeatedly briefed on social distancing norms, officials said they have no way of tracking their behaviour during duty hours or later unless it is in the operational area. “Most of the staff come from the surrounding areas of Dum Dum, Birati, Narayanpur and Kehstopur, particularly those engaged in housekeeping, ground handling and baggage handling. It is impossible to monitor what they do after they leave workplace. It is an area of concern now that lockdown is over and people are out in the streets in numbers,” said an airport official. Airport is potentially a high-risk zone due to the large number of people who enter and exit it daily. Around 1,300 Indians have returned to Kolkata from abroad in 11 Vande Bharat flights, including one from Qatar on Sunday that flew in 153 passengers. In addition, over 90,000 domestic passengers have passed through Kolkata airport in the past 10 days. Not just Kolkata, reports of airport officials testing positive have emerged from Chennai as well as AAI headquarters in Delhi, leading to alarm. With cases now beginning to emerge in Kolkata as well, there is concern over how such a huge facility will function if a large number of staffers get quarantined. “The ATC has long put in place a buffer system in which there is an additional team on standby should all persons in one shift need to be quarantined. Unfortunately, the airport is understaffed and does not have the luxury to have a standby team. Though the current footfall is a fifth of the usual pre-Covid scenario, the terminal and all services have to be maintained,” the official pointed out. AAI has 250-odd officials and 1,100 staffers. In addition, there are 18,000 passes issued to other service providers including airlines, maintenance and housekeeping staff. In each shift, there are 2,500-3,000 people on frontline duty in addition to an equal number of persons engaged in back-end jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-jitters-at-airport-after-housekeeping-staff-tests-positive/articleshow/76251020.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dist administration seeks reports from two hospitals||Thiruvananthapuram: The district administration is learnt to have sought epidemiological reports from Peroorkada district hospital and Medical College Hospital pertaining to the death of Fr K G Varghese, who died recently at Medical College Hospital and was tested positive for Covid-19, after the route map prepared by the disease investigation team had laid bare glaring contradictions in the initial report of the Medical College. Further it has also come to light that reports about the positive infection in the case of Fr K G Varghese have been verified by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. It was reported that chances were high that the case of Fr Varghese was an instance of ‘weak positive’ and since the patient was dead by the time results came, confirmation could not be done. Sources said that samples were sent to NIV, Alleppey, for confirmation to resolve the doubts regarding it being a ‘weak positive’ case. The report had noted that the patient had been treated at Medical College Hospital following an accident from April 20 to May 20 and then transferred to Peroorkada district hospital for secondary care. The patient was then admitted on May 31 and he died on June 2, the report said. However, the route map revealed that the patient was brought to the Medical College Hospital twice on May 23 and May 26 for consultation in ENT casualty. The patient had reached Medical College at 9.30am and then returned to Peroorkada hospital by 5.30pm. On May 26, he reached Medical College at 8.45pm and after nearly three hours he was brought back to the Peroorkada hospital. The epidemiological reports have been sought in the light of contradictions that have surfaced over the report of Medical College Hospital and route map prepared by the disease investigation team. The district administration has already collected report from Peroorkada hospital which corroborates the findings in the route map; the patient was taken to Medical College twice before he was admitted on May 31. The epidemiological investigation team looking into sources of infection for Fr K G Varghese had earlier indicated that it could be a case of nosocomial infection (NI) commonly known as hospital acquired infection or healthcare associated infection (HAI). The person had been hospitalized for over 40 days and his travel history was nil except that he was shifted between hospitals; Peroorkada district hospital and Medical College Hospital, which gave reasons for the team to identify it as a case of NI. Similar doubts had surfaced over the death of Abdul Azeez, a resident of Pothencode. He had been taken to a private hospital and then to Medical College on March 23. He had been put on ventilator for five days and he had died around March 30 midnight. Around 230 samples of contacts were tested following the death of Abdul Azeez and source of infection still remains unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-administration-seeks-reports-from-two-hospitals/articleshow/76250247.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||City bus ride from next week, operator in fix||Ludhiana: With Ludhiana City Bus services Limited getting permission, the City Bus Service is likely to resume in Ludhiana from next week. The officials said they would now ask the private operator to start the service after sanitizing the buses. The City Bus Service was stopped when lockdown/curfew was imposed in the city. In a letter to the deputy commissioner’s office, the civic officials had sought permission to operate these buses. The officials had said when the state or intra-state bus service was resumed, then city buses could also start. They had asked for terms and conditions on the basis of which they could run the buses. City buses will run with 50% capacity and will be sanitized daily. However, the operator running buses for the civic body had claimed that the bus service would run into losses as there would be less commuters considering that all schools and colleges are closed now. Moreover, the condition of 50% cap on passengers too will add to the losses. Sources said the operator might ask for revision in the passenger fare from the civic body to make up for the loss. MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said, “We could not start the bus service without adequate permission. Now, we have received the permission from the DC. We will convey the same to the operator to start buses on routes where these buses used to ply earlier." Asked about the operator’s claims of losses, he said for two months, they had stopped the service during the lockdown and they will not charge anything from the operator for that period. “But now when we have got permission, the operator will have to pay even if he doesn’t run the buses,” he added. As of now people are dependent on auto-rickshaws or private vehicles for commuting. Once the city buses are back in service, there will be more option for the public, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bus-ride-from-next-week-operator-in-fix/articleshow/76247975.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Baran Congress MLA Atru Panachand Meghwal holds social event without mask, fined||KOTA: Baran Congress MLA Atru Panachand Meghwal and 16 others have been fined for not wearing masks while unveiling a statue of Maharana Pratap in the presence of a huge gathering at Pratap Chowk in the city on Saturday evening. None of them were wearing a mask during the pubic event which saw a large gathering. Eight others were fined for violating social distancing norms at the event, taking the total number of those challaned to 25. No permission was sought for the event which was organised by Baran municipality. However, after the videos of the event went viral, additional district magistrate (ADM) started a probe into the matter. In the presence of hundreds of local party workers, Meghawal along with Baran municipality board chairman Kamal Rathore unveiled the statue. The MLA, officials of the municipality board were seen along with a large number of people without masks. People from surrounding houses too had joined the crowd. The local police took no steps to ensure safe distance between attendees or took action against those who violated norms. “I don’t have any knowledge if permission was taken to hold the event. But certainly a large number of people gathered at Pratap Chowk. It is a busy market and people were already present at shops,” Ramkishan Verma , circle officer in-charge, Baran city police station, said. He said at least 17 persons, including Meghwal and chairman of municipality board, were slapped with challans for not wearing masks. “We have strict restrictions on granting permission for such events in the district,” ADM Mohammad Abu Bakr said and added that he would inquire into the matter on Monday. “The event was politically motivated and was organised without seeking prior permission,” a district official said. Repeated attempts to contact Meghwal for his comments failed. Watch Rajasthan MLA holds social event without mask, fined||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/baran-mla-holds-social-event-without-mask-fined/articleshow/76251483.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Rs 416 crore sanctioned for Godavari clean-up||HYDERABAD: The Godavari clean-up project got a financial boost of Rs 416 crore with the Union Jal Shakti ministry sanctioning the amount under the National River Conservation Directorate (NRCD) to rejuvenate the river. Under the project, NRCD will be constructing sewage treatment plants, underground drainage system, including sewage treatment plants (STP) and diversion facilities to ensure that untreated water does not enter the river. The Delhi Technological University, which submitted an appraisal report to NRCD, said the proposed project is essential to prevent pollution of the holy river, which is also a source of drinking water for households in East and West Godavari districts. Rajahmundry MP Margani Bharat had recently met Union minister for water resources Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to seek funds for the project. “Around 150 MLD of sewage water goes into Godavari at Dowleswaram barrage. In the first phase, STPs will be constructed to treat 150 MLD of sewage. In the second phase, an underground drainage system will be constructed so that untreated water is not released into Dowleswaram,” Bharat told TOI. The MP said that once the Godavari project is completed, each household in Godavari district will be supplied drinking water under the Har Ghar Jal scheme. “Three new STPs will be constructed, and an existing one will be upgraded. Interception and diversion structures will also be created,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-416cr-sanctioned-for-godavari-clean-up/articleshow/76251019.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Passenger load in RSRTC buses increases to 73%, frequency up||JAIPUR: Following safety assurance by Rajasthan Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC), passenger load is now 73 per cent in majority of the buses. Intra-state and inter-state movement of buses have gone up on Saturday and Sunday. According to RSRTC sources, 192 buses made 455 trips and covered 70,500 km within and outside the state on Saturday. “We had a total passenger load of 73 per cent in our buses on Saturday. When we started, we had to cancel buses too due to poor number of passengers,” said Sudhir Bhati, public relations officer of RSRTC. He added that before passengers board buses, every vehicle is properly sanitised and the conductor and staff allow people to board only after thermal screening. “I think the confidence of passengers is building up and this is as good as normal traffic as we had attained passenger load of 73 per cent on Saturday,” said an officer with RSRTC operations. Bus conductors and drivers are given masks, face shields and sanitisers. “Around 40 per cent of passengers had opted for online tickets while 60 per cent got tickets on board,” said an officer. RSRTC is presently operating its buses to Gurugram and Rohtak in Haryana, which is their only inter-state bus service. “Initially, we were not very satisfied with inter-state services after seeing number of passengers availing the services. But now this has improved. From next week, we hope to take our buses to Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and other parts of the country,” said an officer. Paritosh Sharma, who was boarding a bus to Gurugram from Transport Nagar said, “I had gone on Wednesday and returned on Friday evening since Jaipur is my hometown. Now I am going back. This has been a very safe journey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-passenger-load-increases-to-73-per-cent/articleshow/76251484.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 8, 2020||India||Rajasthan hospital draws fire for religion bias after staff chats go viral||JAIPUR: A private hospital in Rajasthan’s Churu district is being investigated for alleged religious discrimination after leaked screenshots from a purported WhatsApp group chat involving the medical staff showed they had been discussing ways to avoid treating Muslims with Covid-19 symptoms. Police received a complaint against the hospital at Sardarshahar even as its owner, Dr Sunil Choudhary, went on Facebook to apologise on behalf of his staff for the discriminatory private chats that became public. However, he denied that any patient had been turned away on the basis of religion. One of the screenshots from the group chat reads: “Stop attending to Muslim patients.” Another participant responds with: “Had a Hindu patient tested positive for corona and the doctor was a Muslim, he probably wouldn’t have treated the person. I won’t attend to a Muslim in OPD...Tell them madam is not here.” Choudhary said the chats were from April 8, by which time many people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meets in Delhi in March had tested positive for Covid-19. “I have records of all our patients and can prove that we have treated Muslim patients as well. I was not even aware of the chat among my staff. I have tendered an apology and am ready to face a police investigation, too,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-hospital-draws-fire-for-religion-bias-after-staff-chats-go-viral/articleshow/76251831.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Bengali films back on track as shoots set to resume||Kolkata: Shooting of Bengali films can resume on June 10 with some conditions. While child actors below 10 years will not be allowed to work, those above 65 years can do so, only if they agree to provide a self-declaration. By Tuesday, Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) will send a list of pending shootings to Federation of Cine Technicians & Workers of Eastern (FCTWEI). Meanwhile, Anshuman Pratyush, who returned from London without completing ‘Baazi’, starring Jeet and Mimi Chakraborty, is keen on beginning his next. “It will be a thriller and I will shoot with stars next month,” said Pratyush. Producer Krishna Daga is keen to start the shooting of his Hindi-Bengali film titled ‘Dost’. “Directed by Raj Mukherjee, I will start in the end of July,” Daga said. Producer Suparnokanti Karati, who attended a meeting with minister Aroop Biswas and other stakeholders on Sunday, said, “Producers will bear the cost of paying the premium for the life insurance cover of Rs 25 lakh due to Covid-19 for technicians. For artists, the premium amount will be divided equally between individual artists and producers.” Meanwhile, FCTWEI president Swarup Biswas said technicians can’t be pigeon-holed and kept bundled in one room during outdoor shootings. “Either a single or double bedroom of 80-100 sq feet with attached bathroom must be provided for two persons. There will be no common bathrooms for female technicians. If the accommodation isn’t proper, a technician can return without providing any notice. An hourly hand-wash break will also have to be provided,” Biswas added. Earlier, maximum 31 technicians were mandatory for a film unit. “There has been a relaxation of five technicians,” he said, adding that other professionals, including generator guys and drivers who will remain away from the floors, will not be counted in the active 35-member unit. Currently, FCTWEI isn’t keen on shooting with any outside unit from either Maharashtra or Gujarat. “We too will not go to shoot there,” he added. At least 12 days of ‘Baazi’ are pending in the UK. Gopal Madnani of Jeet Filmworks Private Limited said, “We will not be shooting in June. There is a quarantine issue if we fly down now.” Biswas, however, said FCTWEI will not shoot in America, Italy and the UK now. “I am referring to the WHO statistics to understand which countries are safe for travel. We will modify our travel list based on the WHO statistics. Since South Africa and Thailand are not mentioned currently in terms of rising cases, we can consider shooting there,” he said. Firdausul Hasan, who is the president of the Film Federation of India, has welcomed the move to start shooting in Bengal. “Permissions have been granted in the south industry to shoot with 50 people. But, established stars and technicians are scared and hence, film shooting hasn’t begun,” Hasan said. He has two days of shooting left at a railway station for his production titled ‘Dictionary’ that stars Abir Chatterjee and Nusrat Jahan and is being directed by Bratya Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tolly-films-back-on-track-as-shoots-set-to-resume/articleshow/76251035.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 8, 2020||Mysuru||Major tourist spots to open today in Mysuru||MYSURU: With tourist spots including Chamundi Hills, Mysuru Palace and Mysuru zoo set to reopen from Monday, people in the tourism industry are hopeful that the sector will get revived. Businessmen are hoping that things will return to normal, once these tourist spots open. The possible revival of the tourism industry is also being attributed to the successful treatment of more than 90 Covid-19 patients. H Janardhan, deputy director, tourism department, said, “Due to the pandemic, tourism suffered a lot. Now, with district administration has successfully controlled the situation by treating Covid-19 patients. With the reopening of most of the tourist spots, hotels and lodges, tourism will pick up in a few days time. Instead of going to other states, people will definitely prefer to come to Mysuru.” Narayana Gowda, president, Hotel Owners Association, Mysuru, and B S Prashanth of Safe Wheels also mentioned that with the opening of tourist spots and hotels,tourism will gradually pick up in Mysuru. Meanwhile, the Mysuru police has made security arrangements for crowd management as hotels, malls, places of worship and the zoo. All the prominent tourist places are reopening after a long spell. As Chamundi Temple may witness a large number of devotees, Krishnaraja division of police headed by a ACP level police officer, has deployed three police inspectors, five sub-inspectors and more than 50 police personnel there. Tyavarekoppa Safari to open today Shivamogga: Tyavarekoppa Tiger and Lion Safari in Shivamogga will reopen at 9am on Monday, said the executive director of the place, B Mukunda Chandra. The Sakrebyle Elephant camp, also a major tourist place on the banks of the Tunga river, will also open from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/major-tourist-spots-to-open-today-in-mysuru/articleshow/76250246.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal: Police arrest three for Maoist activities||WARANGAL: The Warangal police arrested three youths on Sunday for allegedly resorting to illegal Maoist activities. The police seized Maoist literature and mobile phones from their possession. According to Kazipet ACP Ravindrakumar, the accused, identified as Ugge Shankar alias Shekhar, G Praveen Kumar and Kothuri Indrasen, had arranged a meeting on the outskirts of Manikyapuri village in an attempt to attract youth into the banned CPI (Maoist) party. Acting on a tip-off, the police reached the spot and arrested the trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-3-for-maoist-activities/articleshow/76251027.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur hotel sealed, staff quarantined after man who stayed there tested Covid-19 +ve in Haryana||Rudrapur: A hotel in the city's Transit Camp area was sealed and its 11 staff members were quarantined after a Haryana resident who stayed there tested positive for novel coronavirus after returning to his state. The man had come to Uttarakhand for some work at a unit in Pantnagar's industrial area. The local officials are now trying to identify the factory workers who came in contact with the infected man and are also tracking other places where he visited before going back to Haryana. Amit Kumar, circle officer, informed that blood samples of the hotel staff are being sent for testing by the health department officials and they have been quarantined at an institutional facility. “Haryana officials informed us about the man's reports after they came to know about his travel history. The man had come to Aurangabad Electricals Company in Pantnagar and had stayed at the hotel in the meantime. We have contacted the company management to provide us with the CCTV footage in order to track all those who came in contact with the case. We are also tracking all the places that he visited,” CO Singh added. Meanwhile, district’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailja Bhatt told TOI that a Covid-19 test lab has been started at the city's Jawaharlal Nehru District Hospital. “We can now test upto 50 samples in this lab which has become operational from Sunday,” she said. Regarding the aforementioned case, the official said, “There is nothing to panic about. We will check every person who came in contact with the infected man.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-hotel-sealed-staff-quarantined-after-man-who-stayed-there-tested-covid-19-ve-in-haryana/articleshow/76250258.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, migrants keen to make a comeback: Bizmen||Ludhiana: In a twist to the exodus of migrant workers from Ludhiana, the businessmen are now reporting a reverse trend. According to the businessmen, they are now flooded with calls from workers, who had left for their villages in their home states, requesting them to arrange for their return as they want to get back to work as soon as possible. Showing signs of desperation, some workers are even ready to bear their travel expenses, they added. Meanwhile, sources said a handful of workers have already started their journey for Ludhiana from their native states. Speaking to TOI, one such worker Munna Lal from Bihar, who worked at a garment manufacturing unit in Kokawal area, said, “It’s been more than three weeks since I am at my home. I tried to find a job here, but all in vain. Whereas three of my relatives who chose to stay back in Ludhiana have started going to work.” “I have heard from them that everything in Ludhiana is back to normal like pre-lockdown time and I now realise that it was not a wise decision to leave the city. I have contacted my factory manager to arrange for my travel to Ludhiana, but he has warned me that if I am able to reach Ludhiana, I will be quarantined by the government agencies. So as of now, I have dropped the plan to go back knowing that I will not be able to join work.” Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India (FMAI), said, “A large number of migrant workers took the decision to leave for their home states in a haste. But now they are regretting it as they are sitting idle and facing financial problems. Whereas some of their counterparts who chose to remain in Ludhiana are now working in factories and earning their livelihood.” “We are getting calls on a daily basis from such workers asking us to arrange for their comeback, but unfortunately we cannot do anything at this moment. We have also heard from our workers and shopkeepers that some migrants have started returning to Ludhiana in transport vehicles or other means. But I don’t think right now any businessmen will take the risk of hiring such workers who went home and are back and have not been tested for Covid-19 or quarantined.” Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), said, “Whether it’s bicycle industry, hosiery industry, hand tools, garments and any other sector, the workers who left Ludhiana after the rollout of free train service now want to come back.” “There are very few jobs and self-entrepreneurship opportunities in their home states, and even if they are able to get any opportunity, they won’t make as much money as they did in Ludhiana. Moreover, after their return to their villages and towns, the workers have even exhausted their savings which they had with them and now they are worried about how they will manage their expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-migrants-keen-to-make-a-comeback-bizmen/articleshow/76247996.cms||Mohit Behl
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Churches’ first on-site mass since lockdown||KOLKATA: Two churches in the city came alive on Sunday morning, the first time since lockdown. While archbishop Thomas D Souza, head of the Roman Catholic Church, read mass at St Patrick’s Church, Dum Dum, Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Church of North India, carried out church service at the historic St Paul’s Cathedral. While the two church heads said they missed speaking in front of a congregation as it used to happen before the lockdown, both welcomed the change for a greater cause. Archbishop D Souza inducted new parish priest, Father Irudaya Raj to St Patrick’s Church through a traditional investiture ceremony. Only 10 invitees were called in from the parish to attend the special occasion because of the current lockdown induced rules. “We were all looking forward to the first mass inside a church, though all these days I was conducting service and mass inside my chapel at the archbishop house,” Father D Souza said. He reiterated that it did feel strange speaking to just 10 people inside the vault of the church. He invoked the Trinity for strength and the way forward. Among the 10 people who were invited were, Anjali Toppo and Leo Gomes. “We felt so happy to be included…it’s a rare honour given the present times when one has to actually measure steps to stay safe,” Toppo said. At St Paul’s Cathedral, Bishop Paritosh Canning read from the scriptures and prayed for unity and peace. This was broadcast online for the devotees to follow. “I felt so happy to be back inside a church, reading mass, after such a long time. There was no congregation but the entire church reverberated with a presence…” he said. After the mass, Bishop Canning sent a message to all the 35 churches of the Diocese of Kolkata, to start corporate worship only from the first Sunday of July and that too keeping in mind the most recent guidelines/norms. A fresh circular was issued later in the day keeping with the latest Central guidelines for religious institutions. The circular asked parish priests not to distribute Holy Communion to worshippers or sprinkle holy water. No physical offering of bread, communion wine or touching of idols or holy book will be allowed inside the churches, according to the circular. The CNI had earlier requested the state to allow at least 10% of parishioners to enter the respective churches for worship because they are large in size. However, the permission is still awaited. In the meantime, the Centre’s guidelines on re-opening have arrived and they have been added to the earlier precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/churches-1st-on-site-mass-since-lockdown/articleshow/76251047.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||DMHO warns those posting fake news||Warangal: Warangal (Urban) district medical and health officer (DMHO) Lalitha Devi on Sunday warned netizens against posting fake news on social media, saying that it is a punishable offence. The district medical and health officer appealed the people of Warangal to not spread misinformation after fake news of a girl in Gopalpura area of Hanamkonda city dying of coronavirus went viral on social media on Sunday, when in reality the girl had died of other ailments and had tested negative for Covid-19.—Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dmho-warns-those-posting-fake-news/articleshow/76251038.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Committed crime to get money to join girlfriend in Assam||Kottayam: The accused in the Thazhathangady murder case gave statement to the police that he had committed the crime to find money to join his girlfriend in Assam. Mohammed Bilal (23) told the police during interrogation that he has a girlfriend in Assam and he had resorted to the murder to find money to reach her. On June 1, Mohammed Saly (65) and wife Sheeba (60) were attacked by the youth. Sheeba succumbed to injuries while Saly is in the hospital with critical injuries. The youth was the former neighbour of the couple. A court on Friday had granted permission for the investigation team to keep the Bilal in custody till 3pm on Monday. He had got acquainted with the girl while he was working in a hotel in Ernakulam. Though she returned to her native later, the relationship continued through mobile phone and Whatsapp. Bilal had decided to leave for Assam to meet his girlfriend after issues developed in his house. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/committed-crime-to-get-money-to-join-girlfriend-in-assam/articleshow/76250276.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Infected man walks from Delhi to Ambala||Ambala: Eight people tested positive for Covid-19 and six patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus in Ambala district on Sunday, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. A man (28) of Saunta village, who walked from Delhi to Ambala and reached on June 4, is among the patients. The other patients include a 47-year-old man who returned from Kuwait and a 23-year-old woman who returned from Dubai. Both reached the district on May 31. A cop, who is from Ambala and is being treated at PGIMER for an ailment, also tested positive. “Th other patients include a man (21) from Kot Kachhwa village with travel history of Delhi, woman (25) from Boh who is related to three people who returned from Gurgaon, two men (aged 61 and 29) from Housing Board Colony in Ambala Cantonment,and a man (33) whose relatives tested positive,” said Dr Kuldeep. The cop is aged 57 and is a resident of Milap Nagar. He had travelled to Gurgaon earlier. Five of the six discharged patients are of a family from Ambala Cantonment and the sixth is a man from Nasirpur village. Of the 88 cases in Ambala district, patients in 53 have been discharged, 2 have died and 33 are are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/infected-man-walks-from-delhi-to-ambala/articleshow/76251496.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||End of an era in Delhi: Iconic cafe, book store at Khan Market shut||NEW DELHI: Cafes are not just about coffee spoons. As the iconic Café Turtle and Full Circle, the book store that housed it, in Khan Market shut on Sunday, there is a sense that an era has ended. A cultural oasis in the middle of one of the most expensive retail destinations in the world, Café Turtle was a pit stop for writers, journalists, artists, book lovers, travellers and more, all enchanted by the sense of unhurried homeliness it served alongside its much loved cakes. When it opened in December 2000, Delhi was still new to the café culture. Spaces for the young or arty were few. Khan Market itself was a shadow of its present self. Publishers Poonam and Shekhar Malhotra, owners of the historic Hind Pocket Books, who started their imprint Full Circle for “new age” books in 1998, found this sleepy market as the perfect home for their book store with Café Turtle within it, on the lines of European neighbourhood cafes. The first home was a spacious plot facing a beautiful silk cotton tree — where La Opera now stands. “Profit was not our motive. We just wanted a nice expansive space where people could be themselves,” says Poonam. People could sit, browse, stare, chat, eat a slice of home-made cake. “The day we opened, friends like Arun Kapur (director of Vasant Valley school) and Dr Ashwani Chopra (of Aashlok Hospital) came over and served as waiters,” remembers Poonam. All cakes were made in the publisher’s home — lemon, carrot, orange, banana and walnut, and a gooey chocolate cake. There were fresh salads and juices. A few months down the line, two college kids waiting to get into catering schools abroad were roped in to cook in their own homes. One of them, Manu Chandra would go on to helm Olive Bangalore. All through the changing times, even in the midst of the fiercely competitive world of restaurant retail, Café Turtle remained a thing rare to find in India: a restaurant that is about a community, and grew into a Delhi landmark even as it shifted to the middle lane in 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/end-of-an-era-iconic-cafe-book-store-at-khan-market-shut/articleshow/76251704.cms||Anoothi Vishal
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Rain lashes Kolkata, Met predicts monsoon arrival this week||KOLKATA: A heavy shower drenched Kolkata on Sunday evening at the end of a hot, humid day, during which maximum temperature shot up to 36.6°C. Local clouds triggered the rain that lasted two hours from 4pm and left several arterial roads waterlogged. The city received 69mm rain till 5.30pm on Sunday. It could be the beginning of a wet spell leading to the arrival of monsoon, said Met officials. A cyclonic circulation over east-central Bay of Bengal could develop into a low-pressure and eventually a depression, paving the way for monsoon on June 11 or 12. The intense rain left the areas like Belgachhia, MG Road, Burrabazar Muktarambabu Street, Sukeas Street, Camac Street, AJC Bose Road, Ballygunge Circular Road, Cornfield Road, Jodhpur Park, Lake Gardens, Chetla, Alipore, Golf Green, Behala and Kidderpore among others waterlogged. Civic officials said that while the high volume of rain in a short span of time was responsible for the waterlogging, clogged sewages were also another reason behind it. De-silting of sewage lines is yet to be done this year. “While local clouds led to Sunday’s showers, monsoon could arrive in Gangetic Bengal, north Bengal and Sikkim by June 12. A circulation is set to form over the next 48 hours and it could grow into a low-pressure or a depression. Monsoon clouds could follow the system into the region,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. He added that once the low-pressure forms, conditions will turn favourable for the advancement of monsoon currents into the region. Generally, monsoon arrives earlier in north Bengal. But this time it could be different, predicted weathermen. But till the rains arrive, it could remain humid and uncomfortable, they said. “Clouds from Bankura, Midnapore and Nadia floated into the city on Sunday. Thunderstorms are happening across south Bengal. But the wind speed in Kolkata remained low on Sunday, which led to the heavy rain. The temperature didn’t slide appreciably,” said a weather scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-lashes-city-met-predicts-monsoon-arrival-this-week/articleshow/76251055.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Unlock 1.0: Religious places all set to open their gates again, but with riders||Ludhiana: As religious places in the district are all set to reopen from Monday, the managements or bodies managing the affairs of these places have started preparations to keep a check on rush of devotees while laying special stress on sanitization and social distancing. While some religious places have limited the entry of devotees at a time, many have decided to keep main events a low-key affair and some have even canceled the events to avoid crowding. The government has already issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for opening of religious places from June 8. On Friday, the SHOs concerned also talked to the heads of religious places to ensure implementation of all precautionary measures. Mahant Narayan Das Puri of ancient Sangla Wala Shivala temple in old city said, “We have got the entire premises sanitized. Besides, the bells in the temple won’t be used. The temple opens from 5am to 12noon and then 5pm to 9pm. Limited people will go inside the area where there is Shivling. Once they return, more people would be sent.” “Anticipating heavy rush during morning and evening aarti, devotees will be accommodated in the outer area which is quite spacious and limited ones will be allowed near the Shivling,” he added. “Further, sevadars will be at the entrance of the temple for thermal screening of devotees and sanitisation. Further, the devotees will be urged to enter the premises after washing their handsm” the mahant said. Moulana Muhammad Usma Rehmani Ludhianvi, Naib Shahi Imam Punjab, said, “We will limit the number of devotees coming for prayers. About 500 devotees come for prayer on Juma. At one time only 50 people will be allowed to come and next 50 after 15 minutes. “ Pritpal Singh Pali, president of managing committee of Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Filed Gunj, said, “The gurdwara has a big enough hall. People will be made to sit at a safe distance. The sanitization tunnel has been installed at the entrance. The sevadars will wear gloves. Devotees will be allowed to go and get prasad one by one. Further, we have canceled all the samagms.” Police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said, “All SHOs, ACPs and ADCPs have been asked to talk to the representatives of religious places under their jurisdiction. The SOP guidelines have been shared with them. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unlock-1-0-religious-places-all-set-to-open-their-gates-again-but-with-riders/articleshow/76248015.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, school admissions too go online||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala infrastructure and technology for education (Kite) has introduced an online system for school admission and issuing transfer certificates. The state government had issued an order for online procedure for school admissions through the ‘sampoorna’ school management software developed and maintained by Kite for the general education department of the state. Parents can now submit applications online for admissions in government, aided and recognised unaided schools and can also apply for transfer certificates through www.sampoorna.kite.kerala.gov.in. Those who have already submitted their applications directly at schools need not apply through the online system again. The government order instructs to continue the existing process of providing class promotions for students studying from Classes I to IX through Sampoorna. In case of transfer certificate for changing of school through class promotion or otherwise, the certificate would be issued through Sampoorna. On receipt of an application for transfer certificate, the respective headmaster or principal of the schools has to issue the same through Sampoorna and the digital copy of the TC has to be made available at the new school. Students from other streams such as CBSE, ICSE as well as new students can apply for admissions in government schools through Sampoorna online software. Such admission requests can be seen from the headmaster’s login in Sampoorna and provisional admission would be given to students based on their application. "Kite has incorporated a facility in Sampoorna wherein parents can see the current status of their application from the software using the reference number issued at the time of submission of their application," said K Anvar Sadath, chief executive officer, Kite. The original documents with respect to the school admission should be given only at the time of admission or when it is requested for. The government order also mandates that students who already have Aadhaar number (UID) should compulsorily indicate the same in the software. Similarly, those who have applied for UID and have received the enrollment number (EID) should indicate the same. There is also a provision given in the software for entering ‘no’ if one has not yet applied for Aadhaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-school-admissions-too-go-online/articleshow/76250279.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||Three families with 11 kids starve in quarantine in Chattarpur dist||Bhopal: Quarantined for over a week, three families with eleven children scarred by lockdown are starving for the last three days in Lavkush Nagar of Chattarpur district.Hunger is excruciating these families from May 30, the day they had returned to their homes and were sent for 15 days quarantine.All of them were working at a brick kiln in Dhaulopur, they said they were helped by the Rajasthan government for travelling up to Charkhari village of Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh. From there, they made gruelling 50km journey on foot to reach Lavkush Nagar .Anwar, father of an 8 -year-old Ayan said, “ We had some ration but it lasted for three days only. Now, there is no one to look after us.”He said, “ No villager can help us as their entry is not allowed. We cannot even move out to work and earn”.Anwar said that when they had reached Charkhari, officials in Uttar Pradesh provided ration to many families who travelled along with them. But they were not given any ration as they didn’t belong to Uttar Pradesh.Hari Prajapti who has three children said, “ We lost our jobs after the lockdown and were forced to live in penury. We don’t have ration cards and can’t have provisions to sustain during the confinement”.“We have been sleeping empty stomachs for the past three days,” he added, sitting at his doorstep.Santosh Chouhan with six children also had the similar story to narrate.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Avinash Rawat, however, said, “We are looking after all the people who are quarantined. We have also been providing ration to those who are living a hand-to-mouth existence.”There are over 200 migrants quarantined in Lavkush Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/three-families-with-11-kids-starve-in-quarantine-in-chattarpur-dist/articleshow/76251052.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Banks reassess loans, home buyers in soup||MUMBAI: In the season of salary cuts and job losses, builders and people who booked flats in their projects now have to deal with another challenge. Flat buyers whose loans were sanctioned by banks have been asked to resubmit their new salary slips, before fresh disbursement, to prove they are capable of paying their EMIs. Due to salary cuts and large-scale retrenchment across businesses, banks want to ensure that homebuyers can service their loans in future. A leading Mumbai-based builder said many of his clients have complained that banks have stopped disbursing loans for the past two months. “There are cases where the bank had already released 20% of the home loan of a flat buyer but has now stopped following the lockdown,’’ he said. Lenders say that their norms require them to ascertain at the time of disbursement whether the borrower is in a position to repay the loan. “If at the time of disbursement, the borrower finds that his income is not enough to pay the monthly instalment, it would be in his interest to exit the transaction. If he subsequently defaults at an early stage of the loan (before he can take possession), he will have neither a home nor the access to credit to buy a cheaper house,” said an official in a private bank. “Banks are revalidating home loans of their clients because of salary corrections. Further disbursements have been kept on hold. This has affected many builders because banks are delaying payments to them,’’ said Ajay Ashar, Maharrashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (Thane) president. Ashar said he has sold 1,000 under-construction apartments, booked by people who have taken home loans. “We were getting regular payments from the banks but this stopped after the lockdown,’’ he said. Developer and president of CREDAI-MCHI Nayan Shah, said, “Every home loan of more than Rs 50 lakh is being taken up for re-assessment even when two to three disbursements have already been made. Banks neither want to lend nor want to support the economy. They want us to pay double interest so that they cover up the loss in revenue on the money that they don’t lend and sit on liquidity to park with RBI.’’ A default on a home loan results in a fall in the credit bureau score which makes future borrowing difficult. A spokesperson for HDFC, the largest private home loan lender in the country, said: “It is not something new that we are doing. We do look at the latest income statements as part of our normal appraisal process.’’ Another private sector banker said it has asked clients to resubmit their financial details for loans that were sanctioned pre-lockdown but not disbursed, or for under-construction loans where a substantial portion is yet to be disbursed. There are also instances where home buyers have asked banks for a three-month moratorium on their EMIs. In such cases, the bank stopped disbursing money. “Once the moratorium’s over, we will be assessing these cases separately,’’ said a private bank official. State Bank chairman Rajnish Kumar, on the other hand, has said SBI had already applied stringent eligibility criteria in terms of credit score while sanctioning loans. There was therefore no need to be any stricter in disbursing loans, he said. “Most of our borrowers are salaried and we do not see any stress in the home loan portfolio,” Kumar added. According to RBI data, the home loan book of banks shrunk by Rs 8,255 crore between March 27 and April 24 (when it stood at Rs 13.3 lakh crore). Bankers said that while they are still receiving loan repayments, fresh sanctions have dried up and only some disbursals of loans cleared earlier have taken place during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/banks-reassess-loans-home-buyers-in-soup/articleshow/76251501.cms||Nauzer K Bharucha
June 8, 2020||Hubballi||Man, nephew drown in TB backwaters||BALLARI: A man who took a boat in to the backwaters of the Tungabhadra reservoir to visit relatives and invite them for his wedding drowned along with his nephew near Bannigola village of Hagaribommanahalli taluk in Ballari district on Sunday. Fakruddin, 24, a resident of Seganahalli village and his nephew, Honnurali, 14, a resident of Hosapete town, took a boat which was lying beside the riverbed, loaded their two-wheeler, started rowing without taking any precautions. After floating for some distance, there was heavy wind and the boat became unstable. Although they shouted for help, the boat turned upside down. The duo had drowned by the time people could reach them. Fakruddin’s family members said he was heading to his relatives and friend's house living on the Koppal border to invite them to his wedding. Tambrahalli police said swimmers recovered the victims’ bodies, which were later sent for autopsy and handed over to the families of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-nephew-drown-in-tb-backwaters/articleshow/76250280.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Thennampalayam market closed for public||Coimbatore: The Tirupur district administration closed the Thennampalayam market for public after huge crowds thronged the market, throwing the social distancing norms to wind, on Sunday. The decision to close the facility was taken after hundreds of people were seen moving freely in close contact with each other inside the fish market in the morning. “Both the vegetable and fish markets at Thennampalayam will be closed to prevent public from gathering in large numbers,” a statement from Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said. “The markets will open only for wholesalers and retailers. Temporary markets will be set up at LRG Arts and Science College and Nanjappa Boys Higher Secondary School in the city from Monday.” The fish market will be open to public from Monday to Saturday, the collector said. “Fish sellers can do business in the corporation limit on Sunday.” The collector urged public to wear face mask and use umbrella while stepping out of their houses. “Those who fail to adhere to the social distancing norms and refuse to wear face masks will be slapped with fines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thennampalayam-mkt-closed-for-public/articleshow/76251053.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||2 yr-old boy beats virus in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: A two-year-old boy was among six Covid-19 patients who were discharged from hospital in Kurukshetra district on Sunday, even as aman in Ladwa tested positive for coronavirus infection. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said the bot is from New Colony in Thanesar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-yr-old-boy-beats-virus-in-kurukshetra/articleshow/76251499.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rain pulls mercury below 35°C, but temperature to rise again||NEW DELHI: The capital woke up to two spells of rain on Sunday morning, bringing down the mercury to just 34.8 degrees Celsius — five notches below the normal mark. While a shower was recorded around 5am, another spell of rain lashed the city around 10am, with most parts receiving light rainfall. Met officials said conditions are expected to clear up from Monday onwards with the mercury expected to rise in the coming days. It is likely to touch 40 degrees Celsius by June 11, officials said. Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory, considered the base station for the capital, recorded 5.6mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road and Ayanagar, meanwhile, recorded 1mm, 4.6mm and 0.4mm of rainfall, respectively during this period. Ayanagar, however, also received 32mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period till 8.30am on Sunday. “Very light to light rain was recorded at most stations, but Ayanagar received a moderate spell of rain. These can all be considered as pre-monsoon showers,” the weatherman explained. A senior Met official said the spell of rain occurring over the last three days was as a result of a western disturbance, which has now passed the city. While wind speeds will remain strong on Monday, it will not rain in the coming days. “Temperatures will start rising gradually and could touch 40 degrees Celsius by June 11. Another spell of rain is likely only around June 13,” the official claimed. Monday’s forecast shows partly cloudy skies during the day with wind speeds ranging from 20-30 km/hr. The maximum temperature could be around 37 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will be around 24 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s air quality, meanwhile, was recorded at 107 (moderate) on Sunday according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, meanwhile, classified air quality in the ‘satisfactory’ range on their index. The SAFAR report on Sunday said the rain had positively influenced Delhi’s air quality. This is, however, expected to deteriorate over the next few days. “Isolated rainfall over the last few days is influencing AQI positively. Air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but will remain in the satisfactory category for Monday and between the satisfactory to moderate categories on June 9,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-pulls-mercury-below-35c-but-temp-to-rise-again/articleshow/76251709.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang admits to killing missing taxi driver||Coimbatore: The Salem city police have arrested a four-member gang that killed a Mettupalayam-based cab driver two months ago. The victim, K Shanmuga Sundaram, 54, of Cheran Nagar in Mettupalayam, had gone missing on March 24. He had informed his wife S Geetha that some people had hired the cab to reach Perundurai in Erode district around 11.30am. When Geetha called him in the evening, someone attended the call and told her that he had found the phone on the road near the Sangagiri toll plaza. She lodged a complaint with the Mettupalayam police on March 25. Police registered a missing case but could not trace Sundaram. Meanwhile, assistant commissioner of Salem city police west range J Nagaraja on Friday received a tip-off about four people, including two history-sheeters, planning to commit a series of crimes. A police team nabbed the gang from Kuranguchavadi on the Salem-Bengaluru national highway. “Gang leader B Vimalraj, 33, of Perambalur district confessed that they had kidnapped and murdered Sundaram to steal the car. They burnt his body at Sangagiri in Salem and sold the car in Chitoor in Andhra Pradesh,” a police officer said. Police identified the other gang members as C Kumar, 30, of Mettupalayam, N Karthikeyan, 24, of Jagirammapalayam in Salem city and A G Balaji, 38, of Sarkarkollapatty in Salem city. “Vimalraj is facing more than 15 cases, including eight murder cases,” the officer added. The Mettupalayam police have altered the missing case to murder case. Sundaram is survived by his wife and two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-admits-to-killing-missing-taxi-driver/articleshow/76251058.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||Malls, hotels outside containment zones to open, shrines to stay shut||Bhopal: District collector, Tarun Pithode, on Sunday issued a fresh order allowing opening of shopping malls, hotels and restaurants outside “containment areas” of the city. He, however, clarified that places of worship would remain closed for now. Amending his previous order issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, Pithode said that shopping malls, hotels and restaurants can open from Monday, but they will have to adhere to standard operating procedure as issued by the ministry of health for the purpose. He further clarified that cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, spa, park, children’s play area, gaming area and auditorium located in any shopping mall or hotels or restaurants will remain closed. Food courts in shopping malls will open with 50% capacity and six-feet distance will have to be maintained between two tables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/malls-hotels-outside-containment-zones-to-open-shrines-to-stay-shut/articleshow/76251062.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Of 87 cases in Hisar, 57 reported in 10 days||Hisar: Of the 87 Covid-19 cases in Haryana since March 30, 57 have been reported after May 29. This means that while the district got just 30 cases in the 60 days from March 30 to May 28, it got 57 cases in the nine-day period from May 29 to June 6. In all, 58 of the total cases are of patients who came from other states or countries and 23 were people who were exposed to patients. The remaining six Covid-19 patients are from Hisar. Of these, contact history of four cases has not yet been traced by the district health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-87-cases-in-hisar-57-reported-in-10-days/articleshow/76251507.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Robber comes to Bengal cycling from Bihar||Chinsurah: The mastermind of the bank robbery at Uttarpara, Pritam Ghosh, who was arrested from Chinsruah on Saturday, had come to Bengal from Bihar on a bicycle, covering around 550km during the lockdown. The gang of four had decamped with Rs 17 lakh from the Uttarpara branch of Union Bank on June 5. On Saturday, cops had recovered Rs 10 lakh from the Rs 17 lakh looted from the bank and nabbed the mastermind from his in-laws’ house at Chinsurah. Suprakash Pattanayak, inspector-in-charge of Uttarpara police station, said Ghosh has past criminal records. Earlier, he used to stay in the Garia area and had shifted to his ancestral home in Bihar’s Basara village under Rajapakara police station. As he was running short of cash, he plotted the robbery and set out for Bengal on a bicycle last Sunday. Having cycled for three days at a stretch, he reached his in-laws’ house at Chinsurah on Wednesday. Ghosh had teamed up with some locals to rob the bank on Friday, said Pattanayak. On Friday, the gang went to the bank in the guise of new customers willing to open accounts. Three local youths of Uttarapara had entered the bank as customers. They came riding a motorcycle, while Ghosh waited in a car to decamp with the booty. The three youths went to the cashier, held him and some customers at gunpoint and then took them to the manager’s room. There, they also held the manager at gunpoint, opened the vault and looted the money. All three wore masks and the officials initially did not doubt due to the Covid-19 situation. After coming out, the trio handed over the cash to Ghosh. Police said as Ghosh was confident that police would not be able to trace him, as he did not enter the bank, he decided to stay at his in-laws’ place. But cops arrested one of the robbers, Sanjib Paswan, on Friday night and on interrogating him, they came to know that the cash was with Ghosh who was in Chinsurah, said Humayun Kabir, Chandernagore police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/robber-comes-to-bengal-cycling-from-bihar/articleshow/76251064.cms||Falguni Banerjee
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Model Town Extn, Madhopuri among 12 high-priority zones||Ludhiana: After declaring Chhawani Mohalla as a containment zone, the district administration has identified 12 areas as high-priority zones after several Covid-19 positive cases were reported from there.These zones include Doraha (rural area); Kabir Nagar on Daba Road; 33 Foot Road in Guru Nanak Nagar, Mundiyan; Gobind Nagar on Machhiwara Road, Samrala; Bhopur village in Khanna; Model Town Extension; SAS Nagar, near Sangeet Cinema, Ludhiana; Isher Nagar on Gill Road; Prem Nagar in Islam Ganj; Madhopuri; Chhawani Mohalla and Khanna’s Guru Amar Das Market as well as Mata Rani Mohalla. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “The health department has tagged 12 areas as high-risk zones. These areas are identified to map the local transmission of disease and prevent the contagion from spreading. The perimeters of the high-risk areas are decided on the basis of the number of positive cases there, contact tracing history and population density. The positive cases, if reported, will be shifted to health centers and the focus will be on screening. The tag will be removed if the areas report no case for 14 days.”Earlier, till May 21, the district had seven high-priority zones, including Chandan Nagar, Sandhu Nagar, Sham Nagar, Railway Colony 8, Kaddon village, New Kundanpuri and Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “These seven areas are now off the list as they reported no positive case for 14 days. Now, our focus is on 12 new high-priority zones, where extensive contact tracing will be done. Rapid response teams will test all the suspected cases and high-risk contacts. The health department will isolate suspected and confirmed cases as well as their contacts.”High-priority zonesAreas Positive cases Doraha (rural area) 5Kabir Nagar, Daba Road 333 Foot Road, Guru Nanak Nagar, Mundiyan 3Chhawani Mohalla 15Guru Amar Das Market and Mata Rani Mohalla, Khanna 2Gobind Nagar, Machhiwara Road, Samrala 3Bhopur village, Khanna 5Model Town Extension 3SAS Nagar, near Sangeet Cinema, Ludhiana 3Isher Nagar, Gill Road 4Prem Nagar, Islam Ganj 4Madhopuri 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/model-town-extn-madhopuri-among-12-high-priority-zones/articleshow/76250291.cms||Mehak Jain
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corona cess on liquor out, but VAT up to 25%||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has decided to withdraw from Wednesday the 70% special corona fee levied on liquor a month ago when its revenue collection was down to just 10% due to the novel coronavirus lockdown. The government has, however, decided to increase the value added tax (VAT) on liquor from 20% to 25%. Hence, from June 10, when the new rates will come into effect, liquor will be sold at a price only fractionally higher than the pre-Covid -19days, said a senior official of the excise department. Liquor manufacturers and distributors will have adequate time to calculate the price and print new labels, he said. “Depending on the category, excise duty is about 40-45% of the maximum retail price while VAT is 20%,” the official added. The special corona fee was levied on May 5, a day after Delhi government opened selected standalone liquor shops fulfilling the lockdown relaxation criteria laid down by the Centre. Till June 6, the excise department sold liquor worth Rs 304 crore, excluding special corona fee, and earned close to Rs 210 crore as special cess. This was in addition to about Rs 195 crore that the department earned as VAT and excise duties, a source said. The department had feared that the additional fee, which made liquor in the capital 40-50% costlier than in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, would lead to smuggling and black-marketing once border restrictions were gone. “With the borders open, smuggling of liquor would have increased in Delhi, leading to a drop in tax collection. Also, there was a fear that counterfeit liquor would sell in the city,” said an official. As per the revised estimates, the excise department expected to earn about Rs 5,480 crore in the 2019-20 financial year. The government has increased the revenue target for 2020-21 to Rs 5,937 crore through a network of about 860 stores and 800-odd pubs, bars and clubs. Due to the lockdown, the department failed to earn a single rupee in April. It collected revenue worth around Rs 400 crore in May, at least 20% less than the monthly target, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-cess-on-liquor-out-but-vat-up-to-25/articleshow/76251714.cms||Atul Mathur
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||148 illegal houses razed at Kumarasamy Nagar||Coimbatore: The city corporation demolished 148 illegal structures along the Muthannan Kulam at Kumarasamy Nagar on Sunday, when the eviction drive entered the second day. A city corporation official, who didn’t want to be named, said they have disconnected electricity connection to 704 houses and demolished 448 illegal structures so far and that the drive would continue in the coming days. In the first phase, only vacant houses would be demolished, the official said. A Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) official said 1,570 of the 2,100 families residing along the waterbody had obtained tokens for relocation and that they would be shifted to the housing units at Malumichampatti, Anna Nagar in Kovai Pudur and Keeranatham. Meanwhile, led by Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan, hundreds of residents of Kumarasamy Nagar on Sunday protested the demolition drive, which had to be halted for a while. However, the city corporation and police officials held talks with the residents and the MP, who withdrew the protest. Speaking to reporters, Natarajan said the government was not at all concerned about the livelihood of the residents, who survive by doing odd jobs in the city, while taking all the steps to relocate them to faraway places. According to him, the residents withdrew the protest only after officials assured them to make alternative arrangements for those who have not obtained tokens for moving into the slum clearance board’s housing units. Natarajan said a meeting would be convened at district collector’s office on Tuesday to find a solution to the issue. Manikandan, a resident, said, “We don’t want to move to the housing units on the outskirts of the city, as they lack public transportation facilities and other basic facilities like educational institutions and hospitals in surrounding areas. Moreover, they are in a really bad shape. The government should provide us alternative land in the neighbourhood of Kumarasamy Nagar, instead of shifting us to faraway places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/148-illegal-houses-razed-at-kumarasamy-nagar/articleshow/76251060.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||11 positive, 28 recover in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla: Eleven cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, including four from Kangra, two from Chamba and Hamirpur, and one each from Mandi, Shimla and Bilaspur districts. Also, 28 people recovered from the virus, including nine each in Kangra and Hamirpur, four in Chamba, and three each in Una and Bilaspur. So far, the state has reported 411 cases. Of them, 183 are active, four have migrated out of state, 219 have recovered and five have died. The new patients in Kangra include a 33-year-old man who returned from Gurgaon on May 26, a 46-year-old man who returned from Nakodar in Punjab on May 30, a 51-year-old woman who is a secondary contact of a patient, a 16-year-old boy who returned from Delhi on May 31, and a 51-year-old man who returned from Delhi on June 1, among others. In Hamirpur, the patient is a 26-year-old man who returned from Mumbai by train on May 18. So far, Bilaspur district has reported 21 cases, Chamba 30, Hamirpur 123, Kangra 109, Kinnaur two, Kullu four, Mandi 21,Shimla 12, Sirmaur 11, Solan 32, and Una 42. In all, 45,681 persons have been put under surveillance. Of them, 25,961 people have completed it. Also, 45,888 people have been tested for Covid-19, of which reports of 45,254 have been negative. In Mandi, the patient is a 28-year-old man from Ladbharol, who had returned from Gurgaon on May 30. In Chamba, two women tested positive, including the mother of a youth from Piyura who tested positive and the second from Mukarna in Jhandutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-positive-28-recover-in-himachal-pradesh/articleshow/76251510.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||DK KSRTC loses Rs 86 cr during lockdown||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru and Puttur divisions of KSRTC have suffered losses to the tune of Rs 86 crore in revenue during April and May due to lockdown. While the Mangaluru division lost Rs 54 crore in those two months, the Puttur division lost about Rs 32 crore. Mangaluru division is yet to get Rs 2.3 crore from the government as payment for ferrying migrant labourers to different destinations. At present, the Mangaluru division runs an average of 100 buses per day as per the safety guidelines of the government. Meanwhile, Puttur division operates 70 buses per day. KSRTC Puttur divisional controller Nagendra told STOI that the division has not yet calculated the actual loss of profit. However, he said the division has lost Rs 32 crore in terms of its collection in two months. “We still have confusion over the calculation of loss. We have to consider many factors before calculating it. The average monthly turnover of our division is Rs 16 crore. Hence, the loss in terms of business for two months is approximately Rs 32 crore,” Nagendra said. The division was operating nearly 560 buses everyday prior to the lockdown. However, the number reduced to 60-70 after the lockdown was eased, he said, adding that the division may resume night services on Monday. KSRTC Mangaluru divisional controller S N Aruna said the division has been operating 90-110 buses everyday after the lockdown was eased. “Prior to lockdown, our division was operating about 545 buses everyday. It is only 90-110 now. We have resumed the night services on long-distance routes like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi and Ballari at 7pm. Similarly, Sarige buses are also plying on distant routes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-ksrtc-loses-rs-86-cr-during-lockdown/articleshow/76238937.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Stop-start Delhi Metro Phase-IV now skids on Covid-19||NEW DELHI: After a delay of nearly four years, construction work of Delhi Metro’s Phase-IV had finally kicked off at the fag end of 2019. However, just when Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) was gearing up to work on a war footing to make up for the lost time, the spectre of Covid-19 put a spanner in the works. Acute shortage of construction workers and financial uncertainties have affected the pace of the project. After a long delay, DMRC had started construction work of Phase-IV on December 30, 2019 through ‘piling work’ at Haiderpur Badli Mor, which is going to be an interchange point between the existing Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) and upcoming Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor of Phase-IV. While six corridors have been proposed under Phase-IV, only three have got final approval from the Centre, with total length of 61.6 kilometres. While Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg is the first corridor where work started, tenders were floated for other sections of this corridor and two others. Even as construction gathered pace, the national lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 was announced in March. In May, when construction was allowed with precautions, DMRC had only a third of workers available compared with the workforce before the lockdown as many had left for their native villages. According to DMRC, there were about 3,500 workers available before the lockdown, but at present, their number is between 1,000 and 1,500. “Though we are continuing work with the remaining workforce, but the pace of work is suffering,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC. “The labour issue will impact the progress of work and the deadlines will have to be modified accordingly,” Dayal said, adding that Phase-IV work is still in preliminary stages and contracts are being gradually awarded. Delhi Metro operations are completely closed since March 22, causing the corporation a loss of about Rs 600 crore in passenger and non-passenger revenue. Sources said ]with DMRC not in the pink of health financially, work on Phase- IV might also suffer as construction is highly capital intensive. Sources said that as work had just started, the process of applying for a soft loan from Japan International Cooperation Agency has not been completed. The three approved corridors of Phase-IV, which would have total 45 metro stations, are Aerocity-Tughlaqabad (20.2 km), Maujpur-Majlis Park (12.5 km) and Janakpuri West-RK Ashram (28.9 km) corridors. The construction work was started first in December 2019. Even when construction work was halted, DMRC’s engineers, architects, designers and contractors had continued to work in the background to ensure that DMRC was in complete preparedness when the lockdown ended and construction work resumed. DMRC had devised an online mechanism — Building Information Modelling — through which designs, drawings and 3D models were being uploaded and then approved online. “Concerned directors held frequent meetings with the architects, engineers, contractors, etc, via video conferencing where crucial decisions were taken,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stop-start-metro-ph-iv-now-skids-on-covid/articleshow/76251719.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Need time, data to explain high death rate: Experts||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, Ahmedabad district recorded its 1,000th Covid death in 72 days. And the state’s toll reached 1,249 with the death rate of 6.2%. In Covid mortality, Gujarat is second only to Maharashtra in India and Ahmedabad district is second only to Mumbai. A panel of doctors appointed by the state government to chalk out strategies to combat Covid in short-, medium-, and long-term interacted with the media on Sunday. The experts said that they need more time and data to understand why the death rate is higher in Gujarat compared to a few other states. Dr Tejas Patel, an Ahmedabad cardiologist and member of the committee, told the media: “Even our counterparts in countries such as the US, the UK, and Italy are trying to find the answer.” He went on to say: “However, we can say that multiple factors ranging from co-morbidities to immunity and age play a role. Analysis is possible only after the epidemic is over and the data is thoroughly analyzed.” The committee consists of doctors including Dr Patel, Dr Atul Patel, Dr Pankaj Shah, Dr Maharshi Desai, Dr Tushar Patel, Dr V N Shah, Dr Ami Parikh, Dr Dileep Mavalankar, and Dr R K Patel. Their primary task is to formulate a policy for the state health department. “It’s possible that in the monsoon, cases will dip. Due to the moisture, the air becomes heavier and it becomes difficult for the virus to travel far,” Dr Tejas Patel said. “The upcoming time is of herd immunity and we should not worry unnecessarily about Covid-19.” Dr Tushar Patel said: “We have been able to reduce the number of patients going on ventilators.” Talking about the high number of cases in Ahmedabad, Dr Mavalankar said that multiple factors are involved: population density, the presence of the international airport, and co-morbidities. “The cases in the central zone of Ahmedabad are declining,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/need-time-data-to-explain-high-death-rate-experts/articleshow/76251073.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hubballi||MLA’s Facebook account hacked||HUBBALLI: Some unknown miscreants tried to seek funds in the name of an MLA by hacking his Facebook account. Gangavati MLA Paranna Munavalli said that he was alerted by his partymen on Saturday, when they got a request for money from his account. “The hacker has sent messages to many of my Facebook friends and followers, claiming that I am in trouble and that I need money. It drew suspicion and 3-4 BJP workers, who called me over phone and informed me about the message. I immediately instructed my Facebook team to change the password, and ensured that a clarification was posted in this regard. After I come back from Bengaluru, I will lodge a complaint with the police,” he added. He also stated that the hacker shared an online platform’s account to transfer the money. “When we called the mobile number given in the message, it was found to be switched off. Fortunately, none of my friends or followers have transferred any money. I thank all of them for checking the genuineness of the message and getting back to me,” he expressed. Many of the MLA’s supporters were worried , as the post stated that their leader is in trouble. “After seeing Munavalli’s clarification, we breathed sigh of relief,” said a BJP functionary. Sources in the Koppal police said that no complaint has been lodged in this regard. “As soon as a complaint is lodged, we will start an investigation,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mlas-facebook-account-hacked/articleshow/76250318.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||Ten fresh Covid-19 cases from quarantine centre take Bhopal count to 39; MP tally 1,772||BHOPAL: A Covid-19 quarantine centre reported 10 more cases on Sunday. The centre in RGPV campus, which has been converted a quarantine centre, is now an epicentre for the infection. Meanwhile, 39 people were diagnosed with the infection, taking the total number of cases to 1,772 in the state capital. As many as 459 are considered as active infected. Tehsildar Gulab Singh Baghel said, “Ten people in Gandhi Nagar at RGPV hostels were diagnosed with Covid-19. Six are from girls’ hostels and four from boys’ hostel. Other contacts would be tested and screened for the infection.” In nearby Bairagarh, four people were diagnosed with the infection. Talaiya, Aishbag and Tilajamalpura reported two new cases each. Shyamla Hills, Mangalwara, Shahjehanabad, Kotwali, Koh-e-Fiza and Barkhedi recorded one each. Other new hotspots under watch are Kamla Nagar and TT Nagar areas in Bhopal. The state capital has reported 64 deaths while 1,249 people have recovered from the infection. A 13-year old girl from Panchsheel Nagar and 11-year-old boy from Govindpura along with a four-year-old boy from Itwara were among the new positive cases. Four more cases were reported from Banganga area, which has reported over 35 cases in the last week. District response team set up: With the opening of hotels and shopping malls, a district rapid response team has been set up to resolve any situation wherein a Covid-19 symptomatic person is detected. The management should alert the district rapid response team, according to the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/10-fresh-cases-from-quarantine-centre-take-city-count-to-39-ve-count-at-1772/articleshow/76251068.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills 12-year-old girl in Nainital's Kaladhungi area||NAINITAL: After a 12-year-old girl was attacked and killed by a leopard in Nainital’s Kaladhungi, the forest department has set up 12 trap cameras in the area and deployed 20 officials to zero in on the big cat. According to the girl’s family and forest department, it was around 5.30pm on Saturday when Mamta, who was washing clothes with her friends, was attacked by that leopard and dragged into the forest. “The other girls who were with Mamta informed the villagers who called the police. As the forest department and police reached the spot, they started looking for the girl whose body was found in the forest,” said Ramnagar's CO Pankaj Gairola. Gairola added that the leopard had left the body in the forest and tried to attack again, but it was repulsed by the forest department officials and the police who fired in its direction. “Over the past few weeks there have been reports of leopards attacking domesticated animals and killing several goats. However, this is the first time that the leopard has attacked a human,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forest, western circle. Dhakate added that the forest department suspects at least two leopards to be active in the area and they have to zero in on the one that killed the girl. “We suspect that there might be two leopards active in the area. Though the area's habitation is small, the people are worried. Therefore, we have stationed 20 of our men under two officers to monitor the 12 trap cameras and catch the leopard that killed the girl,” Dhakate added. The officials also said that keeping in line with the government’s policy, they have given Rs 90,000 to the family and the remaining Rs 2.1 lakh will also be handed over in a few days as compensation for the girl's death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-12-year-old-girl-in-nainitals-kaladhungi-area/articleshow/76250307.cms||Prashant Jha
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Not enough sanitisation activities in our area, some residents allege||DEHRADUN: Even though the city's civic body concluded its two-day sanitisation drive during the complete Covid-19 lockdown on Saturday and Sunday, some residents of Doon Vihar Colony, Mayur Vihar, Indirapuram and Ashirwas Enclave claimed that the municipal corporation was not doing enough to undertake sanitisation activities in their areas. On Sunday, SP Nawani, a resident of Doon Vihar colony said, "We had hoped that now our locality will be sanitised as well. Recently, the district administration and health department teams took a few people from the nearby slum area to the quarantine. Since then no sanitisation has been done, despite several requests. There are over 300 houses in our colony with senior citizens in almost every household." In Dalanwala area, the narrow bylanes were left out by the DMC team, claimed another local. Mahesh Bhandari, a resident and president of Doon Residents' Welfare Front said, "I stood with the DMC team while they sanitised our area, the tankers could not go inside the bylanes leaving the job half done. I don’t know if the handheld machines would come soon to cover the bylanes." The residents of Indirapuram area also echoed similar views. Justice (retd) PC Agarwal, a resident, said, "Our locality was part of the DMC’s schedule for sanitisation, but I'm surprised that not even a single corner of our area was sanitised. I just hope the seniors in the civic body take notice of the matter and sanitise all these left out areas at the earliest." Another resident from Mayur Vihar, Sher Singh Rawat said, "We had high hopes from the DMC this time as the sanitisation exercise was being monitored at different levels. But no one came to sanitise our locality, even our requests to the ward counsellor yield no results." Even as the residents are worried over DMC leaving some areas unattended during the drive, the city's doctors stressed that one should pay more attention to personal hygiene and wearing face masks rather than depending on santisation with sodium hypochlorite solution. Dr Nitin Pandey, pediatrician and social activist from Dehradun, said, "Spraying the solution in public spaces is harmful and should not be done. There is no community spread in Dehradun and hence the sanitisation should be done only in containment zones." Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said, "We are monitoring the areas covered during the drive. The remaining areas will be covered on Monday with the help of our teams."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-enough-sanitisation-activities-in-our-area-some-residents-allege/articleshow/76250329.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In a first since Independence, no Urs celebrations at Hazrat Nizamuddin dargah||NEW DELHI: For the first time since 1947, the annual Urs festival commemorating the death anniversary of Sufi Saint Amir Khusro will not be celebrated at Hazrat Nizamuddin dargah. Earlier, the five-day festival starting from June 9 would witness thousands of people from different religions thronging the dargah to participate in the celebrations. People from across the country would cover the grave of the saint with chaadar and listen to the hundreds of Qawwals, who would arrive from far and wide to perform on the marble floors of the shrine all night long. With a surge in the novel coronavirus cases, the dargah committee has decided to keep the shrine shut till June 30 to maintain social distancing norms. Prayers will only be conducted by the inner circle members of the committee. The decision was taken despite the containment zone in Nizamuddin being scaled on Sunday. The Urs is a celebration instead of mourning because of the belief that the death of the Sufi was a union (Visaal) of his soul with the divine being. For five days, people would huddle under a large shamiyana, savouring delicacies in the langar and enjoying qawwali, most of them written by Khusro himself. Born as Abul Hasan Yameenuddin in Patiyali village of modern day Kasganj, Khusro became one of the most important disciples of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. Credited to having invented the tabla, Khusro was a writer, scholar, philosopher and musician. He is often referred to a “Tooti-e-Hindustan” or the parrot of India. “Though religious places have been given permission to open from June 8, the dargah committee decided not to have any celebrations this year as the shrine is small and it will be difficult to maintain social distancing. But we will continue to pray for our country and the health of its people,” said Altamash Nizami, peerzada of the dargah. Even the ceremonial langar, a tradition started during the time of the 14th century Sufi saint Nizamuddin Auliya, won’t be held. Sadia Dehlvi, the author of Sufism: The Heart of Islam, commended the decision. “The Urs is an important fixture in the religious calendar of Delhi. But it is better to be safe than sorry. Moreover, the dargah committee will be performing all the prayers during the festival,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-first-since-independence-no-urs-celebrations-at-nizamuddin/articleshow/76251725.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||774 deaths in a week, Maharashtra toll tops 3,000; June fatality rate 4.2%, 4% in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 death toll in the state crossed 3,000 on Sunday, exactly three months after the pandemic struck. Of this, 774 happened in June first week — including 91 on Sunday— pushing the mortality rate for June to 4.22% — much above the national average of 2.8%. Mumbai, which recorded its highest deaths in a single day on Sunday (61), witnessed its toll reaching 1,638. In the last one week, the city’s fatality rate has nearly touched 4% after hovering under 3.4% in May. The state recorded 3,007 cases, its second highest daily count; the total is 85,975. With 1,420 new cases, Mumbai’s tally is at 48,774— 25,940 currently under treatment. While it took the state a fortnight to go from 1,000 to 2,000 deaths, the jump from 2,000 to 3,000 came in a span of nine days. After 100-plus deaths for each of the last five consecutive days, the state recorded 91 deaths on Sunday, taking cumulative death toll to 3,060. It also recorded 3,007 new cases of Covid-19, the second highest in a day since 3,041 on May 25, taking the total to 85,975 cases. Active cases in the state though are 43,591, with 39,314 having been discharged.  As the city geared up to exit the lockdown with a ‘Mission Begin Again’ programme which included plying of BEST buses from Monday, Mumbai recorded its highest death toll -- 61 -- on Sunday, which took the city’s total count to 1,638. With 1,420 fresh coronavirus cases, Mumbai now has 48,774 in all, of which 25,940 are currently under treatment. Civic authorities said they were bracing for more infections to come to light as shops and offices resume work with limited staff. Dr Anupkumar Yadav, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has increased its quarantine bed capacity from 50,000 to 3 lakh in the last three months.  “The next eight to ten days are crucial for us as more establishments open up. We are expecting to see a rise in cases and we are adequately prepared,” said Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner. “Covid combined with monsoon could pose a challenge. We have kept most of our dispensaries available for non-Covid services. We are also pushing more and more private set-ups to start functioning,” he added. Mayor Kishori Pednekar issued an appeal to citizens to avoid crowds and take necessary measures like keeping a sanitizer and mask while leaving home on Monday.  The civic body also asked all symptomatic patients with Covid like symptoms such as fever, cough, breathlessness, sore throat, etc to visit nearby MCGM dispensaries, OPDs of hospitals, dedicated covid health centres or a physician. “Doctors shouldn't waste time treating for other ailments if there are clear signs of sore throat or breathlessness,” said another civic official.  Meanwhile, the state health department said of the total 91 deaths recorded on Sunday, 67 (73.6%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart diseases, etc. Of the casualties, 46 were over 60 years in age, 41 were from the age group of 40-59 and 4 were younger than 40. While 64 of the 91 were men, 27 were women. The health department claimed that 31 of the total 91 deaths occurred in the last two days while the rest happened between April 13 and June 4. Of the 60 deaths in these 53 days, 44 were in Mumbai, 5 in Ulhaasnagar, 4 each in Mira-Bhayander and Solapur and one each in Nashik, Palghar, and one was a West Bengal resident. “These deaths were added only after they were scrutinised by the death review committee. Overall, the death rate is around 3.55%,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.  Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has so far tested 5.51 lakh samples of which 85,975 (16%) tested positive. The recovery rate has now improved to 45.72%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/774-deaths-in-a-wk-state-toll-tops-3k-june-fatality-rate-4-2-4-in-city/articleshow/76251529.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 8, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh collected Rs 78.4 crore for coronavirus fund, spent Rs 13.3 crore||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh government has collected Rs 78.4 crore from various sources for its Covid-19 state disaster response fund and has spent Rs 13.3 crore out of this amount so far, according to data released by the government. With the opposition demanding a white paper on funds collected for the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led state government has made public the details of funds collected and spent. The demand has been made by the Congress in view of Himachal Pradesh director health services Ashok Gupta being suspended in the wake of an audio clip which hinted at corruption in a Rs 5-lakh transaction. Congress had been questioning the use of funds by the state government. According to data, Rs 78.4 crore were collected for the fund through the offline mode from various donors. Of this, the state government spent Rs 13.34 crore and another Rs 65.05 crore is lying unspent. On April 6, Rs 50 lakh was provided to Himachal Pradesh police for the purchase of PPE kits and safety equipment. Also, Rs 5 lakh each was provided to Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh and Himachal Bhawan in Delhi to make arrangements for stranded residents of the state. On April 22, Rs 10.27 lakh was given to Kullu district administration, Rs 23.4 lakh to Chamba administration, Rs 16.5 lakh to Kinnaur district administration for the deployment of home guards for Covid-19 related duties. Also, on the same day, Rs 1 crore was provided to Shimla municipal corporation to purchase PPE kits and safety equipment, Rs 50 lakh to director general of police, and Rs 40 lakh to home guards and civil defence. On April 23, director transport was provided Rs 5 lakh for transportation of stranded Himachalis. On May 11, Konkan Railway Corporation was provided Rs 10.26 lakh and South West Railways Rs 11.04 lakh for the transportation of stranded Himachalis. State director animal husbandry was also provided Rs 20 lakh for the purchase of PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hill-state-collected-rs-78-4cr-for-coronavirus-fund-spent-rs-13-3cr/articleshow/76251520.cms||Anand Bodh
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Another ‘Happy Hypoxia’ death in Lucknow due to Covid-19||LUCKNOW: Two days after an Aishbagh resident died of ‘hypoxaemia’ or dramatic fall in oxygen levels after being admitted to Balrampur hospital, health authorities on Sunday confirmed he was infected with coronavirus, making him the second victim of ‘silent hypoxia or happy hypoxia’ in the city due to Covid-19. It was also the second corona casualty from Aishbagh and sixth in the city since March 11, of which four died within a week. When brought to the hospital, the 60-year-old man from Habibnagar in Aishbagh was unconscious with respiratory distress and extremely low blood oxygen levels — a case of hypoxaemia. This triggered suspicion of Covid infection and he was taken to the isolation wing and his sample sent for lab test. He died just hours after arrival. The report later confirmed coronavirus infection,” said hospital chief medical superintendent Dr R K Gupta. Doctors said when blood oxygen levels drop below normal level of 95-100%, people are breathless. They breathe faster to get more oxygen and cannot work. The condition is called hypoxaemia. Medical intervention on time can save lives. However, Covid-19 patients continue to work despite low oxygen level and collapse when it drops critically. Such a condition is called silent hypoxia or happy hypoxia as people become critically ill without significant symptoms. Oxygen levels drop because the virus affects the lungs most. In the Habibnagar case, family members told doctors he was working normally before losing consciousness. On Friday, 78-year-old neurosurgeon Dr Shyam Swaroop, also an Aishbagh resident, died of kidney ailment. His test report found him positive for Covid-19. CMO, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agarwal, said, “Around 15 family members and contacts of the deceased have been home quarantined and samples sent for testing. The locality will be declared containment zone.” In-charge of vector borne disease unit, Dr KP Tripathi, said, an audit of deaths in which patients were found to be Covid positive is being done to zero in on the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-happy-hypoxia-death-in-city-due-to-covid/articleshow/76251526.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Quick measures part of long term move to end MSP regime’||Bathinda/Amritsar: Despite the Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar assuring farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) of crops will not be diluted and all three ordinances issued by the Centre were in their favour, farmers’ bodies suspect they will be the ultimate loser in the long run. Many farm organisations claimed that the government may continue with the MSP regime for one or two seasons but eventually it will be done away with. Many of Punjab-based peasant outfits are now following the line takjen by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a conglomerate of over 200 farmer bodies across the country, which has already given call for opposing the ordinances. “Recent decisions of the Union government to wind up the APMC Act, to begin e-national agriculture market (e-NAM) networking, allowing inter-state sale, inviting corporates to source crops from fields and allowing them to enter into contract farming will spell doom for peasantry,” alleged Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh, an active member of AIKSCC. “With the mandis winding up, farmers will not get the benefit of procurement and assured rates. They will be subjected to the diktats of the big purchasers who will negotiate on the strength of e-NAM rates to lower the prices in all areas. Farming contracts for sowing will drastically reduce the capacity of small peasants, landless share croppers and farm labour to negotiate,” he claimed. On the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha president Satnam Singh Ajnala claimed that the black days of the farming sector had begun. “The ordinance will allow hoarding and blackmarketing of farm produce. The hoarders will sell the same crop back to the end-users, including farmers, at much higher price later,” he claimed. Ajnala said the farmers wouldn’t have the protection under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, which puts a cap on traders’ stocking foodgrains. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu alleged that the Union cabinet had approved the ordinance under pressure of the World Bank and World Trade Organization (WTO). “The government says it is giving farmers a free hand to sell their produce anywhere, but it is not going to happen. The farmers may be given some benefit in the beginning but later they will be plundered,” he alleged. Gurdaspur farmer Gurmeet Singh Nizampur, who owns over 28 acres of land, said, “I have heard about some concessions are now being given to farmers by the government which will benefit us, but I don’t know the details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/quick-measures-part-of-long-term-move-to-end-msp-regime/articleshow/76251516.cms||Neel Kamal
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid-19 warriors in ambulance most vulnerable to health risks||BHOPAL: Ambulance staffers carrying Covid-19 deceased are exposed to potentially high health risks to organ fluid and secretions, even after taking the greatest precautions. Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) has two dedicated ambulances for moving Covid-19 deceased for the final rites. As per protocol, Mutki-Vahan gets the sealed body. BMC has selected places for cremation. Teams have been formed and they assist in the last rites, said BMC additional commissioner, Pawan Singh. “Being close to a known infected body during the pandemic is a brave task. Another task for the BMC staffer is not to permit the family members of the deceased to get too close to the dead body,” he added. These men perform their duty as per protocol. The PPE suits and other essentials are supplied by the BMC. However, cleaning and sanitisation of the ambulance itself takes place at a designated location in Bairagarh. On Sunday, four people were cremated by the BMC. Categorisation according to case risk assessment and dealing with cases accordingly is the key in minimizing the possibility of spread of infection. It is according to the Covid- 19 infective status. Dead bodies brought for medico-legal autopsy can be categorised as confirmed case, wherein Nucleic acid positive by RT-PCR technique for Covid-19 infection is proven. Secondly, there are suspected cases, or cases having at least one of the epidemiological history features and two clinical features of Covid-19. They are also cremated as per Covid-19 protocol. Covid-19 has also changed the dynamics for autopsy. Deaths in hospital and under medical care due to Covid-19 is a non-medico legal case and do not require postmortem examination and the required certification of death is being done by the treating doctors. As per ICMR protocol, autopsy of a Covid-19 diseased is to best avoided to lower the risk of infection spread. The investigating police officer must proactively take steps to waive off unnecessary autopsies during such pandemic situation, as per ICMR guidelines. The guidelines are based on the understanding about modes of transmission of Covid-19, international autopsy guidelines and knowledge about infrastructure and logistic strength of common mortuaries as per ICMR guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-warriors-in-ambulance-most-vulnerable-to-health-risks/articleshow/76251083.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||School sets precedent, waives fees for 7 months||AHMEDABAD: At a time when schools across the state have initiated the process of collecting fees from students, a school in the Walled City area of Ahmedabad has set a precedent by allowing a fee exemption for seven months. While other schools may be offering incentives such as payment in monthly instalments, JP High School, located in Dariapur, has announced a full waiver in fees for Classes 1 to 8 from April 20 to October 20. The decision has been taken in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic due to which schools across the country have been shut down from the last week of March. “Dariapur falls under a containment zone and incomes and livelihood of many people here have been impacted due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Jitubhai Shah, a trustee of the school. “We want to ensure that students continue their studies and so decided to waive the fees for seven months.” The school was established in 1973 and past experiences suggest that drop-out rates of children increase when all economic activities come to a grinding halt. A case in point was the 1985 communal riots in Gujarat when JP High School was shut down for about three months. Parts of Ahmedabad, including areas like Dariapur, were the worst hit then. “Many parents were financially impacted, and they stopped sending their wards to schools,” said Shah, who was earlier the president of Ahmedabad Shaher Sanchalak Mandal.  “As many as 20-25% students dropped out from schools in the Walled City region then.” Shah said. “We want to avoid a similar situation where children have to discontinue their education due to financial problems.” The Gujarati-medium school offers education from Classes 1 to 12. From Classes 1 to 8, it is run on the self-financed basis and from Classes 9 to 12 it is a grant-in aid school. There are about 350 students in Classes 1 to 8 for whom monthly fees of Rs 360 has been fixed. The total amount of waiver for the seven-month period is expected to be about Rs 9 lakh. “Our primary focus is to ensure that the bond between the school and students remains intact and is not broken due to Covid-19,” according to Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-sets-precedent-waives-fees-for-7-months/articleshow/76251075.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab looks to bring 25% paddy area under DSR||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government is aiming to use the direct-seeded rice (DSR) technology for sowing paddy in nearly 25% of the area under the crop to help farmers cope with labour scarcity. Farmers across Punjab are estimated to cultivate paddy on around 27 lakh hectares, of which seven lakh hectares is under high-quality basmati rice. The state agriculture department has sanctioned around 4,000 DSR machines and 800 paddy transplanting machines to farmers on subsidy ranging from 40%-50%. By using DSR technique, farmers would also be able to slash cultivation cost in terms of water and save electricity used in tubewells. Punjba agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said the agriculture department had earlier fixed the target to bring around five lakh hectares under DSR technique this season. But, given the labour shortage and interest shown by farmers to adopt advanced technology, six to seven lakh hectares of area is expected to come under DSR, which is roughly 25% of total paddy area in Punjab, he added. DSR technique would be instrumental in saving about 30% water besides cutting the cost of paddy cultivation by nearly Rs 6,000 per acre, said Pannu. The agriculture department secretary added that as per field reports and research by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts, the paddy yield from DSR is on a par with paddy crop grown by conventional technique of transplanting. Paddy transplantation is the only farm operation which is labour intensive, said Pannu. Due to labour shortage this year caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the agriculture department had advised farmers to sow paddy by DSR, as per the PAU recommendations, he added.  Agriculture departmental officials are guiding farmers in the field about the best ways to undertake DSR. Pannu also cautioned the farmers that the most critical element in new technology was control of weeds. Therefore, farmers must be careful prior to undertaking the DSR technique. They have been asked to procure weedicide and spray it same within 24 hours of sowing paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-looks-to-bring-25-paddy-area-under-dsr/articleshow/76253236.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||Post Covid recovery, murder accused arrested||VADODARA: Four murder accused who were being treated for Covid-19 after they had tested positive for the virus were arrested from SSG Hospital on Sunday. Accused Rahul Vasava, Deepak Pawar, Ajay Pawar and Manish Vasava were discharged from the hospital after recovery and were soon arrested by Bapod police on charges of thrashing Sujal Parmar, a resident of Ajwa Road, on May 25, leading to his death subsequently. “The deceased had suffered grievous injuries as the four accused thrashed him with baseball bats and iron rods. Three days after he was admitted at the SSG Hospital, he succumbed to his injuries, following which all four were booked for murder,” a police official said. After Rahul and the three others were detained and tested for Covid-19, all proved to be positive, a section of Bapod police station staff also have to undergo home quarantine. “We will now interrogate them about the murder weapons and reconstruct the crime,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/post-covid-recovery-murder-accused-arrested/articleshow/76248827.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab looks to bring 25% paddy area under DSR||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government is aiming to use the direct-seeded rice (DSR) technology for sowing paddy in nearly 25% of the area under the crop to help farmers cope with labour scarcity. Farmers across Punjab are estimated to cultivate paddy on around 27 lakh hectares, of which seven lakh hectares is under high-quality basmati rice. The state agriculture department has sanctioned around 4,000 DSR machines and 800 paddy transplanting machines to farmers on subsidy ranging from 40%-50%. By using DSR technique, farmers would also be able to slash cultivation cost in terms of water and save electricity used in tubewells. Punjba agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said the agriculture department had earlier fixed the target to bring around five lakh hectares under DSR technique this season. But, given the labour shortage and interest shown by farmers to adopt advanced technology, six to seven lakh hectares of area is expected to come under DSR, which is roughly 25% of total paddy area in Punjab, he added. DSR technique would be instrumental in saving about 30% water besides cutting the cost of paddy cultivation by nearly Rs 6,000 per acre, said Pannu. The agriculture department secretary added that as per field reports and research by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts, the paddy yield from DSR is on a par with paddy crop grown by conventional technique of transplanting. Paddy transplantation is the only farm operation which is labour intensive, said Pannu. Due to labour shortage this year caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the agriculture department had advised farmers to sow paddy by DSR, as per the PAU recommendations, he added.  Agriculture departmental officials are guiding farmers in the field about the best ways to undertake DSR. Pannu also cautioned the farmers that the most critical element in new technology was control of weeds. Therefore, farmers must be careful prior to undertaking the DSR technique. They have been asked to procure weedicide and spray it same within 24 hours of sowing paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-looks-to-bring-25-paddy-area-under-dsr/articleshow/76253240.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab looks to bring 25% paddy area under DSR||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government is aiming to use the direct-seeded rice (DSR) technology for sowing paddy in nearly 25% of the area under the crop to help farmers cope with labour scarcity. Farmers across Punjab are estimated to cultivate paddy on around 27 lakh hectares, of which seven lakh hectares is under high-quality basmati rice. The state agriculture department has sanctioned around 4,000 DSR machines and 800 paddy transplanting machines to farmers on subsidy ranging from 40%-50%. By using DSR technique, farmers would also be able to slash cultivation cost in terms of water and save electricity used in tubewells. Punjba agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said the agriculture department had earlier fixed the target to bring around five lakh hectares under DSR technique this season. But, given the labour shortage and interest shown by farmers to adopt advanced technology, six to seven lakh hectares of area is expected to come under DSR, which is roughly 25% of total paddy area in Punjab, he added. DSR technique would be instrumental in saving about 30% water besides cutting the cost of paddy cultivation by nearly Rs 6,000 per acre, said Pannu. The agriculture department secretary added that as per field reports and research by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts, the paddy yield from DSR is on a par with paddy crop grown by conventional technique of transplanting. Paddy transplantation is the only farm operation which is labour intensive, said Pannu. Due to labour shortage this year caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the agriculture department had advised farmers to sow paddy by DSR, as per the PAU recommendations, he added.  Agriculture departmental officials are guiding farmers in the field about the best ways to undertake DSR. Pannu also cautioned the farmers that the most critical element in new technology was control of weeds. Therefore, farmers must be careful prior to undertaking the DSR technique. They have been asked to procure weedicide and spray it same within 24 hours of sowing paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-looks-to-bring-25-paddy-area-under-dsr/articleshow/76251532.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Woman held for terror plot tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A Kashmiri woman, who was arrested in an alleged terror case filed by National Investigation Agency, tested positive for novel coronavirus while in the custody, a city court was informed on Sunday. While directing NIA to admit Hina Bashir Beigh to Lok Nayak Hospital, the court sent her husband, Jahanzaib Sami, and another accused Abdul Basith to judicial custody. Beigh’s counsel M S Khan sought interim bail for two months, arguing that the capital was struggling to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 positive cases. “Delhi is struggling to cope with the rising number of positive cases of Covid-19, and due to the lack of proper treatment facilities in government hospitals, which has also been highlighted in the media, Delhi government has been compelled to issue a list of 56 private hospitals for Covid treatment,” the bail plea stated. According to NIA, the accused were arrested for allegedly promoting Islamic State’s ideology and instigating protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Tests of accused persons were conducted on June 6 on the directions of the court, while their 10-day custodial interrogation ended on Sunday. Following the tests, Beigh was found positive, NIA said. The three accused, allegedly having links with Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), were arrested by Special Cell of Delhi Police on March 8. Basith was already lodged in jail in another case being probed by NIA when Delhi Police arrested him in the present matter. NIA took over the probe and registered it under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (provocation for causing riot) of the IPC and sections 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) and 20 (being member of terrorist gang or organisation) of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Earlier, Pramod Kushwaha, DCP (Special Cell), had claimed: “They are members of the banned terrorist outfit, ISIS, and propagating its ideology of hatred. They are also inciting Muslims to take up violent struggle against the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-held-for-terror-plot-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/76251544.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Fondness for Mominpura biryani led to chain of cases in Naik Talao-Bangladesh||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) preliminary investigation has linked Covid-19 cases at Naik Talao-Bangladesh, city’s fourth hotspot, to Mominpura containment zone, the city’s second hotspot. Fond of Mominpura biryani, a group of four persons allegedly visited the area frequently, contracting the disease and also passing it on to many people. Naik Talao-Bangladesh, a congested slum in East Nagpur, now has 86 cases. NMC has quarantined 146 more persons from this area on Saturday night, and their reports are expected on Monday. Mominpura in Central Nagpur is very famous for biryani. There are a slew of hotels serving biryani in normal days. Mominpura has been a containment zone since April 4, with non-essential shops prohibited. But, 306 corona positive cases have come from this zone till date, hinting at people moving about inside the zone. Some cases have even come to fore of people moving outside the containment zone. Naik Talao-Bangladesh is 4km from Mominpura. Zonal medical officer of NMC Satranjipura zone Dr Minakshi Mane told TOI, “We started contact tracing of people who came in contact with the 86 positive persons on Friday. We were surprised people here demanded extension of containment zone, while other areas are demanding denotification. We came to know a few youths from the area used to frequently visit Mominpura for biryani. This group of four persons, including the original source, has a huge reach in Bangladesh, which is a congested slum.” On May 26, two youths, one from Bangladesh and other from Naik Talao, were admitted at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) complaining of fever, soar throat etc. Both tested positive on May 27. Dr Mane said, “We quarantined remaining three members of the group and all tested positive. All family members of these four persons too tested positive. Even in-laws of these four were positive, and also many from adjoining houses too.” Sources from NMC said the group was also engaged in distributing food to needy persons in the area. Of total 86 cases, 79 are linked to the first positive case of Bangladesh. Only five cases are linked to the positive case of Naik Talao. These two areas are situated adjacent to each other. When a Covid death from Parvati Nagar was registered, NMC and police investigations revealed some youths used to visit Mominpura and Satranjipura zones, and vice versa for kabootar baazi. Two new chains started from Naik Talao-Bangladesh. Father-in-law of one of the four persons from the group works as attendant with NMC Mahdibagh Dispensary and tested positive. He is a resident of Lalganj, so this also became a containment zone. Younger brother of first positive person of Bangladesh works as attendant in NMC head office at Civil Lines. He also tested positive, forcing testing and quarantine for a deputy commissioner, veterinary officer and 10 more staffers. All 12 tested negative. Another female attendant working at the dispensary also tested positive. She is from Binaki, which had no cases earlier. Now, this area too is a containment zone. Four persons from a family at Kapda Bazaar, Gandhibagh, which is 2km from Mominpura, too have tested positive. None of them has any travel history, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fondness-for-mominpura-biryani-led-to-chain-of-cases-in-naik-talao-bangladesh/articleshow/76251079.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 8, 2020||Shimla||33,000 beds to quarantine returnees in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: To monitor the health condition of people returning to Himachal Pradesh from other parts of the country, the state government has 32,361 beds at 683 institutional quarantine facilities, where 253 doctors and 287 paramedical staff have been deputed. Apart from this, about 1,000 beds are also available in the state for isolation, said an official on Sunday. Around 1.5 lakh people have returned to the state, and so far, nearly 5,500 people have been registered at quarantine centres. CM Jai Ram Thakur announced that all persons coming from other states would be quarantined, whether at home or in an institutional facility. Those coming from green or orange zone have also to be in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/33000-beds-to-quarantine-returnees-in-himachal/articleshow/76251535.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another case in south Bopal, 28 in Ahmedabad rural||AHMEDABAD: After a pregnant woman tested positive in south Bopal, the area reported its fourth case on Sunday. This time it was from Suncity, a large residential complex. Ahmedabad rural reported 28 fresh cases and one more death, on Sunday, taking the total to 384 cases and 24 deaths. Over the past four days, the district has been consistently recording more than 25 cases per day. Sunday’s death was of 28-year-old male who was a resident of Moti Vyas Fali in Viramgam town. The first case of Suncity and the fourth case of south Bopal was a 32-year-old male, a resident of Sector 4E in the area. Besides, two cases were also reported from Maheshwwari Society on Bopal Road in Sanand town. Both the cases were from the same family: a 46-year-old male and a 42-year-old female. Of the 28 cases reported on Sunday, the maximum — 13 — were from Sanand, five each from Daskroi and Dholka, three from Bavla, and two from Viramgam taluka. Also, of the 28 cases, 16 were below 40 years of age and three were below 20. A three-year-old girl, a resident of Nani Khadki Vas in Sanand, also tested positive. Taluka-wise, of the 384 cases in the district excluding the city, 114 were recorded from Dholka, 103 from Daskroi, 64 from Sanand, 29 from Viramgam, 44 from Bavla, 16 from Dhandhuka, nine from Detroj, four from Mandal, and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-case-in-south-bopal-28-in-abad-rural/articleshow/76251121.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kadinamkulam gang rape: Last remaining suspect arrested||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District police have arrested the last remaining suspect in the Kadinamkulam gang rape case who was absconding. Noufal, 27, of Pallippuram was caught from the proximity of his wife’s residence at Channankara during the early hours of Sunday. Kadinamkulam station house officer P V Vinesh Kumar said the arrest of the accused was recorded after the rape survivor and her son, who is the key witness in the case, identified him from a photograph. Police have also seized his autorickshaw, which was allegedly used to abduct the woman and child. Later in the day, he was produced before court and remanded in judicial custody. The inspector also said police would be filing an application before the court seeking custody of the woman’s husband, friend Rajan along with two other accused, Mansoor and Akbar Shah, for further investigation. Mansoor and Shah are arraigned as the first two accused in the case. There are seven accused in the case. “We need to probe the conspiracy angle behind the crime as we suspect that the accused had pre-planned the rape,’’ the inspector said. Currently, police are awaiting the result of swab test of the four accused for Covid-19 as part of latest procedures. Police would be filing custody application only if they test negative and it would be safe to secure their custody, the inspector added. According to police, Noufal had hidden at different places in Kadinamkulam and Varkala regions during the last two days. Police had brought his residence as well as his wife’s residence under surveillance to nab him. At night, he turned up at his wife’s residence as expected following which the cops caught him. The alleged crime related to the case took place on Thursday night at Vettuthura under Kadinamkulam police station limits. The woman’s husband took her and their two children to his friend’s residence at Vettuthura, from where his friends abducted her along with her toddler son and took her to an abandoned building, where she was allegedly gang-raped in front of her son. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kadinamkulam-last-remaining-suspect-arrested/articleshow/76250360.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Uncertainty weighs heavy, 800 gyms stare at closure in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Around 800 gyms in the city are facing threat of closure because many members are asking to refund fees as there is no clarity as to when workouts can resume and even if centres restart, exercising in masks and sanitization of machines every time after being used by a person would be impossible, posing risk of infection. All gyms, including small and big chains, are closed in the city since March 25 when the lockdown was imposed in view of pandemic. According to gym owners, total membership of all taken together is more than 18,000 and number of trainers are above 300. Closure, they said, has resulted in an estimated loss of about Rs 5 crore so far. Muskan Sahini, owner of a gym in Gomtinagar, said, “I have received more than 15 calls from members asking for refund as they do not want to continue anymore. We have five trainers, if we start returning membership fee, we won't be able to pay their salaries.” Some have also asked the administration to lay out specific guidelines for gyms in order to return to business. “Even if we open gyms, we have to sanitize equipments after a single use which will be a very costly exercise. Apart from that, seven regular members of my gym have decided not to renew their packages and have made workout arrangements at home,” said Chetan Singh, owner of a gym chain in Aliganj Sec-C. Another owner of a chain of gyms said many have asked to terminate membership as they feel workout in masks and sanitisation of machine everytime it is used would be impossible. Some have also requested the administration to allow more shifts so that the existing load can be distributed evenly to check overcrowding. Ravi Jha, a gym owner at Alambagh, said, “We will only allow limited number of people in shifts. Timings of the shift can be reduced from four to two. Sanitization can be done after every shift.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uncertainty-weighs-heavy-800-gyms-stare-at-closure/articleshow/76251552.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘PDS grievance redressal system is not working’||AHMEDABAD: Even as the government claims to have provided free grains to crores of ration card holders under both the BPL and APL categories, some activists and organizations say the grievance redressal mechanism of the food and civil supplies department is almost non-functional. These activists and organizations have been working to ensure that people get their eligible share of rations and foodgrains. Santoshsinh Rathod of Jagrut Yuva Seva Samiti (JYSS) said that there have been between 40 and 50 instances in the past fortnight alone of people being denied their eligible amount of foodgrains and rations. “When we attempted to lodge complaints under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), we realized that of the 34 district grievance redressal officers (DGRO) in the state, the names, numbers or contact details of 24 are wrong,” said Rathod. He added that his organization has compiled a list of correct names, email addresses and telephone numbers of DGROs of each district and has been circulating these to people. The aim is to help people complain if they are not being given their eligible share of rations. Rathod has also written a mail to the director of civil supplies stating that under Section 11 of the NFSA, all targeted public distribution system related records should be placed in the public domain. According to Rathod, the department has stopped putting up details of how much foodgrains and rations each person is eligible of getting and how much has actually been provided. “Until now, people did not complain to authorities when they did not get supplies through the PDS,” he said. “A majority of the educated people preferred not to avail of the rations. Now that we have begun taking these issues up, the department has discontinued uploading these details on the website.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pds-grievance-redressal-system-is-not-working/articleshow/76251120.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||‘One nation, one market’: What of commission agents, rural infra, asks assn||Chandigarh: The Union government’s ordinance giving farmers freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country without intervention of the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) has not been received well by various stakeholders in Haryana. The new law has been criticised for being beneficiary to few big private companies, eliminating the business of small traders working as arthtiyas (commssion agents) and even a possible threat to the development of rural infrastructure. It has also been criticised by the opposition for being a “threat to federal structure of governance”. The BJP-led state government, however, has welcomed the change as a major booster “to increase farmers’ income”. Though a tiny state, Haryana is one of the largest contributors of foodgrain to the country’s central pool, with a share of around 15%. Around 80% of the total area of the state is under cultivation, in which around 65% population is engaged in farming activities. Besides the huge farming sector, the new law would also have an impact on small traders related to the agriculture sector, as there are around 32,000 registered commission agents in the state. They are directly related to around Rs 1 lakh crore turnover of agriculture sector (sell-purchase of rabi and kharif crops) in the state. As per a 2019 report titled “Progressive Haryana: The Agricultural Hub of India”, by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the state is on the top position in the production of basmati rice, pearl millet, rapeseed and mustard. More than 60% export of basmati rice from India takes place from Haryana. Major crops grown in the state include wheat, paddy, cotton, pulses, sugarcane, pearl millet and rapeseed and mustard. The main horticultural crops of the state having good potential are cauliflower, onion, potato, tomato, chillies, guava and kinnow. Terming the new law as an attempt by the Centre to help a few big corporate houses, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said it would not of much help to farmers who were already free to sell their crop anywhere. He calimed another move of the government to end the limit on stocking, would promote stocking of foodgrain by some big corporate houses and a situation leading to a surge in price for their benefits only. “Labour in mandis would lose their job. With the elimination of APMC, the mandi fee would also go leading to hampering of development in rural areas,” Chaduni alleged. Terming it a “dangerous” move aimed to end the farmer-trader relationship, Haryana Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association president Ashok Gupta said they would soon hold a meeting of all traders and would launch protests against it. “In Haryana, around 32,000 registered arhtiyas would be directly affected by this. They were directly involved in annual turnover of around Rs 1 lakh crore in the sell-purchase of rabi and kharif crops. It included around Rs 20,000 crore business of wheat, and around Rs 30,000 crore of paddy crop,” Gupta added. Opposition party Indian National Lok Dal’s secretary general R S Chaudhary said it was an unilateral decision without getting any kind of feedback from the stakeholders. According to him, every state had its own problems and such decisions diluted the state’s rights and were a serious threat to the federal structure of governance. “What will happen to APMC? The move would have an adverse impact on the development works in rural areas, which used to be done by the agriculture marketing department,” Chaudhary, a former IAS, told TOI. However, Haryana’s agriculture and farmers welfare minister J P Dalal said the new law would ensure beneficial prices to the farmers for their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-nation-one-market-what-of-commission-agents-rural-infra-asks-assn/articleshow/76251542.cms||Ajay Sura
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Police charge six with 85-year-old’s killing||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed a chargesheet against six people who were arrested in connection with the death of an 85-year-old woman whose house was set on fire by rioters during the northeast Delhi riots. The woman had died of suffocation after the lower floors of the house were engulfed with smoke. Two arrests were made in March soon after the incident and based on their disclosure, more people were arrested later. Akbari Begum, the deceased, was with her son and other family members when a mob barged inside her house and set it ablaze. The building was a four-storey structure where the ground and the first-floor housed a garment shop and storage facility, respectively. The family lived on the top two floors. While the other members managed to reach the terrace, the woman had died of asphyxiation. An FIR was registered at the Bhajanpura police station based on the complaint of Begum’s son. The case was later transferred to a special investigation team. While probing into the murder, the cops analysed some videos that were viral on social media and later procured them from the persons who had uploaded them. Several mobile phones by which the videos were recorded were traced and seized during the investigation. Statements of the police officers who saved the lives of the family members of Begum after the fire were recorded. Statements of more than 50 eyewitnesses were also recorded. Based upon the oral, video and other technical evidence, including the call detail records, six accused were identified and arrested. Police have now filed a 600-page chargesheet in which they have identified Arun Kumar, Varun Kumar, Vishal Singh, Ravi Kumar, Prakash Chand and Suraj to be involved in the murder. The accused were residents of the area and had joined the riots on February 25. They claimed to be led by another group of people who are being tracked down as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-police-charge-six-with-85-yr-olds-killing/articleshow/76251734.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Elderly woman, daughter found dead in Salt Lake||KOLKATA: A bedridden woman in her late 70s and her elderly daughter, who were sick and under medication, were found dead inside their house at BE Block in Salt Lake on Saturday evening. Police said two unnatural death cases have been registered and the bodies have been sent for post mortem to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. The women were identified as Papiya Dey (77) and her daughter Sharmistha Dey (56), police said in a statement on Sunday. According to neighbours, the septuagenarian woman had undergone a hip replacement surgery last month and was advised rest at home for the last three weeks. “The family had no domestic help and we had heard the elderly woman had developed bed sores. She had asked for an ayah from her sister. Last Thursday, her sister’s children had come to their house with an ayah but they didn’t open the door. When they didn’t respond in spite of repeated knocks and phone calls, the locals called police,” said a neighbour. A team of officers from Bidhannagar North police station visited the house and entered in presence of the relatives and went to the first-floor room to find the septuagenarian woman lying on her bed with her daughter seemingly unconscious by the bedside. “They were weak and even while the phone was lying on the floor, they couldn’t pick it up. The woman said they were hungry and needed food. Cops arranged for food and officials of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation came to take stock of the situation,” said the neighbour. A civic doctor checked on them and reportedly found Covid-19 symptoms. The relatives tried to get them admitted to private hospitals but the duo allegedly insisted on staying at home. On Saturday evening, their relatives came to see them again. The bedridden woman had no pulse on her while the daughter was unconscious. “Around 9pm, doctor came and examined both and found that they had expired. The relatives then shifted them to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital where both were declared brought dead. Hospital officials told us to arrange for post mortem,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elderly-woman-daughter-found-dead-in-salt-lake/articleshow/76251095.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Out of office: Lockdown checks corruption cases in public departments||VISAKHAPATNAM: One of the unintended beneficial consequences of the over two-month lockdown has been the drop in corruption in government offices in the state. As functioning of various departments slowed down and many officials took to working from home, cases of bribery and disproportionate assets also fell. Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Andhra Pradesh unit said that between March 23 and June 7, no case of bribery or disproportionate asset was registered. In contrast, the bureau had registered 19 trap cases (nabbing a public servant for demanding and accepting illegal gratification, such as a bribe) and nine cases of disproportionate assets from January to March 20 across its various units in the state. The ACB had registered its last case on March 20 after laying a trap for and nabbing one A Somayya, a village revenue officer (VRO) Gunnampalli village under Dwaraka Tirumala mandal in West Godavari district for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 8,000 from a farmer for processing and issuing a pattadar passbook. The bureau had also registered a number of cases following surprise checks and enquiries prior to the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, director general of ACB, Andhra Pradesh, P Sitarama Anjaneyulu said since a majority of government offices have been closed due to the lockdown, there have been no transactions in departments such as registration, municipal and revenue, and hence no complaints from the public. “Some of the government departments have resumed operations from the past one week and we may receive complaints against corrupt public servants in the coming days. If we receive complaints, we will trap and nab the corrupt officials,” Anjaneyulu added. A senior officer said the state unit of ACB had registered 243 cases, including trap, disproportionate assets, criminal misconduct, regular enquiries, surprise checks and discreet enquiries, in 2019. In the same year, the highest number of cases (36) were registered against personnel of the revenue department, followed by staff of the home department at 11 cases and nine cases against the municipal department. On an average, the ACB register seven to eight trap cases and three to four cases of disproportionate assets every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/out-of-office-lockdown-checks-corruption-cases-in-public-depts/articleshow/76250363.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Forest fringes a death trap for jumbos||Thrissur: Kerala’s fringe forest areas have been a death trap for wild elephants earlier also. After the tragic death of a pregnant elephant in Velliyar River under Mannarkkad forest division in Palakkad district last week, similar incidents from the past have come to the fore. One such incident was in Malayatoor forest division in 2010 when a pregnant wild elephant was killed after she bit fire crackers, forest officials said. She was killed just before the delivery. Dr Sunilkumar, former forest veterinary officer who conducted the postmortem of the elephant, said the elephant was lactating when they saw her lying dead in a banana plantation. “The explosive burst inside the mouth, inflicting serious injuries. We got parts of plastic wires, which are used to make fire crackers, from the mouth,” said Sunilkumar. “We conducted postmortem the day after the death. We found fresh wounds inside the mouth and samples were sent to a chemical laboratory. The forest department registered a case against the farm owner,” said the doctor. In another incident at Aralam in Kannur district in 2009, an 11-year-old male elephant died after biting fire crackers, said the doctor. The doctor ruled out the chances of killing wild elephants with pineapple stuffed with explosives. “If cracker is stuffed inside pineapple, it gets wet and does not burst. There is no need to use explosive-stuffed fruits as snares to target elephants. The salty content in an explosive will entice elephant to consume it. In the Malayatoor incident, the cracker was not stuffed inside any fruit,” said Sunilkumar. Animal welfare board member M N Jayachandran said, “In Munnar also, many such elephant killings were reported, but no one has been punished. If such killings go unpunished, then it will lead to similar incidents in the future. Also, authorities must devise new measures to reduce man-animal conflicts in forest fringes. If such conflicts are reduced, then people will not resort to such killings,” said Jayachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-fringes-a-death-trap-for-jumbos/articleshow/76250392.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||HP farm bodies too sceptical||Shimla: Himachal Kisan Sabha, an organisation of 50,000 farmers from the hill state, on Saturday described the central government’s ‘one India, one agriculture market’ initiative as a new concept that would benefit only big companies and business houses, while poor farmers would get nothing. The Union Cabinet approved the ordinance for the one agriculture market this week. The Himachal Pradesh Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association too felt that a majority of growers in the state who would not benefit from what the Centre has been describing as agricultural reforms. Himachal Kisan Sabha president Kuldeep Singh Tanwar said one market was not good for farmers as big business houses would buy only high-grade product, which comprise around 20% of total produce. He added even if farmers were paid a higher price, they would not benefit much as it would be difficult for them to sell the rest of produce falling under other grades as there was no plan for different grades. He said APMC Act had been diluted and e-marketing would not benefit farmers much. Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association state president Harish Chauhan said a majority of farmers had already shifted from agriculture to horticulture produce, so the new concept would not make much difference to them as there were no restrictions on selling fruits and vegetables in any part of the country. He said there was a need to have a world-class modern-marketing yard for apple and mango with the facilities of grading, sorting and compressed atmospheric stores at one place. He said instead of boxes, fruits should be sold in crates. He added entry of big business housse would ensure good facilities to farmers and arthiyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-farm-bodies-too-sceptical/articleshow/76251545.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||ATMA to help C Railway staffers examine passengers ‘touch-free’||NAGPUR: Central Railway (CR) has installed an ‘Automated ticket-checking and managing access’ (ATMA) machine at the Nagpur railway station paving the way for ‘touch-free’ scrutiny of passengers’ credentials as per the boarding protocol guidelines. The measure was adopted to ensure that Covid distancing was followed diligently to check the community spread of the virus. The machine, installed with the help of a private enterprise, was also set up to help central railways garner non-fare revenue up to Rs15,000 per month. The machine, probably the first of its kind in the Indian Railways, was installed within two months of the concept floated by Central Railway’s top brass. The machine is empowered to screen the body temperature of passengers, check mask, ID proof and PNR on tickets which would be displayed on LED screens too. There is also a two-way mike system which would be used by the railway staffers, seated inside the cabin, to guide the passenger or raise queries. The latest machine will help railway staffers and also the personnel of Railway protection force (RPF) to check the credentials of a bona fide passenger from a safe distance. Once cleared, the machine would send signal opening of the gate for the passenger. With installations of the gates under way, passengers are being allowed to access platforms under the surveillance of RPF personnel after the machine gives the green signal on the LED displays regarding the boarding protocols. The installation of the ATMA machine is the third initiative of the central railway, under senior divisional commercial manager Krishnath Patil and his team. Earlier, they had installed vending machines for masks, sanitizers and also for a spittoon on platforms. The initiatives materialized under the supervision of divisional railway manager (DRM) Somesh Kumar. Asst commercial manager (goods) CG Rao, also the PRO, said a substantial sum was saved by roping in a private entrepreneur to install the machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/atma-to-help-c-railway-staffers-examine-passengers-touch-free/articleshow/76251556.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||‘Embankments without mangroves suffer damage’||KOLKATA: A recent report submitted to the state government by Nature Environment and Wildlife Society (NEWS), a conservation NGO, after an extensive survey of the Sunderbans highlights that the embankments with two to three layers of mangroves in front are intact. The breaching and saline inundation happened due to weak embankments where mangroves do not exist as the first line of defence. For the protection of mangroves and maintenance of embankments, the NGO has also proposed to the government that every panchayat should submit an Embankment Breach Report (EBR) and Mangrove Watch Report (MWR) every month to NREGA cell or district authorities. The NGO is willing to summarise and analyse the MWR for the district for free. Joint secretary and programme director of the NGO, Ajanta Dey, who had just returned from a field trip in the Sunderbans, said the embankments having mangroves are unaffected while the rest got breached. “The areas like Boro Rakkhoshkhali (Patharpratima block) Lakshmipur village (Kakdwip block), Buroburir Tot on G-Plot, Dabu Chor on Matla river, which have mangroves, are unaffected. On the other hand, Sahebkhali, Sandeshkhali, Dulduli, Sitolia, Hatgacha of North 24 Parganas have suffered saline inundation due to complete absence of mangroves and conversion of land into illegal fisheries,” claims Dey. The report says that saline inundation has also happened in some places with mangrove coverage due to the low height of the embankments. Mostly the breaching occurred in erosion-prone areas where the dykes are weak. Dey suggests that in the cases where embankments are low, the dyke height can be increased, considering the highest water level during new moon and full moon throughout the year. For erosion-prone areas like Deulbari, Ramganga, Rangabelia, the dykes should be made 75-100m inward from the existing line and mangroves should be planted in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/embankments-without-mangroves-suffer-damage/articleshow/76251087.cms||Dipawali Mitra
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||KMC likely to change 100% attendance circular||KOLKATA: The civic body is likely to make changes in the circular issued by the municipal commissioner Binod Kumar on Saturday regarding 100% attendance of employees across all departments from Monday. However, the civic top brass said on Sunday that they were open to accept any suggestion following the resentment among different employees’ associations. Sources said the civic authorities were planning to prepare a roster determining the the category of workers who would need to come on all weekdays while some others would be exempted from attending office regularly till the resumption of local train services and normalcy of mass transport system. “We want to make it clear that we won’t compromise with essential services amid such a pandemic. If required, we will provide transport, but employees associated with essential services must turn up every day. Workers associated with non-essential departments may not attend office everyday till the mass transport services become normal,” said a KMC official. According to sources, the municipal commissioner had a talk with Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators governing KMC and then decided to change his circular. However, the KMC employees’ associations that include the CITU-run Clerks Union and BMS-affiliated Shramik Karmachari Sangha strongly reacted to effectiveness of such a circular, claiming that large number of civic workers living in suburbs cannot attend office till the resumption of local train services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-likely-to-change-100-attendance-circular/articleshow/76251103.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirumala temple set for trial run today||Tirupati: The Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala and other Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD)-administered temples across the country will reopen for a trial run of pilgrim services on Monday following the Centre’s guidelines on gradually opening religious places. The Tirumala temple will reopen to pilgrims across the country on Thursday. The TTD trust board and officials led by chairman YV Subba Reddy and executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal have held a series of meetings and inspected various temples in the run-up to resumption of services. The temple body has made arrangements to hold a trial run of only employees and their families for darshan on Monday and Tuesday. On Wednesday, the trial run will include locals from Tirumala. From Thursday, devotees from elsewhere will be allowed amid stringent health and security checks. Not more than 6,000 devotees will be allowed each day at the temple, with a maximum of 500 devotees per hour. The TTD will make available from Monday online booking for a specified number of special entry darshan tickets. The TTD administration has also taken similar measures for resumption of pilgrim services at all other sub-temples in Tirupati and elsewhere across the country. Employees who will be working at the frontline, however, have expressed concern over the rise in number of positive Covid-19 cases in Tirupati and in Chittoor district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirumala-temple-set-for-trial-run-today/articleshow/76250384.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 8, 2020||Goa||Self-sacrifice hero stone discovered in Sacorda||Keri: A hero stone portraying self-sacrifice, which is a very unusual type among memorial stones because it commemorates self-sacrifice, was found in the forest of Khachkon in Sacorda. The memorial experts said likely dates to the 15-16th century. Hero stones are an ancient Indian tradition that immortalise an act of noble behaviour in stone. A person who died in war, or while fighting cattle raider or safeguarding the life and dignity of a woman, especially qualified as a hero. However, there was also a tradition of making memorial stones for individuals who decapitated themselves for religious purposes. According to researchers this is a more unusual type of hero stone, but archaeologist with the directorate of archives and archaeology, Varad Sabnis said that such memorial stones have been found in Marcaim, Bandora, too. “Such heroes are known as Dharmaveer,” he said, adding that ritualistic self sacrifice was practised in Goa. The Sacorda stone was found by chance by Suryakant Gaonkar of Bhuipal and Gautam Jalmi of Honda while on a trek. They had stopped to inspect a sacred stone slab under a tree when on closer inspection they found that it was a hero stone and that unlike the more prevalent type this one showed a man being beheaded, most likely as part of a ritualistic sacrifice. “A few villagers in the vicinity of Sacorda were aware about the stone slab, which was being worshipped as a demigod. However, they were not aware about its historical and cultural importance. When we made minute observations we found that it was a hero stone,” Gaonkar, who is a folk researcher, said. Sabnis, who described the stone to TOI, said that the memorial stone has three sections. “The lower portion gives details of the hero and his act of sacrifice. The hero is shown holding his own beheaded head in his hands. The middle portion depicts the hero being carried away to heaven by nymphs. The third portion shows the hero sitting in front of god. Based on the designs of the relief, this hero stone might belong to the 15th or16th century.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/self-sacrifice-hero-stone-discovered-in-sacorda/articleshow/76251564.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for fleeing from cops||Ahmedabad: Satellite police station booked an unidentified resident of Naranpura under Disaster Management Act as he fled away from a team of cops enforcing curfew post Saturday midnight. A team of cops was deployed at Iskcon crossroads in Satellite area to restrict the movement of vehicles and people in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. At around 1am on Sunday, the team spotted an SUV and waved hands at the driver, asking him to stop . However, the driver drove the SUV in such a way that it could have hit one of the cops, and sped away towards Bopal. Cops obtained the details of the absconding driver from the RTO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-fleeing-from-cops/articleshow/76251117.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Gypsy safaris at U’khand tiger reserves to operate with 50% capacity||DEHRADUN: The guidelines issued by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on June 5 are likely to affect tourist traffic to Uttarakhand’s two premier tiger reserves – Corbett and Rajaji – which are yet to be opened to tourists. As per the NTCA guidelines, entry inside the reserves is prohibited to children below 10 and senior citizens above 65 years. As per the directions, tourists will not be allowed to step out of gypsies used in jungle safaris and nor will they be able to sit in close proximity to each other. Gypsies going inside the reserves will only be filled till 50% of their capacity. State forest minister Harak Singh Rawat told TOI,“Tourist guides and others linked to the business urgently need a source of income and we have to save them. To ensure their employment, we will open the reserves with due precautions as suggested by the Centre.” Even though most zones in the two reserves close in June, owing to monsoon and open in October, the minister said that Pakhro, Dhela and Jhirna zones will be open for all, so that locals get employment. Meanwhile, a senior IFS officer, terming the NTCA’s move as “bizarre”, questioned the benefits of the decision at the end of the tourist season. Forest officials have also expressed concern that Corbett, which is located in Naintal district, is in the red zone and tourists visiting the reserve will have to undergo quarantine. As per the new NTCA rules, each vehicle has to be sanitised regularly and tourists will have to undergo preliminary health checkups before boarding canter/gypsy. Meanwhile, Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, said that they are studying the directions. He added, “I have asked directors of both CTR and RTR to submit their views, which will be presented before the state government, for a final decision on the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gypsy-safaris-at-ukhand-tiger-reserves-to-operate-with-50-capacity/articleshow/76250385.cms||Shivani Azad
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP seeks experts for agri, power depts too||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Sunam MLA Aman Arora on Sunday demanded that there was a need to constitute reform groups in agriculture and power departments, which are headed by Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Referring to reforms group constituted by Amarinder in the excise department under him on June 6, to look into the nexus between producers, wholesalers and retailers, Arora said the performance of agriculture and power departments was no different from the excise department. “Setting up of an excise reforms group by involving other ministers is in itself an admission of his failure to handle his ministries,” said Arora, while taking a dig at the CM. He also described the constitution of reforms group as an eyewash. He added there was a need to probe “threadbare” the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed with private power companies during the previous SAD-BJP regime. “I will request the chief minister, since he is not able to look after departments under him, to at least constitute reform groups to check scams in those departments,” said the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-seeks-experts-for-agri-power-depts-too/articleshow/76251559.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Ready sunflower crop destroyed in Shahabad mandi||Kurukshetra: Sunflower farmers claimed to have suffered losses after their ready crop got washed away in the rain that lashed the region in the wee hours of Sunday. They had kept the produce for drying ahead of procurement at Shahabad-Markanda grain market in Kurukshetra district. The sunflower procurement was started by the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) in Shahabad on June 5. The farmers said due to improper arrangements and faulty drainage system at the mandi, their crop got washed away in the rainwater. A farmer, Rakesh Kumar from Shahabad, who is also media coordinator of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana, said, “Ready sunflower crop of around 100 farmers got washed away in the rain due to poor arrangements at the mandi. Some years ago, the drainage nullah at grain market was constructed at a high cost. But, owing to faulty planning, it got blocked by another nullah, the main outlet for the town’s drain water.” HSWC’s Kurukshetra district manager Rajeshwar said, “We started procurement on June 5 and till Saturday evening, 473 HSWC metric tonne sunflower was procured. But, due to rains, procurement didn’t take place on Sunday. It is the responsibility of the market committee to make proper arrangements for procurement of crops.” When contacted, Shahabad grain market secretary Krishan Kumar said, “The procured sunflower crop had already been already lifted. But, some crop was kept in the open by the farmers for drying, which got washed away in the rain. Till now, we don’t know the exact value of the destroyed crop.” Kumar said the sub-divisional officer and the junior engineer of the marketing board have been asked to check the blockage in the drainage system and rectify the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ready-sunflower-crop-destroyed-in-shahabad-mandi/articleshow/76251557.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Testing protocol under review’||Ahmedabad: Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) on Sunday said that they are reviewing the existing protocol for Covid-19 testing and will issue revised guidelines soon. The state health department faced criticism when the latest rule for Covid-19 testing mandated that a patient must be admitted in a hospital to get his/her testing done. Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) had termed the move as a contempt of court, claiming that the recent Gujarat high court order did not require any such clause. Talking to media on Sunday, Ravi said the government will publish revised guidelines with modifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/testing-protocol-under-review/articleshow/76251119.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Agra||Assessment of losses caused by thunderstorm remains incomplete||Agra: Even after nine days, the district administration has not been able to complete the assessment of the losses caused by thunderstorm and gusty winds on May 29. At least three people had died and farmers across the district had reported damages, especially to vegetable crops. In several villages, no official has showed up for conducting the crop loss survey. On May 29, gusty winds flowing at a speed of 124 kilometers per hour, along with rainfall, hit Agra district around 8pm. In half an hour, it managed uproot over 250 trees and electricity poles. Farmers reported the damage caused to their produce. Expressing grief over the death of the three people who died due to the adverse weather condition, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered Rs 4 Lakh compensation to the family members of the deceased and adequate treatment for the injured. Farmers had demanded for a time-bound assessment of crop loss and a compensation accordingly. However, the demand is yet to be fulfilled. District magistrate (finance and revenue) Yogendra Kumar said, “Three people died and 10 were injured in the thunderstorm. Ten cattle were also killed. Assessment of the crop loss is in progress.” A Baroli Ahir-based farmer Bengali Babu Arela said, “The revenue clerks are conducting assessment from their offices. Our actual losses are not being recorded. Farmers were badly hit by the lockdown itself and now the adverse weather condition has worsened their problems. Authorities must ensure that farmers get compensated for crop loss without any further delay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/assessment-of-losses-caused-by-thunderstorm-remains-incomplete/articleshow/76249600.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Infection has moved into interiors of Maharashtra: Doctor||MUMBAI: Districts newly visited by Covid-19 are showing high mortality rates, a typical sign of progression of the pandemic. It means the novel coronavirus has undoubtedly moved out from the urban pockets to the interiors of the state, said Dr Anupkumar Yadav, who heads the National Health Mission. “High mortality in districts newly seeing cases though are typical signs of a pandemic progression,” he said. In absolute numbers, the city with 1,638 deaths, Pune with 406 fatalities and Thane with 331 lives lost remain the biggest contributors to the Covid-19 death figure in the state, which went past the 3,000 mark on Sunday. Over 100 deaths each have been reported from the semiurban and rural pockets of Jalgaon, which has had 109 deaths, and Solapur, which reported 104. Closely following them are Aurangabad with 92 deaths and Nashik with 89 deaths. With a fatality rate of 10.4%, Jalgaon tops the list. The district registered 963 cases and 109 deaths, of which 96 deaths were from outside the municipal corporation limits. Bhusawal, a major railway junction in Jalgaon, emerged as a hotbed of cases. Nandurbar has 40 cases and four deaths, a mortality rate of 10%, the second highest in the state. Dhule, with a fatality rate of 9%, is third. It has seen 21 deaths and 238 cases. Authorities claimed that six of the 21 were brought dead to hospital and labelled Covid-19 deaths as their swab samples came positive, but two of these six deaths were by hanging and consumption of poison. Now, collection of swabs from bodies is discontinued. The district’s proximity to Malegaon—located only 50 kilometres away and connected by the Agra highway-—has proved to be the main transmission link. Malegaon has seen 834 cases and 68 deaths in quick progression. Amravati, the second largest city in Vidarbha, is also high on the fatality chart with a rate of 6.2%. It has nearly 300 cases and 18 deaths. “Many of our cases had a Tablighi Jamat connection, but things appear to be settling,” said civil surgeon S Nikam, who said the initial delay in seeking care is no longer seen. Dr Yadav said that as far as deaths are concerned, cities are still the epicentre. Almost 80% of the deaths are from the city, Pune and Thane. A BMC official said that in the city even home deaths are certified as Covid-suspect after taking symptom history. “One needs to see how much that’s happening outside Mumbai. As it is, death registration is not uniform across the state,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fatality-rate-in-13-dists-higher-than-state-avg/articleshow/76251566.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Chicken crosses Rs 300-mark in pockets of Kolkata||KOLKATA: Chicken prices crossed Rs 300 per kilogram — the highest rate this year so far — in some parts of Kolkata during the weekend, burning holes in retail buyers’ pockets. Over the past fortnight, the price increased by Rs 40-80 per kilogram at markets. At the Kalikapur market, chicken was sold at Rs 300 or a notch higher on Saturday. “It is unimaginable and the vendors are not even ready to negotiate a bit. I have never seen chicken prices so high since I moved in here,” said Kaushik Mitra, a resident of the Ruchira Abasan off EM Bypass. “Chicken prices were rising steadily since a month after the Covid-19 outbreak. But it went beyond the reach of us after the Cyclone Amphan hit the city,” he added. At Sovabazar, chicken was being sold at Rs 270-280 per kilogram on Sunday. “The retailers claim that the supply has been hit hard after the cyclone wreaked havoc in Basirhat and Arambag — the two areas that supply bulks of the chicken to Kolkata,” said Somen Dutta, a resident of Kashi Bose Lane. He added that the steep chicken price has prompted many people to look for varieties of fish. At Santoshpur, the chicken price was Rs 300 per kilogram on Sunday — Rs 20 higher than what the retailers had asked a day back. At Belgachia, dressed chicken was sold for Rs 260 per kilogram while its prices varied between Rs 240 and Rs 260 at Dum Dum. “ We are not getting supplies these days while wholesalers are asking for a premium,” said Mithun Biswas, a retailer at Mall Road market, Dumdum. Wholesalers, however, felt that the prices are being jacked up artificially by the retailers trying to earn more profits, citing the dearth of sufficient supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chicken-crosses-rs-300-mark-in-pockets-of-kolkata/articleshow/76251108.cms||Rohit Khanna
June 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Uthra murder: Report against Anchal CI||Kollam: The Kollam Rural SP has submitted a report to the DGP listing lapses on the part of Anchal circle inspector C L Sudheer in the primary stages of the investigation into the Uthra murder case. There were widespread protests over circle inspector’s lapses in collecting evidences against Sooraj, the victim’s husband, even when Uthra’s relatives raised doubt about the snakebite death. A crime branch team led by DySP A Ashokan also had cited the circle inspector’s lapses. Many political parties had conducted marches and dharna demanding action against the circle inspector. Complaints galore against CI In another incident involving alleged dishonouring of a body, there were widespread complaints against Sudheer. Sunil, 34, of Idamulakkal and his wife Sujini were found dead in their house on June 3. The postmortem was to be done in Parippally Medical College. In view of the Covid-19, the autopsy of Sunil was to be conducted in Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital. As the relatives took the body to Anchal police station, they were asked to bring the body to circle inspector’s residence at Kadakkal to sign the inquest report to facilitate postmortem . However, the CI said he had gone to his house to have food and in order to avoid delay in case of having to return to the police station that he asked for bringing the body to his residence. Congress, BJP and CPI workers had organised protest demanding the immediate suspension of the circle Inspector. Uthra’s 15 sovereigns of gold sold Uthra’s husband Sooraj has told police that he had sold 15 sovereigns of gold and spent the money to meet his expenses. Uthra’s gold was sold to a jeweller at Adoor. A crime branch team conducted evidence gathering at the jewellery. As Sooraj was apprehensive of police nabbing him in connection with the murder he had handed over the gold to his father’s sister. As she was reluctant to keep it with her she returned the same and Sooraj buried the gold on house premises. Police recovered 38.5 sovereigns. Twenty-one sovereigns had been mortgaged to buy autorickshaw for Sooraj’s father. When 10 sovereigns were found in bank locker, six sovereigns were found mortgaged in the same bank. He told the police that he used the money for boozing and to meet his other expenses. Sooraj will be produced in the court on Monday after the completion of 14 days’ police custody. Forest officials will claim the custody of Sooraj and snake charmer Suresh of Chavarkode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uthra-murder-report-against-anchal-ci/articleshow/76250411.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Touchless sanitiser keeps machine clean||AHMEDABAD: After developing products like ‘thermal drones’, ‘digital belts’ for physical distancing and ‘3D face shields’ to protect people from Covid-19, members of Gujarat Technological University’ (GTU) innovation council and startup wing have come up with a ‘touchless hand sanitizer’. The young innovators behind the product, Meet Joshi, Jugal Joshi, Kshitij Kayastha and Ujjal Shah, say the idea struck to them during the lockdown. “In the lockdown, we found that there were a number of cases where frontline workers like police and doctors also got affected. One of the reasons behind this we found was the use of sanitizer from the normal bottles,” said Meet Joshi. The same sanitizer bottle was being used by different people, posing a risk of infection, according to Kshitij Kayastha. To break this chain we developed this product, he added. The product uses sensors so people can sanitize their hands without being into contact with any part of the machine body. “A person has to simply place his hands below the machine and they get sanitized,” said Jugal Joshi. The four young innovators discussed the idea with their professor who helped them prepare a prototype and get the required materials during the lockdown. Proper guidelines were also given to us, said Joshi. The product is priced at Rs 3,200 per piece. With a wall mount facility, the capacity of the storage tank is about 7 litres. It can be used for about 1,500 times a day. There are two models available currently which includes in spray form and droplet form sanitizers. “All the components used in this machine are made in India. It supports the government’s initiative of Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” said Ujjal Shah. A product comes with a six-month guarantee and some of the other features of it include low power consumption and wall mount facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/touchless-sanitizer-keeps-machine-clean/articleshow/76251125.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Religious places to have more footfalls than hotels: Survey||Nagpur: As the government issues SOP for opening hotels and restaurants from June 8, only 10% say they will visit them in next 30 days, while 21% say they will visit malls. Religious places will have more footfalls with 32% saying they will visit them in next 30 days. After more than 2 months of strict lockdown, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced re-opening of most public spaces and even allowing inter-state movement via unlock 1. The unlocking is being done in 3 phases, while the containment zones will remain in lockdown till June 30. Malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship all have been allowed to open in a phased manner. The number of Covid-19 cases in India has been touching new peaks each day with the daily positive cases almost touching 10,000. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi have been reporting high number of cases every day and casualties are also on the rise. The general notion was that after being home bound for such a long time, people will be itching to get out of their houses and back to their normal lives. LocalCircles, country’s leading social media platform, conducted a survey to get citizen pulse on their willingness to visit various public spaces when they are opened. The survey received more than 32,000 responses from 254 districts across the country. The results of the survey bring to light the bitter truth, which might not be very encouraging for the business fraternity. To a question on opening of religious places and citizens visiting, 32% answered in a ‘yes’ while 57% answered in a ‘no’ and 11% were unsure. The guidelines issued by health ministry state that touching of statues, idols, holy books, etc is not to be allowed. Large gatherings, congregation, as well as choir & singing groups will continue to be prohibited. No physical offerings like prasad or distribution or sprinkling of holy water etc will be allowed inside the religious places. “Based on the survey results of 32% wanting to visit a religious place of worship in the next 30 days proves that visiting their temple, mosque, gurudwara or church is a priority for many,” said Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles. Hospitality sector has seen one of the worst impacts of Covid-19 around the world. People were asked if they would be visiting hotels in the next 30 days, but only 10% answered in an affirmative while 81% said they will not be visiting hotels for at least a month. The guidelines for hospitality sector state that staff for home deliveries should be screened thermally by the restaurant authorities prior to allowing home deliveries. Adequate social distancing should be maintained in seating arrangements in restaurants and not more than 50% of the seating capacity will be permitted. Disposable menus are advised to be used and instead of cloth napkins, good quality disposable paper napkins should be encouraged. “But looking at the coronavirus scare, people are sceptical of visiting the malls so that they could keep themselves and their family safe. More and more people are choosing to get things delivered to their homes instead of going out to the markets to that their exposure to coronavirus could be reduced,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/religious-places-to-have-more-footfalls-than-hotels-survey/articleshow/76251113.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Annavaram temple to reopen on June 11||Annavaram (East Godavari): The Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swami Vari Devasthanam in Annavaram will reopen to the public from June 11. The temple will be open from June 8 to 10 for Annavaram Devasthanam staff and local residents. The temple will be kept open from 6 am to 6 pm everyday. Not more than 600 devotees will be allowed every hour and there will be two lines for devotees, in keeping with social distancing guidelines. Talking to TOI, temple executive officer Vendra Thrinath Rao said darshanam, vratham and nitya kalyanam will be available at present and theertham, satagopam, head tonsure and anna prasadam will not be allowed. The EO said people below the age of 10 and above 65 will not be allowed. - Samson Raj | TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/annavaram-temple-to-reopen-on-june-11/articleshow/76250395.cms||Samson Raj
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||A ray of hope: Curve takes a dip in the first week of unlock 1.0||Bhopal: If statistics is to be believed, first week of unlock 1.0 has gone well in Madhya Pradesh. While on an average 4.5 people out of every 100 reports received were found to be positive in the last week of May, between May 25 and 31, around 3.2 people were found to be positive out of every 100 reports received in first week of unlock 1.0 between June 1 and June 7. Simply put, out of the total 200 reports received during last week of May, 9 people had tested positive. However, in the first week of unlock 1.0, only 6 people had tested positive in every 200 samples whose reports were received.Reports of a total of 31,919 samples were received between May 25 and May 31 and among those 1424 people were tested positive. While during June 1 and June 7 a total of 40706 reports were received and of those only 1311 were tested positive. On the one side there has been, an increased in number of reports received and on the other side there has been a decrease in number of people tested positive in the first week of unlock 1.0 wherein several relaxations were provided in the city. Sources said that these are primary findings and things will only be clear in next couple of weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-ray-of-hope-curve-takes-a-dip-in-the-first-week-of-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76251105.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Driver crushes toddler while reversing car, held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 10-month-old toddler was crushed under the wheels of a Mercedes Benz car in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Sunday while the driver was reversing it. Around 3.30pm, Radhika was playing in the parking area of a building when she was hit by the car. She was rushed to the DDU Hospital but was declared brought dead. Her father works as a security guard at the building. The vehicle, bearing a Haryana numberplate, has been seized by police and the accused driver, identified as Akhilesh, has been arrested, said Deepak Purohit, DCP (West). The car is owned by Jasbir Singh, a businessman dealing in elevators. In another accident, two persons on a motorcycle died after the rider lost balance while descending a flyover around 9pm in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri. The bike hit a railing and both suffered grievous head injuries as neither was wearing a helmet, police said. They died on the spot. The deceased were identified as Gulshan (23) and Sunny (24), who worked as e-rickshaw drivers. The cops said it was difficult to identify one of them as his body was badly crushed. “Broken pieces of the bike were found on the road. A case has been registered at the Vikaspuri police station,” said a senior police officer. The two men were coming from the Peeragarhi side, said DCP Purohit. Eyewitnesses said the motorcycle was at a high speed when the rider lost balance on the Vikaspuri flyover and the bike rammed the road divider. A passerby informed a cop patrolling in the area, who reached the spot and moved the bodies in an ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/driver-crushes-toddler-while-reversing-car-held/articleshow/76251577.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 3 of a family in Gomtinagar Extn among 8 new patients||LUCKNOW: Three members of a family, all residents of a posh apartment in Gomtinagar Extension, were among the eight who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 455 so far. Fresh cases included six female patients. Among two males, one could not survive. The family of four had returned from Noida 10 days ago and was home quarantined since then, said officials. The head of the family got himself tested three days ago after developing Covid-19 symptoms and was found positive. Samples of other family members were then sent for testing, reports of which came on Sunday. Two family members of Lucknow University professor Suchit Swaroop, who tested positive two days ago, were also diagnosed with the disease. Professor’s father died due to Covid-19 on Friday. One case each was reported from Tilak Marg, Sikanderbagh and Sanjay Gandhi Puram. One was the 60-year-old deceased from Aishbagh’s Habibnagar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-of-a-family-in-gomtinagar-extn-among-8-new-patients/articleshow/76251576.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: With new SOPs in place, hotels reopen for guests||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hotels in the state have implemented new standard operating procedures to welcome guests from Monday. “Mostly business travellers have started booking rooms for the time being. All hotels in the state have kept their Covid-19 SOPs ready,” said Pavan Kartheek, state vice president of Hotels and Restaurants’ Association. However, hotels in containment zones will remain closed until further notice from the state government. “The government would monitor the situation to take a decision,” added Kartheek. A leading hotel in the city has initiated a sanitisation and hygiene drive to protect its guests. “We have made our check-in and check-out procedures as contactless as possible. Guests are advised to settle their dues at the time of check-out through digital mode,” said a senior official at the hotel. The state government has relaxed quarantine norms for travellers visiting the state for a short period. “However, it is advisable for these tourists to move around in private or hired vehicles and avoid unnecessary travel,” said an official monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-new-sops-in-place-hotels-reopen-for-guests/articleshow/76250408.cms||Arpit Basu
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Friday prayers to remain suspended at Asafi Mosque||Lucknow: While most places of worship are set to reopen from Monday, Imam-e-Juma of Asafi mosque at Bara Imambada, Maulana Kalbe Jawad, said namaz by jamaat cannot be offered as per conditions set by the government. This means Friday namaz at Asafi mosque that witnesses the biggest congregation of Shias, will remain suspended till physical distancing norms continue. Jawad, who is also general secretary of Majlis-e-Ulama-e-Hind, said, a six-foot distance between namazis cannot fulfil the criteria of a jamaat and allowing entry at this juncture could trigger mismanagement. The faithful can offer prayers individually, but a congregation cannot be held, he said. “If we announce juma namaz, it will lead to chaos and crowd management will be difficult. So juma namaz will not be offered in Asafi mosque until the six-foot distance rider continues,” he said. On March 19, Maulana Kalbe Jawad had announced suspension of juma prayers at Asafi mosque. “These monuments are protected by ASI and are both religious and tourist destinations. Gates, sanctum sanctorum and mosques of the Trust will open to the faithful, but not to tourists,” said HAT employee Habibul Hasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/friday-prayers-to-remain-suspended-at-asafi-mosque/articleshow/76251587.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Almost 52k migrants sent home from Nagpur till May 31||Nagpur: By May end, 51,733 migrants had been sent back home from Nagpur through trains, state owned-buses and those ‘donated’ by educational institutes and private tour operators. Though migrants are still streaming in at shelter homes or passing through the district, the numbers have declined sharply due to travel restrictions being slowly eased. NGOs and private educational institutes played a key role in helping the government bridge the gap when it came to logistics. Nilesh Bharne, deputy commissioner of police, said, “When movement of migrants was given a green signal, their number was too high and not enough public transport facilities were available. We reached out to private educational institutions and tour operators. They put hundreds of buses at our disposal,” said Bharne. These buses helped migrants from far off places like West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh reach their homes safely. “MP and Chhattisgarh were not a big problem because buses would reach there within few hours. We needed help for the long distance travel,” said Bharne. Sunil Raisoni, chairman of Raisoni Group of Institutions, was one such person who sent buses for this purpose. “We were all in a WhatsApp group and DCP Bharne would put details of help required. Every group member would volunteer to do the task to the best of their ability. There were others who did more than me, like Meghe group and Abhijit Wanjari,” said Raisoni. Over 53 lakh food packets (ready-to-eat) and 1.5 lakh ration kits were distributed between March 27 and May 31 with the help of 157 NGOs, according to data compiled by Nagpur police. Rajendra Raman, who is associated with ISKCON’s Annamrita, said good coordination by Bharne helped them reach out to the needy. “We are extremely happy to be able to help those in need. There was almost like a 24X7 call centre type set up here to make sure that NGOs with resources and needy migrants could be connected with each other,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/almost-52k-migrants-sent-home-from-nagpur-till-may-31/articleshow/76251130.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Eateries set to welcome diners again||VIJAYAWADA: As hotels, restaurants and shopping malls reopen their doors from Monday after a gap of over two months, managements have made arrangements for customers’ safety in line with guidelines on social distancing. Restaurants, which have seen a slump in business due to the lockdown, are now looking to win over customers for dine-in services. Seating arrangements have been rejigged following guidelines issued by the state government, thermal screening will be mandatory at the entrance and timings have been restricted from 7am to 9pm. “There are many myths about the safety of food prepared in eateries during Covid-19. We want to bust all of them through maintaining hygiene. We will test the temperature of all our staff and try to maintain a display board at our hotel. A gap of one chair will be maintained between seats. Chairs, tables and washrooms will be sanitised every hour,” said Sanjay Mehta Jain, secretary of Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association. On Sunday, the managements at shopping malls in the city were seen sanitising their premises. Markings were made at entry and exit points, provision for thermal screening made and personnel at stores inside malls prepared to deal with the rush on Monday. All hotels and shopping malls have remained closed since March 25 after the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 was imposed. The first phase of relaxation will begin on June 8, even as containment zones remain under lockdown till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eateries-set-to-welcome-diners-again/articleshow/76250414.cms||Venu Lanka
June 8, 2020||India||Use tap-water plan for migrants’ jobs, Didi told||KOLKATA: The Centre has asked Bengal to engage jobless migrant workers who have flocked back to the state amid the lockdown in executing a Rs 2,757-crore rural tap water scheme with a target of 64.43 lakh connections within the next four to six months. In a statement on Saturday, the Jal Shakti ministry assured the state of Rs 1,610 crore in the current fiscal to take up the project “on campaign mode”. An unutilised amount of Rs 1,146.5 crore from the last fiscal would complete the Centre’s share of the funding, it said. Bengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said the state government was yet to get details of the project. “The PHE department supplies water to households and several projects are underway. Such projects are being taken up in districts like Bankura and South 24 Parganas, too.” PHE minister Shyamal Santra said at least four drinking water projects were already being implemented in each block. “Work slowed down after the lockdown, but has picked up again from May 30. It will take some time to start new projects as the departments concerned are working with skeletal staff... We are focusing on water-scarce districts. Workers are being roped in under the 100 days’ programme”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/use-tap-water-plan-for-migrants-jobs-didi-told/articleshow/76251833.cms||Rohit Khanna
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to raise another Rs 2,500 crore via bonds||HYDERABAD: Battling a shortage of funds and a drop in tax collections, the state government is all set to raise another Rs 2,500 crore through bonds on Tuesday. This is the fifth time after the Covid- 19 outbreak that the state would be raising funds through bonds. If this round of auction is also successful then the money accrued by the state through bonds will amount to Rs 10,500 crore Under normal circumstances, the state usually earns around Rs 15,000 crore every month of which around Rs 10,000 crore comes in through tax collections alone. However, since the lockdown came into effect, the state has only managed to earn around Rs 4,000 crore. Sources said that though the borrowing limit has been enhanced by another Rs 2,000 crore as per the relaxed fiscal responsibility budget management (FRBM) rules, Telangana government has no plans to exhaust the limit. “We don’t want to borrow for expenditure purpose. We are borrowing only for infrastructural needs. To maintain good fiscal discipline, we comply with all additional borrowing conditions” said a top source in the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-raise-another-rs-2-5k-cr-via-bonds/articleshow/76251187.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Tepid response dashes hopes of shops selling non-essential items||NAGPUR: Markets wore an almost deserted look on Sunday, the first one after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) allowed them to open. Only 40% shops selling non-essential items were open. While most shops were closed, establishments on both sides of the roads were seen open. TOI took a look around the city to find that there was little crowd in front of the open shops. There were no traffic jams and ample parking space was available in most places. Owners of shops, which were open, said that many of their neighbours had not opened their shops because they feared getting afflicted by coronavirus. “They have put their lives above livelihood,” said a shopkeeper. Shopkeepers are a dejected lot. They had expected a huge response from customers as their establishments were closed for over two months. E-commerce was also not allowed. They had expected pent up demand to increase their business. However, their hopes were dashed. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said that the response was not much after markets opened after several weeks. “Number of customers is less. Business is 20% of pre-lockdown times. I had moved around Bartan Bazar on Sunday. There was no crowd there. Normally it is full on Sunday,” he told TOI. Akshay Patil, who owns an optical shop, said that business was completely down. “Several shops were open in Dharampeth but there were no customers. People do not have disposable income any more. Nobody is buying new spectacles from my shop. I had opened my shop about ten days ago. Those who need to get their spectacles repaired have already done so. Only a few customer came to my shop on Sunday, which used to be a busy day pre-lockdown,” he added. Sandip Raut, owner of a garage in Ramdaspeth, said that business was so so after his establishment opened after a gap of several weeks. “The problem is that employees in private sector are not getting full salaries. Businessmen have no income. People whose cars have some problem are coming to my garage but they are avoiding big expenditures. They say they don’t have the money to replace costly parts. I should somehow repair the existing one,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tepid-response-dashes-hopes-of-shops-selling-non-essential-items/articleshow/76251519.cms||Ashish Roy
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Govt ayes home isolation, but no takers in Vidarbha||Though public health department has issued guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients, there are few takers in Vidarbha. While all district administrations have claimed to have sufficient isolation facilities to keep Covid-19 patients after 10-day treatment, a few cited absence of proper facilities at patients’ home. Akola is worst-hit by Covid-19 so far with total 813 cases and 236 of them still active. “The new guidelines allow mild and asymptomatic patients to stay in home isolation. We have enough beds in isolation ward of GMCH Akola and so we are not going to allow any patient to stay at home (isolation),” said resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse. “Many patients have cited having no isolation facilities at their homes. So, the administration has arranged their isolation at Covid care centre. More than 100 such persons are presently staying in the Covid care centre,” he said. In Nagpur, a Nagpur Municipal Corporation official told TOI that no decision has been taken yet. The chances of implementing the new guidelines are remote, say sources citing availability of infrastructure to keep such patients in government facilities. Amravati civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam said it will not be possible for the administration to enforce these guidelines as most of the cases are coming from slums where home isolation will be impossible to follow because of smaller dwelling size. Collector Shailesh Naval was unreachable on phone. “The guidelines will be discussed on Monday and a plan will be worked out accordingly,” said a top officer in the collectorate on condition of anonymity. Other districts in Vidarbha like Buldhana and Washim are also reluctant to implement the home isolation so early. “It’s an option given to those districts where beds in government facilities and private hospitals are insufficient to handle the increasing patient load. We have enough beds,” said Dr Premchand Pandit, civil surgeon of Buldhana. Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara also have enough number of beds in isolation ward. Gondia GMCH has already been converted into 250-bedded Covid Hospital, but it has only 11 active cases, so far. In Gadchiroli, three isolation facilities are available for 15 active patients at present. “As of now, there is no plan for home isolation of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients,” said Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar. “The district is in the green zone. We have all facilities to treat Covid-19 patients. Yet, if someone demands for home isolation, the administration will work on that,” he said. Yavatmal health department is yet to take a decision, said resident district collector Lalitkumar Warhade on Sunday. Yavatmal collector did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. Chandrapur health administration is following 10-day treatment and discharge policy, claimed civil surgeon Dr ND Rathod. “As the infection rate is quite low in district, heath department is taking full care of positive patients,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-ayes-home-isolation-but-no-takers-in-vidarbha/articleshow/76251453.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Work on 2-BHK slows down as migrants leave||Hyderabad: With migrant labourers leaving the state in huge numbers, work on the government’s flagship 2-BHK housing project have been reduced to a snail’s pace. A lack of payments to contractors has also been cited as a reason behind the slowdown in the project. As per the government, around 8.5 lakh labourers — mostly from Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha — were employed in the construction sector. They were mostly employed in areas in and around the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Many decided to return despite the government’s announcement of free ration and a grant of Rs 500 to each labourer. Officials say that, in many areas, only 20% of the workforce is left. Workers who have stayed behind have hiked their labour charges. Till now, they were paid Rs 22 per sqft but many are now demanding up to Rs 45 for the same amount of work. “This is an additional burden for us. But under the present situation, there is no other option,” a contractor said. Many workers are reluctant to come back to work. “We used to work in Khammam but now there are many coronavirus cases in that district. We have come back to Bihar. Though the contractors are calling us, we have not decided over it,” said Ram Yadav, a construction worker. There are around 2.8 lakh 2-BHK houses under construction, most of them located under Greater Hyderabad limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/work-on-2-bhk-slows-down-as-migrants-leave/articleshow/76251175.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gotri hospital seeks FIR against service contractor||VADODARA: The GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, which is designated Covid-19 hospital for central Gujarat is in a state of mess. On Sunday, medical superintendent of the hospital through a letter written to the police commissioner urged the police to take action against the contractor who is responsible for supplying housekeeping services to the hospital. The complaint from medical superintendent Dr Vishala Pandya states that the owners of the firm have “put the lives of several patients to risk intending to commit culpable homicide amounting to murder in times of the Covid-19 pandemic situation.” Pandya wrote to police commissioner after a meeting chaired by senior IAS officer and OSD Dr Vinod Rao, who too has expressed his disappointment over the gross irregularities in services of the manpower and service agencies. The complaint seeks action against M J Solanki and Dipak Nakrani, owners of M/S M J Solanki, a Bhavnagar-based firm. “In the past one month, gross negligence has been observed by the firm in terms of provision of manpower and irregularities in housekeeping services. Despite several intimations, the firm has not improved its performance,” the complaint states. It further mentions that owners of the firm were asked to remain present in a meeting with Rao on Sunday. “In spite of the intimation of the same to his representative on 6/6/2020 at 3 pm, the owner has not bothered to remain present in the important meeting in times of Covid-19 pandemic situation,” the letter states, adding that the owners have neither bothered to comply with the instructions nor have improved their services. The hospital authorities have sought police action to ensure that the owners do not evade their duties and responsibilities. This is however not for the first time that complaints have surfaced against the contractor. In mid-April, taking serious note of the lapses at the hospital, Rao had issued a warning to the medical superintendent asking her to register FIRs, if necessary, against agencies and/ or contractors under the relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act-1897 and the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gotri-hospital-seeks-fir-against-service-contractor/articleshow/76248846.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Namma Metro Phase 2 work to be hit after exodus of 3,500 migrant workers||BENGALURU: Namma Metro’s Phase 2 work is likely to be derailed as 3,500 migrant workers have left Bengaluru and returned to their hometowns in other states. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL) along with private contractors had employed 9,100 workers for the 72-km network which is under construction (six sections) as part of Phase 2. “The workforce has shrunk as only 5,600 of the 9,100 workers now remain,” BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth said. However, he said both extension lines — Kanakapura Road (Yelachenahalli-Anjanapura) and Mysuru Road (Mysuru Road-Kengeri) — will be ready by 2020. “Other sections will feel the impact,” he added. The deadlines for Kanakapura Road and Mysuru Road lines are August 2020 and October 2020, respectively, but they’re likely to be extended as civil work is yet to be completed. Dates for four other lines are also expected to be pushed because of the Covid-19 crisis and exodus of migrant workers. The Centre is yet to approve the Silk Board-KR Puram-Kempegowda International Airport line, which is expected to be operational by 2024, so civil work is yet to begin. BMRCL has not divulged revised deadlines. India’s Metro Man and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) principal adviser E Sreedharan had said for each day Metro is delayed, it would cost BMRCL about Rs 1.5 crore more. South Western Railway records show it operated 219 Shramik trains and ferried 3.17 lakh passengers between May 3 and June 7. “Contractors are finding it difficult to keep workers here as most of them wish to leave because of Covid fear. Some who left earlier want to come back but there are no transport options. The railways are not operating any Shramik trains from their home states to Bengaluru. We’re hoping that train services improve so that a new batch of workers can reach the city. Otherwise most of these lines will be delayed and project cost will shoot up,” said a BMRCL official. “Another issue is the 14-days mandatory home quarantine rule. It’s difficult for contractors to keep all workers coming from other states in quarantine facilities. They say camps are already located in isolated places so there is minimal contact,” said the official. Asked whether they could rope in workers from within the state, he said: “Most of them aren’t willing to do heavy work. And those who are ready will bring their families too. Our camps have provisions for only men.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/migrant-exodus-to-delay-metro-phase-2-deadline/articleshow/76250901.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Irrigation, infra projects to take a blow as govt walks tightrope||Hyderabad: With revenues unlikely to improve even in June due to the extended lockdown, several infrastructure projects in the city and irrigation projects are likely to be delayed. For instance, the government had proposed to spend about Rs 10,000 crore on development of special projects in Hyderabad metropolitan area and Musi river-front. Similarly, irrigation projects proposed to be taken up from the state budget may not become a reality this year. The government had earmarked Rs 11,054 crore for irrigation sector for 2020-21. Only those projects like Kaleshwaram and Palamuru-Rangareddy are executed with loans. Apart from this, some promises made during the 2018 elections such as pay revision for state government employees, unemployment allowance to youth and enhancement of retirement age to the government employees may be deferred for some more time, official sources said. The government had also planned to construct new secretariat and assembly building at a cost of Rs 600 crore. “This may take a back seat in the priorities list,” an official said. This setback comes in the backdrop of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s recent announcement that the state’s revenues have not picked up at all despite relaxing lockdown guidelines and opening up various sectors. The state earns Rs 12,000 crore a month through state-owned tax revenue (SOTR) and central shares, but in May only Rs 3,100 crore was accrued. In April, it was just Rs 1,700 crore. Finance department officials are sceptical about mobilising funds for implementing the entire budget proposals. The state had earlier contemplated mobilising funds by auctioning government land and other means like exploiting mining of resources. Despite the steep revenue fall, senior officials said, the government has no plans to levy ‘special Covid-19 fee’ like it had imposed on liquor. “As of now, we do not have any plans to impose additional taxes or enhancement of fees and taxes,” a top government official said. Official sources said apart from revising its budget estimations, the government has plans to place the facts before the people in the next assembly session. “In April and May, the revenue dip was 17% less than the normal collection. This is likely to continue in June also. In the first quarter, the revenue loss will be about 30% of the expected revenue receipts in the financial year,” a senior official explained. Political analysts said the government cannot ignore welfare schemes like Aasara pensions, farmer welfare schemes like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima and farm loan waiver being implemented at a cost of Rs 40,000 crore annually. “The beneficiaries of these schemes are the biggest vote-bank of the government in every election, especially farmers,” political analyst K Nageshwar said. Nearly 40 lakh people avail pensions which cost the government Rs 11,758 crore annually. The ruling party also realises this and wants the government to continue its flagship schemes without any cuts in the budget and changes despite the precarious financial position. The chief minister also hinted that programmes like Rythu Bandhu would continue. Sources said the government, which has cut 75% of the salaries of MLAs and MLCs, may now also cut the Rs 3 crore constituency development fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irrigation-infra-projects-to-take-a-blow-as-govt-walks-tightrope/articleshow/76251151.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||One-third of West Bengal’s Covid cases during Unlock 1.0||KOLKATA: For the third successive day, Bengal recorded its steepest rise in Covid cases with 449 persons testing positive. In the first week of Unlock 1.0, Bengal has reported 2,686 Covid cases, which is 32.8% (roughly one-third) of the total cases detected in the state so far. The state recorded its first case on March 17. On May 31, the state had reported 5,501 cases. On Sunday, after the first week of Unlock 1, this figure reached a staggering 8,187 cases. Since Monday, Bengal has recorded more than 380 positive cases per day. Kolkata, with 633 cases this week, records the highest number of cases. Howrah is next with 390 cases since Monday and North 24 Parganas reported 363 cases. Hooghly had 293 cases and West Midnapore reported 142 cases this week — 84 among them on Sunday itself. In fact, Kolkata on Sunday reported fewer cases than West Midnapore, which registered 74 cases. Experts who are tracking these developments also expressed their anxiety over the increasing positivity rate — the percentage of positive cases out of the samples tested in a day. According to state health department data, the positivity rate on Sunday was 3.02%. This was 2.7% on May 31. On May 27, it had come down to as low as 2.5%, the lowest so far. “This increase of positivity rate show that there has been a strong spread of the disease and it is very alarming,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, who is part of the Covid advisory team, assisting the state. “Though the number of cases is still high in urban and semi-urban districts but with the entry of the migrant labourers the concentration will gradually shift to the districts. In the coming weeks, the districts are likely to record more cases than the cities, ” said virologist Amitava Nandi. Though Kolkata recorded the highest number of cases last week, districts like Purulia, Darjeeling, Bankura and South Dinajpur have recorded a whooping surge in cases. Of the total 177 cases in West Midnapore, for example, 142 cases were reported between June 1 and June 7, marking a rise of 80%. Similarly, Coochbehar recorded 90 out of 158 cases in the current week having a percentage rise of 56.9 %. In neighbouring Darjeeling 68 of the total 89 cases were registered in the first week of Unlock 1 showing a rise of 76%. Purulia, where there was a massive influx of migrant labourers recorded 56 of the total 63 cases in the first week of June with a percentage rise of 88.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-third-of-states-covid-cases-during-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76251133.cms||Saibal Gupta
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Restaurateurs hope to get their mojo back||BENGALURU: The mood is one of cautious optimism for restaurateurs who are set to open their cafes, resto bars, and brew pubs in the city on Monday. ‘We will play it by the ear depending on the response from customers’ was the common refrain from owners TOI spoke to. The concern is understandable considering how the rules of the F&B industry have drastically changed in the post-Covid world. In addition to mandatory health and safety guidelines required to run restaurants, there are more rules now: Only 50% occupancy, six feet distance to be maintained, temperature checks, staff to be masked and gloved, and no contact service, among others. Sanitisation from valet to tableRestaurant owners are giving it their all to ensure that their guests feel safe enough to visit and spend. And so as they open shutters, restaurants have the processes down pat. “It starts right with the valet service. The car is sanitised and the customer is greeted by the valet driver kitted in PPE gear, who will collect the keys on a tray. Following temperature check and hand sanitisation, the customer will be ushered into the elevator which will be sanitised once he exits. We will then have his footwear disinfected before the hostess ushers him to the table,” explains Nerall Bakhai, managing director of Stories brewery and Dr Sheesha. And this is just the protocol that will be followed at the entry. UV chambers and plate ware in pouchesOnce the guest is seated, there’s a whole new routine in place. This includes cleaning the table, and serving plates and cutlery that come in their own sterilised packets or pouches. “The first thought that came to my mind when we heard of restaurants being allowed to open was that our guests may still have some fears. We had to convey that the idea of eating out was comfortable and safe, which is why we have stringent measures in place,” explains Amit Ahuja, MD of AA Hospitality that owns Misu and Lucky Chan, among other properties. Ahuja saw wisdom in investing in a UV chamber, which will now be used to sterilise fruits, vegetables and kitchenware. He has also appointed a ‘Chief Health Officer’ who will ensure staff follow all cleanliness protocols. Serve food yourself“We have now new standard operating procedures (SOPs) for every department — from front office to kitchen staff to wait and bar staff. We have plans to incentivise it to ensure our staff follow these rules,” says restaurateur Chetan Hegde. Bookings for reservations will be done in slots at 1522, his chain of pubs, Hegde says. If you are planning to eat out today, be ready to order from a shorter menu ‘owing to lack of supplies and staff’. Also be ready to serve food yourself. “To reduce human contact, the waiter will place the food on the table and leave,” Bakhai and Hegde say. Overall mood“I hope the buzz that I see on the streets of Indiranagar reflects in my restaurant,” too Ahuja says. Bakhai predicts that restaurants will see good crowds for the first 10 days, after which they will peter down. “We have invested a lot in ensuring these new hygiene and safety protocols, so please don’t expect any discounts or offers from us for the next six months. We are barely surviving,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/restaurateurs-hope-to-get-their-mojo-back/articleshow/76250926.cms||Mahalakshmi P
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Students’ hop, skip and jump on screen has stakeholders worried||NAGPUR: Since mid-March, students have been literally locked up inside homes and with no clarity yet on the physical reopening of schools, academicians, health experts and parents are worried about the impact it’s having on them. With almost three decades of teaching/supervising experience in pre-primary education, Kalpana Dhareshwar said the lockdown is a big challenge. “For years, we have been telling children to go out and play and stay away from the phone or TV. Now it’s just the opposite. Fortunately, parents are at home, too, so that cushions the blow for children because of the support system they provide.” Senior academician at an MBA institute, Carol Rao feels being cooped up inside homes is having a negative impact on students’ mental health. “Due to the lockdown, they are unable to share their feelings which is leading to depression. They must spend some time improving their skills which will help them overcome their depression and learn something new,” said Rao. Senior medical practitioner and psychologist, Dr Rajiv Mohta said students are feeling the pressure in the current scenario. “Adolescents feel compassionate with peers as they can share their feeling with them honestly. Schools should think of appointing additional staff and counsellors to help students,” said Dr Mohta. He added that “in regular classes, multi multifaceted learning happens, leading to discussions and two-way communication”. Rajnikant Bondre, a private coaching institute owner, said it’s important to spend time with peers. “It helps students learn important life skills which bookish knowledge can never teach. Skills such as interacting with people, leadership qualities etc can help a lot,” said Bondre. Another private coaching institute owner, Panini Telang, said the prolonged lockdown is diverting students’ attention. “The distraction like OTT platforms and social media are diverting students from studies. They are becoming more lazy and losing their energy levels. Students who are in class XI or are school-going are enjoying holidays in a sense,” said Telang. Dilip Bose, a senior school principal, says the dependence on gadgets has increased during the lockdown which is ‘not good’. “They are not into traditional teaching anymore due to online classes. This has made them lethargic and completely dependent on gadgets for learning,” said Bose. Another senior principal, Madhu Joseph, said students might have to wait longer for coming back to schools. “It will become a very difficult task to gain parents’ trust regarding sending their wards back because of the Covid-19 threat. But reopening of schools is also needed because physical learning is better than distant learning,” said Joseph. Ashok Gavhankar, a senior principal, said excessive gadgets will harm children. “The usage of gadgets has increased so much that it is affecting their mental as well as physical health. They are becoming lazy and if this continues, they will refuse to go out of the house and do outdoor activities,” said Gavhankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-hop-skip-and-jump-on-screen-has-stakeholders-worried/articleshow/76251540.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Operation Crackdown 2: 10 goons arrested||NAGPUR: Under Operation Crackdown 2, crime branch sleuths on Saturday night arrested 10 dreaded goons who were planning a dacoity near Wathoda Chowk. Cops have also seized several weapons from the miscreants in the raid. The operation was launched by the city police chief following a series of murders and a dacoity in the city recently. Under the operation, senior cops were directed to crack down on anti-social elements to keep a check on crime in the city. On Saturday, crime branch sleuths were patrolling in the area when API KV Choughle received a tip off that some miscreants had gathered at the house of dreaded goon Sugat Badge at Wathoda Chowk with weapons and were planning a dacoity. Cops swung into action and arrested 10 goons from the spot. Four weapons, 8 mobile phones, cash, chilli powder and three vehicles in all worth Rs3.03 lakh were seized. The accused have been identified as Mohsin alias Bablu Sheikh who has 13 offences registered against him, Imran alias Arman Khan (8 offences), Gaurav Manmode (1 offence), Sugat alias Dhamadeep Bagde (5 offences), Amar Mahale (6 offences), Tushar Dahake (4 offences), Vijay Channe (19 offences), Ranjit Dhanwat (20 offences), Samir alias Ajay Chaurasiya (6 offences) and Vikas alias Sunny Verma, who is the nephew of dreaded gangster Santosh Ambekar and has 13 offences registered against him. Verma was also externed from the city limits while Dhanwat is currently an externee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/operation-crackdown-2-10-goons-arrested/articleshow/76251459.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||A death in Nagpur & Akola; Vidarbha Covid cases at 2,266||NAGPUR: Two patients died of Covid-19 on Sunday in Vidarbha taking the total death toll to 78. Apart from this, 94 new cases were reported from the region and 81 patients recovered and discharged in a day. Total cases in Vidarbha have now reached 2,266, with 1,519 of them recovered. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is 67.03%, which is higher than state and the national average. First death of the day was reported from worst-hit Akola. Swab samples of an 85-year-old man, who was admitted on March 31 in a critical condition and died on June 6, tested positive on Sunday. Second death was in Nagpur when a 58-year-old woman patient from Amravati died in the GMCH. Suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), she was brought to Nagpur on June 4. She had tested positive for Covid-19 the same day. Apart from a death, 57 new cases were reported from Akola on Sunday. These include 24 women and 33 men from 12 different localities in the town. Total number of Covid-19 cases in Akola crossed 800-mark and reached 813 — which is highest for a city in Vidarbha. Nagpur reported 16 new cases. Here, total number of cases reached 708 — second highest in the region. Chandrapur recorded its highest single-day spike of 11 new patients. Amravati reported four new cases taking the patient count to 279 — third highest in Vidarbha. Yavatmal also recorded three new cases and reached 158. Recovery of patients also continued in the region. With 23 from GMCH and nine from IGGMCH, total 32 patients got discharge from Nagpur followed by 13 in Amravati, 11 in Yavatmal and nine in Akola. Bhandara and Gondia reported no new patient, but saw six and five patients, respectively, being discharged on Sunday taking the count of active patients down to 17 in Bhandara and five in Gondia. Wardha and Washim recorded no new patients. A couple, which had returned from Mumbai, tested positive in Gadchiroli on Sunday. Two patients got discharge the same day, due to which the count of active patients in Gadchiroli remained at 15. Amravati: An eight-year-old boy is among the four who tested positive on Sunday, taking the district’s Covid count to 279. On the brighter side, 13 patients were discharged from Covid Hospital, taking the number of recovered patients to 185. With 16 deaths reported so far, the number of active Covid cases here today is 76, while two are in GMCH, Nagpur. An official release from civil surgeon’s office said four, including a female, tested positive, all from different localities. Yavatmal: The district recorded three new cases on Sunday which are from the high-risk contacts of the deceased man from Mudhana of Mahagaon tehsil. On the other hand, 11 patients in the GMCH isolation ward were discharged on Sunday. Currently, there are 33 active patients in the GMCH isolation ward of whom one has tested positive for the second time. Chandrapur: With 11 persons testing positive in a day, district witnessed largest spike of Covid-19 infections on Sunday. Officials claimed that nine out of the 11 tested positive were under institutional quarantine, while the remaining two were under home isolation. The number of positive patients in the district has now jumped to 39. Previous single-day largest high of positive patients was seven, detected on May 23. Officials said so far 22 patients have been treated and discharged from hospital. With addition of 11 new cases, the number of active patients now stands at 17 in Chandrapur. All the patients are stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-death-in-nagpur-akola-vid-covid-cases-at-2266/articleshow/76251492.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Will not conduct puja if govt allows pilgrims to shrines, say Char Dham priests||DEHRADUN: With the Uttarakhand government gearing up to start the Char Dham Yatra, priests of the Char Dham shrines — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri — have threatened that they won't conduct puja if devotees are allowed into their temples. The priests’ threat comes amidst fears that opening shrines for pilgrims will lead to greater transmission of Covid-19 in the hills, especially in the wake of rapidly rising cases following return of the migrant population. The state has recorded 1355 cases and 13 deaths so far of Covid-positive patients. Earlier last week, the chief priest (rawal) of the Badrinath shrine had also written to CM Trivendra Rawat urging him to keep the yatra suspended till June 30 and allow pilgrims only when the novel coronavirus threat subsides. Locals in the area who had earlier been expressing concern at loss of livelihood if the yatra doesn’t start, had also been echoing the priests’ concerns and demanding that pilgrim movement not be allowed in view of the safety of local residents. Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Teerth Purohit Char Dham Mahapanchayat (a body representing Char Dham priests), told TOI, “On Saturday, five tourists from Maharashtra, which is among the worst-hit Covid-19 states of the country, managed to reach till Gauri Kund near Kedarnath. Can officials explain how they managed to reach till there when restrictions are in place regarding movement of tourists?” He added, “If the Char Dham shrines are opened for pilgrims, officials won't be able to control the influx of devotees. As a consequence, people living in the hills are likely to become all the more susceptible to Covid-19 . In view of this, we have decided to not conduct puja if the Char Dham Yatra is started without our consent.” Some priests also alleged that the state government has not ensured necessary steps like sanitisation of temples to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in Char Dham shrines. “The government has not conducted sanitisation of the temples even once. Isn’t this putting the safety of everyone at risk? ” said Shiv Prakash Maharaj, rawal (chief priest) of Gangotri shrine. Meanwhile, state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik told TOI late on Sunday after the conclusion of a meeting chaired by the CM that the Char Dham shrines won’t be opened for pilgrims on Monday along with the other temples in the state. “A decision on the opening of the Char Dham shrines will be taken after the Char Dham Devasthanam Board meets in a couple of days,” Kaushik said. Priests of Jageshwar Temple in Almora and Neelkanth Mahadev Temple in Rishikesh are also of the view that shrines should not be opened for devotees until Covid-19 threat subsides. However, preparations are under full swing at many temples in Dehradun and Haridwar so that they can open for devotees while maintaining Covid-19 guidelines. In these temples, circles are being made at appropriate distances to ensure social distancing, bells have been removed, lifts have been shut, and pedal sanitisers have been installed to prevent transmission of the virus. Additionally, the priests have also set time duration beyond which a devotee cannot remain inside the temple premises. “We will allow just one devotee in the sanctum and that too for just one minute,” said Mahant Krishnagiri, priest at Tapkeshwar Mahadev Temple. Similarly, Mata Vaishno Devi Gufa Temple administration has installed pedal sanitisers inside temple premises along with drawing social distancing circles to keep the virus at bay. In Haridwar at Har Ki Pauri, thermal scanning machines and sanitiser stands have been put in place at all three entry points. Likewise, Mansa Devi Temple administration has decided to not distribute prasad among devotees. “Faith is important, but safety of people is equally important,” said Tamay Vashishth, general secretary of Ganga Sabha. Not just the temples but the mosques in Dehradun are also taking several precautionary measures before opening up for devotees. Naseem Ahmed, vice president of Eidgah and Jama Masjid mosques, told TOI that all the mosques have been sanitised and people have already been made aware of social distancing norms. Wearing masks has also been made mandatory for devotees who wish to enter mosques. “We will open for devotees after receiving guidelines from the administration. Meanwhile, we have ensured that all the norms laid by the Centre are followed when the mosques open for devotees,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-not-conduct-puja-if-govt-allows-pilgrims-to-shrines-say-char-dham-priests/articleshow/76250432.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: BJP netas protest ‘failure’ of healthcare, detained||NEW DELHI: Several Delhi BJP functionaries were detained on Sunday after they staged a sit-in protest at Rajghat claiming failure of the city’s healthcare system and the AAP government’s handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic in the national capital. The BJP leaders, including Delhi state president Adesh Gupta, leader of opposition in legislative assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, MLAs and party functionaries, were taken to Rajender Nagar police station and let off a few hours later. Before the arrest, Gupta and Bidhuri said they wanted to meet chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and give him a memorandum on his government’s failure to provide proper healthcare to the people of Delhi, but were not allowed by police to go to his residence. “Corona patients are not being treated at all. In this crisis situation, BJP, which is responsible opposition party, is trying to make chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his government realise their responsibility,” Gupta and Bidhuri said in a joint statement. BJP leaders alleged that Kejriwal had claimed on April 7 that Delhi government had identified 30,000 beds for the treatment of corona patients. “But patients are dying due to non-availability of beds. The chief minister himself is saying that patients should be treated in their own homes and they do not have to come to the hospital. We want to know if it was possible for people living in small houses to have home quarantine? This arrangement also increases the risk for rest of the patient’s family members,” they further said. It is the responsibility of the government to arrange for isolation and treatment of all patients, they added. An AAP spokesperson, on the other hand, said that there are about 10,000 beds in central government hospitals, but only 1,200-1,300 have been earmarked for Covid-19. “BJP should increase the number of Covid-19 beds in hospitals run by the Centre. Similarly, Covid-19 beds should also be earmarked in MCD-run hospitals,” added the party spokesperson. On the issue of home quarantine, the spokesperson said that Delhi government has arranged about 6,000 beds in Covid-19 care centres for those who do not have adequate space or separate washrooms at home. “Those suggested home quarantine can also stay in Covid-19 care centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-netas-protest-failure-of-healthcare-detained-/articleshow/76251590.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Surge in supply pulls down mutton price in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Long queues were again seen in front of mutton shops in city after the sudden dip in price on Sunday. The number of buyers had gone down significantly during the lockdown because of record price hike and less supply. The mutton price at Gariahat and Lake market plunged to Rs 600 per kg. In some markets, the price still hovered around Rs 700. Sources said that the price will go down further with supply exceeding the demand. The constraint in supply of goat from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh pushed up the price to Rs 800. “Even early last week, mutton price zoomed to Rs 850 a kg. But during the unlock 1, the supply resumed. It’s not just about buying the goats, you have to feed them. The cost of fodder is also very high now. Almost all meat shops had more goats than usual on Sunday,” said Mohammed Rafiq, a trader. “To clear the stock, a mature goat is now being sold at Rs12,000. The price of a mature goat rose to Rs 20,000-Rs 25,000. The goat traders, who could not sell anything during last two months, now desperately need to clear the stock just to survive. Thus price can fluctuate and crash further before settling down at a price,” said Afaulla Khan, an agent. Now, 10 to 15 trucks carrying goats are reaching Narkeldanga, the wholesale hub. Each truck carries 300 goats. Even during the last week of May, the number dwindled to one or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surge-in-supply-pulls-down-mutton-price/articleshow/76251136.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Posts on social media misleading, says council||Lucknow: UP’s basic education council on Sunday clarified that posts regarding selection of candidates in the merit list for recruitment of 69,000 teachers on wrong records (academic and caste) doing rounds on social media are not true. Terming these posts as misleading, council's under secretary Anil Kumar stated that they have written to the cyber cell in Lucknow to check the veracity of these posts and take action against the guilty. Kumar further clarified that the merit list has been prepared on the information given by candidates while applying online. Thus, for any anomaly in academic records or caste details candidates themselves are responsible. The counselling, which was to be held from June 3 to June 6, was to verify documents of candidates whose names appear in the merit list. But the process has been deferred due to stay on appointments by the HC. The council further clarified that the name in merit list doesn't guarantee a candidate the appointment. During the counseling, candidates' documents are verified by a committee constituted at district level. If there is any discrepancy in documents, the candidature is cancelled. The appointment is based on the documents given by candidates in consideration with rules and regulations and is software generated with no human interference, stated Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/posts-on-social-media-misleading-says-council/articleshow/76251591.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolkata||Only emergency treatment at Siliguri's NBMCH||SILIGURI: With at least 10 healthcare workers (HCW), including an assistant professor of medicine department attached with North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) testing positive to Covid-19 and many others being put on quarantine, the hospital authority has decided to entertain only very critical patients for now. The health officials have also sent a circular to other hospitals across the district to restrict referral cases. Sources said other HCWs, who had been identified as close contacts of the 10 workers, have been put on quarantine. The principal of (NBMCH) PK Deb, however, said about five HCWs have tested positive. “At least 15 healthcare workers are in quarantine while around 5 health care workers, including doctors and nurses, have been tested positive,” said Deb. A large number of health care workers have gone to quarantine facilities after some tested positive across several departments at NBMCH. Under such circumstances, NBMCH has decided to restrict only to emergency cases, said the principal. A circular on Saturday signed by the medical superintendent and vice principal Kaushik Samajadar said: “In view of the grave situation, admission of patients to NBMCH, Darjeeling will be restricted to seriously ill/moribund, gasping cases only till further notice.” Even as the hospital has an isolation facility for Covid-suspected patients, no positive patient are being treated in the hospital itself. Such patients are shifted to the Covid-designated hospital taken over by the government. But the Lab attached with the medical college is testing Covid samples. “We have issued guidelines to hospital across the districts to refer emergency cases only,” said chief Pralay Acharya, medical officer of health, Darjeeling. Meanwhile, Siliguri District Hospital (SDH) Medical Superintendent , Amitabh Mondal said the situation can be managed if there are no case from the block areas or else the SDH will have too much pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-emergency-treatment-at-nbmch/articleshow/76251146.cms||Roshan Gupta
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Offices reopen, autos allowed with conditions||NASHIK: With the state government allowing the shops and establishments to open cautiously under ‘Mission Begin Again’, autorickshaws too have been given the nod to ply on roads across the district, but with not more than two passengers at a time. “The owners of the establishments and businesses will have to stick to the guidelines of the number of people allowed at work — 10% of strength or 10 people, whichever is higher — and ensure all provisions to maintain hygiene,” resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode said. As MSRTC buses are not being allowed to operate in the city, citizens who need to go to the shops/establishments can take autorickshaws, Doifode said. MSRTC is allowed to run only intra-district operations except to and from red-zone areas. “The guidelines are welcome as we are able to restart our offices again. It would be difficult, but we would stick to the norms of attendance,” said Satish Kulkarni, head of an investment firm. The autorickshaw drivers also welcomed the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/offices-reopen-autos-allowed-with-conditions/articleshow/76250464.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||None to hear consumers’ grievances as forum lies defunct||Ludhiana: With the local consumer forum lying virtually inoperational for over six months now, the litigants are facing problems. Not a single case has been disposed of during this period. The last case was disposed of on November 15 last year, according to the forum’s website.Senior advocate at the district court Harjot Singh Harikay, who had written to the chief minister regarding this early this year, said the forum is without a regular president for two years, and there are also no regular and ad hoc members for several months.He said as there were no presidents in the consumer forums of 14 districts of the state, in December 2019, the principal judge of state commission had recommended for appointment of 11 presidents, including one in Ludhiana, and also a lady member and another member in the local district consumer forum.“But, due to the undue delay in issuing a notification in this regard by the concerned ministry (food and supplies), the work of forum has been affected since then. Around 2,000 complainants against real estate, and health and insurance sectors as well as some government departments are lying unattended and the litigants are suffering,” said Harikay, who also handles cases at the forum.Another advocate Amit Tandon, who is representing around 15 aggrieved consumers at the forum, said there is huge pendency of cases since November. “I am pleading around 15 cases before the forum and I have already got 12-14 adjournments since 2019-end,” said Tandon.A litigant Vikas Sharma of Badi Haibowal said, “After my father’s death, I had filed a case in the consumer forum in 2015 for settlement of an insurance claim. Since then, the case is dragging on, first because of no regular presiding officer and then because there was no presiding officer at all. If a forum has to work like this, it’s better to shut it.”Reacting to the delay in appointment of judges, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the matter is under the consideration of the government and once the file goes to the chief minister, there would be more clarity on the matter. “Selection process is going on and judges will be appointed soon,” he said.Complaint filingA written complaint can be filed with the District Consumer Forum, the state commission and the national commission for pecuniary value of up to Rs 20 lakh, Rs 1 crore and above Rs 1 crore, respectively, for defects in goods and/or deficiency in service. No complaint can be filed for deficiency in any service that is rendered free of charge or under a contract of personal service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/none-to-hear-consumers-grievances-as-forum-lies-defunct/articleshow/76250467.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 8, 2020||Goa||Tar balls surface along South Goa coast from Salcete to Canacona||Colva/Poinguinim: Beach goers have been left inconvinienced after tar balls have surfaced along the Salcete stretch as well in Agonda, Canacona. Dark streaks of the oily matter was seen along the Salcete coastal stretch that comprises villages of Betalbatim, Colva, Benaulim, Varca, Carmona and Cavelossim. “This time the problem is mild, and there are no shacks and tourists. The only people on the shore are migrant workers who were employed at shacks and are waiting to return home,” said a Colva-based shack operator. At Agonda, fishermen as well as villagers who use the beach for leisure activities like walking and jogging have been aggrieved due to the sticky deposits . Last week, director of tourism department Menino D’Souza had told TOI that the beach cleaning agency will collect the tar balls only after the substance hardens, and will be later sent for disposal. However, Drishti lifeguarding personnel at Colva said that although the tar balls are collected, fresh deposits are witnessed everyday due to the strong tidal effect. Last month, an oil-like substance had washed ashore along the Cavelossim-Colva shoreline, rendering the beach unsafe for visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tar-balls-surface-along-south-goa-coast-from-salcete-to-canacona/articleshow/76251618.cms||Nisser Dias
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: After six-year wait, winners get Lusofonia Games medals||PANAJI: Several sportspersons who won medals for Goa-India at the Lusofonia Games 2014 had nothing to show. The medals awarded to them made news for all the wrong reasons, even internationally, after they were found to be defective. The ‘gold’ on some medals was fading, while others immediately developed black spots. The winners returned their medals in protest, and it’s only now — after a wait of more than six years — that they have got them back. Five gold, five silver and eight bronze medals were returned to the organisers by athletes and officials, while another consignment — a buffer, according to the state government — saw 17 gold, 27 silver and 53 bronze medals losing their shine. “The battle has now ended. The state government has reached an amicable settlement with IGM. Mint is a unit of the finance ministry, so they approached top officials of the state, held discussions and worked out a settlement,” a Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) official told TOI. All medals were manufactured at the Indian Government Mint (IGM) in Kolkata. While Goa continued to seethe in anger at the loss of reputation, held back payments and even filed a case in two separate courts for damages, IGM fought hard to protect its own reputation. According to the understanding, IGM Kolkata has replaced all defective medals while the payment of Rs 62.2 lakh has also been waived off to compensate for the loss of face. ‘Chemical reaction from boxes had impact on medals’“The athletes have had to wait for a long time to get their medals and we are now getting in touch with them to pick up their new medals. Some of the phone numbers that we had in our records have changed, so we informed the respective state associations to send the message across,” said the official. Similar to the Commonwealth Games, which involves countries which were once colonially ruled by the British empire, the Lusofonia Games involves athletes from Lusophone or Portuguese-speaking nations, formerly ruled by the colonial power. Goa hosted the third edition from January 18-29, 2014. While the participants included countries like Brazil, Portugal, Angola, Sri Lanka, Mozambique, Cape Verde, East Timor, Sao Tome and Principe Guinea-Bissau, Macau and Equatorial Guinea, Goa was allowed the liberty of fielding a state team with imports from other states. The hosts were called Goa-India. A total of 693 victory medals (221 gold, 221 silver and 251 bronze medals), all manufactured in Kolkata, were procured for the Lusofonia Games. The Lusofonia Games organising committee had also procured approximately 1500 commemorative medals — at a cost of Rs 600 each — which were supposed to be handed over to the Lusofonia Games workforce. A total of 1,000 commemorative medals were returned after they were found to be defective. “Nobody can fault the state government for giving IGM the contract. True it was based on a single quotation, but their reputation and quality could not be questioned. This is the same company that manufactures commemorative coins, medallions and currency notes for the government. “Mint manufactured only the medals. They don’t produce boxes or other accessories, so the job was outsourced (by Mint) through a tender. During internal investigations it was found that the company that produced the boxes did a shoddy job. It was the chemical reaction with the boxes that made the medals turn bad,” said the official. Goa hosted the third edition in 2014 after Macau (2006) and Lisbon (2009). The next edition was scheduled to be held in Mozambique in 2017, but there is no word if and when the next edition will be held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-six-year-wait-winners-get-lusofonia-games-medals/articleshow/76251592.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to pull down big hoardings in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: An action plan is being rolled out to pull down all the hoardings/billboards and unipoles across the city. In an attempt to make the city hoarding free, a new advertisement policy is also being enforced which restricts the height of the hoardings to 15 feet from ground level. As per the new policy, if height of the unauthorised advertisement element exceeds 15 feet, a penalty of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed per day. “If the unauthorised hoarding (above 15 feet from ground) surfaces on June 1 and the violation is reported on June 8, the penalty will be Rs 7 lakh. The idea is to make Hyderabad a hoarding free city by discouraging huge billboards,” said a GHMC official. According to Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan, hoardings are being pulled down for the safety of people, especially during monsoon and gusty winds. “Despite hoardings generating revenue, MAUD minister KT Rama Rao instructed me to ensure hoardings are pulled down emphasising on safety of denizens,” said Rammohan. There are over 2,600 advertisement hoardings and Rs 40 crore revenue is generated every year from them. GHMC charges the advertiser based on hoarding size. According to civic officials, the advertisement rates have been revised too. “The state government has instructed us to reduce visual pollution and give utmost priority to safety of motorists and pedestrians. The decrease in revenue will also be balanced as advertisement prices for hoardings (lesser height) has been revised,” said Viswajit Kampati, director of GHMC’s Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM). According to commuters and activist, hoardings are a threat to people. “Structural stability of hoardings is always a concern during downpour accompanied by gusty winds. The city should get rid of all the hoardings. There have been instances where hoardings turned into death traps,” said Harish Daga, an activist from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-pull-down-big-hoardings-in-city/articleshow/76251153.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||‘Lakhs of teachers unpaid in June due to fee controversy’||Nagpur: Lakhs of schoolteachers in Maharashtra have not received their May-paid-in-June salaries, says Independent English Schools Association (IESA). The state-level organization says poor fee recovery has led to a financial crisis in the member schools, which are all state-board affiliated entities. In Nagpur district, many schools have either deferred payment or slashed salaries to tide over the cash crunch. Rajendra Dayma, president of IESA, claims the association had warned about this impending crisis in May itself. “We had said that around six lakh teachers and one lakh non-teaching staff will go without salaries if the current environment of avoiding fee payment continues,” he said. “This month, at least three lakh teachers are yet to receive their salaries because our member schools are struggling to arrange funds,” said Dayma. Majority of these schools are under ‘budget category’, meaning the fee structure is low. “Moreover, we also admit students under RTE for which payments are not coming in many institutes. Now, other parents too don’t want to pay fee, so we are looking at a situation where our members have exhausted their cash reserves and the situation will worsen,” said Dayma, who is trustee of a Jalna-based school. In Nagpur, even the affluent CBSE schools are struggling to meet their salary payments. Inderpreet Singh Tuli, director of Edify School, said he had no option but to marginally cut salaries for staff. “I had a discussion with them and said we will never cut jobs, so the only other option was to take a knock on the salaries. Through mutual consent we decided that no cuts will be implemented for peons, guards, maids etc,” said Tuli. While Tuli spoke on record about the problem, other schools preferred not to be identified by TOI. One such trustee said, “Salary cuts had to be implemented as a temporary measure because parents are not paying up their dues.” A Nagpur-based CBSE schools association gave a memorandum to district collector Ravindra Thakre stating lack of fee collection will lead to job cuts in the education sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lakhs-of-teachers-unpaid-in-june-due-to-fee-controversy/articleshow/76251141.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP: I-T advisers, yoga teachers among migrants profiled||LUCKNOW: Income tax advisers, music teachers, yoga trainers and dieticians were among lakhs of migrants who have returned to Uttar Pradesh during lockdown. The data on skill sets was collected by the government from people reaching the state by bus or Shramik Special trains over the last few weeks. The exercise is being carried out to provide employment to migrants. Out of a list of 28,13,970 people registered by the government, 18,31,607 are unskilled workers. Another 5.56 lakh are families of workers, including wives and children, who have not sought jobs from the government. “Hundreds of government employees were deployed at bus stops and railway stations to collect skill data from workers so that it can be provided to industries. The government has already signed MoUs with four industry bodies for 11 lakh jobs within a year. We have received a promising response,” an official said. The skill-profiling of workers has thrown up interesting details about people from UP working in other states. While construction labourers form the largest chunk with 2.96 lakh registered workers, 55,609 are painters. There are 53,335 labourers who were engaged in works other than construction, while there were 42,029 carpenters, 36,710 tailors and 28,194 agricultural labourers. Another 24,773 people have registered as drivers. Details of people have been collected in 92 categories with 2.69 lakh people whose skill sets are not included in the list. Others who have returned to the state include 8,417 caretakers (ayahs) and 817 specialising in gems and jewellery. “These people have possibly returned from either Rajasthan or Gujarat which are famous for jewellery and gemstone work,” an official said. The state may also benefit from the return of 705 nurses and ward boys, especially when its medical infrastructure is burdened with coronavirus patients. Migrants also include 318 music teachers, 253 yoga teachers, 235 gym trainers, 212 dieticians and 115 income tax advisors who are seeking employment. Among those specialising in very limited fields include tile fixers, RO technicians, well-diggers, microwave repair personnel and packers and movers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/i-t-advisers-yoga-teachers-among-migrants-profiled/articleshow/76251603.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||2 warring groups open fire in air, 2 bystanders hit by bullets in Bareilly market||Bareilly: Two warring factions of bike-borne youths opened a barrage of fire in the air, leaving two curious onlookers injured in Bareilly’s Katra Chand Khan locality on Saturday night. A youth was hit by a stray bullet in his head while his sister-in-law sustained pellets in her leg as they were standing on the second floor of their house. The youth has been admitted to a private hospital by police where his condition is critical. Station house officer (SHO) of Bareilly police station Naresh Tyagi told TOI, “There was a tiff between two groups of youth and they fired multiple shots in the air. Sachin Kumar, who was standing on the second floor of his house, was hit by one of bullets in his head while his sister-in-law sustained pellet injuries. Kumar was rushed to a hospital where his condition has shown little improvement but he is still in ICU. Later, police registered a case booked the accused for attempt to murder. “We have registered an FIR against Pankaj, his brother Vinod, Aman, Nahid, Azharuddin alias Azzi and Imram under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapons), 149 (offence committed in prosecution of common object), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 307 (attempt to murder). We have detained one of the accused for questioning while the rest are still on the run. We are trying to check the criminal history of the accused,” the SHO said. The incident took place on a day when the district witnessed three brutal murders. A farmer was brutally killed near Rasuiya crossing with sharp-edged weapons and the body of a six-year-old boy was fished out of a pond in Sirouli area. The testicles of the boy were missing and he died due to excessive bleeding, confirmed autopsy. The third incident was reported from Bithri Chenpur area where the body of a 24-year-old e-rickshaw driver was recovered from a crop field. Police said there were several injury marks on his body and face, which suggest that he was tortured by the killers. ADG Bareilly Zone Avinash Chandra inspected the incident spots and instructed SSP Bareilly to nab the accused at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-warring-groups-open-fire-in-air-2-bystanders-hit-by-bullets-in-bareilly-market/articleshow/76249651.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Asymptomatic Covid patients to be treated at Shiroda PHC||PANAJI: The state government said on Sunday that over 90% of the state’s active Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic, and that only 20 patients require specialised treatment. As the number of positives is set to rise, the department of health has now decided to set up Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients, said health secretary Nila Mohanan. The state’s active Covid-19 count shot up by 33 on Sunday, 30 of which were linked to the Mangor Hill containment zone. The remaining three are travellers who arrived from Delhi and Maharashtra. With these 33, the Mangor Hill tally crossed the double-century mark, with 201 of the state’s 235 cases. This is already well past the capacity of the ESI hospital at Margao, which has served as the state’s dedicated facility for Covid-19 cases. “Out of the 235, 215 are asymptomatic,” said Mohanan. “Asymptomatic persons are not expected to require critical care.” Thus, based on guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the state set up the first Covid care centre at the Shiroda Public Health Centre. South Goa collector Ajit Roy also issued an order under the Disaster Management Act requisitioning the services of the entire premises of the Gomantak Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Shiroda, and notified it as a Covid care centre. These care centres will cater to individuals infected by the novel coronavirus but do not exhibit symptoms. These individuals, said Dr Jose D’Sa, director of health services, do not require any critical care and get cured with basic medical treatment. He said that of the 300 cases Goa has seen in total, only 5% had visible symptoms. “The rest of the 95% had no symptoms,” he said. “Despite the rising number of cases, patients presenting symptoms remains negligible, and at the same time, we have a mortality rate of zero. Everyone has been cured in Goa.” Mohanan said that the move to have care centres as designated hospitals for asymptomatic Covid-19 positive persons and the ESI hospital in Margao for serious cases is in line with projections for future cases. “Patients were coming in small lots earlier, and because we thought it was manageable, we were taking care of all cases at the ESI hospital in Margao,” she said. “However, now, we feel we must keep enough beds for symptomatic patients.” Meanwhile, with the Shiroda PHC being used as a Covid care centre, the directorate of health services has shifted the out-patient department (OPD) and medical services for Shiroda to the Kamakshi Arogyadham. Mohanan said that the government would be adopting a targeted approach for testing at Mangor Hill, with a focus on at-risk persons. She said that testing resumed on Sunday “after a pause”, with 80 persons screened at the Mangor Sports Club on Sunday. “We have to evolve our strategy as the situation emerges,” she said. “We cannot get stuck on a particular position and say that this will be our only strategy.” She said that around 1,000 samples have been tested at Mangor Hill. TOI had reported in its edition dated June 7 that testing at Mangor Hill had stopped for two consecutive days. On Sunday, Mohanan said that the testing was temporarily paused testing because two members of the swab collection team tested positive. “A total of eight healthcare workers who were working at Mangor Hill have tested positive for the virus,” she said. “We then had to test their contacts and our frontline workers. After checking, we have re-formed the teams, for which we needed one day to train them on how to wear PPE and how to go about collecting swabs.” The health department conducts regular screening for all frontline health workers, and they’re tested every 14 days or as and when they develop symptoms associated with Covid-19. Mohanan also said that the elderly woman from Calangute who tested positive for the novel coronavirus is stable, with “no cause for concern”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/of-goas-235-covid-ve-cases-215-are-asymptomatic-mangor-count-hits-200/articleshow/76251599.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||You can pay water supply and sewerage dues online||Ludhiana: The city residents can now pay their water supply and sewerage dues online at the municipal corporation website.Earlier, the online payment facility was only for property tax. For water supply and sewerage dues, bills were sent homes and residents queued up at MC zonal offices to make payments.Sources said staff shortage has hit bill dispatch work.MC commissioner KP Brar said, “Earlier, there were certain issues with the online facility. But now those have been resolved to help residents pay dues easily. After entering their unique identity number, residents can check outstanding bills online and pay them. The step aims at reducing queues at MC offices and facilitating public.”Residents, meanwhile, hailed the move.Ajit Singh, a resident of Model Town, said, “It is a welcome step as now we don’t have to visit MC offices and queue up for bill payment. We wish the civic body makes other service payments online, too. It will not only help residents, but MC too as much time goes into printing and distributing bills.”Karan Sharma of Civil Lines said, “The authorities should bring all services online, including issuance of birth and death certificates and no-dues certificates, among others.”Water supply and sewerage dues are applicable on properties above 125 square yards. The MC sends bills to 2.60-lakh people for water, sewerage and disposal services.The procedureLog in to MC website www.mcludhiana.gov.in and create your account. After entering your UID number, you can pay property tax, water supply and sewerage dues online. You can also register complaints related with civic issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/you-can-pay-water-supply-and-sewerage-dues-online/articleshow/76250477.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Man ends life after travel agent ‘dupes him of Rs 10L’||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 37-year-old man committed suicide allegedly after a fraud travel agent duped him of Rs 10 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad.Jagmohan Singh consumed a poisonous substance at his house in Bhaini Sahib village on Friday night. His family took him to a hospital, where he succumbed on Saturday night. His sister, Sukhjit Kaur, said in her police complaint, “My brother’s friend Gruinder is the fraud travel agent. As Jagmohan was keen to settle abroad, Gurinder assured to help him get work permit there. In 2013, Gurinder took Rs 10 lakh from Jagmohan to send him to England. Initially, he sent Jagmohan there on a tourist visa. After he returned, Gurinder promised to help him get a PR. But after Gurinder failed to meet his promises, he started dilly-dallying on returning the money. This left Jagmohan upset, forcing him to take his life.”Koomkalan police station ASI Sahib Singh said, “Jagmohan had not filed any fraud complaint at the area police station. We will check if he did so with any senior police officer. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused, who has been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-ends-life-after-travel-agent-dupes-him-of-rs-10l/articleshow/76250483.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 like other respiratory diseases, don’t panic: Health director||Panaji: As malls and restaurants get set to open up for business, health authorities urged citizens not to panic because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, likening the novel coronavirus to “any other respiratory disease” prevalent in Goa. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa said that if every person took adequate precautions, residents had “nothing to panic” about, and could go about their daily lives. However, he stressed that individuals in high-risk categories, like elderly persons, children, those with co-morbidities or pregnant women need to take extra precautions. “Covid-19 is just like any other respiratory disease,” he said. “Just like Influenza or H1N1, Covid-19 is also a respiratory disease, a viral disease, and therefore there is nothing to panic about.” He was speaking at the daily press briefing by the health secretary and revenue secretary. D’Sa said that a lot of fear is being generated in the state due to the rise in cases. “If you look at other communicable diseases, there are so many patients presenting themselves everyday,” he said. “Look at the statistics, and you will see that the number of cases of these other diseases is also high. That is why don’t panic, don’t get scared.” He also said that most Covid-19 patients in Goa did not exhibit any of the serious symptoms associated with the disease, and were thus treated with basic medicines. “Only symptomatic patients need special attention,” he said. “This is a self-limiting disease, and no special treatment was given to patients, they all got cured.” He also said that the department was putting in place adequate safeguards to prevent the spread of the virus to other parts of the state. From Monday, restaurants and malls have been permitted to open after being shut for more than two months. Malls and restaurants will have to adhere to guidelines issued by the Food and Drugs Administration and health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-like-other-respiratory-diseases-dont-panic-health-director/articleshow/76251606.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Auto driver leads the way in safe ferrying of passengers||NASHIK: Sunil Joshi, a rickshaw driver from Nashik, has set an example for scores of auto drivers with his unique idea of curbing the spread of coronavirus while, at the same time, carrying out business. Joshi has divided the rear seat of his vehicle into two parts by fixing a transparent sheet in the middle. This way, the two passengers seated behind would not come in contact with one another. Besides, he has also put up a similar sheet behind his backrest so that there is also no transmission between him and the passengers. According to Joshi, many rickshaw drivers are taking cue from his concept for staying safe from the infection while ferrying passengers. Joshi, who has been driving rickshaw for about 34 years now, said that he has also kept a disinfectant and a hand sanitizer bottle in his rickshaw for extra safety. Passengers are given sanitizer while entering and alighting from the rickshaw.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auto-driver-leads-the-way-in-safe-ferrying-of-passengers/articleshow/76250480.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 8, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant calls all-party meet, GFP asks ‘is it a photo-op’||PANAJI: After a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, chief minister Pramod Sawant has called an all-party meeting on Monday to discuss the issue. The meeting, at 4pm, will be the first all-party meet since March. Opposition parties have been targetting Sawant over his government’s failure to tackle the Covid-19 situation. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said that the Congress’ stand is clear — community testing and financial support to the marginalised sector with strict austerity measures is the only way to go forward. “Will insist @goacm to walk the talk during the all-party meeting tomorrow. Not the time to celebrate!” he tweeted. Meanwhile, Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai wondered if the meet is a case of too little too late. “After 300 confirmed cases in Goa, and after fiascos including the Labourgate scam, the Goa CM belatedly convenes an all-party meet tomorrow (Monday) at 4pm,” he tweeted. “Is it too little too late? Or (is it) just a photo-op to show that all (of us) were taken into confidence? Or plain sharing responsibility for failure?” However, Sardesai said he would attend the meeting. Later, speaking to TOI, Sardesai said that even as the government permitted places of worship to open from Monday, neither Hindus, Muslims nor Christians are following it, instead deciding to postpone the reopening. Sardesai also said that SOP stands for Sawant operating procedure, not standard operating procedure, adding that when there hardly any cases, the state borders were sealed. Then, borders were opened, he said. “After messing up the situation, Sawant has called an all-party meeting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-calls-all-party-meet-gfp-asks-is-it-a-photo-op/articleshow/76251608.cms||Murari Shetye
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Power demand ups 2,300MW in 24 hrs||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh registered a major fluctuation in power demand owing to fluctuation in weather conditions between June 5 and 6. According to UP State Load Dispatch Centre (UPSLDC), the maximum demand rose from 15,700MW on June 5 to around 17,900MW on June 6 — a jump of 2,300MW within 24 hours, forcing the state government to light up more power units to meet the demand. Heavy rains had lashed the state on June 5, while the weathyer again turned sultry on June 6. The demand for power had been on the slide since June 4 — it fell from 18,000MW on June 1 to 16,000MW on June 4 — as rain and thunderstorms brought down the day time temperatures. But it went upwards on June 6. In terms of million units (MU), the demand from 286 MU on June 5 to 325 MU on June 6. UP Power Corporation Limited officials said the fluctuation was considerable given the stabilized demand for power in May. In fact, officials said, the demand has peaked to over 21,000MW. UPSLDC data shows that while most of the state-owned power plants continued to work at a stabilized capacity, the load was transferred to private power plants. So, while power generation from Bara thermal power unit rose from 854MW on June 5 to 1,220MW on June 6, Shahjahanpur based Rosa thermal power plant saw its power generation going up from 603MW to 1,028MW within 24 hours. Generation from Lalitpur based thermal power station was raised from 680MW to 1,237MW during the same period. UPPCL officials said that the private power plants were put on an alert to fluctuate their generation as per the need of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-demand-ups-2300mw-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76251614.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Construction of bridge to replace Laxman Jhula delayed, locals continue to take long detour||HARIDWAR: With construction of the new bridge to be constructed in place of Laxman Jhula delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, residents say they are facing difficulties in their daily commutes. Laxman Jhula connects Pauri Garhwal and Tehri Gahrwal districts of Uttarakhand, and with it barricaded, locals have no option but to continue taking a long detour. Sumit Kumar, a local resident, told TOI, “Laxman Jhula is the lifeline of Rishikesh. Both sides of the now-shut iron suspension bridge are lined with shops and yoga centres.The tourists that the bridge attracted have stopped coming now due to the pandemic but locals still have to commute from one side of the river to the other. They are forced to take longer routes now to reach their destinations. We want the government to build this bridge at the earliest.” Laxman Jhula was built by Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department (PWD) in 1924 and opened to the public in 1930.. After a report that the bridge had grown too weak to support the increasing pedestrian as well as vehicle movement on it, it was closed indefinitely in July last year. The load shifted to the relatively new Ram Jhula, around a kilometre away from Laxman Jhula and a glass bridge was proposed to be built as an alternative to the 96-year-old bridge. Authorities zeroed in on the location of the new bridge and prepared a Detailed Project Report (DPR), which was submitted to the government in February this year. However, the Covid-19 pandemic struck before any more progress could be made on the project. Executive engineer of PWD, Narendra Nagar division, Arif Khan, told TOI, “The bridge is expected to cost around Rs 54 crore and should be constructed within a year and a half, as per the DPR. However, the project has been delayed due to the pandemic. We didn’t get the permission of senior officials to release a tender. However, we do hope that work on the new bridge starts soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/construction-of-bridge-to-replace-laxman-jhula-delayed-locals-continue-to-take-long-detour/articleshow/76250501.cms||MS Nawaz
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Malls, some restaurants set to welcome patrons today||PANAJI: As the Union ministry of home affairs’ (MHA) guidelines on Unlock 1.0 kick in on Monday, the state’s restaurant industry is set to make a cautious restart. Only around 25% of the state’s 10,000-odd restaurants will open for dine-ins tomorrow, and that too, with 50% capacity. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that restaurants and malls would open with social distancing and other measures in place. “Even restaurants in starred hotels will open,” Sawant said. Meanwhile, the Goa Hotel and Restaurant Owners Association recently held a meeting on safety precautions, since their restaurants have been closed for over two months. Association president Gaurish Dhond told TOI that only 25% of the restaurants would open. “Those restaurants that already operate for take-aways will open first,” he said. He also said that it isn’t possible for all restaurants to open since most service staff have left Goa for home. When restaurants open, customers may be screened at the entrance. “Members have been told to purchase thermal guns and check the temperature of customers before they enter,” Dhond said. “Sanitisers will also be kept at every restaurant’s entry points.” He also said that safety measures would be taken in restaurant kitchens. Referring to the standard operating procedure (SOP) which states that restaurants must shut at 9pm, Dhond said that that would be difficult since it offers very little time for customers to spend at restaurants for dinner. “Restaurants should be allowed to remain open till 11pm,” he said. While according to MHA guidelines, hotels and interstate public transport are also allowed resume, the Goa government has said that it would not permit either for at least another month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/malls-some-restaurants-set-to-welcome-patrons-today/articleshow/76251609.cms||Murari Shetye
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Police to sensitize Nashik traders about odd-even plan||NASHIK: City police have taken up the task of sensitising and educating traders about the odd-even formula for operating shops as part of ‘mission begin again’ undertaken by the state government. As part of the same, police officers said that they will conduct a meeting with the traders in the Bhadrakali, Panchavati and Sarkarwada areas and inform them about the odd-even system of operating their commercial establishments, said Sajan Sonawane, senior PI of Bhadrakali police station. Besides, police will also put up banners in the markets explaining the odd-even system so that there is no confusion among shopkeepers as well as consumers. In addition, police will also resort to using public address system to spread the message loud and clear. Under phase II of unlock 1.0, the state government has allowed all shops in market areas to function on odd-even basis. It means that shops on one side of the road will operate on odd days while those on the other will operate on even days. Meanwhile, there is a lot of confusion among shopkeepers in the old city area, mainly falling under the jurisdictions of the Bhadrakali, Panchavati and Sarkarwada police stations, following which huge rush was witnessed in the markets located in these areas. “This whole odd-even system has created confusion among shopkeepers, leading to chaos in market places. Therefore, we will first have to inform them about the system. Post that, we will inform them about the do’s and don’ts of the odd-even system,” Sonawane said. He also said that police will not hesitate to take action against erring traders and shopkeepers under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-to-sensitize-traders-about-odd-even-system-of-operating-shops/articleshow/76250510.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||8 new positive cases take tally to 255||Ludhiana: Eight new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Sunday, taking the case count to 255. Besides, 101 patients from outside Ludhiana have tested positive here so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Twenty pending reports were received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, of which seven were positive and 12 negative, while one sample will be repeated. On Sunday, 702 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.” Positive patients include a 40-year-old woman from Chhawani Mohalla, who is a contact of the patient admitted to DMCH. Others include an 11-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy from Chandar Nagar, who are contacts of a patient admitted to DMCH. Besides them, a 48-year-old positive woman from Daad village is also a contact of a DMCH patient. A 44-year-old man from Khanna, who is a contact of a doctor admitted to Oswal Hospital, and a 40-year-old woman from Ambala, who is the sister of a patient from Khanna, are also positive. Dr Bagga added, “A 35-year-old woman from Sehnsi Mohalla, Field Ganj, is also a new case. Besides, an 18-year-old daughter of a positive patient from Prem Nagar, Islam Ganj, too has contracted the virus. Her report was sent and received on Sunday. ” Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “To date, 164 patients have been discharged from hospitals.” A total of 10,906 samples have been taken so far, of which reports of 9,755 have been received and 9,407 were negative. Reports of 1,151 samples are pending. Ten from Ludhiana and seven from outside the district have lost their lives to the virus here. To date, 7,998 have been home quarantined in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 1,719. On Sunday, 199 were sent for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-new-positive-cases-take-tally-to-255/articleshow/76250491.cms||Mehak Jain
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||ACP to probe complaint against Mundhe, civic officials||Nagpur: Assistant commissioner of police, Kotwali division, Rajesh Pardeshi is set to probe a complaint against NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe and other officials for allegedly attending a social programme on May 31 in violation of state orders. NMC officials have said it was not a social programme, but a visit to a community kitchen for migrants and homeless people. The complaint was lodged by Manish Meshram, an activist, at Ganeshpeth police station on Saturday, stating around 200 persons attended the function risking transmission of Covid-19 virus. Meshram’s preliminary statement was recorded at Ganeshpeth police station on Sunday, where he also submitted some audio-visual evidence. The basis of the complaint, a copy of which is in possession of TOI, is a social media post viewed by Meshram, an activist who has been earlier associated with other agitations too. City police chief BK Upadhyay has handed over the inquiry to ACP Pardeshi. Talking to TOI, Pardeshi said the documents and evidence are yet to be scrutinized. “We will investigate from all possible angles,” he said. Pardeshi told TOI CCTV footage would be checked and statements of all persons would be recorded. In the social media post, also in possession of TOI, Mundhe can be seen addressing the crowd from the dais. Though most attendees, including Mundhe, were seen maintaining social distance and wearing masks, some crowding was seen near the entrance and exit. Meshram claims Mundhe and other officials violated state guidelines to shun all public gatherings in lockdown. He also accused Mundhe, the civic body and officials of organizing and attending the event. He also said the person who made the venue available should also be charged. Two NGOs, working with NMC, operate a community kitchen at the venue. The NGOs provided food to migrants and homeless people. After formally winding up on May 31, the NGOs had invited Mundhe and others, including corporators, to a felicitation programme. When asked to comment, Tukaram Mundhe asked TOI to contact deputy commissioner Milind Meshram. Meshram denied there was any programme. “NMC and 65 NGOs had set up 27 community kitchens. At this venue, some 110 volunteers used to cook and supply 7,000 food boxes daily,” he said. “The NGOs requested NMC chief and others to visit and see the arrangements. So, NMC chief and I visited the place. The volunteers requested NMC chief to guide them, so he spoke a few words of appreciation,” he said. Former CP PKB Chakravorthy said the case has to be referred to a legal adviser as there are several debatable law points. “Any case depends upon the facts. This case too is no different. The investigation must proceed after legal opinion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acp-to-probe-complaint-against-mundhe-civic-officials/articleshow/76251166.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nashik||No coordination between govt, administration: Girish Mahajan||NASHIK: Former district guardian minister Girish Mahajan on Sunday said that the citizens are facing the consequence due to the lack of coordination between the state government and administration in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. “While the central government is doing its best and even Kerala could achieve good results in the fight against Covid-19, we wonder why the citizen of a developed state like Maharashtra should suffer so much due to the contagion,” Mahajan said. Briefing the reporters on the works done by the central government during last one year in its second stint, Mahajan said, “The state government has had to change the stewards of several self-governing bodies, including Mumbai mid-way, during the fight against Corona. It is evident that all is not well between the administration and the government and this is why citizens are suffering.” Mahajan also claimed that the situation in Malegaon was mismanaged and hence it went out of control. “The number would have been fairly lower if the two were in sync with each other. That did not happen unfortunately,” Mahajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-coordination-between-govt-administration-girish-mahajan/articleshow/76250489.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad treads cautiously into new normal, govt swears by stringent safety norms||HYDERABAD: As Hyderabad and other parts of Telugu states return to usual business on Monday under new normal conditions after 77 days of lockdown restrictions, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments on Sunday issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOP) for malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship. The night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am will, however, continue as also inter-state restrictions like compulsory quarantine of people returning from other states. There will also be restriction on inter-state public transport buses. Lockdown restrictions were imposed in Telangana and AP on March 23 a day after the ‘janata curfew’ on March 22, while the nationwide lockdown came into force only on March 24. The sudden curbs affected the socio-economic activity in both the Telugu states. While lifting of all restrictions on public places except cinema halls, gaming centres, educational institutions, gymnasiums and sports complexes augurs well for the economy, health experts fear that it will only open the Pandora’s box. The easing out of restrictions at crowded places incidentally comes at a time when there is an unprecedented spurt in cases and its associated mortality. On Sunday Telangana registered 14 deaths, the highest so far this Covid-19 season. It also registered 154 positive cases, including 132 in Hyderabad. relaxation on “three km radius” norm for people in Hyderabad has resulted in thousands of motorists taking to roads in utter disregard to Covid-19 norms. The SOP issued by Telangana government called for a stringent social distancing and high standards of sanitisation at all crowded places that will reopen on Monday. It has issued separate lists of SOP for hotels and restaurants, places of worship, and shopping malls. The existing restrictions in red zones will continue till June 30.Many companies, particularly those related to IT and IT enabled services, have opted for work from home . And taking advantage of the lockdown, GHMC had completed many development works including laying of roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-treads-cautiously-into-new-normal-govt-swears-by-stringent-safety-norms/articleshow/76251161.cms||Syed Akbar
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Most temples decide to postpone opening||MARGAO: Most temples in Goa are set to remain shut at least till June 30. At a meeting in Mardol on Sunday, representatives of nine major Saraswat temples decided to unanimously postpone their reopening in the light of a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. According to guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), places of worship are permitted to open on Monday. “The number of positive cases in Goa has been rising over the past few days,” president of Ramnath Devasthan, Pravas Naik, told TOI. “Under these circumstances, it would only be prudent not to reopen the temples to the public. Thus, they will remain closed till further orders. We will review the situation by June 30.” President of the Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, Triloknath Borkar, said that the temple’s managing committee met all stakeholders ahead of the Mardol meet and decided not to open. “We took purohits, bhatjis, sevekaris, palkhi bearers and others into confidence,” he said. CM lauds decision by some temples not to reopen premises to public today“It was also decided that since Covid-positive cases were detected in the temple’s vicinity, it wasn’t advisable to open the temple to the public. The decision not to open temples on Monday was lauded by chief minister Pramod Sawant. “If anyone (committee) doesn’t want to open their temple, it is a good decision,” he said. Apart from the Shantadurga Devasthan and Ramnath Devasthan, the Mardol meet was also attended by representatives of the Mahalsa Devasthan, Mardol, Nagesh Devasthan, Nagueshi, Mahalaxmi Devasthan, Bandora, Devki Krishna Devasthan, Marcel, Kamakshi Devasthan, Shiroda, Ramnath Damodar Devasthan, Zambaulim, and Mangesh Devasthan, Mangeshi. The meeting also saw a discussion on the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the government on temple reopening. Members said that it would be very difficult to implement these measures within such a short period. However, not all temples in the state will remain shut. For instance, the Shree Datta Padmanabh Peeth, Tapobhoomi, Kundaim, headed by Brahmeshanandacharya Swami, may reopen on Monday. It had already decided to open in accordance with MHA guidelines. The Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha in Betim is also set to open on Monday. On Sunday, the Archdiocese of Goa and the Association of all Goa Muslim Jamats decided not to open churches and mosques respectively in the state in the light of the spike in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-temples-decide-to-postpone-opening/articleshow/76251616.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: After masses & retreats, catechism classes too go online||PANAJI: After the state’s Catholic clergy were forced to sharpen their tech skills to connect with the faithful after Covid-19 closed down churches, the Church is now imparting catechism classes over the internet. The parish of Se Cathedral, the mother church of the archdiocese, took the initiative to begin catechism classes remotely for around 150 children in Old Goa after the archdiocese decided that churches wouldn’t be reopening on June 8. “We held an introductory session for catechism students on Sunday, in the same way we would have done if they had come to Church,” said parish priest Fr Alfred Vaz. “The catechism teachers introduced themselves to the children, and gave them a summary of the year’s syllabus, along with some rules to be followed.” At the end of the session, the students were asked to plant a sapling each and send photos to their teachers. “The saplings will then be gifted to their mothers on Mother’s Day, which the Church celebrates on September 8,” said catechism teacher Diffa Fernandes. “We used to conduct many programes during the year, and we don’t want to miss out on any of these due to the lockdown, so we are planning activities that can be undertaken at the individual level, in their own homes.” The parish’s actual catechism classes will begin next Sunday, with the 20-odd teachers crunching their otherwise 45-minute classes into 30-minute capsules comprising creative PowerPoint presentations accompanied by narrations of the teachings of the Roman Catholic church. The parish dropped the idea of online interactive classes after it was found that all children didn’t have internet access at home. “The lessons will be uploaded to Google Drive,” Vaz said. “At the same time, since we found that not everyone has laptops and an internet connection, we are also sending out the lessons via Whatsapp. In homes where children have absolutely no access to the internet, teachers and samudai (community) members have made arrangements for them to receive the lessons.” The classes, for students aged 6-14, will end with homework, and children have been encouraged to send in questions on a WhatsApp group created specifically for the purpose. On Saturday, the archdiocese stated that it is critically assessing the coronavirus-related situation in the state, and that is not in a position to declare its Churches open from June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-masses-retreats-catechism-classes-too-go-online/articleshow/76251619.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM calls for meet on Covid-19 spread as CMO employee tests positive||HYDERABAD: In a crucial review meeting on Monday, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao will announce new steps to check the spread of coronavirus in Greater Hyderabad, even as an employee at the chief minister’s office (CMO) tested positive for the virus. The employee working in CMO in Metro Rail Bhavan at Rasoolpura tested positive after his son returned from Mumbai a few days ago. Following this, senior officers have stopped coming to CMO in Metro Rail Bhavan and are working from home or other offices in the city. The entire building is being sanitized. The meeting by the CM will be held at Pragathi Bhavan from 4.30 pm onwards and will discuss measures taken for the containment of the coronavirus, implementation of the lockdown and other related issues. The number of coronavirus positive cases and deaths have been only increasing in the city and the sources say that the meeting would in all likelihood discuss the possibility of extending lockdown in Greater Hyderabad. A number of health care staffers, including doctors, testing positive has only worsened to the situation. The meeting will discuss all issues pertaining to covid-19 and decisions will be taken accordingly, an official said. Health Minister Eatala Rajender and senior officials will participate in the meeting. Sources say the meeting would entail officials discussing the possibility of extending lockdown in Greater Hyderabad due to surge in Covid-19 cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-calls-for-meet-on-covid-19-spread-as-cmo-employee-tests-positive/articleshow/76251176.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nashik||SRPF deployed in Bhusawal||NASHIK: The Jalgaon district administration has deployed the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) to combat the Covid-19 crisis in Bhusawal city, where the number of patients is rising sharply. The decision was taken by district collector Avinash Dhakne. Despite containment zones being demarcated, barricades being erected and even cops being deployed, people are still moving breaking all rules. “Since people were not responding to appeals made by the police, the SRPF personnel have been deployed on the streets,” the collector said. So far, of the 1,022 positive cases in Jalgaon district, Bhusawal city has reported 227. Meanwhile, the district administration announced the requisition of Dr Ulhas Patil Medical College and General Hospital of the Godavari Foundation as a dedicated Covid hospital. District also added 63 patients to take the tally to 1,083.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/srpf-deployed-in-bhusawal/articleshow/76250514.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Amid lockdown, drug smugglers tried to make a killing||Ludhiana: The drug smugglers managed to run their business even when curfew was strictly imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak. They smuggled contraband by taking advantage of the relaxations the government allowed for distributing ration and medical emergencies. During the lockdown, the Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force (STF) recovered 14.22kg heroin, Rs 17.5 lakh drug money, 250gm opium and 150gm smack. According to STF, in one case the accused used the gunny bag of the state government used for distributing ration to deliver contraband, and in some cases they took advantage of medical emergency relaxation. The recovered heroin costs approximately Rs 70 crore in the international market. On May 8, Ludhiana STF had recovered 285gm heroin from Dera head of Rishi Ashram Nirmal Kutiya Bhagwan Singh Baba, 34, of Jagraon, his aides — Shani, 33, of Tibba Road, Gaurav Kumar, 27, also of Tibba Road, and Dharminder Singh, 35, of Kaunke Khose village, Ludhiana. The accused were arrested from near Circuit House following a tip-off. STF officials said Bhagwan Singh took advantage of his saffron clothes and while travelling the accused kept food and beverages along. Whenever they were stopped at a checkpost, they gave food and beverages to cops to win trust. STF AIG Snehdeep Sharma said, “On May 26, the STF arrested Partap Singh of Kotli Aulakh in Lopoke, Amritsar, with 5.4kg heroin. He was hiding it in plastic gunny bags in which the state government distributes ration. He was arrested from GT Road in Ludhiana. With the help of the gunny bag, he managed to travel from Ferozepur to Ludhiana. Partap Singh has links with Pakistan-based smugglers. On his information, BSF recovered 6kg more heroin from Zero Line in Ferozepur. In another case, an STF team arrested a father-son duo, Nachhatar Singh and Sonu Singh of Barnala, from near Raikot with 350gm heroin on April 14. When their car was stopped at a checkpost, Sonu told the police that his father was unwell and he was taking him to a hospital in Ludhiana. But the STF nabbed them following a tip-off.” The officer said in some cases, the smugglers also used doctor’s prescriptions, taking advantage of the exemptions given by the government. Due to curfew and lockdown, the numbers of addicts going to de-addiction centres increased by 20%. BoxDRUG DATATotal FIRs- 8 Accused arrested- 13 Heroin recovery- 14.22 kg Opium recovery- 250 gm Smack recovery- 150 gm Drug money recovered- Rs 17.5 lakh The recoveries April 12- Soni Kumar of Shimlapuri arrested with 10gm heroin April 14- Nichhtar Singh and Sonu Singh of Barnala nabbed with 350gm heroin April 20- Vijay Kumar and Munish Kumar of Jodhewal arrested with 360gm heroin April 29- Bobby Kashmiri and Arjan Rai of EWS Colony held with 810gm heroin April 29- Raj Kumar of Dehlon and Balwinder Kumar of Moga caught with 300gm heroin May 4- Amit Sharma, Rajan Kumar, Kiran Bala of Haibowal held with 1.335kg heroin, 150gm smack, 250gm opium and Rs 17.5 lakh drug money May 26- Partap Singh of Amritsar arrested and 11.4kg heroin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amid-lockdown-drug-smugglers-tried-to-make-a-killing/articleshow/76250509.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 60-yr-old woman with comorbidities succumbs||Ludhiana: A 60-year-old woman from Ward 14, Habib Ganj, died due to Covid-19 at Christian Medical College and Hospital on Saturday night. Her death has taken the toll count to 17 in the district, including seven from outside. Now, the total positive cases are 255, besides 101 from outside the district who tested positive here. As many as 77 of them are active ones. The Habib Ganj woman was admitted to CMCH on June 4 with complaints of breathlessness and on examination it was observed that she was suffering from bronchopneumonia, chronic kidney disease, type-2 diabetes and hypothyroidism. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Dr Anil Luther, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “The patient was put on non-invasive ventilation and given bicarbonate infusion. She was given medications and her chest X-ray was done. Her output improved, but further investigation showed anaemia, creatinine of 10.5, blood urea of 284, hypocalcaemia with calcium of 4.9. Due to her chronic kidney disease, nephrology consultant advised dialysis. But her relatives did not give consent. She continued to be on supportive measures and was transfused two units of blood. As her health deteriorated, antibiotics were hiked up. She suffered a cardiac arrest and was declared dead at 9.30pm Saturday.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “With her death, the toll tally of the district has reached 10. All of them had comorbidities.”Maximum deaths have been reported from the district in the state.BOX4 routes openADCP-I Deepak Pareek said, “More than 150 police officials and volunteers have been deployed at Chhawni Mohalla, a containment zone. We will penalise those who violate containment zone orders. We have barricaded 35 entry points in the area and four routes have been kept open.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-60-yr-old-woman-with-comorbidities-succumbs/articleshow/76250516.cms||Mehak Jain
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||33-year-old scribe dies due to Covid||Hyderabad: A journalist, who was working for a Telugu news channel, died in Gandhi Hospital on Sunday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Gandhi Hospital authorities said that the 33-year-old journalist was declared dead at 9.37 am. “He was already suffering from Myasthenia gravis (MG), in which muscles, including respiratory muscles will have weaknesses. He had surgery for it (his thymus gland was removed) and was on steroids for the condition. With this comorbidity, he became Covid-19 positive and had bilateral pneumonia with type 1 respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). We tried our best but he couldn’t be revived,” Gandhi Hospital authorities said in a statement. The journalist got admitted in Gandhi hospital on Thursday after he was referred by Fever Hospital when he tested positive for Covid-19. He developed breathlessness by Thursday afternoon and was shifted to ICU. Since then, he was being treated in the ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/33-year-old-scribe-dies-due-to-covid/articleshow/76251179.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Waste generated from quarantine centres discarded in open, locals fear Covid-19 outbreak||DEHRADUN: The nearly 8km stretch of Petroleum University road from Nanda Ki Chowki to Bidholi is lined with hostels, which once housed students and now serve as quarantine centres for returnees, many of whom have tested positive for Covid-19. Waste generated from these quarantine centres ends up at Paundha village on the outskirts of Dehradun. On Sunday, a video of stray animals scavenging through the waste lying in the open in Paundha village went viral. Local residents say it is a disaster in the making, as their livestock could consume it and strays may scatter it, triggering an outbreak. According to locals, 22 people from Rudraprayag, who were quarantined in one of the hostels, had tested positive for coronavirus, as had several other people staying in the adjoining isolation centres. Fearing their livestock might be infected by Covid-19, villagers have burnt the waste. “We were shocked to see monkeys, dogs, cows and buffaloes feeding on the waste generated from the quarantine centres,” said Himanshu Kumar, a native of Paundha. Advisory from the ministry of environment stipulates that wildlife has to be kept safe from coronavirus, which is why reserves and national parks have remained closed since March. Upset with the development, forest officials told TOI that the negligence could attract action under the Indian Forest Act, 1926 and Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, as monkeys could also be seen scavenging through the garbage. Sudhir Panchwan, the village pradhan, said, “They have been dumping waste for a long time in our village. We deployed some people to catch them in the act on Saturday. When we did spot some men discarding garbage from the quarantine centres, they fled the spot, leaving their car behind.” The district administration, however, was in denial. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Shrivastava said, “We have issued a show cause notice to the contractor for not bringing the issue to the notice of the zila panchayat authorities, so it could have been resolved. We have asked the parties to resolve the issue among themselves, as the waste generated by the quarantine centre doesn’t qualify as biomedical waste as per guidelines of the government and Paundha village is the spot demarcated for its disposal.” The DM’s claim that the waste generated by the quarantine centre doesn’t qualify as biomedical waste was contradicted by SP Subudhi, member secretary, Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board. “Under Section V of the Environment Protection Act, we have issued clear instructions to the directors of health and urban development departments, as well as all district magistrates and chief medical officers, to ensure that waste generated due to the Covid-19 pandemic is disposed of as per CPCB guidelines,” Subudhi said. According to him, biomedical waste is supposed to be either buried or incarcerated or left at the nearest hospital. Premnagar government hospital, which is barely 3 km away from Petroleum University road, is the closest to the quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/waste-generated-from-quarantine-centres-discarded-in-open-locals-fear-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/76250527.cms||Shivani Azad
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Cases in Dhule cross 200-mark||NASHIK: Dhule district has added another 48 patients between Saturday and Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 240 including 25 deaths. The district has turned into a hotspot with addition of over 70 cases in the past three days. On May 24, the district had a total of 100 patients and the number has doubled in 14 days to cross the 200-mark. The rate of doubling of patients may be appearing slow at this point in time, but the spike in the cases is going to give some sleepless time to the district administration. It should be noted that Dhule had registered its first Covid-19 case on April 10, after which the cases kept going up sporadically. Dhule and Shirpur talukas are on top with as many as 100 cases — 51 and 49 cases respectively. The Covid-19 affected people also include two employees of sub-civil hospital in Shirpur. “The district today has 105 active patients and 110 have been discharged so far,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cases-in-dhule-cross-200-mark/articleshow/76250521.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Delhi||...Cong slams govt, says unlocking of city will risk lives||New Delhi: Congress on Sunday slammed Delhi government’s handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic, blaming it on unpreparedness and poor condition of hospitals, even as it questioned the decision to unlock the capital city when it had the highest positivity rate and lowest recovery rate in the country. It accused chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of putting the lives of Delhi residents at risk. AICC spokesman Ajay Maken told a press conference, “Delhi hospitals are in bad shape. Delhi government has taken a premature decision to open restaurants, malls from June 8 before health infrastructure is improved.” Maken also questioned the idea of reopening the schools and said that parents should not send their children out till a cure for the virus was found. While pointing out that 72% of beds dedicated for virus infections were lying vacant, Maken asked the state government to respond why were people having to run from pillar to post to find admission in hospitals. He also questioned why were only five of Delhi government’s 38 health institutions accepting corona patients while warning that Delhi will have 50,000 cases by mid-June. The Congress spokesman also criticised the state government for what he called was not giving the dead a dignified cremation. “Bodies lie in crematoriums for five days and are not cremated because of Covid-19 protocol,” he said, while accusing the government of hiding death figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-cong-slams-govt-says-unlocking-of-city-will-risk-lives/articleshow/76251625.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 positive vegetable trader dies, quarantined kin bid final adieu from ambulance||DEHRADUN: It was a heart-wrenching scene at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) on Sunday when the wife and elder daughter of the Covid-19 positive vegetable trader, who died late on Saturday night, were asked to bid him final goodbye from almost five metres away while locked in an ambulance. The two were brought from a quarantine facility to GDMCH in an ambulance so that they could see the deceased for the last time but weren't allowed to step out of the vehicle and come close to the body kept outside the mortuary as they have also been tested positive for the virus. While the daughter of the deceased started crying uncontrollably on seeing her father’s body, her mother could be seen numbed with shock. The scene was such that even the staff members and doctors at GDMCH couldn’t hold back their tears. Sandeep Rana, public relations officer at GDMCH, told TOI that the Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi vegetable trader breathed his last at Doon Hospital late on Saturday night. He was admitted to the hospital on May 26. Since his family members have also tested positive and are currently quarantined, the body of the deceased was taken for cremation from the mortuary by distant relatives. Officials said that the trader’s twin brother and father have been tested Covid-19-positive as well. "While his brother remains in a critical state, his father hasn't even been told about the death as he is too weak to bear this trauma at present," said the brother-in-law of the deceased vegetable trader. Those who attended the last rites told TOI that locals living close to Nala Pani opposed the cremation saying that the man lived close to LakhiBagh Crematorium and should be cremated there only. However, the cremation was done at Nala Pani after police intervention. According to the health department, more than 40 people directly or indirectly associated with Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-ve-vegetable-trader-dies-quarantined-kin-bid-final-adieu-from-ambulance/articleshow/76249682.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||MP Diya Kumari flays Sawai Madhopur MLA Danish Abrar for flouting lockdown norms||JAIPUR: Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari has strongly condemned Sawai Madhopur MLA Danish Abrar for entering the Ranthambore National Park during lockdown, not following social distancing norms and not wearing mask in public place. She said the video clip circulating on social media clearly shows that the behaviour of the MLA is highly irresponsible. The state government should take disciplinary action against its MLA. Kumari alleged that Abrar had entered the publicly banned Ranthambore National Park along with private bouncers and activists. He flagrantly disregarded the guidelines and said was not bothered of the government. His actions can increase the risk of infection in tigers as well as employees. Refuting the allegations, Abrar said, “I did not enter the tiger reserve. After receiving a complaint of corruption in constuction of a protection wall, I went for inspection after informing the DFO, Mukesk Saini.” As Kumari is the member of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) from Rajasthan, the Congress MLA had requested her to join the fight against corrupt officials at RNP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mp-diya-kumari-flays-mla-abrarfor-flouting-lockdown-norms/articleshow/76251189.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Business||Realtors want urban land ceiling act to go||Kolkata: Real estate industry has sought scrapping of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976, in West Bengal and also urged the state government to adopt ‘China plus one policy’ in the state for attracting Indian as well as trans-national companies. Credai-West Bengal, the apex real estate body in the state along with Credai Bengal, are writing to state government for a series of policy interventions to boost the real estate and the economy. In a webinar on Saturday with leading real estate players and chamber representatives, state finance minister Amit Mitra had told Bengal Inc that it is not possible for the state to give fiscal stimulus but for policy intervention, he asked them to forward a proposal. In the letter, real estate bodies pointed out that some policy intervention and reforms are needed to create a positive perception in a demonstrative way. It has emphasised that to send a good message to investors, particularly attract domestic and foreign investment in townships, logistics, commercial and residential real estate, scrapping the urban land ceiling act as a first preference, alternatively, bringing the enabling clause in Urban Land Ceiling Act, whereby the development becomes faster without any bureaucratic hurdle or a backdoor method. As per the Act, no one can hold more than 7.5 cottah in urban area in the state. Currently, the developers are presently using, by making multiple hundreds of companies etc, which is cumbersome and not investor-friendly. The president of Credai West Bengal, Sushil Mohta, pointed out that this is the right time to demonstrate some visible change in policy and practice to attract companies that are shifting base from China. According to him, all over the world a new policy is being adopted that is ‘China Plus One Policy’. Major companies in the US, Germany and Japan are either relocating from China or developing additional manufacturing facilities in other countries. “The West Bengal government must come out with positive image by bringing needful reforms and engage with those companies and offer them West Bengal as an attractive destination for setting up the industries,” he added. The letter has also urged for rationalization of circle rates specially for land and quick approval process. “We are looking at non fiscal measures from the Government in the form of quicker approval process....automatic extension of all approvals in line with extension granted by WBHIRA....relook at Urban Land Ceiling Act to make it development friendly and rationalisation of circle rates,” added Nandu Belani, president, Credai Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realtors-want-urban-land-ceiling-act-to-go/articleshow/76251186.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||ZP returning two years’ budget amount to govt||Nagpur: The BJP and Shiv Sena alliance had ruled Nagpur zilla parishad (ZP) for seven years between 2012 and 2019. During this period, it failed to spend over Rs80 crore, which is more than its two years’ annual budget. The cash-strapped state government is seeking back all unspent amounts from local bodies. The chief accounts and finance officer (CAFO) of ZP said that accounting of all departments was being done and the final figure could be higher. Leaders of the ruling Congress and NCP combine have blamed the past regime for the mess. “The Devendra Fadnavis government introduced the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for social welfare schemes. This is the basic reason for amounts sanctioned for these schemes not being spent. Poor people of Nagpur district suffered due to this hare-brained system,” said Bharti Patil, chairperson of ZP’s finance committee. A ZP official explained why the DBT scheme failed. “Suppose a poor man wants to buy a photocopy machine for self-employment. Earlier, the government would provide him say Rs60,000, the cost of the machine. After the DBT scheme started, the beneficiary had to first buy the photocopy machine with his own money and then seek reimbursement from the ZP. Most poor people don't have that kind of money and hence they did not benefit from the scheme. Over 80% funds meant for social welfare schemes remained unspent due to DBT,” he said. ZP vice-president Manohar Kumbhare said, “ZPs get very little funds from the state government. It is a tragedy that such a large amount has to be sent back. The BJP-Sena government failed to spend the funds to the detriment of Nagpur district.” Figures indicate that ZP miserably failed to spend money meant for the mid-day meal scheme. Over Rs15 crore is being sent back. The education department has failed to spend over Rs17 crore while public works’ unspent amount is over Rs10 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zp-returning-two-years-budget-amount-to-govt/articleshow/76251181.cms||Ashish Roy
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: With lack of visitors, wildlife in Mollem forest area flourishes during lockdown||PANAJI: The frequency of wild animal sightings at the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem national park has been increasing ever since the lockdown. Forest officials have attributed this to the decrease in human intervention in the Dudhsagar area since March due to lockdown restrictions. The wildlife in the forest area has therefore been able to move around freely throughout the summer months. “Tourism activities at the Dudhsagar waterfalls were suspended due to the lockdown over the past months due to which wildlife sightings have increased in the area,” range forest officer Paresh Porob told TOI. When the 240 jeeps to Dudhsagar were plying on the 11km stretch in the national park, the animals preferred to stay away from the human line of sight. Due to the stretch being undisturbed, range forest workers often sighted wild animals walking by on the internal roads of the area besides moving around the periphery. “We used to sight wild animals regularly, but the frequency of sightings has increased only after the lockdown. Some of these animals have also been coming out in search of water owing to the summer heat,” Porob said. Additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar said that camera traps were installed near water holes since the animals are bound to come to the water point during the summer. These camera traps have captured evidence of leopards, bisons, wild boars and sloth bears during this period. “Biotic interference is at its minimal in the sanctuaries these days. When there is less interference, it is good for the wildlife to enjoy their freedom. This also helps the general eco-system to improve,” he said. In addition to these animals, herds of bisons, deers and wild dogs have also been sighted by the range office workers during the lockdown. While the latest MHA advisory has allowed religious places and restaurants to reopen from June 8, wildlife sanctuaries are yet to get a green signal. The state’s only zoo in Bondla is also awaiting orders from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) for the same. “We haven’t received any protocol from the government of India, yet. But, the sanctuaries are often closed to visitors during the monsoon months in Goa. The Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem national park is shut from mid-June to August and reopens only in September since the route to Dudhsagar becomes very difficult during the monsoon,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-lack-of-visitors-wildlife-in-mollem-forest-area-flourishes-during-lockdown/articleshow/76251624.cms||Nida Sayed
June 8, 2020||Goa||Will act after probe into Calangute incident ends: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that the government will hold accountable the person who allowed the Calangute woman to enter the state by ducking the Covid-19 test. “An inquiry is on and once the person is traced, we will hold him responsible for the act,” Sawant told TOI. The incident involved a senior citizen woman, the mother-in-law of a Calangute panch member, who had come from Mumbai for a wedding party. TOI had reported on June 5 that a senior citizen, the mother-in-law of a local panchayat member, tested positive for Covid-19 after she arrived from Mumbai and skipped the screening test at the Goa border. After public opinion swelled against the incident, which could put thousands of lives at risk, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that an inquiry he ordered is ongoing. While speaking to reporters, Sawant ducked questions on whether the woman’s political connections had allowed her to pass through the border untested. “People shouldn’t make allegations against government employees working hard at the borders,” the chief minister had said. On Friday, Calangute MLA and ports minister Michael Lobo went out of his way to “clarify” the incident. “The 76-year-old woman is not from Calangute,” he had said. “She came from Mumbai. Her daughter is married in Calangute. She got a health certificate from Mumbai and with the permission of the collector, came to Goa... Her Maharashtra driver told her he couldn’t go any further, and she should either walk or call her Goa driver... Since there was a queue at the checkpost, she got out of the car and started walking towards the checkpost with her documents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-act-after-probe-into-calangute-incident-ends-cm/articleshow/76251623.cms||Murari Shetye
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Beedi worker uses savings to feed migrant workers on their way home||HYDERABAD: A 54-year-old beedi worker from Armoor town in Nizamabad has come to the rescue of migrant workers who are embarking on long journeys by foot to reach their native states amid lockdown. Ganji Lakshmi, a mother of four who earns less than Rs 10,000 pet month by rolling beedis, has been using her life savings to cook food for migrants workers walking on the national highway 44 every day. “These migrant workers are going through a very time. They are walking thousands of kilometers with all their luggage and their children. When I saw them walking like that, I put myself in their place for a few seconds and couldn’t bear the pain. That’s when I decided to help them by distributing food with whatever little savings I have,” said Lakshmi. With the help of another beedi workshop owner, Rajeshwar Sharma, who donated rice on a few occasions, Lakshmi has been feeding nearly 300 migrant workers every day. Looking at their determined mother, Lakshmi’s 28-year-old son, who works as a driver, started helping her in packing and distributing the food packets on the highway along with his friends. “We are just trying to help by distributing the food. My mother has been doing all the hard work. I try to get some vegetables and other basic items to help her out with the finances occasionally but otherwise she has been doing it by herself,” said Ganji Naresh, Lakshmi’s son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beedi-worker-uses-savings-to-feed-migrant-workers-on-their-way-home/articleshow/76251184.cms||Moulika.KV
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Malls, hotels & religious places to open today with restrictions||LUCKNOW/DEHRADUN:The state governments of UP and Uttarakhand on Sunday decided to open shopping malls, restaurants and religious places in their respective states from Monday albeit under restricted conditions. After a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence in Lucknow, the UP government asked administrative and police authorities in every district to assess the situation and act accordingly. The Uttarakhand government after a meeting chaired by CM Trivendra Rawat on Sunday issued an order regarding opening of shopping malls, hotels, homestays, restaurants and religious places across the state except in the municipal limits of state capital, Dehradun. The state government also issued an elaborate standard operating protocol (SOP) for all the institutions in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Centre on May 30. As per the SOP, all religious places, either of management committees or of trusts will remain open in the state from 7 am to 7 pm except in Dehradun civic limits. However, pilgrims from outside the state will not be allowed in Uttarkhand till further orders, said the directive issued by Uttarakhand chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh. Regarding opening of religious shrines in UP, the state’s additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that “DMs, SSPs and other senior officers have been asked to reach out to religious heads and seek their help in enforcing restrictions to check the spread of coronavirus.” “Special emphasis is being laid on districts known for religious shrines,” he added. In Uttarakhand, where tourism is the mainstay of the economy, the state government has asked home stays and hotels to not take bookings from “high-load Covid-19- infected cities and even in case of bookings coming from non-high-load Covid-19 infected cities, the minimum period of booking should be of seven days.” All the hotels and homestays also have to give an undertaking to the state that they will abide by all the orders and safety measures put in place by the government. Regarding restaurants, the SOP issued by the Uttarakhand government says that the restaurant owners/ managers shall make arrangements to ensure that a record of all customers, as also the waiters serving the tables, is maintained at all times, clearly specifying the date and time. The officials of shopping malls in the hill state have been asked to give an undertaking/ self-declaration to the district administration regarding various measures taken for preventing the spread of Covid-19 in their premises. They have also been asked to make arrangements for opening only 50% of the shops on any given day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/malls-hotels-religious-places-to-open-today-with-restrictions/articleshow/76250542.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP ATS nabs key arms supplier to KLF in Hapur||LUCKNOW: UP anti-terrorism squad arrested a man for supplying arms to Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), from Hapur on Sunday. An official privy to the investigation said the accused, Javed Khan, is a close aide of Ashish, the right hand man of KLF chief Gugni Grewal aka Harmeet Singh. Javed has so far supplied 50 pistols to the group. The arrest was made after information about Javed’s movement was shared by the Punjab police last week. According to ATS officials, Ashish had a role in the murder of RSS and Shiv Sena workers in 2016. He was arrested by UP ATS on February 1 this year. Weapons provided by Javed also led to the killing of RSS leader, Brig (retd) Jagdish Kumar Gagneja, in which Ashish was also involved. National Investigation Agency (NIA) is currently working on the case. ADG, ATS, DK Thakur said Javed was also accused in other cases, including illegal sale of liquor since 1997 in Meerut. “Javed has supplied at least 50 pistols to KLF. He supplied three pistols on the direction of Dharmendra Singh, an active member of KLF, who is currently lodged in Tihar jail. Javed came in touch with Dharmendra in October last year,” Thakur said. He added that a hunt was on for other associates and members of the organisation. Sources in the ATS said the call detail record of Javed was scanned which revealed some numbers from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ats-nabs-key-arms-supplier-to-klf-in-hapur/articleshow/76251626.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan speaker C P Joshi wants assembly sessions with more days||JAIPUR: Assembly speaker C P Joshi has advocated that time has come to explore ways to increase the time of sessions and the number of days to ensure that it serves its primary objective of framing laws. “Over a period of time, the assembly has become a platform for ventilating grievances rather than framing new laws. Look at the participation of members in the debates and discussion in the Vidhan Sabha which has reduced as compared to previous years. The quality of legislation has also gone down in the present scenario,” said Joshi while delivering his keynote address on democracy over video conferencing at a programme organised by Rajasthan Association UK. He expressed fear that state assemblies would become irrelevant if they failed to frame legislations related to modern-day challenges like IT and globalisation. “At a time when privacy of every individual has become irrelevant and they are under constant surveillance, who will make laws to deal with these new challenges? If the state assembly does not make laws effectively, then it will be deemed to become irrelevant. As democracy is fast evolving, we have to bring a sea change in the framework of assemblies to deal with these modern challenges,” said Joshi. He recalled that the forefathers of the Constitution had foreseen the challenges of the future is reason that the laws they made were amended for 70 years to suit the present needs. The programme was attended by non-resident Rajasthanis from seven countries including the US and the UK. Responding to a question by London-based Harendra Jodha about the credibility of MLAs during Rajya Sabha polls, Joshi replied it was the duty of every political party to ensure that rules of the game needs to be followed in every sense. Questioning the anti-defection law, Joshi said, “The amendment in the anti-defection law has made it much easier for the party with big numbers in the assembly or in Parliament to defect into the smaller party. Here comes the role of the chief election commissioner to restore credibility in the system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speaker-joshi-wants-assembly-sessions-with-more-days/articleshow/76251188.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||BMC ward committees to keep tab on migrant movement, ensure adherence of home-quarantine rules||Bareilly: Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has formed monitoring committees (nigrani samitis) across its 80 wards to keep a close watch on movement of migrants and people arriving from outside. According BMC officials, each ward corporator has been made president of their nigrani samiti, while local Asha workers have been roped in to make rounds and see if the state’s monitoring database has missed entering any migrant family or individual who has arrived from other states. They have also been given the responsibility of displaying “home-quarantined” stickers at the main gates of the returnees, and ensuring they follow guidelines. Bareilly mayor Umesh Gautam told TOI, “Monitoring committees have been formed for all 80 wards of Bareilly Nagar Nigam. Each committee has been asked to keep a tab on movement of migrants. They are responsible for identifying those who have returned home from other states, to put them on home-quarantine as per Covid-19 protocol. These committees are also responsible for ensuring that people adhere to quarantine guidelines.” Gautam added, “The committees, comprising of ward corporators and Asha workers, will also cross-check with the people under watch whether they underwent the initial health checkup at a government hospital, and update the local administration about it.” BMC officials said migrants have been returning home from across the country, which is why there is a significant surge in Covid-19 cases in the city since May. Local administration and civic authorities are taking all possible measures to contain the spread. Bareilly civic body has placed yellow dustbins across all wards, directing people to dispose of used gloves, masks, PPEs in these, instead of littering roads, etc. So far, 65 Covid-positive cases have been reported in Bareilly district, of which 35 have been discharged while 28 are still active. Two patients have succumbed to the infection in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-ward-committees-to-keep-tab-on-migrant-movement-ensure-adherence-of-home-quarantine-rules/articleshow/76249687.cms||Maria Khan
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs pull a clean sweep to battle Covid-19||Hyderabad: As the number of Covid-19 cases continue to surge across the city, resident welfare associations (RWA) have taken it upon themselves to help the society members with procuring essentials and keeping the residential areas sanitised. They were also often seen to be lending help to those who had tested positive. While members of Lumbini SLM Springs in Gachibowli rented two trucks to deliver them with essentials and vegetables, Jayabheri Pine Valley (Gachibowli) residents involved their children in community cleaning. “Association members of our housing society have ensured that two trucks, one stocked with vegetables and another with essentials, reach our society once a week. The trucks are parked outside the gated community. Most of the residents stock up on their supply from these trucks. These trucks turned to be our saviours, especially during lockdown,” said Swarnalatha, a resident of Lumbini SLN Springs (Gachibowli). Residents also said that they have utilised the lockdown to teach their children the principle of dignity of labour. “We paid salaries to our housekeeping staff even though they were not allowed inside. We taught our children that the sanitation staffers’ efforts to must always be valued. Residents participated in community cleaning and involved children too. Our aim was to ensure that children understand the concept of dignity of labour,” said Uday Chava, president of Jayabheri Pine Valley. “We cleaned common areas, including yards. After the outbreak of Covid-19, elders as well as children have developed immense respect towards domestic workers, especially housekeeping staff and sweepers,” said a resident from the same society. Sunil Jain, general secretary of Whisper Valley in Film Nagar, said that his society is ready to serve the resident and stands with the people who are battling Covid-19. “Our society members wish speedy recovery of people who were affected by coronavirus. For safety of our residents, we are conducting fever test and sanitisation,” said Jain. KR Rao from Ramky Towers (Mindspace Road) said that residents of their housing society turned into Covid-19 warriors by ensuring social distancing is followed and co-operating with society members during temperature checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-pull-a-clean-sweep-to-battle-covid-19/articleshow/76251191.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||12-year-old injured after ‘cops’ hit boys standing outside homes in Moradabad hotspot||Bareilly: Two policemen on patrolling duty astride a motorcycle in Moradabad’s Nagphani locality, a hotspot zone, allegedly beat up a group of boys talking outside their houses on Saturday night. Family members of one of the boys, however, alleged that the policemen hit their 12-year-old child on his head, leaving him bleeding profusely. Nagma, the grandmother of the injured boy, said, “My grandson was talking to his friends outside the house around 10.30 pm when two policemen reached there on a bike and baton-charged the children without any reason.” “All his friends managed to flee the scene, but policemen got hold of my grandson and thrashed him badly. They even hit my grandson on his head, leaving him bleeding profusely. We rushed him to the hospital.”After the incident, a crowd gathered outside the boy’s house and protested the police action. Meanwhile, a police team from Nagphani police station also reached the spot upon getting information. Circle officer Rajesh Kumar, who visited the spot along with the police team, asked the family and locals to identify the policemen who had baton-charged the children. To which, Nagma said, “We have no idea whether the policemen were from Nagphani police station or kotwali. But, one of the constables had his name engraved on the metal badge as Mohammad Irfan.”The CO, however, claimed that they did not have any constable named Mohammad Irfan posted at both the police stations. “We took constables deputed on the bike patrolling in the area for the identification by the family and locals, but they could not identify them. It is possible that after seeing policemen, the boy started running towards his home and slipped on the road in the hurry and sustained a head injury,” said the CO. The CO added that the boy’s family refused to take further action in the matter.The boy’s grandmother, however, alleged, “The police officer produced wrong policemen before us for identification. As the policemen said that the boys were standing outside the house in violation of the Covid hotspot norms, we did not file a case fearing police action against the children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-year-old-injured-after-cops-hit-boys-standing-outside-homes-in-moradabad-hotspot/articleshow/76249683.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Bhiwadi gangrape survivor found pregnant||ALWAR: A minor girl who was gangraped in Bhiwadi on May 10 was found pregnant after she complained of stomach ache on Saturday. According to the family, they will take the legal way to get the foetus aborted. The 16-year-old girl was abducted when she was on her way to her uncle’s house on the day of the incident. Talking about the assault, her father said, “My daughter was acquainted with one of the accused. On May 10, they kidnapped her following which they took turns to rape her. They also beat her up and she heard them talk about killing her. When she did not return home, we started looking for her and finally traced her to a hospital. We tried to register a case but cops did not do so for next two days.” According to the family, cops registered a case when the girl’s health deteriorated. Bhiwadi SP Amandeep Kapoor said, “We arrested the three accused within 24 hours of the case being registered. Chargesheet against all three persons will be submitted soon.” The three accused had also made a video of the girl and threatened to circulate it. According to the girl’s statement, the accused hit her head against a wall injuring her. After learning of the pregnancy, the rape survivor’s family said she does not want to have the baby. Her father said, “Her health condition still remains serious and we will go court to get permission for abortion as she does not want to have this child which was conceived due to sexual assault.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangrape-survivor-pregnant/articleshow/76251203.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nashik||MMC chief gets grand welcome on his brief visit home||NASHIK: Malegaon Municipal Corporation commissioner Deepak Kasar was accorded a grand welcome by his neighbours on Saturday after he returned home in Nashik city for a brief visit. Kasar, who is posted in Malegaon, had contracted Covid-19 infection while on duty. After full recovery, he made a brief visit to this home in Nashik as he wanted to meet his family, including his daughters aged 8 and 12. Almost everyone from the 162-flat-strong Suyojit Garden, a residential society on the Gangapur Road, came downstairs to give a rousing reception for their society member who has been working hard in Malegaon in the battle against Covid-19. Kasar was accompanied by his wife who stayed with him in Malegaon all this time. “It was a sweet gesture by the residents of our society. Almost everyone came down to welcome me and my wife. They had put up rangolis, posters at the entrance of the building. A joint meal was also organised by the people of the society. I am extremely grateful to them,” said Kasar. Meanwhile, chairman of the society Pravin Marathe said that Suyojit Garden society is like one big family. “Our committee members have worked hard to maintain a bond among everyone. Deepak Kasar who has been working hard in Malegaon in the fight against Covid-19 is one of our family members. When we came to know that he was returning, everyone felt that their family member was coming home and hence the reception organised for him and his wife.” The society members stood in line by maintaining proper social distancing and welcomed the couple by showering flower petals on them. All the time that the couple spent in Malegoan, their children were looked after by the society members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mmc-chief-gets-grand-welcome-on-his-brief-visit-home/articleshow/76250553.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors in dilemma over quarantine norms in city, outskirts||Nagpur: Despite an assurance of exemption from quarantine, several doctors running private clinics are in a dilemma after a general practitioner from Godhani was placed in institutional quarantine around 1am on Sunday. The measure was taken after his patient tested positive on Saturday. As Covid-19 cases continue to be reported from across the city and its outskirts, doctors are worried whether to follow Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) guidelines, or be wary of the district health office (DHO). Last week, NMC assured private practitioners to run their clinics without apprehension of getting quarantined in case any of their patient tests positive for coronavirus. The exemption was applicable so far for doctors using protective gear. NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar reiterated that doctors and paramedical staff won’t be quarantined. “If they are using protective gear while examining patients, they need not worry. If all health care workers are quarantined, it may cause problems to ailing citizens,” he said. Yet, the quarantining of the Godhani doctor baffled many other doctors. Dr Gantawar said the Godhani doctor’s case wasn’t handled by the NMC team as his residence fall outside municipal limits. District health officer Dr Deepak Selokar, who supervises action in rural parts, didn’t answer TOI’s calls. A medical officer from PHC said the DHO too followed the same guidelines for health care workers but with certain riders. “As per our survey, the Godhani doctor wasn’t using protective gear. His patient, who tested positive, concealed his travel history from him. The patient is symptomatic and co-morbid. We have traced and quarantined 10 more patients of the doctor,” the PHC officer said. He added that the Godhani doctor was convinced to get quarantined. “When the situation is like this, health care workers can’t be exempted,” the officer said, adding the doctor was directly exposed to high viral load. However, the Godhani doctor said he used protective gear and had suspected the patient to be Covid positive while examining him. “I had advised the patient’s relative to immediately get him tested and maintain distance,” he said. He also claimed to have gone into self-isolation on Saturday evening, soon after learning about his patient’s positive Covid report. The doctor said he had informed the DHO team about the civic body’s latest decision to exempt health care professional found to be close contacts of positive patients. Dr Shahid Akhtar, who is National Integrated Medical Association secretary, said on one side the civic body tells us to keep our clinics open or they will seal it, and on the other hand the DHO has other norms. “Looking at this dual policy, we are not sure whether to stay open or closed. If all doctors are quarantined like this, patients will suffer and many suspect cases may go unreported,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-in-dilemma-over-quarantine-norms-in-city-outskirts/articleshow/76251215.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||Lockdown effect? Big cats move out of buffer zones||Bareilly: The prolonged lockdown on human activity since March has given wildlife, including big cats, a chance to roam about freely away from the buffer forest areas and venture near human settlements in Uttar Pradesh. This has increased the risk of man-animal conflict. On Sunday, a tiger prowling about in a social forestry area attacked a farmer in Lakhimpur Kheri district while a five-year-old girl, who was playing outside her house, was injured by a leopard in Bareilly's Bahedi area on Saturday night. The incident in Kheri district was reported from Sundarpur village, near Maheshpur range. Susheel Kumar, a farmer, was working on his farmland when a tiger attacked him. Kumar managed to flee but was injured. He is admitted at the district hospital. Earlier, a tiger had killed a labourer and injured a man besides attacking the cattle at another village. Both villages are within 5-km radius of Maheshpur range. Forest department has installed camera traps in the area and are using drone cameras to track the tiger. A cage has been placed to trap it. Ravi Shukla, sub-divisional officer, South Kheri forest division, told TOI, “The farmer was attached nearly a kilometre outside the forest. We are monitoring the movement of the tiger to minimize man-animal conflict.” In Bareilly, a leopard attacked a five-year-old girl at Jawaharpur village of Bahedi tehsil on Saturday night. Bahedi shares its border with Uttarakhand and has a rich social forestry range. The girl's father, Hariram, said the big cat was lurking amid the bushes of a nearby field and suddenly charged at his daughter. It tried to drag her away, "but we managed to rescue her", he said. The girl has sustained multiple injuries. Now, the entire village is terrified of a similar attack. Bharat Lal, DFO, Bareilly, said, “Our team has found the pugmarks of a leopard and efforts are on to track it. We may initiate a rescue operation if needed after seeking approval from the PCCF.” Earlier on June 4, a two-year-old leopard attacked and injured six people, including a forest guard and a policeman, at Durgagaudi village, situated on the fringes of Katarniaghat forest range in Kheri district. On June 3, a six-year-old boy was killed by a big cat at Dalapurva village, situated on Kheri-Bahraich border and adjacent to Dhaurahra range of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lockdown-effect-big-cats-move-out-of-buffer-zones/articleshow/76249690.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Virtual reality in Delhi: All rise! Judge saheb is online||NEW DELHI: An average courtroom usually has a judge, lawyers representing all sides and officials. But with the corona pandemic raging on, a group of trainees, who are to begin their journey as judges in Delhi’s subordinate judiciary, may not enter a courtroom soon but log into a virtual space to conduct cases. The Delhi Judicial Academy, which conducts training for judges, has prepared the new recruits for this virtual courtroom experience. Only urgent cases, including bail hearings and remand proceedings, are now being taken up in trial courts. However, they may soon start hearing regular matters virtually, depending on Delhi high court’s decision, said a source. In the past three months, 130 trainee judges have been taught how to conduct courtroom proceedings through videoconferencing. The sessions included mock trials. For a “seamless conduct” of entire proceedings — from filing a chargesheet to the verdict — involving 10 trainees with specific roles in one particular session, elements of a constructive chaos in a real courtroom were kept in mind. “One played the accused, another prosecutor, so on and so forth. The mock trial was conducted for consecutive three days,” said a source privy to the training programme. It was also crucial for the faculty to educate the recruits about “netiquettes” — the acceptable or valid ways of using the online platform. “Technical snags or other external factors can test a judge’s patience. Only a judge adept in using online space as a legal platform can patiently lend an extra ear to the litigants or examine large volumes of digitally scanned documents,” the source said. To add a bit of real courtroom murmur, groups of 12 trainees were made to debate each other. “The art of arguing, listening and talking at the same time could come in handy in the virtual space too.” In the time of the pandemic, a need of replicating the real for the virtual seemed essential for effective training. The virtual exercise proved to be more intensive with several takeaways such as swifter sharing of resources. While various “competing elements” in a real courtroom sometimes hinder a smooth flow, “the new judges can conduct an orderly hearing in a virtual space with undivided attention”, the source said. With the higher judiciary stressing on preparing for virtual hearings, “we are ready in small measures”, the source said. “A poor person may not have access to internet but by building the capacity of lawyers representing them, we could prepare for the future.” The training programme felt like a movie being “directed in a digital space, if at all a parallel could be drawn”, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-reality-all-rise-judge-saheb-is-online/articleshow/76251629.cms||Aamir Khan
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon could be state model: Balasaheb Thorat||NASHIK: “The distribution work by the Malegaon administration and curbing the Covid-19 an outbreak role model can be implemented across the state,” said Balasaheb Thorat, the state revenue minister on Sunday. Thorat was in Nashik to review the Covid-19 situation with the district administration. He was all praise for the local administration for taking timely measures to quarantine the people and take corrective measures by spreading awareness among them. “In Malegaon the number of cases was increasing rapidly and the local administration quickly resorted to the distribution of responsibilities among the officials which helped in changing the situation in Malegaon within a short time. The way things were handled could be a successful model for the state,” Balasaheb Thorat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-could-be-state-model-thorat/articleshow/76250544.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Police felicitate 28 samaritans for their service during lockdown||NASHIK: The Mumbai Naka police presented appreciation letters to 28 samaritans for their unconditional service during the lockdown in a small ceremony held in the station premises on Sunday. The letters were presented by DCP Amol Tambe and senior PI of Mumbai Naka police station Vijay Dhamal. The 28-men were part of NGOs, special donors, and ex-servicemen. Police officers said that many poor people were without work or money during the lockdown period. “There were homeless people, some locked down in shelter homes. Fortunately, some citizens understood the problem and came forward to help the poor with food, grains, etc which was given at their door-steps,” said an officer. Apart from this, people have donated food, fruits, water bottles, etc to the migrant labourers, who were walking or cycling from the highway. “It became our duty to recognize the services of people, who came forward to help people. Covid-19 is a global pandemic and we have to overcome it by supporting one another. The gestures of these NGOs and individuals in providing food, grains, etc to the poor people helped in preventing the unrest among the needy, which eventually helped in preventing any law and order situation,” said DCP Amol Tambe. A group of ex-servicemen came to offer their services by doing nakabandi duty alongside the police personnel at various junctions. DCP Amol Tambe felicitated such people and appealed them to extend their co-operation to the police whenever required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-felicitate-28-samaritans-for-their-service-during-lockdown/articleshow/76250569.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Tribal belt remains untouched by contagion||NASHIK: The tribal belt of Nashik district still remains unaffected by Covid-19 infection largely due to strong immunity and the lifestyle of the people. The talukas including Trimbakeshwar, Peth, Surgana have no cases even as the total number of patients in the district have crossed 1500 so far. There was only one positive case in Surgana taluka in the form of a doctor who was working at Civil Hospital. Apart from that the taluka along with Trimbakeshwar. Peth and Kalwan have no confirmed cases of the infection so far. The health officials of the district said that this could be large because of their stronger immunity power. The tribals are people known for their stronger immunity than most of us residing in urban areas, especially because of their lifestyle that is laborious. Besides, the tribals are also naturally isolated from urban areas and their houses in the villages also practice the same system that contributes to social distancing. Officers also pointed out that the migrant workers from these talukas generally do not cross the district boundaries as they are skilled in grape cultivation and find their employment in the neighbouring talukas of Dindori, Nashik, Niphad and Igatpuri. On the housing system of the tribals the officer said you won’t find overcrowding in their homes which are also maintained clean unlike several houses in slum areas where not only you will find overcrowding but uncleanliness too. During the lockdown, most villages insured that none of the people from other areas enter their villages during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tribal-belt-remains-untouched-by-contagion/articleshow/76250558.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||Man kills younger brother over property dispute in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: A man was shot dead by his elder brother over property dispute in Chikulia village of Tilhar block in Shahjahanpur district late on Saturday night. The accused is on the run, police said.According to police, Patiram and his wife had an argument with his brother Rajaram and other members of the family over a piece of land, which Patiram wanted to use for farming.The argument took an ugly turn when the women members of the family started fighting with each other and neighbours.Patiram was trying to control the situation when his brother allegedly shot at him dead. Patiram sustained a bullet injury on his chest and he died on the spot.SHO, Tilhar police station, Jasveer Singh told TOI, “We have registered an FIR under IPC section 302 (murder) against Rajaram. He will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kills-younger-brother-over-property-dispute-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/76249696.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Congress shifts 2 dozen Gujarat MLAs to resort in Sirohi||JODHPUR: About two dozen Congress MLAs from Gujarat were taken to a resort in Sirohi fearing horse-trading by Gujarat BJP ahead of the elections to four Rajya Sabha seats. The step comes after three Congress MLAs switched to BJP two days back. In order to prevent further damage to the prospects of the party, Congress shifted its MLAs to Wild Winds resort situated in Sirohi on Gujarat-Rajasthan border near Ambaji. Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee president Amit Chavda, while accusing the BJP of unethical practices, said that the MLAs have assembled at the resort to discuss future strategy of the party in Gujarat and victory of party candidates in Rajya Sabha elections. “It was disappointing that instead of serving people in this pandemic time, BJP was engaged in intimidating, buying and influencing the public representatives. So we have brought our party representatives here for discussing future planning,” said Chavda. The shifting of MLAs began on Saturday night and continued till late Sunday night. According to the sources, close to two dozen MLAs have so far been taken to the resort from Gujarat. On the other hand, the Sirohi unit of BJP has given a complaint to the police against the owner of the resort alleging violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Sirohi BJP president Narayan Purohit said that the state government has kept these MLAs in the resort in violation of the protocol laid out amid Covid-19 pandemic and accused the government for misusing power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-shifts-2-dozen-guj-mlas-to-resort-in-sirohi/articleshow/76251213.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Arms seized from illegal unit in Bharatpur||ALWAR: Bharatpur police raided an illegal arms factory on Sunday and seized weapons along with instruments to manufacture them. Six persons have been arrested in this connection. Personnel of four police stations along with one QRT team were part of the raid. Few accused managed to flee and search is on for them. The factory was being run in the forest area under Pahadi police station. Kama DSP, Devendra Singh Rajawat said, “Acting on a tip-off that a factory manufacturing illegal arms was being run in the area, we constituted a team of personnel from Pahadi, Jurhara, Gopalgarh and Sikri police stations as well as one QRT team. After the raid, we found there were enough instruments to make large number of weapons.” The Mewat region is notorious for crime with incidents of suspected cow smuggling and firing between cops as well as alleged criminals because of which the cops are now trying to find the reason behind setting up a factory to produce large number of arms. “We will question six persons arrested to get details about their network and of those who these arms were being sold to. It is important to find the main purpose of manufacturing arms on this scale,” added the official. This is not the first time that Bharatpur police has raided an illegal arms unit and is the fourth factory to be found by cops. Meanwhile, cops have formed a team to look for the remaining accused who fled. An official said, using human intelligence, we will arrest them at the earliest. Their accomplices might also be aware of the group’s hideouts and the team is already combing various locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/arms-seized-from-illegal-unit-in-bharatpur/articleshow/76251207.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t conduct SSC exams amid pandemic and promote all students, urge parents and experts||HYDERABAD: With the state governmnet postponing the SSC exams for the second time, educationalists and parents are of the view that it would be wise to promote all students rather than forcing them to appear for exams at a later stage in the year. They suggested that students be promoted either by considering internal assessment marks of class 10, by taking class 9 marks into consideration. “It is likely the state has already come up with a mechanism to promote all students which it will reveal in time,” said T Tirupati Rao, retired Osmania University professor, who was heading the school fee regulation committee. Teachers, however, said that it is important to immediately declare all students as having ‘passed’, so that they are not left wondering when they will be asked to appear for the exam again. “They can come up with a grading mechanism later. First, cancel SSC examination and declare all students as passed,” said M Ravinder, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation. He said that internal assessment (formative assessment) marks are already available with the government and can be used as one of the aspects to grade students. However, there are differences of opinions on the usage of internal marks to grade SSC students as there is no uniformity in awarding these marks. “Awarding of internal marks will differ from school to school. So, it cannot be used,” said Rao and added that if needed, the state can conduct an entrance examination with only multiple-choice questions for admission into intermediate colleges. Parents too said that promoting students is the right way to go forward as many are scared to send their children to appear for exams.“For many, the SSC certificate is used as the date of birth proof. These marks are not used for any entrance exam. There is no harm if students are promoted in class 10. They will be tested again in intermediate,” said K Shanti, a parent. The education department officials, meanwhile, are said to be considering promoting students without examinations. Instead of grading, all students who have been issued a hall ticket might be declared as pass by the state government. Earlier, in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, all SSC students were declared passed without exams in 1969 during Telangana agitation. Meanwhile,the director of government examinations A Satyanarayana Reddy on Sunday directed district education officers (DEOs) to issue instructions to preserve thermal screening kits, masks, sanitisers, hand gloves, OMRs and blank stationery papers at the examination centres. On Monday, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao will be convening a review meeting with the education department officials on SSC examinations and is expected to make the announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-conduct-ssc-exams-amid-pandemic-and-promote-all-students-urge-parents-and-experts/articleshow/76251209.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 8, 2020||Bhopal||Cloud on Covid-19 deaths among Bhopal gas victims||BHOPAL: How many gas tragedy victims have died of Covid-19 in Bhopal? The administration has no clear answer. Top officials quote varying figures but nowhere close to what activists say is the correct number. While officials say a little over a dozen have died, activists claim at least 70% of Bhopal’s toll of 64 are gas victims. On April 23, TOI had reported how all first 10 Covid-19 patients to die in Bhopal were gas victims, an indication of how vulnerable this community is to the virus. When Bhopal’s toll hit 20 a couple of weeks later, 17 of them were gas victims. And on May 12, TOI reported about the 20th gas victim to die of Covid-19. On May 19, the Madhya Pradesh government issued an order, following MHA directives, not to disclose the identity of Covid-19 patients. Rightly so. It made it difficult to keep track of gas victim deaths in the city’s toll but activists say that by the time the toll touched 47, the number of 1984 survivors had already risen to 32. When TOI asked chief medical & health officer (CMHO) for gas relief, Dr Ravi Saxena, on Saturday how many gas victims had died of coronavirus, he said: “Thirteen so far, according to verified data.” Pointed out that it was 17 when Bhopal’s toll was 20, Dr Verma said: “We have the verified list, with IDs of people who died. There may be more, but we are verifying it.” Member of Supreme Court-Monitoring Committee for gas victims, Purnendu Shukla, rejected the number quoted by Verma. “It is absolutely wrong. When it was easy to access information on people dying of coronavirus infection, I knew that 22 out of 29 deaths were of gas victims,” he told TOI. Bhopal Group for Information & Action( BGIA) an NGO that has been warning the administration repeatedly that gas victims are more vulnerable to Covid because of their weakened immunity, co-morbidities and higher prevalence of cancer maintains that 70% of coronavirus patients who have died in Bhopal are gas victims. “I have information of about 51 deaths and 36 of them are gas victims. We had said gas victims are five times more susceptible to coronavirus, but it is even higher,” said BGIA convener Satinath Sarangi. A senior doctor of a state-run gas relief hospital told TOI that it’s easy for the administration to keep count of gas victims admitted to Covid-19 care centres and those who have died. “The first thing a 1984 tragedy survivor tells a doctor wherever he goes for treatment is that he is a gas victim. This is for two reasons – on the hope that their treatment will be free, and to let the doctor know that they have co-morbidities and their immune system may be weak. They all have ID cards identifying them as gas victims. So, it isn’t difficult to track them,” he said on condition of anonymity. Besides, there are two arms of ICMR in Bhopal exclusively for gas victims -- Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC), to provide them free medical care, and National Institute of Research on Environmental Health (NIREH), to carry out research on health implications of gas victims’ exposure to MIC. These institutes are mandated to maintain data of gas victims and their health status, but NIREH doesn’t seem to have a list of those who died from coronavirus infection. NIREH director Dr R R Tiwari said: “The administration must know (about the list). Covid-19 is not our mandate. We are an institute of environmental health. Health consequences of exposure to MIC is our mandate, but not Covid-19.” Asked if BMHRC has such a list, its senior official Mazharullah said he no longer handles PR and asked TOI to contact the director. The person who took the call for BMHRC director Dr Prabha Desikan on Sunday night said she couldn’t speak at the moment and asked TOI to call back in the morning. Spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, said they are not disclosing identity of coronavirus patients under government policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cloud-on-covid-19-deaths-among-bhopal-gas-victims/articleshow/76251221.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatmala project: Farmers to start chipko andolan today||JAIPUR: In protest against acquisition of land for the Bharatmala Delhi-Mumbai expressway project and government not fixing compensation for farmers at market value or four times the district level committee (DLC) rate, a group of affected farmers - led by Pradesh Kisan Sangharsh Samiti - will be launching ‘chipko andolan’ at Dhanawar in Dausa on Monday. They alleged that the government has not kept its word in compliance with the 13-point agreement signed with the farmers. “Through this protest, maintaining social distancing, we will protect all the trees that are being cut down by the builders of the expressway project without giving compensation to the farmers. We will also not let them acquire our property,” said Himmat Singh Gurjar, convenor, Pradesh Kisan Sangharsh Samiti. “We demand compensation four times the DLC rates or market value of the land. But, the government has not fixed the rate at market value of the land. Moreover, we also demanded that the compensation must be given as per the Centre’s rules and not as per the state norms,” he said. “Hence, the state should write a letter to the Centre in this regard. After the Zameen Samadhi Satyagraha organised by the farmers early this year, there was a 13-point agreement with the state government on these issues. But, the government is not complying with the agreement. It has been more than a week since the chief secretary (DB Gupta) has assured us of a solution talking to the collectors,” he added. Meanwhile, private builders have already started working on the project, he added. “We will also meet the chief minister later.” About 2,000 farmers in the state have been affected by the land acquisition. Under Bharatmala project, Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will cross Alwar, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur, Kota and Jhalawar in Rajasthan. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project will pass through five states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatmala-project-farmers-to-start-chipko-andolan-today/articleshow/76251219.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||SSC schedule pushes academic year farther||Hyderabad: With SSC (Class X) examinations deferred for the second time, the new academic year (2020-21) for schools and junior colleges may get pushed further in the state. The academic year, which is supposed to start in June second week, may be postponed too because of the lockdown. Right now, there is no clarity on when the new academic year might begin with the Centre indicating that it would hold consultations with all states, Union Territories (UTs) and other stakeholders on reopening of educational institutions in July. Chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has also convened a review meeting with the education minister and officials on Monday at Pragati Bhavan on Monday afternoon to take a decision on the conduct of the SSC examinations. The meeting might clear the air on the class X examinations and the new academic year-related issues. “We have no option except to wait for the Telangana government to make an announcement on SSC exams,” Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education commissioner and secretary Syed Omer Jaleel told TOI. He said that it might be a problem during Intermediate first-year admissions if all students were declared as pass without any grading. When we get more than one application for a seat, we give it to meritorious students. If they have scored same marks, then the older candidate is allotted a seat. If there is no grading, how are we going to allot seats,” Jaleel wondered, adding that if such a situation arises the board needs to come up with a proposal to admit students. The Inter board officials said the results of first and second year intermediate exams might be declared by June 15. The affiliation process for the academic year 2020-2021 too has been started and colleges have time till June 10, without late fee, to submit their applications. They said that once the results are declared and affiliations granted, classes could start for Intermediate second year students. Educationalists said the state should not wait for schools to physical classes, but start online teaching sessions for all students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ssc-schedule-pushes-academic-year-farther/articleshow/76251220.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: More cases in Anna Nagar, Tondiarpet in three days||CHENNAI: Tondiarpet and Anna Nagar zones have seen a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past three days, while the rate of increase is lower in Valasaravakkam and Adyar zones. For instance, the daily average number of cases recorded in Tondiarpet in the last three days has been 184.3. This figure was 91.33 in the last fortnight. The spike of 93 cases in the daily average is the highest for all zones under the Greater Chennai Corporation. Anna Nagar has the second highest surge in the daily average, 52 cases. In comparison, the figure for Royapuram, the zone with highest number of cases in the city, stands at 44.27. For Adyar and Valasaravakkam zones, the numbers are 10.73 and 8.33. Civic officials attribute the rise in numbers in Tondiarpet and Anna Nagar to increased testing. Speaking to TOI, nodal IAS officer for Tondiarpet zone K P Karthikeyan said testing was increased following identification of influenza-like illness (ILI) patients during intensive fever surveillance. Every day, 12 to 15 camps are being conducted in areas that had more fever cases. Another factor is that 15,000 residents with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension are also being selectively tested, he said. In areas where people are unwilling to come forward to get tested for lack of public transport, the civic body is deploying mobile testing vans, Karthikeyan said. The presence of a designated Covid hospital in the area, Stanley Medical College, is also a reason for the increase in the cases, he added. Similarly, in Anna Nagar too, there has been an increased focus on testing asymptomatic contacts of positive cases in lower middle-class residential areas, a junior civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-cases-in-anna-ngr-tondiarpet-in-three-days/articleshow/76251217.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist awaits monsoon even as Igatpuri sees heavy rain||NASHIK: After Cyclone Nisarga lashed Maharashtra, Nashik district awaits the arrival of the monsoon even as Igatpuri registered very heavy rainfall on Saturday. The maximum temperature of the district has increased from 24.6 degrees celsius on Wednesday to 31.5 degrees celsius on Saturday. Igatpuri taluka received 190 mm of rainfall, according to the state observatory, as the other parts of the district remained largely dry. As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), monsoon is yet to arrive in the district. Apart from Igatpuri (South of Nashik district), Baglan taluka (North of Nashik District) received 19 mm of rainfall. The Igatpuri taluka, situated atop Kasara Ghat, is the edge of Nashik district and the north Maharashtra region. It is the gateway for North Maharashtra monsoon as southwesterly winds blowing from the Arabian Sea bring rain after crossing Mumbai region. The rain received on Saturday was much higher in Igatpuri than the rain during the cyclonic storm and the next day. Amidst the cyclone, the Igatpuri recorded 106 mm of rainfall. The taluka receives 3057.98 mm of rainfall during the monsoon which is the highest in the district. Notably, Igatpuri taluka has several dams that store water to be provided to regions of Ahmednagar and Aurangabad districts besides the Nashik district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-awaits-monsoon-even-as-igatpuri-sees-heavy-rain/articleshow/76250578.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Running from makeshift campus, IFS breaks into NIRF ranking||Nagpur: The oft-neglected Institute of Forensic Sciences (IFS) has become the only forensic science college to find a place in the top 150 of the prestigious National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced last week. Started in 2012, IFS is yet to get its own land and campus, unlike other prominent institutions which were launched after 2015. In Vidarbha, the only saving grace was a bunch of engineering colleges, a medical institute, pharmacy institute, and Indian Institute of Management-Nagpur, which too is running from a makeshift campus at VNIT but its campus work has commenced at Mihan. None of the non-agricultural traditional universities of Vidarbha found a place among the top 200 institutions of the country. Out of 347 institutions which applied under the NIRF best college category from Maharashtra, IFS stands at 4th spot. The IFS has been running from just one floor of Institute of Science (IoS) building. The state government has two more IoS — at Mumbai and Aurangabad — which didn’t apply for the NIRF. Since last one year, IFS is being handled through additional charge after its first and only full-time director was transferred to Mumbai. IoS director RG Atram, who is holding charge, applauded the staff members of IFS for the achievement. “We are still searching for suitable land. It is a government institute so the district collector is authorized to allot land,” he said, adding that the plan to set up the IFS’s permanent campus within IoS has been junked. In several reports, TOI has highlighted how the state’s own institute has failed to find a modest two acre land, especially when a city’s son was the chief minister, while it has distributed sprawling land parcels to other central institutes and universities. After several attempts to find land came undone, plans were afoot to set it up within the IoS premises, leaving little scope for future development and research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/running-from-makeshift-campus-ifs-breaks-into-nirf-ranking/articleshow/76376765.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man sets ablaze wife, stepchildren||CHENNAI: Police are on the lookout for a 40-year-old man who poured thinner over his wife and two stepchildren when they were sleeping and set them ablaze in their house in Maduravoyal on Sunday. His wife and stepson suffered 95% burns and died at Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital (KMCH) after giving a dying declarations, while his stepdaughter survived with burns and is undergoing treatment. Police said the accused Makbul Ali, was the second husband of Koresha Begum, 40. She had son Akram Ali, 21, and Maji Ali, 13, during her first marriage. Ali met Begum in Kolkata and the family moved to Chennai four years ago, police said. “Koresha Begum and Akram Ali worked in a footwear making unit in Velappanchavadi. Makbul Ali was addicted to alcohol, did not have a job and pestered his wife for money to drink. This led to fights often and Begum kept him out of the house,” police said. In a similar fight, Koresha Begum did not allow him inside on Saturday. Enraged, Makbul returned around 2am, poured thinner on his wife and children through a window and set them on fire. Hearing their cries, neighbours put out the fire and rushed them to KMCH. Makbul Ali is absconding. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-sets-ablaze-wife-stepchildren/articleshow/76251223.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Doctor, tout held for taking bribe in Bundi||KOTA: Bundi ACB on Sunday arrested a doctor and a tout for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 for conducting operation on a fractured leg of one of the relatives of the complainant. The two accused would be produced before ACB court in Kota on Monday.  The doctor has been identified as Om Prakesh Dhakad (43), a resident of Mahavir Nagar –III in Kota, currently posted as a doctor at Bundi district government hospital and a tout identified as Ramesh Taili (44), resident of Chatrapura road, who runs a medical store at Gayatri Nagar in Bundi city, for allegedly taking bribe of Rs 5,000 from one Kuldeep Meena, a resident of Keshoraipatan area of the district, DSP of Bundi ACB Tarunkant Somani said. Complainant Kuldeep Meena had approached the doctor for operation of one of relative’s fractured leg following which the doctor mounted pressure upon him to admit the relative at his private hospital in Deoli town of Tonk district and demanded Rs 20,000 for the procedure. But when the complainant refused admission of the patient in his private hospital, the accused doctor demanded Rs 15,000 to conduct the operation at Bundi district government hospital, where he is posted. Meena approached the ACB on Friday and lodged a complaint against the doctor following which the agency carried out a verification of the complaint during which the doctor accepted Rs 5,000 as advance for the operation, the DSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doctor-tout-held-for-taking-bribe-in-bundi/articleshow/76251222.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Jail inmates make Covid face shields||Lucknow: After pitching in to join the nation’s fight against novel coronavirus by making masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, the UP prisons department is now planning to manufacture face shields. Hamirpur district jail is leading the initiative. Till now, prison inmates have been roped in to manufacture over 16 lakh face masks, 1,000 PPE kits, several thousand litres of sanitizer and sanitizing tunnels. Director general (prisons) Anand Kumar said, “Face shields prepared by inmates of the Hamirpur district jail will be of great help to us. Now, we can give these face shields to visitors and prisoners brought from outside and lodged in quarantine barrack,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jail-inmates-make-covid-face-shields/articleshow/76251633.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||From Monday, BEST to run buses to Virar, Panvel and Badlapur||MUMBAI: In a first, BEST buses will travel as far as Virar, Badlapur and Panvel to help people reach their workplaces from Monday, when offices are to reopen with 10% staff. “These are special services for those living in the far-flung suburbs as local trains are yet to resume services,” said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade. “Five special corridors were created and added to the timetable on Sunday.” These services will ply during peak rush hours—5.30am-11.30am and 5.15pm-10.30pm. BEST buses leaving from Virar will terminate at Malvani from where passengers can take connecting buses to reach their destination. Similarly, there will be buses from Nalasopara to Goregaon, Badalpur via Airoli/ Shilphata to Sion, Kalyan via Mumbra-Kharigaon to Sion and Panvel to Sion. In the reverse direction for these routes, passengers can board buses from 3.45pm to 9pm. Those who are self-employed and do not have ID cards like shop workers, plumbers and electricians can board BEST buses too. “Passengers should inform the conductor the nature of duty and workplace headed to, if asked,” said a senior officer. BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde has appealed to citizens to follow social distancing norms and wear masks while travelling in buses. The BEST plans to run 2,000-2,200 buses of its 3,500-strong fleet, including those for essential staffers. “In case of a shortage, AC buses may be deployed; fare will be that of a non-AC bus,” said an officer, adding that a daily pass would cost Rs 50. The BEST will operate 81 routes across MMR including Borivli-Dadar (440 Ltd), Dadar -Colaba (6 Ltd), Oshiwara-Hutatma Chowk (4 Ltd), Mulund-Sion (302), Thane Khopat-Sion (C-42), Thane Khopat- Andheri east (496 Ltd), Belapur-Bandra (505 Ltd), Belapur-Wadala (504 Ltd), Vikhroli-Backbay (7 Ltd), Shivaji Nagar-Mantralaya (8 Ltd), Kurla station east-Mantralaya (5), Kurla station east-World Trade Centre (85) and Borivli-Vashi (524 Ltd). The MSRTC will operate 250 more service on Kalyan-Thane, Badlapur-Thane, Virar-Borivli routes and up to Mantralaya and BMC headquarters in south Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-monday-best-to-run-buses-to-virar-panvel-and-badlapur/articleshow/76251867.cms||Somit Sen
June 8, 2020||Dehradun||Senior citizen thrashed over petty argument||DERHADUN: A senior citizen doctor was thrashed by a group of eight-to-ten people after an argument over maintaining of social distancing norms. Dr Lalita Prasad, who is a resident of Mehuwala, claims that he was beaten by the group for just asking them to wear a face mask and not to hold community gathering after he found that the group along with many other people were holding a small religious event without maintaining the social distancing norms. Meanwhile, Vivek Bhandari, a police personnel at the Patel Nagar police station said, “The investigation is going on and we have heard the story from both the parties. No serious injury has happened to anybody during the physical altercation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/senior-citizen-thrashed-over-petty-argument/articleshow/76250608.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 8, 2020||Business||GEECL eyes pre-Covid numbers||Kolkata: Great Eastern Energy Corportion, one of the pioneers in CBM (coal bed methane) in India, is hoping that its sales would touch pre covid lockdown level by July 2020. The company has also got evironmental clerance for shale gas exploration in its block in West Bengal. The managing director and CEO of GEECL, Prashant Modi pointed out that with easing of the lockdown measures and the Indian economy slowly opening up, sales have already seen an increase in May 2020. “We now expect Sales to be at pre-lockdown levels by July 2020. Helpfully, all customers largely continue to remain with the Company and, over the last two months, we have renewed some contracts at the same selling price as before,” Modi added. He also dmitted that following the year end, COVID-19 had an adverse impact on Sales in April and into May 2020. The Company has taken appropriate measures to optimize costs and increase efficiencies. Modi also claimed that the Company has sufficient liquidity to meet all its obligations.Elaborating the plan for shale gas, he pointed out that after environment clearance for starting its Shale exploration program it is in the process of obtaining the balance of final approvals. “The Company is engaging with various vendors for commencing the Shale program. Subject to the results obtained and analysed from the core wells, the Company intends to drill an optimum number of pilot production wells,” he said. The total estimated reserve of shale gas nd CBM taken together at Raniganj (south) block is 6.13 trillion cubic feet (best estimate). The discounted value of the reserve is $4.31 billion. Meanwhile, the energy firm has witnessed marginal fall in revenue from $40.33m to $36.25m in FY 2020, and PAT fell from $7.33m to $6.99m. “Revenue and Sales volume have largely remained resilient in these difficult times,” Modi added. · ·||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/geecl-eyes-pre-covid-numbers/articleshow/76251232.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nashik||53-year-old man dies in road accident||NASHIK: A 53-year-old resident of Khutwadnagar died after his scooter collided with a motorcycle coming from the opposite direction in the Satpur MIDC area at around 11 am on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Anil Gaurishankar, said Satupur police, adding that a case has been registered in this regard. According to police, the biker who knocked down Gaurishankar fled the scene after the accident. However, they have found the vehicle number of the person concerned and that they would soon made an arrest in this connection. Police said that the suspect would be charged with causing death due to negligence. Police said that Gaurishankar suffered serious head injuries and died on the spot. The suspect too would have sustained some injuries, police said, adding that efforts are on to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/53-year-old-man-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/76250607.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jaipur||Evening rainfall brings mercury down in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Though majority of the places witnessed a sultry afternoon, rains brought a pleasant change in the weather on Sunday evening. Many places in the state witnessed mild to moderate showers which brought down mercury and increased humidity level. Bikaner remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 41.6°C was recorded. Attributing the dip in the temperature and rainfall to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, the Jaipur meteorological office said that similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next couple of days. People in Jaipur witnessed a comparatively warmer morning as minimum temperature of 26.7°C was recorded. It was followed by a sultry afternoon when a maximum temperature of 38°C was recorded. It was also accompanied with humidity of 80%. In the evening, mild to moderate showers were witnessed across the city. Rainfall was witnessed at the colonies near Ajmer Road, Jhotwara, Murlipura, Sikar Road, Chandpole, Raja Park and Jawahar Nagar. “It was scattered rainfall and was witnessed in smaller spells across the city,” said an officer with the Jaipur meteorological office. Mild to moderate showers were witnessed at many places in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Tonk, Dausa, Kota, Jhalawar and Baran. This has affected Kharif crops especially in the Kota division where farmers have sown cotton. The air traffic from Jaipur was smooth as there was no occurrence of dust storm. Majority of the places got its maximum temperatures below 40°C except Bikaner and Jaisalmer. Ongoing spell of the rainfall has already affected crops of vegetables in the districts, including Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Churu. “The local harvest of onions and watermelon has been affected due to the unexpected rainfall. Jaipur meteorological office said that similar conditions will prevail in the state till Wednesday. However, from Thursday onwards the temperatures will start rising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/evening-rainfall-cools-down-city/articleshow/76251226.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Pak Hindus make masks to earn livelihood in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: When Pakistani Hindu migrants started making masks to protect their own community from coronavirus, they never thought that it would become a means of earning their livelihood. What started with entrusting a woman of the community with the task of making masks by Universal Just Action Society (UJAS) has transformed into an organized production of masks today with involvement of over 70 women in different settlements of the migrant community across the city. “We had no idea that an urge to provide masks to our own community by our own women would turn out one day to be a sustainable means of livelihood for our women,” said secretary of UJAS Hindu Singh Sodha. He said that about 12,000 pieces of masks had been decided to be made initially for our own people but now the demand has started pouring in from medical stores, industries and some other sectors. Initially, the raw material was provided by the UJAS to the women but now with the demands pouring in, the leaders of groups in different areas have been carrying out purchasing while UJAS providing external support like strategic and logistic as well as procedural guidance. A lot of effort also went into fixing the parameters of mask making with regard to its design, quality, making and sizes in adherence to the guidelines of Center for Disease Control and the Centre. Now, these women have been making good quality 3-layered elastic masks of cotton cloth. With the selling price of the masks fixed at Rs 10, these women are easily making Rs 4 per piece, while Rs 6 being incurred on the raw material per piece. Sodha said over 20,000 masks have been made by these women so far which has comfortably fetched them Rs 300-400 per day on an average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pak-hindus-make-masks-to-earn-livelihood-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76251231.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Operation Crackdown 2 helps net 10 goons||NAGPUR: Under Operation Crackdown 2, crime branch sleuths on Saturday night arrested 10 dreaded goons who were planning a dacoity near Wathoda Chowk. Cops have also seized several weapons from the miscreants in the raid. The operation was launched by the city police chief following a series of murders and a dacoity. On Saturday, crime branch sleuths were patrolling in the area when API KV Choughle received a tip off that some miscreants had gathered at the house of dreaded goon Sugat Badge at Wathoda Chowk with weapons and were planning a dacoity. Cops swung into action and arrested 10 goons. Four weapons, 8 mobile phones, cash, chilli powder and three vehicles in all worth Rs3.03 lakh were seized. The accused have been identified as Mohsin alias Bablu Sheikh who has 13 offences registered against him, Imran alias Arman Khan (8), Gaurav Manmode (1), Sugat alias Dhamadeep Bagde (5), Amar Mahale (6), Tushar Dahake (4), Vijay Channe (19), Ranjit Dhanwat (20), Samir alias Ajay Chaurasiya (6) and Vikas alias Sunny Verma, who is the nephew of dreaded gangster Santosh Ambekar. Verma has 13 offences registered against him. He was also externed from the city limits while Dhanwat is currently an externee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/op-crackdown-2-helps-net-10-goons/articleshow/76251638.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Stalls get ready for fish sale but there’s a catch||CHENNAI: The state fisheries department has been making elaborate arrangements to prevent crowding when retail and wholesale fish trade resumes at Kasimedu. About 300 stalls, 200 of which are ready, have been set up at the fishing harbour to facilitate physical distancing, a senior official from the department said. However, with cases increasing in the city, fishermen who operate using trawlers are skeptical about venturing into the sea, fearing it may lead to cases in the community. M E Jayaraman of Kasimedu, who owns a trawler, said the spike in cases has left fishermen worried. “We are not very keen to go into the sea even after June 15. The department held talks with us on Sunday and has scheduled another meeting on Monday. They wanted us to go out to the sea but we are not ready for it,” he said. The official from the department said state chief secretary K Shanmugam visited the harbour twice in the last fortnight to oversee the work. The department has proposed that boats return to shore in batches of 20 to avoid crowding, he said. There are plans to set up sheds in N T Kuppam near Tiruvottiyur, where a wholesale market was proposed, he added. Welcoming the arrangements, K Bharathi, president of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said, “The bitter experience at Koyambedu probably made them work on Kasimedu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalls-get-ready-for-fish-sale-but-theres-a-catch/articleshow/76251227.cms||P Oppili
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Special ward for Covid positive doctors at NIMS||HYDERABAD: A separate ward with around 200 beds is being prepared at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) to admit healthcare workers who have tested positive for Covid-19. As on Sunday, around 70 doctors and medical staffers from key government hospitals had tested positive. Although most of them have been quarantined at their respective houses, the facility is aimed towards providing emergency treatment to them, if need be. “Few doctors have been shifted to the facility already. Right now, most of the staffers are at their respective homes but we are hoping to shift all of those who have moderate to serious symptoms here. As many as 150 ventilators have also been kept ready for the healthcare workers who contact the virus,” said a senior official from the state health department. Meanwhile, after 15 staffers tested positive for Covid-19 at NIMS, the authorities shut down the outpatient and inpatient blocks at five department of the hospital for sanitization. These include department of medical gastroenterology, surgical gastroenterology, urology, cardiology and surgical oncology. Among these, the most number of Covid-19 positive doctors are from the Cardiology department. Most of the healthcare workers have said that they are interested in staying at a dedicated facility instead of their homes as they fear spreading the virus to their family. While there were talks about housing VIPs in the special facility too, authorities have decided against it, citing complications in defining who a VIP is. “We want to stay away from the issue. How do we decide who is a VIP? So we will stick to keeping the facility for healthcare workers,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-ward-for-covid-ve-docs-at-nims/articleshow/76251230.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Quality control: Covid-19 test results of all labs in Tamil Nadu to be reviewed randomly||CHENNAI: In an attempt to make all government-approved Covid-19 testing labs accountable, Tamil Nadu, in a first in the country, has launched a testing quality assurance programme. The test review exercise will happen once in every 14 days. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has so far approved 76 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) labs in the state to test Covid-19 samples, according to official data. This included 44 government and 32 private labs. To ensure that lab results were accurate, the state government has come out with a move to cross-check the results. The plan mandates all ICMR-designated Covid-19 testing labs to randomly choose 10 samples — five that tested positive and five negative. The samples must be sent to King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy, without disclosing the results. The King institute will process the samples again and mail the results to the state department of public health (DPH). The DPH will compare results from the individual labs and the institute for disparities. “If the results are different, the labs will be critically reviewed and surprise inspections will be conducted to ensure there was no compromise with testing and results,” said a senior official from the DPH. King Institute will be reviewed by the National Institute of Virology in Pune, according to a government order issued by state health secretary Beela Rajesh on June 3. The first round of samples (collected from May 15 to 31) will be reviewed at King Institute from June 10. Some private labs have, however, expressed concern about the review move, highlighting that the government itself has, on several occasions, accepted that the virus was tricky and test results were not consistent. When asked about the concern, the DPH official said if samples were collected and tested properly as per protocol, RT-PCR was one the most accurate tools available in the market. It is very sensitive to pick up even 10 to 100 viral nucleic acids present in a sample, he said. Tamil Nadu, on an average, tests around 16,000 samples every day and has so far tested more than 5.92 samples, says data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quality-control-covid-19-test-results-of-all-labs-to-be-reviewed-randomly/articleshow/76251247.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Row over SP leader’s post on woman spokesperson||Lucknow: Objectionable comments by a Samajwadi Party leader from Gorakhpur against a woman spokesperson on a social media page of the party has provided ammunition to rival parties to question the conduct of SP cadre. While the party has issued notice to the leader concerned, the spokesperson from Agra, Roli Tewari Misra, has described the delay in action as “a test of her patience”. The BJP, however, lapped up the opportunity to attack the SP. Kanpur MP Satyadev Pachauri tweeted: “Roli ji...You are like my daughter and you will get justice.” Senior Congress leader and in charge of Gorakhpur region Dwijendra Tripathi said, “Everyone must respect women in all walks of life.” It all began on Friday when a photograph of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav planting a Parijat tree came up on his official Facebook page and Roli Tewari Misra posted a comment complimenting the party president. “Thereafter, one Manurojan Yadav started posting comments which were so filthy that I cannot even repeat them,” Roli told TOI on Wednesday evening. “Manurojan Yadav is an SP leader from Gorakhpur from where his wife is the zila panchayat chairperson,” she said. Roli said she lodged a complaint with party leadership demanding action against Manurojan only to be told that he had been pulled up and would delete the objectionable posts. “I came to know that Manurojan apparently told his leaders that he targeted me as I had a Brahmin surname. This is outrageous,” she said, adding that she had faith in the party president and was confident that he would be punished. SP national secretary Rajendra Chaudhary told TOI that the party had issued a show cause notice to the leader concerned. “Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s stand is clear that disrespect towards a woman will not be tolerated,” Chaudhary further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/row-over-sp-leaders-post-on-woman-spokesperson/articleshow/76251640.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Couple suffers allergic reaction due to home quarantine stamp ink||Nagpur: A couple from city who arrived from Pune by flight two days ago was stamped on hand for home quarantine. Within hours after stamping, both suffered from allergic reaction and developed pus. There have been instances in the past too when the ink used for stamping has led to some allergic reaction on hands of many home quarantined people. “Within two hours of the stamping, we started feeling burning sensation. Within five to six hours, it developed into infection and pus got deposited,” said Sneha Moon, who reached Nagpur along with her husband Rakesh. As they were in home quarantine, the couple first decided to consult doctors within their family. Dr Siddhant Bharne, who happens to be their relative, said that the infection could turn serious. “I asked them to do minor dressing for pus. We are dressing the burn wound regularly. But this must have happened due to excessive use of chemical in the ink. Our health department should replace the ink immediately,” said Dr Bharne. Dr Sanjiv Choudhary, additional professor, dermatology at AIIMS, Nagpur said that this was basically allergic reaction of skin towards the ink. “Some individual may experience such type of allergy towards the ink used for stamps. Instead of treating with home remedies, I suggest them to see dermatologist so that the allergy can be treated well,” he said. Earlier, many travellers who came by road to Yavatmal suffered similar skin burns. The local health administration had to change the ink following several complaints. “After receiving many complaints about the ink reaction, we replaced the bottles from particular batch. No complaints have come since then,” said Dr Sushama Khodwe, health officer, Yavatmal. Health department officials in Nagpur said that they have received no such complaint about the ink used in the district. “We will look into the matter if there is a complaint. Till date, thousands of travellers have been stamped with the same ink, but no such complaint of allergy has been reported,” said a senior official from health department. Ink causing skin burns Electoral ink, a semi-permanent ink or dye, is used for home quarantine stamp It contains silver nitrate, a chemical which leaves a mark that is impossible to wash off This mark is only removed as external skin cells are replaced Ink may contain 10%, 14% or 18% silver nitrate depending on length of time mark is required to be visible If the ink is old, then because of the evaporation of alcohol, silver nitrate concentration may increase which may cause cutaneous burns||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couple-suffers-allergic-reaction-due-to-home-quarantine-stamp-ink/articleshow/76251242.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Cova lends helping hand to city vendors||Hyderabad: The Confederation of Voluntary Association (Cova) on Sunday began a program under which monetary assistance is being provided to vendors in the city. Dr Mazher Hussain, executive director of Cova said that the program is aimed towards helping vendors restore their business after the lockdown. “Cova has launched a program to provide working capital to small businesses by giving grants between Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 at Chaderghat, where almost 26 persons were engaged in selling vegetables, fruits, flowers and running tea stalls. Of these 26 persons, one had started business just 8 month back while another was in business for 40 years. Average tenure in business for these 26 people was 10 years but most could not restart their businesses despite easing of the Lockdown due to lack of working capital,” said, Dr. Mazher Hussain, executive director, COVA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cova-lends-helping-hand-to-city-vendors/articleshow/76251246.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Ram Lalla’s darshan to resume today||Ayodhya: Devotees will finally be able to have darshan of Lord Ram Lalla’s idols and offer prayers as the temporary temple at Ramjanambhoomi will open on Monday after a gap of 77 days. The temple will be open for eight hours, from 8am to 1pm, then 3pm to 6pm. The devotees coming to offer prayers will have to wear mask and maintain social distancing. The footfall is not likely to be much however as only five persons will be allowed to enter the premises at a time as Covid-19 protocols will be rigorously followed. Talking to TOI, Acharya Satyendra Das, the chief priest of Ramjanmabhoomi temple, said, “The local administration has allowed the opening of temples, including the Ramjanmabhoomi, in Ayodhya for devotees from Monday.” “Only five persons will be allowed to enter the temple in Ramjanmabhoomi premises at a time. The devotees can have darshan of Ram Lalla from a distance of 15 metres. No prasad is allowed, so neither can devotees offer prasad to the deity nor they will be given any prasad by pujari. All the devotees coming to offer prayers will have to follow the Covid-19 protocol strictly,” he added. The resident magistrate of Ayodhya K D Sharma told TOI, “Devotees will not be allowed to offer prasad as we have to restrict contact, but they can put money in donation box as offering.” When asked if enough preparations have been made to ensure strict compliance of precautions as per Covid-19 protocol as devotees turn up for darshan of the deity, Sharma said, “Nowadays, due to curbs in place, people in less numbers will come for darshan at Ramjanmabhoomi so there will be no problem, but if the footfall increases in near future, then we will ramp up our arrangements accordingly,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-lallas-darshan-to-resume-today/articleshow/76251642.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Truck robbers’ gang that posed as women busted||VADODARA/ ANAND: Anand police has nabbed three members of the notorious Dafer gang, which was involved in looting truck drivers and cleaners on the Vataman-Tarapur highway last month. The gang members used to pose as women, lure truck drivers on highways and then loot them. Local crime branch (LCB) sleuths of Anand arrested Jamaal Dawood Sindhi, Rajnikant Shrimali and Ghanshyam Devipujak on Sunday. All three are residents of Gangad village of Ahmedabad’s Dholka taluka. “They have confessed to carrying out similar loots at Karjan near Bharuch and Makarpura area of Vadodara,” said Anand district superintendent of police (DSP) Ajit Rajian. “Their vehicles, knives and other belongings have been seized. They have criminal background and are confessing of their involvement in other crimes as well. LCB is carrying out further investigation,” he said. Last month, videos of truck drivers and cleaners claiming that they were stopped, beaten and looted of cash on the highway had gone viral on social media platforms. The drivers had claimed that some of them had stopped to answer nature’s call when the gang struck, tore their clothes and decamped with money. Tarapur police had later registered the complaint lodged by a driver from Vartej on the outskirts of Bhavnagar city, against six unidentified persons in the age group of 30 to 40 years. The driver had claimed that when he stopped his truck at near Varsada village, a gang of robbers attacked and looted him of Rs 30,000 including Rs 12,000 cash. Claims of a total of seven trucks being looted by the gang were made. The truck drivers had made several videos of their ordeal and made them viral on social media recently after which Anand police had launched investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-robbers-gang-that-posed-as-women-busted/articleshow/76248884.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Crew cut: When coronavirus changes flight plan||NEW DELHI: The last time Piyanka Chakraborty, senior cabin crew member with SpiceJet, flew in March, the novel coronavirus was an emerging threat in India and flyers had started using masks and hand sanitisers, but weren’t as cautious as today. For two months after that, with the implementation of the nationwide lockdown, she spent time indoors. On Monday, she returned to work. But two months had ushered in a lot of changes. For one, she is required to don a personal protection equipment suit throughout the flight. And then, she doesn’t hand out food trays to passengers, only making her only rounds in the aisle to serve water. Chakraborty, 26, has been flying for almost eight years now. Her inherent composure as a sky attendant has helped her take the new requirements in stride. "I was nervous to be back, but also more excited than normal," she says. "As soon as I got the roster for the flights this week, I showed it to my mother-in-law, telling her how I would be back in the skies. No matter what the circumstances, you cannot take away the flyer in you." She has now been on flights to Srinagar and Bengaluru. On Wednesday night, she flew back home to Delhi from Bengaluru. Comfort and ‘looking good’ have taken a back seat, the focus of air cabin crews now being on safety — for themselves and the passengers. She has cut down on the hour she earlier spent on getting ready. "I love dressing up and doing my hair and make-up before each flight, but that isn’t needed now. I make do with basic eye-liner and lip gloss. We sanitise ourselves and then get into PPE suits," she smiles. Chakraborty finds it slightly suffocating in the protective gear, especially in hot weather, but she is getting used to it. "We spend most of our time in the galley these days. We only walk down occasionally to give water and ask flyers if they have any other requirement," she says. She is relieved that passenger behaviour seems to have changed since March. "They would not listen when we asked them earlier to put on the seatbelts," she points out. "In the recent flights, I have not seen a single passenger cribbing about anything. Perhaps people realise the gravity of the situation and no one wants to create trouble. They must be grateful to be able to return home." The Faridabad resident is grateful for both her husband, who is based in Qatar, and her brother-in-law being in the aviation industry. "We are all involved with airlines or flying. We know what is required and constantly share our experiences," she says. Once on land, there is another change for her and her colleagues. They no longer go out or try out new places. They mostly confine themselves to their hotel rooms. Chakraborty misses exploring new cities, especially abroad, but pragmatically says, "We cannot take risks if we want to continue serving passengers. We know we have to take extra care of ourselves."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crew-cut-when-virus-changes-flight-plan/articleshow/76251644.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Job frauds rise during lockdown, Rachakonda cops record 11 cases||HYDERABAD: Since the lockdown began, at least 11 job fraud cases were recorded by cybercrime police. In a recent case, a man lost Rs 3.1 lakh when fraudsters, pretending to be HR person of a company, offered him a job. The Rachakoda cybercrime cops registered the case on Saturday. The victim from Malkajgiri was informed by his friend about the vacancy in the company. “The fraudsters called a friend and requested him to pass on the information about the vacancy. The victim reached out to the fraudsters hoping to get a job,” said S Harinath, Rachakonda ACP, cybercrime. After the victim received an offer letter for the post of software engineer at the company, the fraudsters, pretending to be the HR person, asked him to transfer Rs 2,000 to an account towards processing fee for the job. “He transferred a total amount of Rs 3,12,000 towards various charges in pursuit of the job. Later when they did not pick up the call he realised he had been cheated,” added the officer. In another incident, a man from Rachakonda limits lost Rs 1.6 lakh after a Facebook friend offered him a job working for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in Mumbai. “The victim met the fraudster on Facebook. She revealed she is working in IAF at Mumbai and informed him about vacancies in the Force,” added the officer. After she sent an offer letter to him through WhatsApp, a man called the victim and lured him to transfer Rs 1.6 lakh towards processing fee, telephone interview and other charges for the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/job-frauds-rise-during-lockdown-rachakonda-cops-record-11-cases/articleshow/76251251.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Senior corporators get more funds than rest||Nagpur: When corporators of different political parties were getting a meagre Rs2 lakh for development of their ward, senior BJP corporators close to Union minister Nitin Gadkari and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis received over Rs10 crore for development. A corporator has started getting around Rs20 lakh annually for ward development work ever since the BJP took over the reins of the civic body in 2017. However, senior corporators like ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav, former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke, former deputy mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, former standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane and first-time corporator Virendra Kukreja received Rs10 crore each every year for their ward. From 2017-18 to 2019-20, the standing committee allocated Rs767.38 crore towards development works. These allocations were part of NMC’s budget. Of the Rs767.38 crore allocated by the standing committee chairmen in last three financial years, BJP corporators got Rs602.6 crore, while 29 Congress corporators were allotted Rs122.69 crore. Ten Bahujan Samaj Party corporators, mostly from North Nagpur, received Rs33.62 crore for development works. Independent corporator Abha Pande, who is famous for her upright work, could get only Rs3.79 crore for development works, while two Shiv Sena and one NCP corporator got Rs2.39 crore and Rs2.29 crore respectively in three years. Present city mayor Sandip Joshi had carried out development work worth Rs2.9 crore in his constituency in the last three financial years. A two-time corporator and a close aide of east Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde, former standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane got the most (Rs41.04 crore) from the standing panel. City BJP President Pravin Datke too got Rs28.15 crore sanctioned for various works. Senior Congress corporators Praful Gudadhe and the leader of opposition too got the lion’s share of Rs10.77 crore and Rs8.07 crore respectively for development works sanctioned by the standing committee in the last three years. BJP city president, senior corporator and MLC Pravin Datke said funds are allocated on the basis of priority of development work. He admitted that seniority of corporators plays a major role in getting funds sanctioned. The corporators who are sensitive and committed to carry out development works in their areas have faced no problems in getting funds sanctioned, he explained. Datke admitted that senior corporators should help newly-elected representatives to get funds for development works in their prabhag. The BJP does it, he said. Corporators representing the outskirts of the city stressed the need for NMC’s proactive approach to improve basic civic amenities. Congress corporator Darshani Dhawad has been demanding funds to remove the backlog of development works in areas like Dabha. GROUND REALITY Party—2017-18—2018-19—2019-20—Total BJP—35.54—178.99—288.07—602.6 Cong—43.06—34.67—44.96—122.69 BSP—11.96—12.21—9.45—33.62 SS—0.73—0.8—0.86—2.39 NCP—0.32—0.59—1.38—2.29 IND—0.74—1.25—1.8—3.79 Total—192.35—228.51—346.52—767.38 (Figures in Rs/Cr)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senior-corporators-get-more-funds-than-rest/articleshow/76251255.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB locals pitch proposals as Centre prepares Cantt Bill ’20||Secunderabad: Suggestions have poured in from the residents of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) area after the Union ministry of defence invited all 62 cantonments across the country for proposals before the Cantonment Bill 2020 is introduced in Parliament. Some of the suggestions received by the SCB were improvement of civic infrastructure, nomination of civilians to the Cantonment Board’s official panel and framing new building by-laws. The residents also suggested stronger rules regarding closure of civilian roads by military authorities. “Cantonments have been governes by legacy laws, rules and regulations that are undemocratic and hinder people-centric approach required from any civic body,” Jeetender Surana, the secretary of All Cantonments’ Citizens Welfare Associations (ACCIWA) told TOI. “Hence, I would appreciate if the MoD implements in cantonment areas provisions of law and social justice, and local-self governance in reference to the 74th Constitution Amendment Act,” added Surana. According to him, most of the cantonments in the country have narrow roads and inadequate medial infrastructure. “The MoD has to ensure integrated development,” he said. Responding on the closure of civilian roads, Pankaj Sethi, a resident, said: “Section 258 of the Cantonment Act 2006 clearly states that the power to close a street lies with the board. However, the local military authorities often close streets. This has been continuing in SCB areas despite repeated protests by residents and clear order by MoD and army headquarters.” “To put an end to this and avoid inconvenience for people, we strongly recommend that an additional sub-clause be added to the Cantonment Act 2020 in this regard,” Pankaj Sethi added. Resident of Bollarum and the state executive member of BJP, Dhananjaya Chari, has suggested the MoD to increase civilian wards based on BC, SC and ST and reservation for women in the cantonment polls. SCB residents have suggested improvement of civic infrastructure, nomination of civilians to the board’s official panel and framing new building by-laws in the area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-locals-pitch-proposals-as-centre-prepares-cantt-bill-20/articleshow/76251249.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 8, 2020||Pune||Woman loses Rs 49 lakh over business deal in Pune||PUNE: A senior executive working with a software company in the city lost Rs 49.15 lakh to a man from the ‘US’, whom she met through a matrimonial site and was dating online between March and August last year. According to the police, the 49-year-old single woman, who lives in Dhanori, transferred the money to 27 accounts, most of which were registered with different banks in Delhi. As such, the fraud may not be the handiwork of a single person, the police added. “Prima facie, it is suspected that the person, who contacted the victim on the matrimonial site, is from India and routed the calls made to the victim via different servers based in the US. Thus, the woman believed that the man was based in America,” said senior inspector Arun Avhad of Vishrantwadi police. The woman had a profile on a matrimonial website and the man, who identified himself as Denis James from USA, contacted her on the website in March last year. “The two started chatting. They became friends and exchanged phone numbers. The man then told her about the ‘lucrative profits’ in the business of Kola seeds and offered her an investment deal for high returns from marketing and distribution of the seeds in India,” said Avhad. In folk medicine, Kola nuts are considered useful for aiding digestion among its many other benefits. “In order to get the seeds, he asked her to transfer money to his accounts and gave her different bank accounts every time he raised the demand. The woman ended up transferring Rs49.15 lakh to 27 bank accounts until August last year. However, she did not get the seed consignment by December 2019 as promised and the man also stopped taking her calls,” said Avhad. The senior inspector said, “We suspect the name Denis James used by the fraudster is fake. Whatever he mentioned in his matrimonial profile is fake and misleading.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-loses-rs-49-lakh-over-business-deal/articleshow/76251250.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Tree-felling in Western Ghats will lead to water shortage: Conservationists||PANAJI: As hundreds of trees are to be felled for three projects in and around the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park, conservationists said that this is set to directly impact availability of water for Goa. The Union environment ministry has given its approval for four-laning of highway and the double tracking of South Western Railways passing through this wildlife corridor. Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and surrounding areas directly contribute water to the Khandepar river, which supplies water to Opa treatment plant. The Opa plant treats 140MLD water to meet the drinking needs of the Ponda and Tiswadi talukas, said conservationist Pankaj Lad. “River Ragada, a tributary of Mhadei, comes from Tambdi Surla in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary. This is precisely where a power line is being laid by cutting across the sanctuary. Goan population of more than 16 lakh is dependent on these forests for their water needs. In addition, it also provides for 60 plus lakh tourists that visit Goa, on which Goa’s economy depends,” said Lad, who is also an entrepreneur owning a hinterland based project. He said that the leaders need to explain how they plan to secure the water reserves of the state by allowing such disrupting projects in the sanctuary. Environmental activist Abhijit Prabhudesai said that giving approval to the projects will prove suicidal to Goa. “After the Sunderbans, the Western Ghats are recognised as the best tiger habitat in the world. And while Sundarbans are going to be lost to sea level rise, Western Ghats are the only best tiger habitat. Expanding highway on one side and then double tracking of the South Western Railways will leave the southern part of the Western Ghats disconnected from the north part. This will lead to death of tigers, bison, king cobras and several small mammals under the wheels of vehicles and railway tracks as they try to cross over,” he said. Prabhudesai said that the hills are very steep and are also unsuitable for the projects, with the possibility of landslides. “The impact of the loss of wildlife here is going to have a snowballing effect on ecological stability and water conservation. Western Ghats of Goa have already been decimated in a huge way. For Tillari dam, we have already lost elephant habitat. Mining has also destroyed a significant part of the Western Ghats. Goa cannot afford to lose any more of the Western Ghats. We already have so little left,” Prabhudesai. Naturalist Omkar Dharwadkar said that the project will lead to rise in man-animal conflict. “The three infrastructure projects planned through the sanctuary will fragment the already fragile forests, which will displace the wildlife further leading to increased man-animal conflict in the surrounding areas,” Dharwadkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tree-felling-in-western-ghats-will-lead-to-water-shortage-conservationists/articleshow/76251645.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw faulty power bills: Cong||Hyderabad: Finding fault with the billing system of discoms, Congress on Saturday said that it would launch a state-wide agitation if the government failed to withdraw the hefty power bills served to consumers due to higher slab tariff calculations. Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy along with party spokesperson Syed Nizamuddin demanded that all electricity bills served so far be withdrawn and fresh bills be generated after rectifying the errors. They said that the discoms have calculated total units of power consumed in the last three months due to which higher slab rates have been applied to calculate per unit cost, resulting in hefty bill amounts on the consumers. Nizamuddin pointed out that the tariff per unit is based on consumption and Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has approved the tariff for a monthly basis. “However, in violation of TSERC guidelines, the TSSPDCL has generated bills based on overall consumption of power in 90 days,” he said and termed the calculation as a form of extortion. “All domestic consumers got huge electricity bills this month, primarily due to the erroneous calculation of units by TSSPDCL,” he added. Stating that the bills were a burden on the poor and middle class, Revanth demanded discoms to reconsider higher slab calculations and provide relief to consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/withdraw-faulty-power-bills-cong/articleshow/76251259.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: With time on hand, techies grow veggies in vacant plots, terraces||BENGALURU: Seven software engineers in a locality on the northern fringe of the city have turned to part-time gardening, growing vegetables during the lockdown. The seven, all residents of Kanakashree Layout in Hennur, have converted terraces and vacant plots in the layout into kitchen gardens, growing organic vegetables and greens. Ravi Kumar Reddy, who is employed with an IT firm in the city, said it all began when they suddenly found themselves with loads of spare time after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. “I am the son of a farmer,” Reddy said. “I knew certain techniques and I have learnt some more. I thought I would give it all a try. The results have been amazing.” Reddy now grows 15 different kinds of vegetables including ladies finger (okra), beetroot, tomatoes, chilies and onions and has converted a vacant plot adjacent to his residence into a garden where he grows greens and other vegetables. Six other residents in the locality, all IT professionals, have joined Reddy and are trying their hands out at cultivating vegetables in vacant plots or terraces. Reddy has turned mentor for some of them. About 80% of the water used for the plants is recycled. “We have stopped using soap or detergent in the sink,” said Reddy. “We collect the water and use it to irrigate the garden. We also harvest rainwater.” Reddy said he would never have gotten “his hands dirty” had the lockdown not been imposed. He said he simply did not have the time. Sarath Chandra Mekala, another IT professional turned ‘farmer’, said, “My wife is more into gardening than I am, but I began helping her when the lockdown was enforced. Eventually I found myself liking it. The first 45-odd days was difficult since there was very little to show for our efforts. It was mostly a waiting game, but once we started seeing results, it got really exciting.” The two IT professionals said they now want to be self-sufficient at least as far as vegetables are concerned. They plan to continue tending their garden even when things get back to normal. Sarath and his wife grow several kinds of gourds along with cucumbers, tomatoes and brinjal on their terrace garden. None of them use any sort of chemicals on the plants. Sarath said, “There is a big difference in the taste. It a lot tender and more succulent than the ones we buy from the market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-time-on-hand-techies-grow-veggies-in-vacant-plots-terraces/articleshow/76250673.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Guard against e-mail intimidation & blackmail, caution cyber police||PUNE: Recently, a senior central government official received an e-mail in which the unknown sender to have access to his computer and knew which porn sites he had been visiting. The sender demanded money from the recipient in the form of cryptocurrency, failing which he threatened to leak this information to the official’s social circle. “Initially, I was surprised because I am not a frequent visitor to porn sites. I was shocked when I received the e-mail again. I discussed it with a friend who is cyber expert and did not respond to those e-mails,” the official told TOI. This was not an isolated case. In fact, instances of such e-mail-based intimidation and blackmail are steadily on the rise, especially during the lockdown. The city’s cybercrime cell has received 30 complaint applications in the past two months. “Fortunately, none of them have lost money to fraudsters,” senior inspector (cyber) Jayram Paygude said. The cybercrime cell has now issued detailed guidelines on how a target should deal with such e-mails. A college student from Sahakarnagar said after finishing the online classes, he would porn sites to pass time during the lockdown. “I stopped watching porn immediately when I received a threatening e-mail. I could not sleep for two nights,” the student said. Cybercrime police inspector Maccindra Pandit said that these were fraud e-mails and are being sent in bulk. “Most people ignore it. There were very few instances where people fell prey,” Pandit said. Crooks hack social media accounts, dupe people There is an increasing number instances in which people are being cheated of their money by “friends” online. “I am in the hospital and in urgent need of money” — if you received such a message on your social media account, purportedly from a ‘”close friend”, do not blindly transfer money before checking with your friend. Otherwise, chances are high that your friend’s account was hacked and you are transferring money to a cybercrook, instead. Pune’s cybercrime division has increasingly been receiving such complaints — just this Monday, two people were cheated this way. Paygude said that fraudsters hack social media accounts of people and send messages to their friends, or post messages to their page, seeking urgent funds. “They usually claim the person is in the hospital,” he said. Those on the friend list of the hacked account walk into the trap and send money without verifying that person. “On Monday, two people lost Rs60,000 (in total) this way — Their friend’s Facebook account was hacked,” he said. A resident of Baner, who lost Rs40,000 to a similar fraud, said he got an add request from a friend on May 16. As soon as he accepted the request, his “friend” claimed he was in the hospital and needed Rs40,000 urgently, promised to return it the same day. “I transferred the money. When he sought Rs30,000 more, I smelled a rat. I contacted my friend and he told me that his account got hacked,” he said. He said the fraudster told his to share the OTP of a digital wallet application. “I did not respond and filed a complaint,” he said. Senior inspector Paygude suggested that anyone, when they realize their Facebook account has been hacked, should immediately alert all their contacts and initiate steps to recover their accounts. The steps to recover one’s account can be found in the help section of the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-against-e-mail-intimidation-blackmail-caution-cyber-police/articleshow/76251256.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk hotel worker rams bike into median, dies||Hyderabad:A 24-year-old worker travelling on his two-wheeler along with his friend rammed into a road divider and pole in Jeedimetla and died on Sunday. The pillion rider is said to be in a critical condition. The deceased was identified as Sopan Ram, who used to work at a hotel. Around 11.30am on Sunday, an inebriated Sopan, along with his colleague was travelling on a bike from Chintal to Shapurnagar on Sunday morning, police said. “He lost control over the two-wheeler and crashed into the road-divider and a pole near HMT in Jeedimetla. Sopan Ram died on the spot, while Sundeep Kumar, 29, is in critical condition and undergoing treatment at Osmania Hospital,” Jeedimetla inspector K Balaraj said. “Both were not wearing helmets and sustained severe head injuries,” the officer added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-hotel-worker-rams-bike-into-median-dies/articleshow/76251261.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Bodies swapped, kin denied last rites in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The family of Moinuddin were in for a shock when they reached Lok Nayak Hospital on Sunday to collect the body of the 50-year-old man. They realised the family of another man bearing the same name had been handed over the body erroneously. This was a second blow to the family as Moinuddin’s wife had passed away shortly after receiving the news of his death, leaving behind three children. The family couldn’t even get a last glimpse of Moinuddin because when Aijazuddin, his brother, contacted the other family, they told him that the body had already been buried. Aijazuddin said, “The hospital called us on June 5 to take the body. While I was checking the documents, I realised that the father’s name mentioned was Amruddin and the address was of Madhu Vihar. We reside near Jama Masjid. I asked the hospital authorities to show me the face for identification and realised it was someone else. My brother didn’t have a beard and used to stay clean shaven. The hospital told us they would get back my brother’s body, but when I reached there on Sunday I was told that the other family had already buried it.” The other Moinuddin was 65 years old. His son, Kalamuddin, told TOI that they admitted him to the hospital in the evening on June 4 and he died at night. “My father had kidney problems and diabetes. He was admitted as a Covid-19 suspect. His body was given to us on June 5. My father’s last wish was that he should be buried immediately if he died,” he added. Kalamuddin claimed the body shown to them had a bandage wrapped from the cheeks to the head and the face was covered in blood. “The hospital said they had removed the dialysis pipe from the neck, which is why the face had blood. We then took the body and buried it,” he added. “On Sunday, I got a call from Dr Jitendra to confirm if the body we had buried was indeed of my father. We then went to the hospital where we were asked to amicably resolve the issue with the other family. We told Aijazuddin’s family that we had buried him following proper rituals. The family then accompanied us to the graveyard,” said Kalamuddin. A senior official from LNJP forensics department said, “When the bodies are received at the mortuary, we only get the death certificate and a numbering slip. The body is given to a person after he identifies it. This is what happened in this case. Bodies change colour and appearance, so family members must check properly before taking them. We are planning to record on video or CCTV the handing over of bodies.” The ordeal of the family began on June 2 when Moinuddin’s blood pressure started dropping. His family rushed him to a nearby hospital from where he was referred to GB Pant since he was being treated for his heart ailment there. “The doctors at GB Pant asked us to get his sample tested at Lok Nayak. He passed away while they were doing his ECG. His youngest son has a hole in his heart and Moinuddin was collecting money for his operation. When we told the news of his death to his wife, she fell unconscious and died the same day. On June 5, the Covid-19 test report came positive after which the children were asked to stay in home quarantine,” said Aijazuddin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bodies-swapped-kin-denied-last-rites/articleshow/76251649.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Majlis Trust to donate dispensers||Hyderabad: Majlis Charity Education and Relief Trust has decided to distribute 227 sanitiser dispensers to temples, mosques, churches and gurudwaras in Hyderabad and adjoining areas. The value of the dispensers is Rs 19.7 lakh. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi took to Twitter to say that he hopes the ditribution will help adherents stay safe during worship. He also urged people take precaution when they visit mosques. “We cannot ignore that Covid 19 isn’t going anywhere and we should take some precautions,” he wrote. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/majlis-trust-to-donate-dispensers/articleshow/76251263.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Newly-constructed Pachpaoli police quarters turned into Q-centre||Nagpur: The dreams of constables to live in the newly-constructed 2-BHK apartments in the Pachpaoli police quarters crashed after NMC earmarked it for a quarantine centre. Around 197 flats were readied by the Mumbai-based Maharashtra state police housing and welfare corporation limited. The flats now have no takers with 600 Covid suspects quarantined and 84 of them positive. The apartments were about to get allotted to the constables when the Corona pandemic outbreak changed the scenario. Compelled to live in the pigeonhole quarters with leaky roofs and broken floor tiles, the constables were set to get the posh apartments after former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had taken up the cause to provide quality accommodation. Some constables were fortunate enough to get the new flats within the police headquarters but the allotment for the ones at Pachpaoli was to begin when it turned into a quarantine centre. Though a senior cop said that each apartment would be fumigated and sanitized properly before being allotted, many constables are unwillingly to stay there with their families, especially aged parents and children. A cop lamented that in the coming monsoon, they would be forced to stay at the quarters with leaking roofs and flooded floors again with the new quarters being allotted for Corona suspects. “Many constables did duty for decades and also struggled with their families in the rickety quarters. This was the first generation among the lower rung who were to get the apartments with all the modern amenities like the ones for senior officers,” he said. Another constable said that those accommodated may misuse the facilities. “Will NMC pay for the damages in the newly-constructed flats or will the police department once again have to bear the expenses for renovations or repairs is a million dollar question now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/newly-constructed-pachpaoli-police-quarters-turned-into-q-centre/articleshow/76251284.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Offices, malls, eateries set to reopen||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided that offices, malls, religious places and even restaurants will be allowed to remain open from 8am to 7pm in the city. However, these establishments will have to be outside the containment and micro-containment areas. Rajiv Gupta, ACS, forest and environment who is overall in-charge of containing spread of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, held a meeting in the AMC on Sunday. After the meeting Gupta said that the decision to permit malls, offices, and religious places was taken according to guidelines of the Union home ministry. AMC officials said the establishments will have to follow standard operating procedure issued by the Union home ministry. Hotels and and guesthouses will be allowed to run round the clock and at full strength. However, they will have to follow the curfew guidelines as there will be curfew from 9pm to 5am. Restaurants can stay open from 8am to 7pm only, and run at full strength. The AMC stated that religious places will be permitted to remain open from 5am to 7pm. Elderly, children and vulnerable persons are advised not to visit these places unless necessary. Wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing remains mandatory in public, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/offices-malls-eateries-set-to-reopen/articleshow/76250785.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ACB yet to arrest tehsildar in bribe case||HYDERABAD: Despite unearthing Rs 30 lakh worth property from the house of Shaikpet tehsildar Ch Sujatha, ACB team has not arrested her as they could not find evidence of her involvement in bribery case linked to the 4,865 square yards of land in Banjara Hills. Meanwhile, Banjara Hills SI A Ravinder was arrested by the ACB and sent to judicial remand as they managed to obtain a key piece of evidence against him. Based on the complaint lodged by Syed Abdul Khalid of Mir Alam Mandi on Saturday, ACB city sleuths caught Shaikpet tehsildar office’s revenue inspector (RI) K Nagarjuna Reddy red handed while he was accepting Rs 15 lakh cash as bribe to solve the problems linked to the land in Rd No. 14 of Banjara Hills. The complainant told ACB sleuths that he was directed to Nagarjuna Reddy by Sujatha. After the arrest of Reddy, ACB sleuths raided the tehsildar’s flat in Gandhi Nagar and unearthed Rs 30 lakh worth property including Rs 24 lakh cash and jewellery. On Sunday, ACB sleuths questioned the tehsildar but she denied any wrongdoing. “The tehsildar’s husband is a university faculty. Neither the tehsildar nor her husband could say how much cash was at home. When the seized cash was shown, the tehsildar said that it’s the money they saved from their salaries. But her husband said that the cash was from the sale of land. But they could not show any documents pertaining to the sale of land,” said an ACB official. After the trap, ACB sleuths asked VRO, Sekhar of Borabanda to appear for questioning. A team is also conducting a search at his house. ACB is yet registered a case against the tehsildar. Meanwhile, ACB obtained key evidence against Banjara Hills SI A Ravinder and arrested him. “The complainant gave Rs 1 lakh bribe to the SI in January when the first case was registered against him. A second case was registered in May. This time, the SI took Rs 50,000 bribe from the complainant,” said an ACB official. ACB obtained audio-visual evidence of the SI demanding bribe from the complainant in the second instance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-yet-to-arrest-tehsildar-in-bribe-case/articleshow/76251286.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||Two farmers critically injured by tigress near Mala forest range||Pilibhit: Two farmers of Richhaula under Gajraula police station were critically injured on Sunday after a young tigress of Mala forest range tried to maul them. The tigress which has been roaming near the forest buffer area for the past fortnight is probably looking for her "own independent territory".The two men have been identified as Ramandeep Singh alias Ram Singh, 45, and Balkar Singh, 58. Medical officer on emergency duty at district government hospital Dr Sanjeev Saxena said, "Ram Singh has been referred to King George’s Medical College (KGMC) in Lucknow as he has sustained severe head wounds."A member of Ram Singh’s family said, "The tigress attacked when he was resting under a tree in a field near his house around 800 m away from the forest area of Mala range.Hearing him scream, Ram Singh’s neighbour Balkar Singh rushed to rescue him, but the tigress attacked him too. The big cat left the field only after both the injured farmers desperately shouted for help.Agitated villagers have warned the forest officials on Sunday that they would kill the tigress if she strayed again into their village. Field director of PTR H Rajamohan said, "We are left with no other option, but to tranquilise the tigress and transfer her to a safe forest zone as the farmers have warned that they would kill the animal. For this, we have sought permission from UP's chief wildlife warden."Earlier, on the night of April 2, another five-year-old tiger had killed two villagers while they were asleep on their farmland. The tiger was later tranquilised and shifted to Kanpur zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-farmers-critically-injured-by-tigress-near-mala-forest-range/articleshow/76249133.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Vacant posts at Eklavya schools||HYDERABAD: Sixteen Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS) in the state desire to fill teaching posts in Telugu, Hindi, English, Maths, General Science, Social Studies, Art and Craft and Music subjects. Librarian and technical assistant posts on outsourcing basis with suitable are also to be filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vacant-posts-at-eklavya-schools/articleshow/76251269.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Hubballi||Debt-ridden farmer ends life||DAVANAGERE: Fearing mounting debts, a 65-year-old farmer from Kambada Devatti village in Holalkere taluk of Chitradurga district has committed suicide by consuming poison. The deceased is Dasappa K. He had reportedly borrowed a loan of Rs 2.70 lakh from SBI (Holalkere branch) and Rs 1.10 lakh from Pragathi Grameena Bank (Holalkere) and had purchased a tractor for Rs 4.50 lakh through the loan taken from Mahindra Finance (Chitradurga). But due to the lack of rain in the last two years, his crops failed, pushing him to depression over the debts. Depressed, he consumed poison late on Saturday night at his house. Noticing him wreathing in pain, his family members rushed him to Holalkere taluk government hospital, where he succumbed in the early hours of Sunday. Holalkere police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life/articleshow/76248360.cms||---
June 8, 2020||India||After Kerala, K’taka too may opt for ‘reverse quarantine’||BENGALURU: With Unlock 1.0 kicking in and the number of Covid-19 positive cases witnessing a spike, the Karnataka government is likely to implement ‘reverse quarantine’ to protect elderly citizens and others susceptible to coronavirus. Reverse quarantine, implemented by Kerala, refers to the system of isolating two vulnerable sections — those who are more than 60 years old or with underlying medical conditions — from the rest of the population that resumes work in the new-normal situation. The emphasis will be on protecting these sections from getting infected by putting them in separate rooms and limiting their interactions with other family members, who move out of the house every day for work. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan told TOI: “Our priority is to protect the vulnerable, especially elderly citizens and those with co-morbidities. We have been brainstorming reverse quarantine and have been seeking opinions from experts.” The response has been mixed. Dr US Vishal Rao, part of Covid Consultative Group (an independent think-tank), has suggested the government roll out reverse quarantine wherever possible. “The Covid-19 experience in Karnataka suggests that while younger population is vulnerable to the virus, the elderly population is prone to fatalities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-kerala-ktaka-too-may-opt-for-reverse-quarantine/articleshow/76251887.cms||Rakesh Prakash
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||Rudrabhishek to start work on Ram temple||Ayodhya: A rudrabhishek, to be organised at Kuber Tila temple on the Ramjanambhoomi's premises here on June 10, will mark the start of work on Ram temple. Giving this information to TOI, Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor and spokesperson of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, president of the Ram Mandir Trust, said that the temple construction work would begin after ‘rudrabhishek’ on June 10. "By offering prayers to Lord Shiva we are following the tradition set by Lord Rama,” he added. Meanwhile, engineers and technical staff of L&T, camping on the premises of Ramjanmabhoomi, have started preparations for founation-laying. Chief priest of Ram Janmabhoomi temple Acharya Satyendra Das said, "L&T personnel are supervising the levelling work. They, too, are waiting eagerly for becoming a part of history. It would be a historic occasion,” he added. Triloki Nath Pandey, decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi awarded by the Supreme Court, said that there is an ancient temple of Shiva on Kuber Tila. The prayers would be held at the same temple at around 8 am on June 10, he said, adding that the special prayers would be performed by Mahant Kamal Nayan Das along with other priests on behalf of Ram Mandir Trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. “This religious ceremony will last for about two hours,” Kamal Nayan Das added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rudrabhishek-to-start-work-on-ram-temple/articleshow/76251651.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman, 52, arrested for killing husband||Coimbatore: Two murders were reported in the city in the last two days. A 24-year-old construction worker was stabbed to death on a temple premises at Panaimarathur near Selvapuram on Sunday morning. V Ramesh, a native of Pappireddipatti in Dharmapuri district, was staying in a rented house at Kanuvai with his parents, police said. Residents of Panaimarathur had alerted the Selvapuram police on Sunday around 6am after finding his body on the Mahamariamman temple premises. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that Ramesh had befriended some transgenders, who were residing in Panaimarathur. He had visited them on Saturday night,” a police officer said. The Selvapuram police have picked up some trangenders and 10 youths from Panaimarathur for questioning. In the second incident, a woman murdered her 56-year-old husband at Pappanaickenpalayam on Saturday morning. The deceased was identified as R Sivaprakasam of Karuppakkal Thottam at Pappanaickenpalayam. He was a wall painter. “He was staying in a rented house with his wife Maheswari, 52, and a daughter. He was addicted to alcohol and used to fight with his wife. Unable to bear the torture, Maheswari attacked him using a wooden log,” an officer said. Sivaprakasam suffered severe head injuries and was rushed to CMCH. But doctors declared him brought dead. The Race Course police registered a case against Maheswari under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested her. She was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-52-arrested-for-killing-husband/articleshow/76251280.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hotels ready to reopen today in spite of zero bookings||Bhubaneswar: After remaining shut for over two and a half months, a section of hotels in the state has decided to resume operations following the guidelines of Unlock 1.0. “Around 30% to 50% hotels in the state are planning to reopen on Monday, with a limited number of staff. All guidelines issued by the state and the Centre will be strictly followed. No hotel has received any bookings so far but they have decided to resume operations in the hope of business. If the Covid-19 situation continues as it is, or worsens, the hotels that reopen may down shutters once more,” said J K Mohanty, chairman of Hotel and Restaurants Association of Odisha (HRAO). On Sunday, hotels here were seen sanitising their premises and stocking up on equipment like masks and gloves. “There are no bookings yet, keeping the hotel closed is no solution. The virus is going to be with us for some time and we have to adapt to it. We have to develop a new system to cope with it,” said Pradipta Mohapatra, assistant vice-president, Mayfair Hotels and Resorts. The hoteliers said hotel restaurants were yet to open for visitors. At present, they are only providing takeaways. Guests staying in the hotels can order food from the restaurants through room service only. Request for room service and all other communication between guests and in-house staff should be through intercom/mobile phones. Hotels must adopt contactless processes like QR codes, online forms and use of digital payments like e-wallets for both check-in and check-out. These are among the measures issued as part of the standard operating procedure by the ministry of health and family welfare. Although the hotel and hospitality sector has been very badly hit by the lockdown, some hotels have decided to wait before reopening. Hotel owners said most of the staff had gone back to their homes in villages during the lockdown. Some have refused to join the hospitality sector out of fear of contracting the virus. “Since the number of Covid-19 cases is rising, staff fears about exposure to the virus are justified. We have decided to delay the reopening of the hotel for a few more days,” said Debasish Patnaik, director of The Crown here. Huge overheads, lack of bookings and staff shortage are the other reasons behind the hotels being circumspect about reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hotels-ready-to-reopen-today-in-spite-of-zero-bookings/articleshow/76249811.cms||Minati Singha
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad records 70 positive cases||AURANGABAD: As many as 70 Covid-19 cases were reported from different parts of the city and from Gangapur and Khuldabad in the rural areas of the district on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 2,020. Aurangabad district had recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 15 and breached the 1000-mark after a span of two months on May 18. It took the district just 20 days to cross the 2,000-mark of Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, a 56-year-old woman from Kailas Nagar, a 70-year-old man from Altamash Colony and a 60-year-old woman from Deodi Bazar succumbed between Saturday and Sunday while undergoing treatment for the viral infection at the same private hospital. GMCH’s media coordinator Arvind Gaikwad said that a 70-year-old woman and an 80-year-old man died of Covid-19 on Sunday. As per the district administration, 1,224 patients were discharged until Sunday morning. 104 confirmed Covid-19 patients have died in the district till Sunday. Home-isolation for asymptomatic patients Commissioner of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Astik Kumar Pandey told TOI on Sunday that following a study of the coronavirus over the past few months, the civic administration has issued guidelines on home-isolation of asymptomatic patients. “Covid-19 positive patient without symptoms is not a diseased person. A positive person with symptoms can be called a diseased person. Chances of transmission of infection from an asymptomatic person are considerably less. AMC has allowed home isolation to around 14-15 people. Asymptomatic patients with sufficient space at home under medical observation can be considered for home-isolation,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-records-70-positive-cases/articleshow/76249804.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj temples open from today||Ahmedabad: After more than two months, temples in Gujarat wil reopen from June 8 in line with the guidelines issued by the Centre. Dwarkadhish temple in Devbhumi Dwarka district, Somnath temple in Veraval, and Jagannath temple in Ahmedabad, where sanitization work has been going on in full swing for the past few days, will reopen for the general public from Monday. Circles have been drawn along the darshan lines at regular intervals. In certain instances, they have been placed in a zigzag manner to restrict overcrowding. From making face masks mandatory and streamlining entry and exit to bringing in sanitizers and thermal guns, the temples of Gujarat have readied to reopen after the coronavirus-forced lockdown. Some of the much visited places of worship will not reopen immediately. The famous Ambaji temple in Banaskantha district, which will reopen from June 12, has decided to introduce a token system for devotees. The Shakti Peeth at Bahucharaji and Jalaram temple in Virpur will reopen on June 15. In Ahmedabad, shrines such as Bhadra Kali temple and Camp Hanuman temple will also take a little longer to open, said sources. As many as 1,100 temples of Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Sanstha (BAPS) will remain closed in India till June 15. Jagannath Temple in city will open to devotees only for darshan from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-temples-open-from-today/articleshow/76250778.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Calls to women’s helpline zoom in May||BENGALURU: More than 800 callers approached the Parihar Vanitha Sahayavani (women’s helpline) in May, complaining of abuse of one kind or another, the highest number it has received in a month. The helpline, set up by Bengaluru police, received and attended to 803 calls -- an average of 30 calls every working day. The helpline doesn’t work on Sundays. One factor was the re-opening of wine shops on May 3, with 43 women approaching the helpline to escape physical abuse at the hands of drunk husbands or guardians. In April, the helpline had received only one such call. However, most calls (226) were of women seeking help citing mental harassment. A majority of these cases were linked to cybercrimes – of women harassed over private photos. There were also many cases of husbands abusing their wives and throwing tantrums. In one case, a woman approached the helpline alleging her husband body-shamed her by passing remarks that she was fat, despite knowing she was eight months pregnant. The husband was warned with legal action. He apologized and assured counsellors he would not repeat it. Rani Shetty, who supervises Parihar, said: “In more than a decade of existence, we have never ever received such a huge number of calls. The number of calls to the helpline never crossed 100, but in April and May it increased to 418 and 803 respectively.” Shetty went on to say, “Most calls pertained to mental harassment and physical abuse. We had to counsel those involved over the phone since the lockdown was in place and we could not call them in for counselling. We informed police where immediate intervention was needed.” Parihar counsellors say a majority of calls were from educated people. “The reasons for fights included sharing household work which would aggravate,” they said. Shetty said: “We found unemployment, inability to make ends meet, drinking habits, uncertainty and work from home [which many do not like] were some reasons why couples picked up fights. We informed police in cases of physical abuse.” The number of calls zoomed after 5pm, counsellors said. The helpline worked in two shifts: 8am to 2pm and 2pm to 8pm. BS Saraswathi, senior counsellor, said most callers contacted the helpline after sunset. “In some cases we found they were waiting for their husbands to go out of the house to contact the helpline and in some cases, it would be because men would get drunk by evening and assault women,” Saraswathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/womens-helpline-received-record-803-calls-in-may/articleshow/76250706.cms||Kiran Parashar
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK to protest frequent arrest of party cadres||Coimbatore: The DMK has decided to hold a series of protests against state municipal administration minister S P Velumani over frequent arrests of its cadre in the past few weeks. DMK president M K Stalin conducted a meeting with district party functionaries through video conferencing on Sunday. DMK issued a statement claiming that “municipal administration minister SP Velumani was initiating action against those who criticized him.” The DMK statement said when journalists published news in connection with lapses in Covid-19 relief, the minister allegedly threatened media persons and ordered arrests of journalists. He also ordered police to arrest DMK functionaries who were critical of him, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-to-protest-frequent-arrest-of-party-cadres/articleshow/76251270.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Cuttack||‘Bande honour a milestone for Odia culture, language’||Bhubaneswar: The state government’s decision to accord Odisha Rajya Sangeeta or state song tag to ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ has been hailed by the family of Kantakabi Laxmikant Mohapatra, who penned the song, as well as members of Utkal Sammilani and leaders cutting across party lines. Prabhu Kalyan Mohapatra, the grandson of the poet, expressed gratitude to the state government and chief minister Naveen Patnaik for bestowing the honour upon the patriotic song that glorifies Mother Utkala (Odisha). “It is a matter of pride not only for me but for the entire Odia people. This was a long-standing demand of the people of the state. Although late, the government has finally respected the wishes of the people,” he said. Dilip Dassharma, a member of Utkal Sammilani, said the state song honour for ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ was a foregone conclusion given the way the entire Odia community came together to sing the song at 5:30 pm on May 30 on the call of the chief minister. “I express my gratitude to the chief minister Naveen Patnaik for this historic decision,” he said. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and state Congress president Niranjan Patnaik also welcomed the government’s move. Taking to Twitter, the Union minister said, “According state song status to ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ is a matter of pride. The song had instilled patriotism in the minds of the Odias during the movement for a special Odisha province. The song gets its due credit.” “Great moment for all Odias! Feel proud that the iconic song, #BandeUtkalJanani, written by Kantakabi Laxmikant Mohapatra, is getting state song status. This request was long pending with Odisha govt. I am happy that it has finally been accepted,” tweeted Niranjan. Senior BJD leader Amar Satpathy, who has been demanding state song status for ‘Bande Utkala Janani’ in the assembly for the past few years, congratulated the chief minister on his decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/bande-honour-a-milestone-for-odia-culture-language/articleshow/76259812.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Business||Lockdown set to hit H1 financials, hopeful of recovery later: TajGVK||Hyderabad: Hospitality player TajGVK Hotels & Resorts Ltd has informed the bourses that the Covid-19 outbreak has impacted the financials of the company and its joint ventures for the first quarter of the current fiscal as most of its hotels had to be shut down completely during the lockdown and the impact is expected to be felt in the coming quarter as well. “Since the situation is exceptional and changing dynamically the company…believes there will be impact in sales volume, revenue and profitability for Q1 and Q2 FY21 as our hotel operations are presently shut and will gradually ramp up only after the resolution of the pandemic,” it said in a regulatory filing. The company said five of its hotels were shut down entirely during the lockdown phase as the company was not part of the government denominated essential services. Only one hotel was operating at minimum occupancy, it said. TajGVK said while revenues are expected to be softer in the initial phase of the lockdown and for some time after it is lifted, mainly due to lower occupancies and limited F&B offtake arising out of reduced business and leisure travel, the company does not see any challenge in recovery post the revival of the economy as all its hotels are operating under the iconic Taj brand. The company said it has put in place a series of steps to optimise costs across all the lines namely raw material, manpower, power & fuel, corporate overheads, among others. “The company is also in discussion with its lessors for waiver or deferment of lease rentals or concession fee during the lockdown period. Cash conservation measures have also been initiated such as deferral of capex & renovation plans unless absolutely required for upkeep of operations,” it said. The hospitality player, which is a joint venture between GVK Group and Indian Hotels Company Ltd, said it was faced with a lot of cancellations of confirmed bookings but continued to explore different opportunities under the Vande Bharat programme in Hyderabad and stays for healthcare workers at its Taj Santacruz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-set-to-hit-h1-financials-hopeful-of-recovery-later-tajgvk/articleshow/76250725.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Clean the premises: AFES||Ahmedabad: As establishments in city have started opening after two months, the number of fire incidents have recorded a jump, said Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) officials. The reason for the phenomenon – both for rise in number and intensity – is linked with the conditions of the premises, they added. Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES, said that in a few of the instances, it was observed that the fire fighting operation took more time as the premises were not clean and the accumulated waste also added to the fire load. “We request the owners of the premises to thoroughly clean it. It would also ensure that the rodents or birds don’t harm the wiring,” he said. He added that load fluctuation is another issue. “In a recently held meeting with the industry representatives, we advised them phase-wise opening of the facilities. As the machinery is not used for a long time, sudden start can trip the line, which could also lead to fire accident,” said Bhatt. AFES officials said that fortunately fire incidents caused by intense heat were less this year due to lockdown. The internal and external heat often caused the machines to malfunction in industrial areas, leading to fire, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clean-the-premises-afes/articleshow/76250798.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||In comorbidity cases, Covid-19 to be listed as underlying cause of death||AURANGABAD: The state directorate of health services, Pune, has issued a revised set of instructions asking the death audit committees across the state to follow the guidelines of the ICMR on ‘guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India’. It has asked the panel to mention ‘Covid-19’ in the last line of the medical certificate of cause of death (MCCD), if the viral infection is the underlying cause of death (UCOD). The MCCD has two parts subdivided into three columns. Part 1 records immediate cause, followed by antecedent cause. Part 2 comprises other significant conditions contributing to death but not related to the disease or condition causing it. As per the new guidelines, under ‘immediate cause’, doctors are expected to record ‘disease, injury or complication which caused death, not the mode of dying such as heart failure, asthenia, etc’. In the antecedent cause, doctors have to record ‘morbid conditions, if any, giving rise to the above cause stating underlying conditions last.’ Doctors have also been asked to record ‘interval between onset and death’ in each column. The guidelines states that if old age was a factor that led to the person’s death, it should be entered in Part II. “Covid-19 is reported to cause pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)/ cardiac injury/ disseminated intravascular coagulation and so on. These may lead to death. It is likely that Covid-19 is the UCOD that lead to ARDS or pneumonia in most of the deaths. . In these cases, Covid-19 must be considered as UCOD in the last line/lowest line of part-I of MCCD form,” states the health directorate’s communication. The communication further says, “Patients may present with other pre-existing comorbid conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma, chronic bronchitis, ischemic heart disease, cancer and diabetes mellitus. These conditions increase the risk of developing respiratory infections and may lead to complications and severe disease in a Covid-19 positive individual. These conditions are not considered as UCOD as they have directly not caused death due to Covid-19. Also a patient may have many comorbid conditions but only those that have contributed to death should be recorded in part 2.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/in-comorbidity-cases-covid-19-to-be-listed-as-underlying-cause-of-death/articleshow/76249817.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Slew of safety measures as Bannerghatta zoo to reopen today||BENGALURU: Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) including the zoo, the butterfly park and the animal safari will reopen for visitors from Monday after a gap of 85 days. The 731.9 hectare facility was closed on March 15, as a preventive step against the spread of Covid soon after a tiger in the Bronx zoo in New York reportedly tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said the reopening comes with a few restrictions and visitors will have to adhere to social distancing norms and sanitization. Feeding of animals or birds in the facility is strictly prohibited in order to prevent human-animal contact. “We are putting in place strict guidelines stipulated by the government and the Karnataka forest department,” said Vanashree Vipin Singh, executive director, BBP. “We will also restrict the number of visitors in order to enforce social distancing norms.” Visitors must purchase entry and vehicle parking tickets only through the official BBP website for the trip. A visiting family will be considered a group. Only persons with face masks will be allowed entry and are encouraged to bring food from home and dine at designated areas in the park. Public are also advised to bring and use umbrellas at the facility to ensure social distancing and are also recommended to download the Arogya Setu app on their cellphones, sources added. Earlier, BBP had floated an online survey through their portal asking public for recommendation on reopening the zoo, butterfly park and animal safari with certain regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/slew-of-safety-measures-as-bannerghatta-zoo-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76250722.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Preventive measures saved city cops from getting infected||Nagpur: Preventive measures taken by city police’s medical teams seemed to have worked better for them in comparison to their counterparts in Mumbai, Thane and Pune. Out of 423 city cops tested for Covid-19, only two constables — one from Tehsil police station and another posted at control room — have been found positive. They have been discharged and also got clearances to join duty. Eight others who tested positive were from State Reserve Police Force (SRPF). The city police, having manpower of around 8,600 personnel, distributed hydroxychloroquine to around 8,000 cops. Apart from this, two different doses of homeopathic immunity boosters, Arcenic Album 30 and Camphora 1M, were given to these 8,000 cops. Additional doses of Vitamin C tablets were also provided to the 8,000 personnel. Almost same number were also provided ORS pouch to help them cope with the scorching temperature in summer. For the first time, CP chief BK Upadhyay allowed the chief medical officer (CMO) of the police hospital to disseminate information regarding Covid-19 through wireless. Dr Sandeep Shinde, CMO of police hospital, issued various directions from time-to-time through the control room officer (CRO) who would broadcast it on wireless sets for cops deployed on roads, including those at containment zones. Shinde said that the police chief had immediately ordered to start ‘Fever clinic’ at police stations which are managing containment zones followed by other security measures. “Two medical teams visited police stations for thermal screening, checked oxygen level and also distributed repeat doses of immunity boosters. The doctors also went to nakabandi points, including at containment zones, to check the police personnel on the roads,” said Dr Shinde. Officers of DCP level got 16 infrared thermometers and those of ACP rank were given 37 pulse oxymeters for checking oxygen level. Around 3,000 PPE kits were distributed among cops deployed in high risk zones and hospitals. In addition, a 16-bedded isolation ward was created at the police hospital at Takli for Covid-19 patients. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) too came forward to help police. Four private hospitals too have been roped in for providing Covid treatment to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/preventive-measures-saved-city-cops-from-getting-infected/articleshow/76251297.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||3 more test positive for Covid in district||Coimbatore: A week after Coimbatore district broke its record of being Covid-19 cases free for a long time, the number of people testing positive for the virus continued to increase. On Sunday, three people tested positive for the novel coronavrus in Coimbatore – two ‘indigenous cases’ and one ‘imported case’. Now, the total Covid-19 cases in the district stands at 161, an increase of 17 compared to last week. One of the three who tested positive was a 27-year old technician in Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital who went to Villupuram to see his wife who was pregnant. He returned for duty on Tuesday last, when he was tested. And the results have found him to be positive. He has now been admitted in ESI hospital for treatment. Health officials have traced more than a dozen people he came into close contact with and have collected samples from them too. The place he worked at the hospital has been fumigated. One of the other two people was a man who returned from New Delhi and one a resident of the city. Salem recorded three indigenous cases on Sunday while Dharmapuri had two cases, taking the total number of Covid positive cases recorded in western zone to eight on Sunday. Nilgiris and Tirupur continued to have their Covid-free status as no new cases were reported for several weeks. As on Sunday, Coimbatore had 14 active cases, while Salem had the highest of 69 active cases, followed by 16 in Krishnagiri, seven in Namakkal, five in Dharmapuri and two in Namakkal. Health officials said that most of the cases in Coimbatore as well as neighboring districts were imported cases, due to influx of people from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-district/articleshow/76251287.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Bande honour a milestone for Odia culture, language’||Bhubaneswar: The state government’s decision to accord Odisha Rajya Sangeeta or state song tag to ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ has been hailed by the family of Kantakabi Laxmikant Mohapatra, who penned the song, as well as members of Utkal Sammilani and leaders cutting across party lines. Prabhu Kalyan Mohapatra, the grandson of the poet, expressed gratitude to the state government and chief minister Naveen Patnaik for bestowing the honour upon the patriotic song that glorifies Mother Utkala (Odisha). “It is a matter of pride not only for me but for the entire Odia people. This was a long-standing demand of the people of the state. Although late, the government has finally respected the wishes of the people,” he said. Dilip Dassharma, a member of Utkal Sammilani, said the state song honour for ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ was a foregone conclusion given the way the entire Odia community came together to sing the song at 5:30 pm on May 30 on the call of the chief minister. “I express my gratitude to the chief minister Naveen Patnaik for this historic decision,” he said. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and state Congress president Niranjan Patnaik also welcomed the government’s move. Taking to Twitter, the Union minister said, “According state song status to ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ is a matter of pride. The song had instilled patriotism in the minds of the Odias during the movement for a special Odisha province. The song gets its due credit.” “Great moment for all Odias! Feel proud that the iconic song, #BandeUtkalJanani, written by Kantakabi Laxmikant Mohapatra, is getting state song status. This request was long pending with Odisha govt. I am happy that it has finally been accepted,” tweeted Niranjan. Senior BJD leader Amar Satpathy, who has been demanding state song status for ‘Bande Utkala Janani’ in the assembly for the past few years, congratulated the chief minister on his decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bande-honour-a-milestone-for-odia-culture-language/articleshow/76249826.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Aditi, Rakesh, Nitin’s fate hangs in balance||LUCKNOW: PSPL chief Shivpal Yadav is safe now as the Samajwadi Party has withdrawn its petition to Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit seeking his disqualification from Legislative Assembly, but the fate of Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh, both Congress MLAs and Nitin Agarwal of the SP, facing similar petitions, is still hanging in balance. While Aditi is facing disqualification from the Congress for praising chief minister Yogi Adityanath on many occasions, Rakesh had betrayed the Congress before 2018 by voting for BJP candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections. Same is the case of Nitin, son of Naresh Agarwal who has changed his political loyalities many a time to be on the right side of the ruling party. Shivpal’s case is a bit different as despite being MLA of the SP he floated his own political outfit mainly to challenge his parent party, indirectly helping the BJP in the Assembly and general elections. Shivpal, too, had turned a great admirer of Yogi Adityanath, but following his apparent patchup with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, who is also his nephew, his views would now be closely watched. The petitions, seeking disqualification of Aditi, Nitin and Rakesh, have yet not been disposed of by the Assembly Speaker. As all of them are now supporting the Yogi government, it would be interesting to watch what action the speaker would take in their matter. However, when TOI contacted principal secretary, state Assembly, Pradip Dubey, he said there was no delay on the part of the Speaker. Reply from Aditi has been received and soon hearing would start in all the cases, he added. But dozens of such petitions are pending in various state assemblies across the country, forcing the Supreme Court to direct Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to ensure its early disposal. During the presiding officers’ conference in Lucknow earlier this year, the LS speaker had admitted that he had received a request from speakers of state assemblies to form an independent platform to handle such cases. Nearly six months have passed to this meeting, but no mechanism has been developed to dispose of the petitions seeking disqualification of MLAs. In the absence of a proper mechanism, tainted MLAs continue to enjoy their salaries and perks, making mockery of constitutional provisions. Despite being a Congress MLA technically, Aditi is getting the security cover which has not been offered to many MLAs and office-bearers of the ruling BJP despite having intelligence reports in their favour. Nitin was offered the status of minister of state by former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav who had also started projecting him as a youth face of the party. But at a crucial juncture Nitin opted to defect from his party and now his harsh criticism of Akhilesh has brought him closer to the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aditi-rakesh-nitins-fate-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/76251659.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four cave-ins reported on Sunday||AHMEDABAD: A rainfall of nearly 30mm exposed the monsoon preparedness of the city as seven complaints of waterlogging, one of tree fall and four complaints of cave-ins were reported on Sunday. The cave-ins were reported from Malav Talav, Paldi, Meghaninagar and Kubernagar underpass. AMC officials said that the Malav Talav and Meghaninagar cave-ins had been repaired while work was in progress at Mahalaxmi and Kubernagar. The city received heavy to moderate rain in the wee hours on Sunday. Heavy rains were received between 2am and 4pm.  The IMD forecast for Monday stated chances of rain or thundershower towards the evening or at night in Ahmedabad. Gusty wind (30-40 kmph) along with thunderstorm and lightning is expected in almost all districts of of Gujarat from Monday to Wednesday. On Thursday and Friday, heavy rains are likely in districts such as Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Navsari, Valsad along with Union territories of Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli. The weather officials said that the maximum temperature which was 40C came down to 34.2C which was 6.7 degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature that is the night temperature was 22.6C which was also 5.4 degrees below normal. AMC officials said that due to Covid-19 and lockdown several works in the city were pending and had been halted halfway. At many places the earth was not reclaimed and to finish the pending work the AMC has already shifted the deadline from June 1 to June 15. The waterlogging complaints were from Ramdevnagar in South-West zone and Management Enclave in Vastrapur in North-West zone. Four complaints were received from Vasna Telephone Exchange area, Anjali Apartment and the service road near Anjali Cinema, Aman Akash party plot, Vasna, Nirankar Society in West zone area and India Colony in North Zone area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-cave-ins-reported-on-sunday/articleshow/76250777.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt teachers seek presence in school reforms committee||Coimbatore: Government teachers and teacher associations should be included in the committee formed by the state government to remodel school syllabus to suit the pandemic situation and to rectify issues that would arise in pedagogy and school management when schools reopen, representatives said. Apart from bureaucrats and private school representatives, government schoolteachers, parent and students have not been represented in the committee. Only if they have a say in the deliberations, they can bring out the issues of students from underprivileged backgrounds and rural areas, they said. “Only if subject-wise government schoolteachers are included in the committee, it would be fair. Only they know the real situation of government school students and can give real-time inputs to condense the syllabus,” president of the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Association S Arunan said. The committee comprising only of senior officials and CBSE school representatives is incomplete, representatives of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teacher Association (TNHHSSGTA) said in a petition. “We are worried whether the decisions taken by the committee would be one-sided. The committee has no renowned educationalists or representatives of teachers’ associations. These issues must be rectified and the committee must be expanded to include all stakeholders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-teachers-seek-presence-in-school-reforms-committee/articleshow/76251294.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cancer patients add to Vimsar load||Sambalpur: The availability of public transport, particularly over long distances, remains uncertain across the state. For several cancer patients in western Odisha, this has meant that their options in terms of hospitals have reduced. Many cancer patients have now started coming to Vimsar in Burla, increasing the workload of the hospital’s radiotherapy department. Doctors of Vimsar’s radiotherapy department said they would usually see around 60 to 70 new cancer patients every month. Now, that figure has doubled. In the past two months, the department has seen as many as 326 new cancer patients. “Many patients who were undergoing treatment at Tata Memorial Hospital, Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre and private hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Visakhapatnam are now coming to Vimsar,” said assistant professor of the department, Biswaranjan Routray. The radiotherapy department has 30 beds for indoor patients. Currently, more than 60 patients are admitted in that section. “Many patients are forced to avail themselves of treatment on the floor. We have only 10 beds in the department for chemotherapy,” said Routray, adding that the hospital was not turning back patients in spite of a shortage of medical staff and beds. At present, the radiotherapy department has only two doctors, including the head of the department, and an assistant professor. No action has been taken on the department’s request for the appointment of at least two senior residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cancer-patients-add-to-vimsar-load/articleshow/76249840.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Pune||Embezzlement in Pune cooperative bank now pegged at Rs 494.45 crore||PUNE: The city police’s economic offences wing recently filed a chargesheet against Nationalist Congress Party’s sitting MLC Anil Bhosale and three other accused, pegging the total embezzlement in the Shivajirao Bhosale cooperative bank at Rs494.45 crore as against the initial Rs71.78 crore mentioned in the FIR. The police had arrested Bhosale (55), who is chairman and director of the bank, along with another director, Suryaji Pandurang Jadhav (69), chief executive officer Tanaji Dattu Padwal (50) and chief accountant Shailesh Sampatrao Bhosale (47) on February 25 on the basis of an FIR lodged by chartered accountant and RBI-assigned auditor Yogesh Lakade. All four are lodged in the Yerawada central jail since a special MPID court on March 6 directed their remand in judicial custody. On April 24, special judge S S Gosavi rejected the bail pleas of Anil Bhosale and Suryaji Jadhav, observing that the police haven’t been able to complete their investigation due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and that many details and other suspects need to be investigated. The chargesheet has named 13 other directors who are under investigation and a forensic auditor’s report on the money trail is also awaited. According to the chargesheet, the alleged fraud includes misuse of power to make money transfers and unauthorised withdrawals worth Rs101.52 crore and extending out-of-turn loans worth Rs392.92 crore. “Almost 97% of the bank’s total loan accounts have been rendered non-performing assets,” the document stated. The police have, so far, frozen 112 bank accounts belonging to the four accused, their relatives and individuals linked with the fraud. Collectively, these accounts have a balance of Rs1.21 crore. The police have also moved a proposal to the district collector for the attachment of Bhosale’s three pieces of land, totally admeasuring 5.52 hectare, at Karjat in Haveli taluka and an open plot at village Bholawade in Bhor taluka belonging to Suryaji Jadhav, under the MPID Act provision. The chargesheet stated that as on March 31, 2020, the bank had 93,128 depositors and total deposits worth Rs432..85 crore. The amount of loans extended was 401.31 crore through 719 loan accounts. The worth of non-performing assets was Rs392.92 crore and the number of NPA accounts was 432, it added. Till date, only 1,731 depositors have been able to furnish their written complaints about the bank’s inabiity to refund their deposits despite repeated follow-ups and more were expected to make such complaints but could not due to the pandemic, the chargesheet stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/embezzlement-in-city-co-op-bank-now-pegged-at-rs494-45-cr/articleshow/76251303.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra info panel pulled up for not hearing cases online||AURANGABAD: A group of RTI activists has sent a legal notice to Maharashtra Chief Information Commissioner for alleged nonchalant approach of the State Information Commission (SIC) by not holding online court hearings during the outbreak of Covid-19 in over two months. The RTI activists, including former central chief information commissioner Shailesh Gandhi, has brought to the notice the recent directives from the Supreme Court to use video-conferencing for the functioning of the justice delivery system. RTI activist Vivek Velankar said it is beyond understanding as to why SIC is reluctant to resuming hearings and remained nonchalant for the past two months despite directives from the apex court of the country. “Even if the Central Information Commission has been successfully conducting online RTI hearing proceedings through video conferencing for over a decade now. Amid pandemic situation due to Covid-19, even State Information Commission for a small state like Manipur has resumed conducting of its hearing over WhatsApp video. It is regressive on the part of Maharashtra SIC to halt its functioning,” he said. It has been found that only Amravati bench of SIC has made efforts in the direction of conducting its hearing through online virtual platforms, whereas SIC headquarter and other six benches including Aurangabad have chosen to remain shut. TOI had recently highlighted about pending appeals of 51,000 cases and different benches by the end of February, which would further add due to no functioning during the lockdown. Going by the current rate of applications, an RTI applicant will have to wait for around two years to get his or her turn for the hearing at SIC once the working resumes. The legal notice has been served to CIC on June giving a time of 15 days to respond, failing to which RTI activists have threatened to initiate legal proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-info-panel-pulled-up-for-not-hearing-cases-online/articleshow/76249836.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Fire & rescue dept identifies flood-prone areas in Ekm||Kochi: As part of its disaster response plan, the fire and rescue services department has identified flood and landslide-prone areas in each station limit in the district. The places have been identified after examining the rise in water level during the 2018 flood. Areas situated along the shorelines of Periyar river are more vulnerable to flooding. Besides potential threat of flooding, Muvattupuzha and Kothamangalam stare at possible landslide too. Muvattupuzha has two landslide-prone areas – Velloorkunnam Kormala in municipality limit and sides of Aaroor hill in Maradi panchayat. The landslide-prone areas in Kothamangalam are 48 Acre Colony, Neriamangalam-Munnar route and Neriamangalam-Idukki route. More than 12 areas, including Thottakattukara, have been identified as flood prone in Aluva station limit alone. As many as 15, 14, 13 and 20 flood-prone regions have been identified in Muvattupuzha, Club Road, Perumbavoor and Kothamangalam station limits respectively. Areas falling under Eloor and North Paravur fire station limits witnessed almost complete inundation during the 2018 flood. To mitigate the situation, fire force officials are giving training to civil defence forces comprising 50 local youths in rescue operations in each station limit. “Electric lines and poles will be our torchbearers to reach out to distressed people during rescue operation, if any emergency situation arises this year as well. Floodwaters rose to three meter at various places in Eloor station limit in 2018. East Kadungalloor, West Kadungalloor to Muppathadam, Kainikkara and other places in Kadungalloor panchayat, Company Junction towards west side of Eloor municipality will be submerged in the event of flooding. Kadamakudy, Varapuzha and Cheranalloor areas will also witness inundation if a flood situation, similar to 2018, emerges. Almost all places under Eloor station limit are situated in low lying areas. Currently we have been giving awareness to panchayat authorities and local people on evacuation steps,” said Eloor station officer T B Ramakrishnan. Gandhi Nagar station in Kochi city witnessed waterlogging in the previous years, thanks to clogged drains. However, the local residents expect a respite from waterlogging this year as the district administration has been undertaking drain cleaning works under Operation Breakthrough, a project launched to tackle waterlogging issue in the city. “The success of the project can be vindicated only when heavy rain starts pouring in Kochi,” said Gandhi Nagar station officer Unnikrishnan. “Temporary rafts have been made in each station. Currently only inflatable dinghy is in their possession for rescue work. Training has been given to civil defence volunteers in making raft and temporary rescue equipment bottle jackets using empty plastic bottles. District administration will procure 15 dinghies through CSR fund. We have formed a WhatsApp group of hotels, rotary clubs and fishermen to utilize their boats during emergency situation,” said a district official. Backpack bags in houses can be filled with empty water bottles to be used as temporary rescue equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fire-rescue-dept-identifies-flood-prone-areas-in-ekm/articleshow/76249843.cms||T C Sreemol
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Reopening dilemma: Bengaluru schools mull alternate days, double shifts||BENGALURU: With the question of just when to reopen hanging fire, school managements are seeking opinions from parents and preparing suggestions, which they will convey to the government. One huge challenge is for schools with massive student strength and 10-12 sections per class. Carmel School, Padmanabhanagar, for example, is one of the largest schools in the city, with 5,800 students. Some initial ideas include conducting alternate day classes and moving classes to stadiums and auditoriums. “We have to think of ways to stagger classes,” said Ganapathy Rao, principal, Carmel School. “Double shifts would mean around 2,900 students on campus. We have enough rooms for them, but teachers and van drivers will have to work additional hours. Or else, we have to look at alternate days.” Rao said they need the support of parents and a clear policy from the government before deciding anything. Alternate day classes — a mix of online and offline classes — appears a viable option for many schools if the government is ready to make it a three-day week for students. On the other three days, students could attend online classes. Delhi Public Schools said it is impossible to have shifts given their staff strength. DPS North and East have 4,200 students each, while South has 4,000 and E-City 2,000. “We have campuses of 15 acres with spaces for outdoor classes in yoga, arts and crafts,” said Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of governors, Delhi Public Schools. “We can turn them into classroom spaces. Temporary structures too can be set up. Students cannot share lunch boxes and need to stagger toilet breaks.” Vidya Guruprasad, principal, Ryan International, Kundenahalli, which has 3,200 students on its rolls, suggested a staggered reopening. “We could have grades 7 and above first,” Guruprasad said. “They will be divided into different sections with 12-15 students in each room. For those, who do not want to come, schools will have to look at virtual classes.” Greenwood High, which has 4,200 students and a fleet of 125 school buses, is looking at creating barricades between seats in its 125 school vans to maintain social distancing. “We are looking at various models including two shifts with primary grades in the morning and higher classes in the afternoon. Even odd-even in roll numbers is a possibility,” said Aloysius D’Mello, principal, Greenwood High. Many schools are collecting feedback from parents via Google forms and they say most parents are opposed to reopening schools in July. The department of public instruction had suggested dates for staggered reopening starting in July. The department of public instruction has asked all schools to collect opinion from stakeholders between June 10-12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/reopening-dilemma-schools-mull-alternate-days-double-shifts/articleshow/76250751.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Rare surgery for bone cancer performed||MANGALURU: Orthopaedic oncology team of city’s Indiana Hospital and Heart Institute successfully saved the upper limb of a 7-year-old diagnosed with bone cancer using a Japanese medical procedure. The team surgically removed entire arm bone and shoulder and destroyed the tumour cells outside the body using liquid nitrogen at -194ºC (cryotherapy) before reattaching it back to the patient. The team headed by paediatric oncologist Navaneeth S Kamath initially subjected him to chemotherapy for 10 weeks. The procedure was carried out on April 19 as a case of ‘semi-emergency’ as the high grade osteosarcoma (bone cancer) that had affected child’s entire arm bone could spread. The child has recovered without any complication after the 10-hour long surgery. Dr Navaneeth said such complicated limb salvaging onco surgeries usually are performed only in larger cities due to lack of dedicated orthopaedic oncology surgical services. Instead of removing entire limb — the common method of treating this disease resulting in poor quality of life for the patient — the newly established department of orthopaedic oncology at the hospital came up with this safe and complex limb salvage surgery, Dr Navaneeth added. Dr Jalaluddeen, senior orthopaedic surgeon, part of the operating team said the procedure has made the coastal city on the map of tertiary medical hubs in country where rare bone and soft tissue tumour surgeries are performed. Karnataka has just three specialist paediatric oncologists and two are in Bengaluru, he said. Dr Harramb Mittal, Dr Vasudev Bhat, Dr Kalashekar, Dr Nikhil MP and Dr Harish BC were also part of the operating team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rare-surgery-for-bone-cancer-performed/articleshow/76248395.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||30% of samples tested in Mumbai turning out +ve||MUMBAI: Roughly one out of three samples being tested for Covid-19 in the city is returning a positive result, an indication of disease spread. City labs are testing an average of 3,500-4,500 samples daily, of which more than 30% are turning out positive, which officials say is due to targeted testing. In comparison, Delhi had a positivity rate of 26% last week, which the Union health ministry had said was a cause for concern. On certain days, an official said, positivity touches 40% as well. The average for the city, though (derived from overall samples tested since March [2.20lakh] and total positive cases [48,774]) is 22%. It may be noted that even the average positivity rate for the city had increased from 3% in early April to 6% by the middle of the month and around 12% by May. By the end of last month, it had touched 18%. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “There is nothing to be alarmed about the 30% daily positivity rate. We are going after people with symptoms. We are targeting people from fever clinics, high-risk contacts of positive patients, among others, all of whom have a high probability of coming positive. On certain days, when the samples are more or there are backlogs... positivity could be slightly higher.” He said that with a change in testing criteria, where even asymptomatic high-risk contacts of positive patients will be tested, more samples will be processed now. The civic body had recently come under criticism for stagnating the number of tests. The BMC has also taken out a circular that labs failing to submit reports within 24 hours may lose their licence. BMC claims to have carried out 16,922 tests per million compared to 4,354 by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-of-samples-tested-in-mumbai-turning-out-ve/articleshow/76251886.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 8, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger kills farmer in TATR buffer||CHANDRAPUR: Tiger killed yet another person in the forest near Kolara village in the buffer zone of Todoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). Victim Rajeshwar Dadamal (50) was missing for the last three days and his mutilated body was recovered on Sunday morning. Tiger has killed six people in the TATR buffer zone since February this year. Three of them were killed near Kolara village. This is 14th human kill in predator attacks in Chandrapur. Out of these, 13 have been killed in tiger attack, while one was killed by leopard. With recurring tiger attacks, residents in Kolara and nearby villages are terrified and are afraid to go to their farms even as Kharif season has started. Senior officials in TATR buffer zone claimed that they have identified the problem tiger responsible for human kills around Kolara. Following the incident, a meeting of expert committee for implementation of standard operating procedure was held on Sunday. Acknowledging the threat to human life, the committee has drafted a proposal recommending the capture of the beast. Officials claimed the proposal will be sent to PCCF (Wildlife) on Monday. Sources claimed that Dadamal had gone to his farm in survey no. 19, at the outskirts of core zone of TATR, three days back. He did not return home. Villagers searched for him, but to no avail. However, villagers looking for him found a severed hand in the forest close to his farm. Soon they discovered another severed limb at some distance and later Dadamal’s devoured and petrified body in a thicket. After forest officials were informed, a TATR team reached the spot and shifted the body for post mortem. Officials informed that TATR officials have given ex gratia aid of Rs30,000 and cheque of Rs4.70 lakh to the kin of the victim. Remaining sum of compensation amount would be given after completing formalities, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-kills-farmer-in-tatr-buffer/articleshow/76251306.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 8, 2020||Patna||NDA will get two-third majority in Bihar under Nitish Kumar: Amit Shah||PATNA: Union home minister Amit Shah reiterated on Sunday that the three-party NDA combine in Bihar would go to the forthcoming state assembly elections in October-November under the leadership of JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar with the eyes set on winning the two-thirds majority in the 243-member House. Shah, thereby, also cleared confusions on that count, as conflicting viewpoint had been aired by LJP president Chirag Paswan recently that BJP alone would decide the NDA’s CM face for the assembly elections. From the BJP’s national headquarters, Shah addressed the BJP’s first ‘virtual rally’, christened ‘Bihar Jan Samvad’, through Facebook and YouTube platforms and 1,000 TV sets to party leaders, workers and sympathizers down to the 72,723 polling booths in state. However, Shah repeatedly denied that his address was akin to sounding of the BJP’s poll bugle and, instead, dubbed the event as the party’s mass contact programme tipped to be held in other states also as sustained exercise. He mockingly described those who thought otherwise as people with ‘vakradrishti’ (squinted eyes) and also put other critics as those who believed in the politics of ‘parivar’ (family) -- a clear allusion to RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and also to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Shah took the name of Rahul on two occasions, but ignored to mention either Tejashwi or his father Lalu, except obliquely. In his 45-minute speech, Shah also set up the six-year achievements of PM Modi and the “15-year NDA rule” in the state under the leadership of Nitish as the ruling combine’s two main poll planks for the coming assembly elections. He, in fact, articulated it as the 15-year NDA rule (2005-20) versus 15-year RJD or Lalu-Rabri rule (1990-2005). “Bihar has traversed from the ‘lalten’ (lantern) era to the LED era, from lumpen order to law and order, from ‘baahubal (muscle power)’ to ‘vikaas bal (development power)’, from ‘chaaraa ghotaalaa (fodder scam) to DBT (direct benefit transfer) and from lathi and loot to law and order,” he said. He dwelt at length on the developmental initiatives and achievements made under PM Modi and in Bihar under the stewardship of Nitish. In the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic, he said, “Disasters had hit the country in the past also, but governments alone fought against them. It is for the first time in the country that the government and the people have been fighting coronavirus pandemic together. Also, I have not seen any PM other than Lal Bahadur Shastri on whose call the country responded as one.” Shah said PM Modi and the Centre were touched by the plight and hardships of the migrant workers, but the railways started Shramik trains for their return from May 1 only after the state governments had established their quarantine centres. He also referred to the money spent separately by the Centre and the state governments to mitigate the problems faced by the migrants, besides the Rs20 lakh crore package for the country a part of which would also benefit Bihar’s fishery, honey, dairy and MSME sectors, as well as its makhana cultivation in clusters. Shah also gave the statistical details regarding the utilization of Rs1.25 lakh crore package for the state that PM Modi had announced in August 2015. Referring to the national glory achieved under PM Modi, Shah said India, by organizing one each of surgical strike and air strike against the terror elements in Pakistan, had shown to the world that the country would not compromise with its national security like Israel. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) and party president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, while addressing the virtual rally, also made frontal attack on Tejashwi. “Biharis are poor, but they are not beggars, nor are they thieves and criminals,” SuMo said, countering the assertions earlier made by Tejashwi, who, citing a letter issued by the police headquarters to the districts, had alleged that the state government deemed the migrant worker returnees to the state as thieves and criminals against whom the police machinery should remain alert. “Those who have been speaking on behalf of the poor and migrant workers have only been shedding crocodile tears. They (read Lalu and Rabri Devi) had an opportunity to work for the poor, but gobbled up the fodder meant for the animals (read fodder scam),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-will-get-2/3rd-majority-in-bihar-under-nitish-shah/articleshow/76250619.cms||Abhay Singh
June 8, 2020||Goa||Archbishop calls for unity among all faiths||Panaji: President of the conference of the Catholic bishops of India (CCBI) and the Archbishop of Goa and Daman Filipe Neri Ferrao urged people of different faiths to be united in concern for the planet and for its sustainable development as well as for the dignity and promotion of the poorest and vulnerable. Addressing an online Eid get together, organized by the Jamaat- e-Islami Hind along with other religious heads, Ferrao, representing the Catholic community in India said it is painful when religion and the name of God is used to attack one another. “…when we do so, we offend our creator who has placed us all together on this Earth,our common home,” he said. In this world of many races, languages and cultures, all religions lead to God and to the service of fellow human beings, Ferrao said, adding that diversity can never be an excuse for fermenting division or enmity among people of diverse religious traditions. “Let’s, therefore extend our hands in mutual solidarity to promote human fraternity and harmonious existence by building bridges of friendship and fostering a culture of dialogue where violence is rejected, and the human person is respected. This will be our act of united homage to the creator of us all. I pray to God that this may be the culture of all those who desire to be instruments of peace and understanding in this world,” he stated. Adding, “The festival of Eid celebrates God’s mercy, peace and blessings for all living beings and highlights family bonds in a special way.” Ferrao joined Muslims to promote mutual concern and genuine justice among all human beings and instead of enmity among people of diverse religious traditions, it should call for “inter-religious understanding, mutual respect and dialogue”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/archbishop-calls-for-unity-among-all-faiths/articleshow/76251666.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Pvt security supervisor beaten up over entry restrictions||BHUBANESWAR: A private security supervisor of an apartment in the Airfield police area was allegedly abducted, beaten up and thrown out of a moving vehicle after he denied entry to a few acquaintances of a tenant on Sunday. Kaibalya Pattnaik (45), the security supervisor, alleged that the attackers were acquaintances of a tenant residing in the apartment. Additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said they were examining the CCTV footage of the apartment. “We are verifying his allegations and investigating if they had previous enmity. The tenant is being questioned,” Sahoo said. In view of the weekend shutdown, Pattnaik did not let the strangers enter the building before verifying their credentials from the tenant who they had gone to meet with. “Three to four persons came in a car and asked me to open the gate. As they were outsiders, I asked them whether they wanted to meet anyone from the apartment. They named a tenant and said s/he was a friend,” Pattnaik told police. “I politely asked them to wait till I was done verifying from the tenant as there were restrictions on the entry of visitors in light of the virus outbreak. But they tried to barge in,” the supervisor added. Pattnaik further said one of the strangers threw chilli power into his eyes. “As it was early in the morning (between 5.30 am and 6 am), nobody was there to help. Though I raised an alarm, the attackers gagged and pushed me inside their car. They beat me up in the moving car. One of them even pointed a revolver and threatened to kill me. They then pushed me out the car in the Khandagiri area and drove away,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pvt-security-supervisor-beaten-up-over-entry-restrictions/articleshow/76249858.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 8, 2020||Vijayawada||AP’s quarantine policy affecting industry: Travel agents||Visakhapatnam: Travel agents in the state feel that the quarantine policy adopted by the state has gone for a toss and is affecting the travel industry that is already in the shambles post-lockdown. “Now you are allowing business traveller from other states to move freely in the state. But for a resident of the state, home quarantine for 14-days is mandatory, that, too, after undergoing a Covid-19 test. There are people from Visakhapatnam who want to go out for official purpose, but are refraining because of such policy,” K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh told TOI. K Srinivasa Kumar, who works with a real estate firm and wants to go to Hyderabad for a very important office work, is now reluctant to move. In Telengana he can move freely and complete his work. However, as per policy of the Andhra Pradesh government he has to be in home quarantine upon return. “I have moved from pillar to post to find out how to escape this quarantine phase so that I can join duty soon after my return. I did not find a solution. All domestic fliers coming to Andhra Pradesh are undergoing Covid-19 test upon arrival. And even if the report is negative, 14-day home quarantine is mandatory. It seems the government does not trust its own test reports,” said Srinivasa Kumar. Travel agents claimed that to bring normalcy in the travel and tourism sector a few countries like Thailand, Cambodia, Sri Lanka and Mauritius would start welcoming guests from July. Most of these countries want Covid-19 reports not more than 72-hour before the date of arrival. And, there is no such facility available in Andhra Pradesh. “The government of India is also at fault. For this type of situation there should be a norm applicable for the entire nation. If the government can’t implement it, soon countries will impose travel restrictions to India and for Indian travellers,” added Vijay Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aps-quarantine-policy-affecting-industry-travel-agents/articleshow/76249848.cms||Arpit Basu
June 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 6 crore spent on stray dog sterilization in two years by AMC: RTI||AHMEDABAD: Even as the number of stray dogs decreased in the city, the expenditure on their sterilization continued to increase as Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) spent Rs 6 crore on sterilizing canines between 2017 and 2019, states an RTI response filed before the civic body. Though the AMC gave expenditure details in the RTI query, the civic body officials dodged the answer on the exact number of sterilized stray dogs. Besides, they quoted figures of two different NGOs while giving details about the number of dogs in the city which decreased from 2.10 lakh in 2010 to 1.48 lakh in 2018. City-based RTI activist Bharatsinh Jhala had filed an RTI query before the cattle nuisance control department (CNCD) of the AMC on February 19 seeking the exact number of stray dogs and expenditure to control the canines. The RTI response given on March 19 states that the CNCD spent Rs 1.99 crore in 2017 which had decreased to Rs 1.35 crore in 2018. It further states that the expenditure increased to Rs 2.69 crore in 2019. On the number of dogs, it states, “According to a survey conducted by an organization named Human Society International (HSI), the number of dogs were 2,10,852 in 2010. The number of dogs were 1,48,467 in 2019.” Jhala raised doubts over the reply saying that had the AMC spent an enormous amount of Rs 6 crore which was nearly Rs 55,000 per day, then why did the civic body officials not give the exact number of sterilization? “According to the state health department data published in various media reports, Ahmedabad city had reported 3,920 dog bite cases between July 22 and August 18, 2019. This clearly means that the numbers of dogs have been increasing despite the claims of the AMC that they spent Rs 6 crore on dog sterilization,” said Jhala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs6cr-spent-on-stray-dogs-sterilization-rti/articleshow/76250769.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 8, 2020||Lucknow||‘UV sanitizers only for surfaces’||Q: Are UV sanitizers safe and effective to use? | Mohit Shukla A: UV sanitizers are safe and effective if they are used for disinfecting surfaces, devices like mobile phones, or every day essentials. They are not supposed to be used for humans as they can cause mutations. Q: Can ultraviolet lamps slow the spread of the virus? | Harshit Chaudhary A: UV lamps are effective in killing the virus, but its effect depends largely on its duration and hours of working and weather conditions. Answers by TN Dhole, virologist, SGPGI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uv-sanitizers-only-for-surfaces/articleshow/76251667.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Agra||UP: Many Mathura temples squirm over use of alcohol (sanitisers) on premises, to remain shut||AGRA: Despite district administration’s assurance to the management of various temples in Vrindavan and Mathura of adequate police deployment for crowd management, some major shrines, including Iskcon, Banke Bihari, Mukut Mukharvind and Shri Rang Nath Ji, have decided not to open their doors for public on Monday. One of the reasons behind their decision is the government’s directions for mandatory use of alcohol-based sanitisers on the temple premises. Ganesh Pehalwan from Mukut Mukharvind temple in Govardhan said, “The temple committee decided not to open temple for public as we will not use alcohol-based sanitisers on the premises, which is mandatory as per guidelines. However, LED screens will be put up outside the premises to facilitate darshan for the devotees.” Saurabh Das from International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) in Vrindavan told TOI that they will open the temple for public after June 15 as they need to train the security staff with the latest guidelines and make adequate arrangements inside the premises. However, several other temples, including Shri Krishna Janmasthan, have decided to allow devotees after being assured by the administration that all adequate steps would be taken for the crowd management outside the shrines. Earlier in the day, Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra in a meeting with managements of several temples apprised them about the recent guidelines prepared by state government for reopening of religious places across the state and also informed that all steps would be taken for effective crowd management. Superintendent of police (city) AK Meena told TOI that an elaborate plan for crowd management has been prepared to ensure maintain social distancing. He said, “Vehicles of visitors or devotees will be stopped at the multi-level parking area and they will be allowed to go to the temples on foot only after thermal screening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/many-mathura-temples-squirm-over-use-of-alcohol-sanitisers-on-premises-to-remain-shut/articleshow/76249850.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Small businesses irked by AMC orders||AURANGABAD: As the civic body has made it compulsory for all establishments to keep thermal gun and pulse oximeter , many small businesses, which have undergone a rough time financially due to the lockdown, find it difficult to spare Rs 4,000 to 5,000 for the equipment A spectacle shop operator in Cidco N-7, said, “There has been no business for the last two and a half months. The compliance of the new guidelines issued by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation means additional expenditure..” A grocery store owner in Cidco N-6 said, “What if a person fails to meet the parameters of blood oxygen level and temperature. Customers will not come to us because we report them to AMC,” Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said that in order to reduce Covid-19 fatalities in city a 4-layer strategy is planned. “Under the plan, we have appealed to the citizens to buy thermal gun and pulse oximeters to regularly screen their family members and upload their status on Majhi Health Majha Haathi (MHMH), mobile application. Secondly, we have deployed 1,500 mobile fever clinics to undertake door-to-door screening and upload data on MHMH. Thirdly, NGOs and public representatives have been asked to deploy their booth level workers to carry out door-to-door screening and fourthly, the establishments are asked to do the screening,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/small-businesses-irked-by-amc-orders/articleshow/76249854.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochiites continue to choke drains with waste, fatbergs||Kochi: Despite the district administration, Kochi corporation and other agencies putting efforts to clean drains and canals in the city, residents and commercial establishments continue to dump sewage and garbage into them. Though it is crucial to ensure smooth flow of rainwater through stormwater drains, nothing much has been done to prevent garbage and waste water from residential and commercial buildings entering these. While much has been done to remove slit, mud and plastic and other waste accumulated in the canals and drains, no specific mechanisms are in place for its maintenance. Accumulation of fatbergs, which are a combination of fat, oil, grease, wet wipes, nappies and cotton buds, are another major issue faced by officials. “Waste especially oil and grease, continue to enter drains. The makeshift eateries, hotels and restaurants are the main culprits. There is no mechanism in place for processing the waste and they are directly poured or pumped into drains,” said a Kochi corporation official adding that without plugging waste channels linking the drains it would not be possible to address the issue of clogging. “Water logging will remain a reality as long as the drains and canals get clogged,” he said. “Fatbergs might appear like large concrete chunks. But these have nothing to do with construction material. Fatbergs clog drains. That is the reason why the Kochi corporation and other authorities should take steps to prevent oil, grease and other fats from entering the drains. It also asserts on the need for an efficient waste disposal system,” said a Kochi metro official, who works on drainages. D Dhanuraj, chairman of Kochi-based think tank centre for public policy research said there is no point in blaming various agencies involved in execution of drain construction and maintenance works. “I think we need to take all stakeholders into confidence and build a mechanism to address the issue,” he said. Rajesh Nair, youth forum convenor, Kerala chamber of commerce and industry said the local body should listen to all stakeholders including residents of the city. Meanwhile, experts said storm water drainage systems should not be used for draining waste water. Waste water outlets and sewerage systems should be linked to decentralised waste treatment plants. Separate underground ducts should be provided for all kinds of cables including power and communication cables, oil pipelines, drinking water pipes and fire hydrant pipes. “These cables and pipes should in no way interfere with the storm water drains or flow of water through it,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochiites-continue-to-choke-drains-with-waste-fatbergs/articleshow/76249860.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chennai||‘More incoming flights, pvt airlines likely to bring back stranded Indians’||Amid allegations of favouritism and ‘deliberate delay’ in the evacuation of distressed Indians in Covid-struck nations, the ministry of external affairs has been grappling with a growing waiting list of several lakhs of people. In an interview to TOI, Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said the ministry has followed “a stringent and transparent” approach to select people only with “most compelling situations”. On complaints that the Indian Community Welfare Fund with consulates was not being used to take care of air fares for the needy, the minister said it was used by missions to support Indians in distress abroad including for food, accommodation, medical emergencies and transfer of mortal remains. Apprehensions expressed by some chief ministers, including Edappadi K Palaniswami, about the influx adding to the growing Covid numbers have delayed the process of consent for flights to land. Excerpts from the interview:Q: What were the criteria for selecting people for the rescue flights?We have been advising our people to stay put wherever they are in the best interest of their own health and that of their family members. We also understand that people have compelling reasons to be in India and since we could not resume international travel, we have launched Vande Bharat Mission to offer limited assisted return to India. We have followed a stringent and transparent approach to select people only with the most compelling situations (pregnant women, laid off workers, deportees, amnesty cases, stranded in transit on visit visa, students and people with critical life threatening medical conditions). So far, close to 1,00,000 people have returned to India.Q: There are allegations of favouritism in shortlisting evacuees. A senior Indian official of the UAE-based NMC Health, which is under scanner for a multi-billion dollar fraud, and his family boarded the first flight from Abu Dhabi on May 7. How did that happen?It is not appropriate to discuss individual cases. All I can say is that the returnees have been selected on the basis of the criteria as I explained.Q: In the UAE, more than 3,50,000 Indians have registered to return, of which only 6,000 were repatriated in the first two phases, till May 23. How will it be in the next phases?Our embassy in Abu Dhabi and consulate in Dubai are constantly in touch with the diaspora to ensure their well-being. In Phase II around 100 flights have been planned from UAE to India. Between Phases I and II, 137 flights have arrived from UAE. Rules regarding chartered flights have also been simplified. More flights from UAE would be added in Phase III. There have been discussions with private airlines to join the mission. Q: Can the Indian community welfare fund be used to pay for the air fares of those who can’t afford tickets and the seven-day compulsory quarantine?A decision has been taken that people willing to return would pay for their travel. People travelling on naval ships have also been paying. Our missions have been working closely with community associations to help those in need of travel assistance. As far as quarantine expenditure is concerned, the government has relaxed rules and reduced the expenses by half. Now, instead of 14 days, the institutional quarantine is for seven days. Some state governments have offered publicly funded quarantine facilities to those in need. ICWF has been regularly used by our missions to support Indians in distress abroad including for food, accommodation, medical emergencies and transfer of mortal remains.Q: Is there a plan to allow foreign airlines to evacuate Indians? Air India may not have enough long-range aircraft to rescue missions to the UK and the US where several Indians are stranded.We are using incoming foreign flights. Seventy-four foreign carriers have been used to bring Indians home from different parts of the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-incoming-flights-pvt-airlines-likely-to-bring-back-stranded-indians/articleshow/76251313.cms||Jaya Menon
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Illicit distillery link to Patiala ASI’s suspension?||PATIALA: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted at Patiala’s Shambhu police station, Manjit Singh, was suspended for poor performance on Sunday, but sources said the disciplinary action had been taken as the cop’s name had cropped up during investigation into an illicit liquor-manufacturing unit that was busted on May 13. The unit was located near Shambhu state border with Haryana. According to the official communique, issued by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu, the ASI has been placed under suspension for ‘poor performance’. Ghanaur DSP Manpreet Singh Thind confirmed that the ASI has been placed under suspension, but refused to share details. SPP Sidhu could not be contacted for comment. Sources in the police said investigators were now working to establish the source of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which was being used to manufacture the illicit liquor and were likely to find gaps in the system enforced by the state excise department to prevent any loss of revenue to the state exchequer. Police had recovered a huge cache of ENA from a plot owned by one of the accused on May 20, a few days after the unit was busted. Prior to busting the factory, Patiala SSP had sent the then station house officer (SHO) of Shambhu on long leave. After the raid on the illegal unit, the serving SHO was sent to police lines and now action has been taken against the ASI. Police investigation has already established that local leaders cutting across party lines — including those of BJP, Congress and SAD — had formed a nexus to run the illicit unit. Excise officials are also under the scanner as they have been accused of receiving Rs 5 lakh a month as bribe from the accused. After the unit was unearthed, the Congress and the SAD blamed each other, while AAP held a protest in Ghanaur. The illicit operation were being run from a shut down cold storage. The property was previously owned by a BJP MLA from Rajpura and it was later transferred in the name of his aide Vijay Kumar, who is an accused in the case. The factory did not have a power connection and a generator was being used to run operations. The other accused include Amrik Singh, a Congress sarpanch of Khanpur village whose wife is a member of the zila parishad. Darshan Singh of Pabri village, who is an SAD loyalist and has been a former member of block samiti, too is an accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/asi-suspended-for-poor-performance-may-have-link-to-illicit-distillery/articleshow/76251315.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Unknown sources, high numbers in Tamil Nadu raise questions||CHENNAI: The government has said it has been able to track the source of every Covid-19 positive case in the state and that hence there is no community spread, but experts say the number of cases and their spread show the infection is indeed spreading through the community. On Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 1,500. Of these, only 18 people came from abroad and other parts of the country. The rest have been classified indigenous cases. And, there is no clarity on whether the precise source of infection for each case has been identified. Personal accounts show that people who have not stepped out of their homes have contracted the disease as have those who have been in a crowd of railway passengers. But, in both types of infections, there is no clear knowledge about the source of the virus. The rise in the number of cases especially in crowded localities points to community spread as many of these people have not come in contact with people who have come into the city. The relaxing of some if the lockdown norms has ensured that people have grown confident and are less careful against the infection. In Chennai, the corporation has stepped up tests and awareness campaigns in crowded slums, but buildings where patients have been identified are yet to be disinfected. Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist and former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore, said community transmission has been established in Tamil Nadu. “There is no doubt about that. Most people who test positive for Covid-19 have no known contacts at all. In Chennai, practically there are cases everywhere. You should wear masks without fail when you step out of houses. You should consider every other person as a potential carrier of the virus, and maintain social distancing.” In Chennai, though the number of cases is going up, the intensity shown in screening, containing and disinfecting seems to have reduced considerably. The corporation though is trying to step up its work, focusing on crowded areas including tenements. A senior government official said an argument is being put forth to emphasise that there is community transmission because Covid cases are widespread in Chennai. “But, it’s a myth. Of 40,000 streets, Covid cases were only on 6,600 streets. We are also able to trace source of infections - stage 2. Rather than enter into a debate on whether community transmission exists, we must focus on protecting people.” He also said that in all positive cases people have been able to say where they got the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/unknown-sources-high-numbers-raise-questions/articleshow/76251312.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cured corporator taken home in procession, cops file case||BENGALURU: High drama prevailed in Padarayanapura on Sunday when Imran Pasha, the local corporator, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was arrested. Pasha was brought home in a huge procession, disregarding social distancing norms after he was cured and discharged. A team led by DCP (West) Ramesh Banoth whisked the corporator away from near his doorstep. “Pasha was arrested for attempting to foment communal disturbance and violating the Disaster Management Act. We will investigate the matter further,” said Bhaskar Rao, Bengaluru city police commissioner. Rao had imposed prohibitory orders in JJ Nagar police station limits, which covers Padarayanapura, for five days with immediate effect. Two platoons of KSRP were deployed in the area. A huge procession followed Pasha’s car from Victoria Hospital, where he was admitted. His supporters, on bikes, showered his vehicle with flowers all along the way, leading to a huge traffic jam on Mysuru Road. Supporters cheered and jostled to shake hands with their leader in the moving car. No one in the crowd wore masks. Even when he was admitted to the hospital, JJ Nagar police had registered an FIR against Pasha for creating a ruckus and refusing to get admitted to hospital. “We will prepare a detailed report on the incident and will take necessary legal action,” JJ Nagar police said. While Honnali MLA and CM’s political secretary MP Renukacharya wondered if Pasha had won a war to be taken out a big procession in Bengaluru, Congress legislator BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan also demanded action against the corporator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cured-corporator-taken-home-in-procession-cops-file-case/articleshow/76250813.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Residents demand removal of silt under railway bridge||Kochi: Residents of Vaduthala and islands in the Kochi’s suburbs have been demanding the removal of silt under the Vembanad railway bridge, which passes through Vaduthala. It is pointed out that 850-m width of backwater region is filled with mud and slush, and water can only flow through a width of 80m, and it leads to flooding in these regions. “Cleaning of Perandoor canal alone will not reduce flooding in the city. This canal opens into the backwaters at the region near Vaduthala. The Operation Breakthrough project should focus on these regions also,” said advocate Ebenezer Chullikad of Greater Cochin Development Watch. He alleged that railways was responsible for dumping the slit in the region. Concrete waste was dumped here, and it got stuck under the bridge, adversely affecting the normal flow of water. “When we took up the matter with the railways they said the irrigation department was responsible. Irrigation department passed the responsibility on to Cochin Port Trust,” he added. This is the region where Periyar river meets Vembanadu lake. So, both irrigation department and Cochin Port Trust have a responsibility in removing the debris and ensuring smooth flow of water,” he said. The district administration which is implementing Operation Breakthrough can take the matter with other departments and work out a solution. The local people say that they live in the fear of flood. The district collector can also decide on who will have to bear the cost of removing the slit. Ansa James, Kochi corporation councillor representing division 74, has brought the matter before the irrigation department. In the letter to the executive engineer she stated that though officials inspected the place, they have not taken any action to remove the silt. “It is already too late. The monsoon has arrived. Shutters of the dams are being opened. There is an emergency,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-demand-removal-of-silt-under-railway-bridge/articleshow/76249877.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Agra||Meerut gets 18 & Agra 10 Covid-19 patients||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: At least 18 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Meerut by Sunday evening where the tally reached 521, including the one found in Kanpur. Fortunately, no death was reported and the toll stayed at 34 there. But, in Agra, a 60-year-old Covid-19 positive man died at SN Medical College. In Meerut, a few children were also among the 18 affected. “At least 18 new cases were reported in Meerut on Sunday including children in the age group between 2 years and 15 years,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut’s district surveillance officer. While in Agra, the patient who died was suffering from severe anemia and acute encephalopathy. So far, 50 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Agra district. And, at least 10 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra on Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 967. Out of these four cases were related from a family of Pinahat block. Meanwhile, five Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Out of the 967 cases reported in the district, 84.4% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 99 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 818 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab tests.” While in Bareilly, a seven months pregnant woman was among four persons tested positive for Covid-19. It took the district’s tally to 69 with 31 active cases. Bareilly has seen two deaths so far while 36 have been discharged. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Four persons tested positive and they have been admitted to hospital. We have quarantined their close contacts, and their samples would be sent for testing.” Two persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur while no case surfaced in Budaun district on Sunday. While Pilibhit reported one case. A 30-year-old man of Chausar Hardeo Patti village was tested positive for Covid-19. He had come from Delhi on June 3 and was home quarantined. District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav has issued orders to convert the village of the infected man into the containment zone. According to him, the total number of containment zones has gone up to 32 here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/meerut-gets-18-agra-10-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76249868.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Chhawani Mohalla cannot be termed as community spread’||In an interview with Mehak Jain, DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal gave some details about the latest steps they are taking to help people during lockdown 5.0 and unlock 1.0. He also laid stress on the fact that those found violating lockdown norms, were being dealt with strictly. What is the exact situation of lockdown and curfew in Ludhiana? Where do you see the situation? The guidelines which are being sent by government of India and state are being followed in Ludhiana. There are no changes in guidelines at district level, however, at some places, officials have made some changes like introduction of odd and even policy. As of now, the curfew and movement of people is restricted from 9pm to 5am, while shops can open from 7am to 7pm. As Chhawani Mohalla has been declared containment zone, do you think its community spread? 15 cases have been reported from this area and only movement for medical emergencies and maintaining supply of essential goods and services is allowed in this zone. However, community spread is different as the cases we are receiving are the contacts of positive patients. More than 80% cases tested positive through contact tracing and other cases which tested positive have high chances that they were in touch with a close contact of positive patients. This is not a community spread. Out of maximum samples taken, 4-5 cases are contacts of positive cases while 5-6 cases are having influenza like symptoms. What are the special measures which are being taken by the administration while taking samples? Health department is conducting tests on priority basis and we have categorised high-risk front-line workers. This category includes anganwadi workers, Asha workers, police officials, media, close contacts of positive patients, who are primarily considered to be more vulnerable, and therefore they are tested on priority basis. Even after lockdown and making people aware for the last two months, the administration has launched ‘Mission Fateh’ for holding awareness activities on wearing mask, maintaining social distance and washing hand regularly. Besides this, we have kickstarted health screening and testing of symptomatic patients in 12 high priority areas. These zones are created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading. Unlock 1.0 is here and how will they go about it and will there be any change as the situation is grim? There are guidelines by government which will be followed here in Ludhiana, but there are a few sectors like dining at restaurants, which is not going to start from June 8 . We will access the situation again on June 15 and will decide. Nevertheless, we will restrict movement for particular high density zones and areas like sabzi mandi, AC Market. What is status of quarantine zones and isolation centres (as they are being reduced and people are opting for home quarantine? We have more two-three facilities, which have been suspended for time being but can be made functional if required. We have sufficient beds (200) in Covid care centres, which can be further pushed to 500. Currently, we have 650-bed capacity in government and private hospitals. Here, quarantine centres are for people who are suspected patients while positive patients are kept in isolation centres. Foreign passengers are being provided government institutional quarantine and hotel facility and persons who are not suitable for home quarantine are being kept in quarantine centres. What are the arrangements for travellers who will be turning back? Now, people have started using road, railways and airways for travelling and they are being screened and asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, except for those returning from abroad. How is administration ensuring that those who are under quarantine following the norms? We are monitoring through cova app. If any positive patient crosses the geo-fencing system, we get the update. So far, we have registered 6 FIRs against violators. These include four from Khanna, one from Jagraon and one from Ludhiana. How is administration and health department making sure that the figures here decrease? The active cases are getting treatment and will help in reducing the active cases count after their treatment is completed. Currently, we have 77 active cases in district. How many migrants have registered and how many have decided to stay back ? There are six-seven lakh migrants in Ludhiana but 9 lakh people registered, out of many have done so twice. We started the registration process on May and we have run 207 trains even as many passengers were ferried via buses to 10 villages of UP. Till now, approximately 4 lakh migrants have gone to their native places. What sort of measures administration will take for their stay arrangements and ration? For ration, we have provided them kits, but now we are providing kits to non-blue card holders also, which include 10 kg of atta, one kg sugar and dal. For this we have established 100 distribution centres and 270 personnel have been deployed. People are not wearing masks, so is the administration ensuring that they follow norms? The district administration and police have intensified strictness against people who are violating lockdown 5.0 and unlock 1.0. Till date, challans totalling Rs 20,61,600 have been issued in the district under ‘Mission Fateh’ . 6,770 challans were issued to people for not wearing masks, 2,178 challans for spitting in public, besides three challans for not maintaining social distancing while persons caught violating home quarantine rules have been fined Rs 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chhawani-mohalla-cannot-be-termed-as-community-spread/articleshow/76250788.cms||Mehak Jain
June 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Woman allowed to stay with Covid-19 positive child||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a baffling case for doctors, nearly a dozen members from two families living in a building at Kurmannapalem have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days, but one of women in the family tested negative. As a special case, a Covid negative woman was allowed to stay with her child who tested positive for Covid, in the hospital as the child refused to stay without her mother. Problems arose when the child started crying and refused to be admitted without the mother. To deal with the peculiar problem, doctors decided to keep the mother along with the child in the hospital. Speaking to TOI, Dr P V Sudhakar, Special Officer for Covid for three north coastal Andhra districts said, “It is surprising that one sole member did not test positive when all other family members have been affected by the virus. Two members from the two families contracted the virus presumably from a pharmaceutical lab where they worked. All the Covid positive members have been sent to the hospital. However, it cannot be ruled out that the virus is in incubation period and the woman may test positive after a few days. But when for now she has tested negative, we cannot keep her in a quarantine centre with other suspects.” “Finally, we decided to let the Covid negative mother stay with her asymptomatic daughter. The mother was sensitized about the strict safety measures to be taken and minimise contact with her child,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/woman-allowed-to-stay-with-covid-ve-child/articleshow/76249872.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||College students come up with Covid-themed home furnishing||COIMBATORE: The Covid-19 pandemic has fired the imagination of a section of students pursuing creative courses in Tirupur. After designing sarees, T-shirts, wearable art, nail art and denim apparels that are themed around Covid-19, students of Nift-Tea College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur have now come up with home furnishings such as bedspreads, curtains, window blinds, pillow covers and bolster covers around the same theme. Faculty members and students said they first hand sketched the designs, which were then converted into digital format. Boopathy Vijay, an assistant professor with the college, said screen printing technology and knitted fabric were used to make the prototypes. “Usually, home furnishings such as curtains and bedspreads would be made of woven fabric. We wanted it to be different. As Tirupur is known also for knitted fabric, we used that.” Pointing out that fabric paint would not be durable for home furnishings, he said they have used screen printing, which would be more durable and washable, for the prototype. P Vignesh, a third-year garment designing and production student who worked on the project, said, “We knitted the fabric ourselves for the prototype. The home furnishings have already created an interest and people have started inquiring about the same.” They said it was viable to produce the home furnishings commercially and sell them at affordable prices. They also have plans to market the products post lockdown, when industries and markets resume operations. Boopathy said they were planning to do a series of creative works that were themed around the pandemic. “After wearable Covid-19 art, face art, nail art, we are also working on a large embroidery artwork on Covid-19 and visual art pieces for police personnel.” Last month, the college students had designed an attire using denim fabric, conveying the importance of staying at home, wearing masks and blood tests pictorially. They had done value addition to the denim fabric by way of fabric painting, applique work and patch work. The students had to do the entire work as printing units were not open due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/college-students-come-up-with-covid-themed-home-furnishing/articleshow/76251326.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Labour shortage hits Clock Tower uplift project||Ludhiana: Labour shortage has hit the beautification project of one of the oldest monuments, Clock Tower, as work could not be started at the site. The Smart City project was supposed to be completed in March but due to lockdown it could not be started. Now, when lockdowd is there but with relaxations, the contractor hired for its beautification is struggling to arrange the labour. The officials, however, claimed that in this month work was likely to begin at the site. Under this facelift project it was decided to add the effect of lights to the monument so that people passing from near the Clock Tower would enjoy the colorful lights. After the Clock Tower beautification project, flyovers of southern bypass would be also be given facelift. The chief executive officer of Ludhiana Smart City Limited-cum-additional commissioner of MC Sanyam Aggarwal said, “Earlier, due to lockdown and now due to shortage of labour the work could not start at the site. This project will not take much time as almost in one month the monument will be beautified.” He said it was expected that work would be started after a couple of weeks. Meanwhile, a resident of Shivpuri, Krishan Sharma, said, “The lighting is fine but there is need to beautify the surroundings as well and for that encroachments should be removed.” He said the officials should correct the timing in the clock as well because it remained non-functional most of the time. Another resident from Rahon Road, Rajiv Duggal, said not only Clock Tower but also other monuments should be taken care of properly. He said the residents should also help authorities in maintaining the beauty of these monuments.  box: Labour shortage hits other projects With exodus of labourers from the city, a few other projects have also been hit. The officials claimed that there is a shortage of labourers due to which the pace of ongoing works has slowed down but work has not stopped. They claimed that in coming days the situation would improve when migrant workers would return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labour-shortage-hits-clock-tower-uplift-project/articleshow/76250809.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chennai||Onus on community to stop Covid-19 spread in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: With Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 graph continuing its surge, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday appealed to the people for their cooperation to check community transmission. “Strict lockdown measures were imposed with the sole aim of ensuring that Tamil Nadu does not succumb to community spread,” the CM said in an eight-page open letter, outlining the measure in the state’s battle against Covid. “I am well aware that people abided by the government’s appeal — to maintain social distance, to remain alert and to stay indoors,” he said. Later, in the evening, in a televised address, the CM repeated the fervent plea for people’s help. His appeal came on a day when the state’s Covid numbers soared to 31,667 and crossed the single day count of 1,515. The number of people who died of Covid was 18 taking the total death toll in the state to 269. He thanked the people, stressing the fact that their support, despite troubles due to lockdown, mattered a lot in this fight. “While frequent cleaning of hands is of utmost importance, at home as well as at workplaces, people should desist from going out without reason. If they have to step out, they should always wear a mask and ensure social distance is maintained,” he said. Due to the combined efforts, the number of people getting discharged and returning to their homes in Tamil Nadu is the highest in India. The number of deaths in the state, in terms of percentage, is the lowest not just in India but the world, the chief minister said, thanking the medical fraternity and health workers for their untiring efforts. The state, right from the beginning, believed that testing more people was the key. “Until June 4, we conducted 5.5 lakh tests and only because of this we were able to determine that 86% of those who tested positive were asymptomatic,” the CM said. The chief minister said Tamil Nadu government has spent over Rs 4,333 crore till June 4 for the welfare of the people and in its fight against Covid. The contribution to the CM’s Relief Fund for fighting the Covid pandemic has crossed Rs 378 crore till June 3, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/onus-on-community-to-stop-covid-spread/articleshow/76251327.cms||D Govardan
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Pandemic gives platform to civic poll aspirants for campaigning||AURANGABAD: Several candidates aspiring to be corporators in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation are trying to use the lockdown period for image building as well as poll campaigning. The civic body elections are scheduled soon after the Covid-19 contagion is contained. Right from providing ration kits, conducting the thermal screening, supplying Arsenic 30 tablets, distributing hand sanitisers and face-masks, all aspiring candidates are reaching out to people to provide relief measures ahead of the civic polls. Abhishek Beedkar, a resident of HUDCO, said he witnessed a competition among poll aspirants in offering aid and relief measures with a definite motive. “First an aspirant from BJP camp offered face-masks in our area, prompting sitting corporator and independent to supply Arsenic 30 album tablets. The Shiv Sena aspirant jumped into the fray by carrying out fumigation and thermal screening. Needless to say, pamphlets were distributed by each of these aspirants while reaching out in our areas,” he said. Shiv Sena leader and sitting corporator Raju Vaidya said every help does not necessarily have selfish motives. “It is wrong to have any prejudices against the help offered by poll aspirants. Many people rely on such help, especially when it comes to seeking benefits of government welfare programmes and initiatives,” he said. The five-year term for 115-member Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) ended on April 28, following which civic body chief Astik Kumar Pandey has been appointed as an administrator. The state government on March 16 approached the Election Commission with a plea for deferring AMC and other polls for three months in the wake of the outbreak of Covid 19, to which poll panel agreed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pandemic-gives-platform-to-civic-poll-aspirants-for-campaigning/articleshow/76249879.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 8, 2020||Kochi||Orthodox Church alleges attack; case filed||Kochi: The Angamaly police, on Sunday, registered a case after the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church alleged that a gang of around 25 people attacked its members in the morning when they went to Peechanikkad St George Malankara Church. According to police, the FIR was registered after the Orthodox faction members who sustained injuries filed a complaint. The incident happened around 5am, police said. The case was registered under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 144 (unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon),147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means). Police, however, are yet to make any arrest in the case. Fr Johns Abraham Konat, spokesperson of the Orthodox church said the attack happened when the priests and the permitted number of assistants went to the church. “The rival faction, armed with weapons, attacked them unexpectedly. All of them, including the vicar, Fr Eldhose Thelappilly, sustained injuries. The custody of the church was legally ours and the attack against our members were pre-planned,” said Fr Konat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/orthodox-church-alleges-attack-case-filed/articleshow/76249888.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Factory security: Owners hit by migrants’ exodus||Ludhiana: In an unusual problem for hundreds of micro and small unit owners of Ludhiana, exodus of migrant workers have put the security of their factories under threat and also increased the expenditure of some of them. In the small factories of Ludhiana it’s a normal practice to let some of their trusted workers live inside the factory so that the security of factories can be ensured after the working hours. Workers also happily opt to live inside so that they can save on the cost of living in ‘vehras’ (shared accommodation rented by group of migrant workers). Moreover, the conditions inside the factory are far more hygienic and better as compared to the life inside the ‘vehra’. But due to labour exodus caused by Covid-19, when such a high percentage of workers have left Ludhiana, a large number of factories are now left without any worker available for living inside and thereby leaving the factory owners in a soup as far as security of such factories with regard to raw material and finished goods is concerned. Meanwhile, factory owners are now running after security agencies or chowkidars for guarding their factories during night. Some who cannot afford to pay for the security are desperately trying to convince the remaining lot of workers to shift from the ‘vehras’ to their factories. Speaking to TOI, Ajay Sehgal, a bicycle parts manufacturer, said, “During pre-lockdown period , one of my workers used to live inside the factory, along with his family. We even employed his wife for packing and other small works and both husband wife were earning and moreover, as compared to a ‘vehra’ they were enjoying good life as they had access to facilities like separate washroom and toilet, big living room. The family was living a happy life and I too was tension free as one of my trusted aides was looking after my property. But unfortunately, in the wake of panic caused by Covid19 lockdown, like other migrant workers, he and his family left for their village in Uttar Pradesh last week, leaving me in the lurch. I only have one worker coming to work, who is a local, and as he has his own house he cannot shift to the factory. I am unable to afford hiring of a private security guard for the purpose as they charge Rs 500-Rs 700 per day, which is impossible for a small businessman like me to pay.” According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, “Be it any small factory in mix land use area or notified industrial or residential areas, allowing some workers to live inside the factories is a very common practice in Ludhiana and is going on since ages. Actually, this is a win-win situation for both workers and the factory owners as the workers get a hygienic, big space with almost all amenties to live in as compared to spending choked life inside a ‘vehra’, while on the other hand the factory owners get to save on security charges.” Kairpal added, “However, this is perhaps the first time that Ludhiana is facing such a problem because on earlier occasions when the worker living inside had to go to his village for sometime, another worker used to shift temporarily inside the factory from his ‘vehra’. But now due to such high number of workers leaving, replacements are not available to cope up with the situation and what’s even more problematic every is that factory owner is not so financially sound for spending money on hiring security guards.” Box – Spurt in queries for security guards Gurbaksh Singh, general manager of a security services agency, said, “During the past 15 days we have got a large number of inquiries for night security of factories. Most of the these are from areas having small factories like Partap Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Shimlapuri, Shivpuri, etc. Earlier, we have never had clients from these areas as they mostly use their own resources for security of their factories and moreover, their budget is very low as compared to our other clients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-security-owners-hit-by-migrants-exodus/articleshow/76250819.cms||Mohit Behl
June 8, 2020||Bareilly||Three-year-old boy drowns while bathing in pond||Pilibhit: A three-year-old boy drowned in a pond in Puraina Talluke Maharajpur village under Madhotanda police station on Sunday morning while taking a bath along with other children of the village. The boy was first taken to Madhotanda community health center, but due to the absence of a doctor there he was shifted to Puranpur community health center where he was declared brought dead by the medical officer on duty. According to the deceased’s father, Sanjeev Mirdha, the boy was fished out by villagers after they listened to the screams of the other children. Although he showed no signs of life when taken out of the water, he was still taken to the hospital. Station house officer (SHO) Shahroz Anwar said that police dropped the idea of conducting an autopsy following his father’s request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-year-old-boy-drowns-while-bathing-in-pond/articleshow/76249222.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Aurangabad||KMC takes action against those involved in water thefts||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has started lodging police complaints against people drawing water illegally and bypassing the meter readers as the city witnessed a spike in water theft cases during the lockdown. An FIR has been filed at Rajwada police station against one of the lodging operators, who was found drawing out water illegally. Action under several clauses of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1941 which amounts to imprisonment up to five years upon non-payment of fine of Rs 25,000, can be taken.  The officials said that many do not want to pay the water tax or do not want to pay the earlier dues so they resort such illegal means. Prashant Pandat, the water tax superintendent of KMC, said, “We have observed that water theft cases are on rise. All our staff are currently engaged with Covid-19 management and the defaulters are taking undue advantage of it. However, such illegal connections are leading to water scarcity in some parts of the city and it is unfair to those paying their dues regularly. For the first time in recent years, we have filed an FIR for water theft case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kmc-takes-action-against-those-involved-in-water-thefts/articleshow/76249899.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha makes Bande Utkala Janani the state song||Bhubaneswar: The state cabinet on Sunday accorded Odisha Rajya Sangeeta (state song) status to Bande Utkala Janani, a week after Odias across the world sang the song to express their gratitude to the Covid warriors. “It is a momentous occasion for every Odia as #BandeUtkalaJanani has been chosen as #OdishaRajyaSangeeta. Every word of the inspiring song written by literary doyen Laxmikanta Mohapatra speaks about Odisha’s glory, rich heritage, splendour, evoking patriotism among crores of Odias,” tweeted chief minister Naveen Patnaik. “Today is a historic day for Odisha,” said state parliamentary affairs minister Bikram Keshari Arukh after the cabinet decision. According state song status to the seven-stanza song was a long-standing demand from various quarters, including the assembly. The cabinet also decided that the state information and public relations department will determine the song’s tune, the version in which it will be sung and the duration, so that it is recorded accordingly. “The approved version of the song will now be played or recited at various government functions, assembly sessions and other government events without instruments. The song can also be played or sung with musical instruments in schools, colleges, public meetings and different cultural events,” Arukh said. The audience at any assembly will now have to stand from start to finish as a mark of respect when the song is played or recited. Elderly, ailing people, physically challenged, pregnant women and children are exempted from standing but can show their respect while sitting. The song can also be presented by the police band while there will be no restrictions on the creative presentation of the song for its promotion. The cabinet also directed the higher education and school and mass education departments to include the song in the college and school curriculum. Unlike the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, that has different penal provisions for insult to the national anthem, flag and Constitution, there is no specific penalty for violation of the state song. The entire Odisha came to a standstill at 5.30pm on May 30 as people sang Bande Utkala Janani as a mark of solidarity to the Covid warriors. The song was sung for the first time in 1912 by Utkal Sammilani during the movement for a separate Odisha province.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-makes-bande-utkala-janani-the-state-song/articleshow/76249890.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Kanaka Durga temple to open from June 10||Vijayawada: After 80 days of lockdown due to Covid-19, Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devastanams (Kanaka Durga temple) atop Indrakeeladri is set to restart darshan for common devotees from Wednesday. A trial run of darshan and laddu prasadam distribution will be done on Monday and Tuesday. Kanaka Durga temple trust board chairman Paila Sominaidu and temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu, while addressing media on Sunday, said that the safety of devotees is their top priority and proper sanitisation measures will be taken at temple to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “We have decided to open darshan for the devotees from Wednesday. Temple will remain open for darshan between 6 am to 5 pm. Rs 300 Antharalaya special darshan is cancelled and only Muka Mandapa darshan is permitted till further orders,” EO Suresh Babu said. Trust board chairman Paila Sominaidu said that they are taking measures to prevent rush in the queues. “At least six feet distance will be maintained between devotees in queue lines. Children below the age of 10 and people above the age of 65 years age will not be permitted for darshan. Thermal screening will be done at the temple gate and people with a fever will not be allowed for darshan All queues will be sanitized with sodium hypochlorite every one hour and devotees have to compulsorily wear masks,” he said. Shatari, free prasadam services were cancelled and laddu prasdadam will be distributed in a cover to prevent direct contact, he said.  “We have asked the temple staff who notice Covid-19 symptoms to not attend duties considering the safety of devotees,” Sominaidu added. The temple trust board chairman added that they are also taking care of the temple staff and have distributed masks, face shields, and other safety gear to them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanaka-durga-temple-to-open-from-june-10/articleshow/76249900.cms||Venu Lanka
June 8, 2020||Gurgaon||Seven booked for murder two weeks after accidental death case in Hisar||HISAR: Police booked seven persons in the case of a suspected accident which took place about two weeks ago. The deceased has been identified as 23-year-old Sandeep alias Golu, a resident of Patel Nagar in Hisar. A case was registered at Hisar Civil Lines police station on the complaint of Raj Kumar, a resident of Patel Nagar, against Himanshu, Vasu and five unidentified persons under sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 3 (offences of atrocities) of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. In his police complaint, Kumar alleged that on the night of May 21, Himanshu, Vasu and others took his son Sandeep with them to their house and killed him, after which they covered it up as a case of accident. He alleged that Sandeep did not die in the accident and the accused killed him as his motorcycle was not damaged. Police said a case has been registered and investigation has been handed over to DSP Amarjeet Kataria. But so far, no arrests have been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/7-booked-for-murder-2-weeks-after-accidental-death-case/articleshow/76251329.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Devotees visit Dharmasthala ahead of temple reopening today||DHARMASTHALA: Around 500 devotees visited Sri Manjunateshwara Temple in full compliance with the SOP that the state government has issued on Sunday. Devotees wore masks and used the hand sanitiser provided at the entrance of the temple, and maintained social distancing by standing on the markings, while in queue. The temple in a communique, requested all devotees to follow the instruction given by the temple staff, including priests and security staff while visiting the temple. The temple authorities have completed all the arrangements in compliance with the SOP, including sanitising the premises, which will be open for devotees from 6.30am to 2pm and 5pm to 8pm. Daily mass feeding of devotees will be held in the dining hall from 10.30am to 2pm and 7pm to 10pm. Devotees can also meet D Veerendra Heggade, dharmadhikari, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala at his residence from 9.30am to 12.30pm and from 4pm to 6.30pm. In a related development, Kota Shrinivas Poojari, minister for religious endowment, ports and fisheries, will offer prayers to Lord Manjunatha at Kadri Sri Manjunatha Temple at 8am on Monday, and seek blessings of the almighty to mark the reopening of temple, after the lockdown which was clamped on March 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/devotees-visit-dharmasthala-ahead-of-temple-reopening-today/articleshow/76249903.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, dial 1098 for baby food, sanitisers, masks at rly stn||Ludhiana: Taking serious note of the requirements of woman passengers travelling with their toddlers on long-route trains, members of Childline India Foundation unit here have decided to station a team at the railway station from Monday for providing basic amenities like baby foods, sanitisers, masks, diapers, along with shoes and clothes to needy families, by dialling 1098 toll free number. For the past three days, the team had suspended its service at the city station but with resumption of this service on-board woman as well senior citizens could able to receive baby foods, packed food item and other daily use things without facing any sort of inconvenience during hot weather conditions. The team will consist of 11 members. Apart from helping passengers, it will also be taking care of minor children who get separated from their family members while travelling in trains. As per the data available with TOI, as many as 200 minor children have been rescued by them in the past one year, and this time they have decided to conduct inspection during night hours as well. For this, they are trying to coordinate with railway security forces, so that they can easily keep an eye on minor children roaming on platform, who get separated from their families. Kuldeep Singh Mann, director, Childline Ludhiana, said, “Childline India Foundation has partnered with Swami Ganga Nand Bhuriwale International Foundation, Dham Talwandi Khurd, to resume this service here at the city station for overcoming the grievances of passengers related to non-availability of basic things. The total funding of the project will be by the government.” Mann said, “The team will have seven members of Childline Ludhiana, three volunteers, one part-time counsellor and one full time coordinator. In Punjab, thieir centre will be in Ludhiana and Amritsar railway station as of now.” Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar said, “There have been several instances where women have raised the issue of not able to find baby food items. To counter this Childline team members will be deputed at the city station from Monday onwards.” “Moreover, the office of Childline has already opened on platform number 1. However, a new room is also being constructed for them at different regional stations under Ludhiana district. The helpline number to inform any matter related to minor children is 2701098,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-dial-1098-for-baby-food-sanitisers-masks-at-rly-stn/articleshow/76250829.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 8, 2020||Goa||Basilica repairs complete, no fear for 25 years: ASI||Panaji: The repair work of the roof of the Basilica of Bom Jesus at Old Goa has been completed and there is no fear of rain water seeping through, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said. “The roof work was completed on May 10. All precautions have been taken to ensure that there is no leakage. The wood was given a termite coating, the rafters were replaced and given a GI coating before the tiles were laid. This will remain for another 25 years. Nothing will happen,” superintending engineer, Goa circle, K Amarnath Ramakrishna told TOI. A team has been kept on standby to check on all monuments and attend to any monsoon related issues, he added. The interior work of the Unesco world heritage monument and repair of the wooden flooring of the first floor corridor, which is pending, will be completed only after the Aurangabad based contractor, it was contracted to, arrives in Goa. ASI said that the contractor hasn’t returned to the state since the lockdown, adding that it has initiated action against him for abandoning the roof repair work during the lockdown which resulted in rainwater entering the heritage monument. “The contractor has not returned from Aurangabad till date. We are taking action and claiming damages that took place because the roof was left open. We have to follow procedures and wait till he comes down and justifies his stand. In the meantime, the paper work is going on,” Ramakrishna added. The lightning conductors fitted a few years ago - near each heritage monument - in Old Goa will ensure lightning doesn’t strike the structures. The Basilica and Se Cathedral have two lightning conductors each. “The conductors were tested before the arrival of the rains, in May, through the electricity department and were all found functional,” he added. Lightning struck a portion of the façade of the Basilica during a storm and damaged a pillar and tiles on the roof in June 2015. A shower of stones had then come down from the façade of the 17th century monument. In 2014, lightning struck the Se Cathedral and damaged one of its gables and roof as well as the false ceiling in one of the halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/basilica-repairs-complete-no-fear-for-25-years-asi/articleshow/76251670.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 8, 2020||Kochi||When men in khakhi harvested fish||Kochi: Koothattukulam police had a different agenda last week. Giving a break to their khakhi uniforms, police personnel from the station gathered at their aquaculture farm, nurtured with the support of residents during the lockdown, for harvesting. Policemen had put tilapia fish in a man-made pond adjacent to the police quarters here and it was looked after by them and members of the janamaithri samithi attached to the police quarter here. District police chief K Karthick joined the policemen during the harvest. “There were more than 750 large fishes. We used to take care of it during our free time. It was also a community policing initiative as the residents were also part of it,” said K R Mohandas, SHO Koothattukulam police station. On harvest day, senior police officers, including DSP K Anilkumar, residents association members and janamaithri beat officers, were present. SP Karthick said the initiative intends to give a model for the public to follow. "The only way to ensure that we get fresh food is to cultivate them by ourselves. We have to be self-reliant especially during such times. We are sending message through this simple initiative,” he said. The rural police had earlier launched an online ‘kitchen garden challenge’, in which the cops had challenged residents to send them pictures of their garden. The challenge received a great response and the pictures got featured on the rural police’s social media handles. As part of the challenge, vegetable gardens were set up on the police station premises as well. “The catch was distributed to residents who pre-booked them. The initiative has improved the bond between police and people,” said Mohandas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/when-men-in-khakhi-harvested-fish/articleshow/76249908.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Review guidelines on langar’||Amritsar: SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on Sunday urged the Punjab government to review its guidelines regarding langar, terming the practice an ‘inseparable' part of the Sikh religion. Allowing the opening of religion places from Monday during the current phase of the coronavirus lockdown, the state government on Saturday had prohibited the offering of ‘prasad’, food or langar (community kitchen). “Langar is an inseparable tradition of the Sikh religion and the government should review its decision,” said Longowal. He said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) was preparing food for devotees by following all norms of the health department. Giving ‘prasad’ to devotees is also an old tradition of the Sikh religion and the government should review its guidelines regarding this while keeping in mind the sentiments of the Sikh community, said Longowal. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/review-guidelines-on-langar/articleshow/76251331.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Photographer from Ooty bags 1st prize||Udhagamandalam: A town-based photographer has bagged first prize in the online photography national level competition contest on ‘World Environment Day’ conducted by C. P. R. Environmental Education Centre - ENVIS (Environmental Information System) resource partner on Conservation of Ecological Heritage and Sacred Sites of India. V Mathimaran had sent eight of his best shots to the competition. The photo of an ancient tree located at Kundha –Kotagiri- a Kota tribal village- in the Nilgiris has fetched him the award. The award comprises a citation and cash prize. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/photographer-from-ooty-bags-1st-prize/articleshow/76251339.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Hotel industry all geared up to start functioning from today||Ludhiana: City hoteliers are jubilant as they will be able to start their operations from Monday after almost a gap of two and half months of remaining closed due to Covid-19 lockdown. On Sunday, most of the hotel owners were busy in cleanliness operations and briefing the staff about new changes as per the guidelines issued by the central government. Hotel owners are also adopting new techniques to make prospective customers safe during their stay in the wake of coronavirus scare. Meanwhile, the hotel industry and restaurant owners are also of the view that in the wake of rising losses, the government should allow opening of dine-in services at the earliest. Speaking to TOI, Amarveer Singh , president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “City’s hotel industry is going through a very bad phase as hotels remained closed for more than two months. But inspite of this lockdown there was no respite for us in terms of expenses and therefore every single hotel owner has incurred huge losses. However, from Monday the hotels will be opening, though there are a lot of restrictions and no inquiries right now, but still we are happy that we will be able to open our properties.” He further said, “Ludhiana’s hotel industry has made huge arrangements and spending funds extensively to restart operations, like some hotel owners who till now had central airconditioning in the rooms have instead installed single unit air conditioners in the rooms. As far as cleanliness operations are concerned, our industry has switched to the use of costly chemicals and disinfectants, so that the levels of hygiene and cleanliness are up to the mark to protect us, our guests and our staff against Covid-19.” Singh added, “Like hotel industry, restaurant owners too have suffered a big blow due to the lockdown and they won’t be able to save their businesses until the dine-in services resume. Therefore, it is our request to the government to consider opening of these services soon. The restaurant owners would happily agree to abide by any new rule and regulation of the government.” According to Shiv Shankar Rai, another city hotelier and member of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, “We have made ample arrangements. Along with ensuring in-depth cleaning of the hotel, we have pasted a large number signboards having instructions for the guests. In addition to this, we have also modified our policy and as of now we are only going to allow stay of only one person in one room. After a few days we will re-consinder this decision as per the rules and regulations of the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hotel-industry-all-geared-up-to-start-functioning-from-today/articleshow/76250856.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur records 15 fresh cases on Sunday||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district has reported 15 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of patients in the district to 680. Of the fresh cases, a 32-year-old doctor practising in a nursing home tested positive for Covid-19. The nursing home located at Rankala Tower in the city has been declared a containment zone. The doctor is the 22nd Covid patient in the city. 2 deaths in Sangli As many as two Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Sangli district in the last 48 hours, taking the total number of casualties to 7. A 55-year-old person from Jat and a An 80-year-old person from Mandur in Shirala tehsil died due to Covid-19. 19 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 167. Of the 19 cases, 13 have been reported from Mandur village of Shirala tehsil on Sunday. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhari said, “There is no community transmission but local transmission. Satara reports 1 covid case Satara district has reported one Covid-19 case by 5pm on Sunday. The total number of cases has reached to 621, with 21 casualties. 7 more cases in SolapurSolapur district has reported seven more Covid-19 cases from rural parts, taking the total number of cases to 80.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-records-15-fresh-cases-on-sunday/articleshow/76249940.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||GSI finds 250kg gold reserve in Jharkhand's east Singhbhum||RANCHI: Mineral-rich Jharkhand hit another jackpot when a fifth gold reserve was found in East Singhbhum district. Of the four gold reserves found earlier, mining in two of them is on while auction of the remaining two has been completed. In the latest find, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) said a 250kg gold reserve has been identified beneath Bhitar Dari village, 20km south of Jamshedpur on the Hatia road in East Singhbhum district. GSI said it has submitted a report to the state mines department on June 3 about the reserve. A GSI official told TOI, “The report has been submitted to the state government in this regard. The new gold mine is now fully ready to be auctioned. Our job ends here and the government can now move ahead with its auctioning process.” However, the state mines department said a lot of work needs to be done before putting up the gold reserve for auction. Kumari Anjali, director of the geology unit of the department, said, “GSI has given us a G3 level report which means it can’t be directly put up for auction and requires some more exploration and development works to be done.” She added, “Had the report been of G2 level, we could have directly put it up for auctioning and lease out the mine. We are studying the report and will act accordingly soon.” This will be the fifth gold reserve in Jharkhand. Two other reserves — Parasi (in Tamar on the outskirts of Ranchi) and Pahadia (in West Singbhum’s Manoharpur) — have been auctioned a few years ago and development of the mines is currently underway. Mining in the other two reserves — Kunderkocha (West Singbhum) and Lava (Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan) — are on. The Bhitar Dari area gold reserve was detected by a team of GSI (Ranchi circle) led by its director Pankaj Kumar, who began a survey, mapping and sampling in 2013-14. Later in 2017-18 and 2018-19, geologists started drilling process to confirm the deposits. A GSI report said the gold will have to be mined from a depth of nearly 150 metres under the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gsi-finds-250kg-gold-reserve-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/76250409.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||FIR over 'corona puja' in Jharkhand||GARHWA: Police in Majhiaon lodged an FIR on Sunday against unknown persons for promoting “corona puja”. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by Majhiaon circle officer Rakesh Sahay. Officer in-charge of Majhiaon police station, Yogendra Kumar, said, “An FIR has been lodged against unknown persons for rumour mongering, apart from spreading superstition.” He added that some people are instigating the women that if they perform “corona puja”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will send Rs 5,000 to their bank accounts. About 250 women were reported to have performed the puja in Bichi and Bodra villages under Majhiaon police station. Similar reports came from villages under Meral block of the district, where women performed the rituals while carrying photocopies of their Aadhaar cards and bank passbooks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-over-corona-puja/articleshow/76250799.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||15 rich found taking benefits of PDS in Ramgarh||Ramgarh: Around 15 affluent persons were found enjoying PDS benefits in Ramgarh, an ongoing survey conducted by the district administration has revealed. Earlier, the administration had asked people above the poverty line to surrender their ration cards. But as there was poor response to the request, the administration began a drive to verify the actual status of PDS card holders. Rajshekhar Kumar, the additional district supply officer (ADSO), said, “A team of district supply department headed by the district supply officer (DSO), K K Rajhans, has started conducting a survey from Saturday. Till now, the team has found that 15 persons having big houses, cars, air conditioners, coolers, refrigerators and washing machines are using ration cards meant for the poor. We have served them notices. FIRs will also be lodged against them if they fail to compensate the government appropriately.” These people mostly hail from areas like Indira Nagar, Ranibag, Naisarai and Gaushala Road in Ramgarh town suburban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/15-rich-found-taking-benefits-of-pds-in-ramgarh/articleshow/76250217.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||Two held in Namkum for raping minor girl||RANCHI: Two persons were arrested for gang raping a minor girl in Namkum police station area of Ranchi on Saturday night, said police on Sunday. Officer in-charge of Namkum police station Praveen Kumar said, “One of the accused is a relative of the girl who had invited her to his home on Saturday over a meal. Later, he took her to Palandu on a bike where the other accused joined him.” He added, “The accused persuaded the girl to consume alcohol and then gang-raped her inside a nearby forest. On Sunday morning, the girl informed us about the incident, following which, we arrested the two. A medical examination of the girl has been carried out and a case will be registered against the duo under Section 376D of IPC and relevant sections of the Pocso Act.” Murder accused arrested A special investigation team, formed to crack the murder of gangster Kunal Singh in Palamu earlier this week, on Saturday arrested the prime accused Vijay Sharma from Ranchi. Singh was shot dead in his car in Palamu on Wednesday. Sharma told police that he and his accomplice followed Singh from his house and shot at him from close range. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-held-in-namkum-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/76250740.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 73 new cases, Covid-19 count reaches 1,103||RANCHI: A total of 73 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,103. This is the third-largest surge in the state after 95 cases were recorded on Friday and another 92 cases were detected on Saturday. A total of 17 patients also recovered from the viral infection on Sunday. Among the new cases reported from across 16 districts, Simdega recorded a maximum of 13 cases followed by Lohardaga with 11 cases. Jamtara, which had its last positive case on April 29, saw an abrupt surge with eight fresh cases. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad also reported seven cases each while Ramgarh detected six cases. Gumla recorded four new cases. Three cases each were also detected in Latehar, Garhwa and Hazaribag. Ranchi and Koderma reported two cases each while Bokaro, Khunti, Saraikela and West Singhbhum recorded one case each. Of the total 1,103 total cases, 605 are active and 491 have recovered while seven have succumbed to the viral infection. In Ranchi, the two new cases are primary contacts of patients who have tested positive in the last two days. A district official said, “The younger brother of a kidney patient, who had tested positive on Friday, was one of the two cases. He was in the isolation ward of Rims along with his mother after his elder brother tested positive on Friday. The result of his mother is still awaited. The second positive case is a female and a resident of Khelgaon area.” Meanwhile, seven micro containment zones in Ranchi district were declared free of Covid-19 on Sunday after no positive case was detected from the areas in the last 21 days. The seven areas are Pipartoli in Argora, Chiltoli in Mandar, Tetartoli in Bariatu and Childag, Lalgarh, Kamta and Kherwakocha in Angara block. Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “We have decided to lift containment tag from these areas. All procedures, including door-to-door medical screening and testing of symptomatic suspects, were carried out before the tag was lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-73-new-cases-covid-19-count-reaches-1103/articleshow/76250792.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||Malls, shrines to remain shut in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Even as malls, restaurants and shrines are set to open in several parts of the country from Monday in tune with the central guidelines, the Jharkhand government is unlikely to allow their opening in the state. BJP’s MP from Godda, Nishikant Dubey, however, criticised the state government for not allowing the opening of temples, mainly the famed Babadham temple in Deoghar. He said, “At a time when all religious places across the country are resuming, I don’t understand the logic why the Jharkhand government isn’t allowing it despite the standard operating procedures (SOP) put in place by the Union government. Our country has always safeguarded its religions and practices even in the worst of pandemics.” State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said the government is trying to be sensitive to everyone’s cause, but its hands are tied because of the surge in Covid-19 cases. He said, “The cases are increasing at a much faster rate now which is a genuine reason to worry. On the other hand, people from different sectors like malls, garment shops, buses, salons etc., are becoming impatient to resume their work. The government is concerned about everyone and has tried to normalise the situation by giving relaxations as part of Unlock 1.0. We will take a call at the right time.” Covid cases in the state have crossed the 1,000 mark since the first case was detected on March 31. With the return of migrants, the doubling rate has rapidly increased and is well ahead of the national average. Meanwhile, certain sections within the state government are also pressing for opening of more sectors like garment shops, salons and eateries in view of the growing dissent from the traders, who cited huge losses. An official said, “In last one week, people from various sectors had met chief minister Hemant Soren apprising him of their problems, but he is yet to take a decision. Nothing is finalised at the moment.” Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) president Kunal Ajmani said they are hoping for more relaxations this week. He said, “Last week, we met the CM and other officials to explain the reasons why certain crucial sectors need to resume work. Most importantly, hotels must be allowed to reopen with proper security norms as it can generate huge and immediate employment. This apart, with ease in the travel norms, there are many who came to Ranchi for their medical needs and require hotel accommodation. We are hoping that the government announces further relaxations soon.” Talking to reporters earlier this week, Soren had said reopening of religious places in the state is the least priority. He had said, “Our priority is to save people first. Any decision on the opening of religious places will be taken after the lockdown ends across the country.” (With inputs from Rajesh Kumar Pandey in Dumka)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/malls-shrines-to-remain-shut-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76250286.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||Iskon ensured MDM to over 30k kids during lockdown||Jamshedpur: The Annamrita Foundation of International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) served mid-day meals to schoolchildren in East Singhbhum and Seraikala-Kharsawan districts during the entire lockdown period. The foundation said it supplied over 22 lakh meals in Jamshedpur and its peripheral areas, covering suburban and slums, which are located close to government schools. Annamrita Foundation manager Sudhir Kumar said, “Our objective is to see that children staying home during the lockdown can avail meals. We made a deliberate effort to organise our food distribution camps close to schools so that children living in the surrounding areas can collect the meals.” He said out of the 377 government schools in the East Singhbhhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, where Annamrita Foundation supply MDM, close to 210 schools were covered during the lockdown. “Over 30,000 schoolchildren must have received the meals,” Kumar said. He said the programme was run with support from Tata Steel and Jamipol companies. The foundation also said it assisted the state government in the transportation of raw rice packets to government schoolchildren under the MDM scheme. “For 37 days in April and May, raw rice bags were transported to government schools for distribution of 100-gram rice packets each of the children of Class I to V and 150-gram rice packets for Class VI to VIII students to make up for the loss of the mid-day meals due to the lockdown,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/iskon-ensured-mdm-to-over-30k-kids-during-lockdown/articleshow/76250215.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||Announce Dumka bypoll date, ruling JMM writes to poll panel||Ranchi: Demanding the announcement of dates of the scheduled by-polls to the Dumka assembly seat, JMM on Sunday proposed several measures to the Election Commission for conducting the polls by maintaining social distancing norms. In a two-page letter to chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya proposed deployment of at least five balloting units in every booth across the constituency to reduce longer queues and maintain social distancing. “Usually, one EVM is allotted for 16 candidates and if there are more, then another EVM is used. Similarly, each booth can be allotted five to 10 EVMs. The voting time can also be extended and queues can be made longer to maintain social distancing,” Bhattacharya wrote in his letter. Underscoring the need to conduct the polls by July 5 in order to maintain Constitutional provisions, JMM also advocated for a ban on election rallies, meetings and mega campaigns. “In its place, door-to-door campaigning must be allowed. The contingent must not be more than four persons and all of them have to wear masks and gloves compulsorily,” the letter read. The Dumka seat, a JMM bastion, was won back from BJP’s Lois Marandi by chief minister Hemant Soren in last year’s assembly polls. However, the seat fell vacant on January 6 after Hemant took oath as the MLA from Barhait assembly seat in Sahibganj district, which he had also won. Looking to retain the seat in the by-polls, JMM raised the pitch after the EC recently announced the date for the shelved Rajya Sabha biennials. The Rajya Sabha polls in two seats, originally slated for March 26 this year, has been deferred to June 19 due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Congress, a JMM ally in the ruling coalition in the state, took potshots at the EC for deferring the Rajya Sabha biennials. “The election was shelved when there was not a single case in Jharkhand. And now, the polls have been rescheduled when the state has over 1,000 Covid-19 cases,” the party’s working president Rajesh Thakur said. He added, “Congress is in favour of conducting the polls in Dumka by following social distancing protocols by July 5. The party is on the same page with JMM on this.” BJP, however, toed a cautious line. “The party is currently working to provide relief to Covid-19 pandemic and it is our sole focus. But as and when the EC announces election dates, we will contest. Our preparation is done. The government has lost its goodwill in recent months and it will reflect in Dumka polls,” the party’s state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/announce-dumka-bypoll-date-ruling-jmm-writes-to-poll-panel/articleshow/76250349.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 8, 2020||Ranchi||Govt to airlift 208 migrants engaged in Ladakh road projects in next 2 days||Ranchi: The state government on Sunday declared that it would fly in 208 migrant workers from Ladakh. These workers were engaged in various construction projects of the Border Roads Organization (BRO) since last autumn. In a statement, the government said a batch of 115 workers will reach Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport at 10am on Monday. Another batch of 93 workers are expected to arrive on Tuesday evening. All of them were engaged in BRO’s projects in Nubra Valley, Chunthug Valley and Diskit areas of Ladakh. The workers are mostly from Santhal-Pargana. “The workers were taken to New Delhi by air with support of BRO officials and a few industrialists. They will be camping in New Delhi’s IGI airport for the night. Their food is being provisioned by Jharkhand government,” a source in the chief minister’s office said. This will be the third evacuation of stranded migrants from Ladakh. Earlier, two flights arrived in Ranchi from Ladakh carrying 60 and 180 workers respectively. Over 300 workers were evacuated from Andaman & Nicobar Islands in two separate flights recently. On asked why the government is bringing back the workers while BRO is looking to recruit more workers from the state to expedite its ongoing construction, the source said, “Their work got over in March this year.” Many of the migrants working in the BRO projects claimed they are yet to get their money. Some are yet to get to paid by their contractors the wages of up to seven months. Most of them are paid around Rs 10,000 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-to-airlift-208-migrants-engaged-in-ladakh-road-projects-in-next-2-days/articleshow/76250440.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand records 73 new cases, Covid-19 count reaches 1,103||RANCHI: A total of 73 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,103. This is the third-largest surge in the state after 95 cases were recorded on Friday and another 92 cases were detected on Saturday. A total of 17 patients also recovered from the viral infection on Sunday. Among the new cases reported from across 16 districts, Simdega recorded a maximum of 13 cases followed by Lohardaga with 11 cases. Jamtara, which had its last positive case on April 29, saw an abrupt surge with eight fresh cases. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad also reported seven cases each while Ramgarh detected six cases. Gumla recorded four new cases. Three cases each were also detected in Latehar, Garhwa and Hazaribag. Ranchi and Koderma reported two cases each while Bokaro, Khunti, Saraikela and West Singhbhum recorded one case each. Of the total 1,103 total cases, 605 are active and 491 have recovered while seven have succumbed to the viral infection. In Ranchi, the two new cases are primary contacts of patients who have tested positive in the last two days. A district official said, “The younger brother of a kidney patient, who had tested positive on Friday, was one of the two cases. He was in the isolation ward of Rims along with his mother after his elder brother tested positive on Friday. The result of his mother is still awaited. The second positive case is a female and a resident of Khelgaon area.” Meanwhile, seven micro containment zones in Ranchi district were declared free of Covid-19 on Sunday after no positive case was detected from the areas in the last 21 days. The seven areas are Pipartoli in Argora, Chiltoli in Mandar, Tetartoli in Bariatu and Childag, Lalgarh, Kamta and Kherwakocha in Angara block. Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “We have decided to lift containment tag from these areas. All procedures, including door-to-door medical screening and testing of symptomatic suspects, were carried out before the tag was lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-records-73-new-cases-covid-19-count-reaches-1103/articleshow/76258391.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Locked-in elders cross digital divide finally||MUMBAI: Groceries and medicines were being delivered, so that was not a problem. But a big fallout of the lockdown for Shubha Mirani was that she had to stop the music lessons which had become the joy of her life. That was when she was determined to get over her technology phobia. A month into the lockdown, the 65-year-old woman who lives alone was singing on Skype and had mastered netbanking so that she could pay her teacher online. While for most young folk, digital devices are almost like additional limbs, senior citizens have suddenly realized they need to zoom into an online life to get back some semblance of normalcy. From learning how to pay salaries via netbanking to socializing on zoom, many are treading into the parallel online world, though not without trepidation. "I still get nervous when doing the transactions online," says Mirani. "There are so many things to focus on. Firstly, I keep forgetting the different passwords. Then, the OTP comes so swiftly and if you type it incorrectly you have to start all over again. It takes me a long time to focus and do it properly. But I find the food delivery services the easiest to navigate." Mirani adds she is also constantly concerned about being swindled though, because the digital interface is such alien territory. For others, the move into understanding online banking has led to a new sense of independence. "Forget netbanking, even my checks used to be written by my secretary, and I would just sign them," says 67-year-old Arun Shahani, a retired businessman. "But now I can do all these transactions on my own. I feel liberated and relieved." Banks have received numerous requests to enable customers' online banking over the last two months. The relationship manager of a leading private bank says he taught his elderly clients how to navigate netbanking through face-time on their smartphones. "They were perfectly comfortable watching movies on their iPads, but this was a whole new area for them," says the relationship manager. "I am now encouraging them to use mobile banking, but they are saying, let's take it one step at a time." It is not so much the technology as it is a shift in the mindset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-locked-in-elders-cross-digital-divide-finally/articleshow/76251899.cms||Namita Devidayal
June 8, 2020||India||‘Devise plan by June 15 to give jobs to 1cr people’||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday pitched for devising a fresh employment plan by June 15 to engage migrants in various development projects, including construction of expressways, canals, medical colleges, roads and universities. Presiding over a review meeting to assess the situation during the first phase of unlock, the CM looked at the possibility of generating work opportunities for around 1 crore people in various sectors which could help in the development of the state. Yogi Adityanath said employment opportunities in sectors like industries, agriculture and horticulture should be looked into and migrants be engaged in various schemes of the Centre and the state government. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “The focus will be on development of the state in the first phase of unlocking.” The CM had earlier stressed on the possibility of generating work for at least 50 lakh people under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) besides jobs in various small and medium scale industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/devise-plan-by-june-15-to-give-jobs-to-1cr-people/articleshow/76251894.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 8, 2020||India||Over 3,000 Shramik Special trains went to UP, Bihar, Centre tells Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court was informed by the Centre that it ran 4,228 Shramik Special trains till June 3 to transport 57.22 lakh migrant workers and the data presented showed that Gujarat requisitioned the maximum 1,026 trains to send migrant workers home, followed by Maharashtra which needed 802. The Union government told the SC in an affidavit through solicitor general Tushar Mehta that UP and Bihar received the largest number of Shramik Specials — 1,695 and 1,519 respectively — from various states. The two states accounted for more than 80% of migrant workers who went back home from industrial units across India, he said. Mehta told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah that the railways, on an average, ran 93 Shramik Specials daily between May 1 and 19, of which 72 were headed to UP and Bihar. The number of trains increased to 256 a day between May 20 and 24, of which 212 took migrants to UP and Bihar, he added. The maximum number of trains originated from Gujarat (1,026), followed by Maharashtra (802), Punjab (417), Delhi (242), Tamil Nadu (240), Karnataka (231), Telangana (162) and Rajasthan (128). Interestingly, UP and Bihar also sent out 294 Shramik Specials each after May 1, the affidavit said. The Centre said, “Railways also ran 3,670 parcel trains covering 96 routes to deliver agricultural produce, medicines and other essential items (1.22 lakh tonnes). “Railways have not allowed any shortage of essential commodities like coal for power plants, foodgrain, fertilisers etc... In fact, foodgrain loading (4,532 rakes and 12.2 MT) during lockdown period is almost double the loading achieved during the corresponding period last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3k-shramik-spls-went-to-up-bihar/articleshow/76251892.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 8, 2020||Goa||Vasco sees mixed reactions to call for self-imposed lockdown||Vasco: There was a mixed response on Saturday to the call given by Mormugao municipality’s chairperson for a voluntary lockdown in Vasco. Mormugao Municipal Council’s (MMC) chief Nandadeep Raut on Friday had appealed to the citizens of Vasco to opt for a voluntary shutdown after Covid-19 cases were detected in other parts of Vasco town, besides the containment zone. Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida had also supported Raut’s demand for a lockdown While many pulled down their shutters in the port town, others kept their businesses open, especially general stores and sweet marts. In Baina, New Vaddem and Sada general stores were open, while cloth stores, laundries and pharmacies were shut. Vendors at the vegetable and fruit market said that they have decided to close down from Sunday evening and are giving time to Vascoietes to stock up. The president of Vasco Vegetable Market Committee, Prashant Naik, said, “There is absolutely no need for people to panic. We will close the markets but mobile vans will move around wards and there will be continuous supply of fruits and vegetable.” When contacted, the Vasco MLA said that “people need time to prepare themselves for the self-imposed lockdown,” adding that the government should lockdown the port town. Referring to the CM’s decision not to lockdown Vasco, vice-president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee Sankalp Amonkar said “Looks like he doesn’t want port activities to be hampered. Since lives are at risk, public health should be the priority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-sees-mixed-reactions-to-call-for-self-imposed-lockdown/articleshow/76240041.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 8, 2020||Goa||As govt shuts Fatorda shelter home, hundreds gather outside stadium||Margao: Seventy-four days after the South Goa district administration set up and managed the shelter home at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium, Navelim, which was recently shifted to the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, Fatorda, the authorities closed down the facility. This was done after all the remaining migrants housed in it were ferried to the railway station on Sunday to enable them to board the two trains scheduled to leave for Odisha and Jharkhand. However, what the authorities hadn’t anticipated was a large number migrants converging outside the stadium minutes after the last train for the day departed. With the shelter home closed down, police acted to disperse the crowd, inviting criticism from activists and citizen welfare groups. One person from a citizen welfare group, who had come to the Margao railway station to distribute food packets to the migrants boarding the train, told reporters that hundreds of those who missed the train were driven away by police personnel. With the shelter home closed down, the migrants then went to the KTC bus stand in a bid to find some shelter for the night. South Goa collector Ajit Roy, however, refuted all allegations of migrants having been driven away from the shelter home. Referring to the crowd of migrants who had gathered outside the stadium on Sunday evening, Roy accused some employers of abandoning their migrant workforce and “abusing” the shelter home facility. “Before closing down the shelter home, we ensured that all the migrants sheltered there had left for their native places by various trains. No one from the shelter home has been left out. Those who claim to have been left out now are the ones who were brought by their employers by buses and left outside the shelter home after the trains left,” Roy said. The district magistrate warned of taking action against employers who fail to take care of their employees under the Epidemic Act for violating the MHA guidelines. “It’s a violation of MHA guidelines if employees are abandoning their employees. They have to care of them, especially now when almost all economic activities are back to normal in Goa. No one should abuse or misuse the system,” Roy said. The inmates of the shelter home primarily comprised of stranded migrant labourers. The authorities had asked people desirous of returning to their native states to register with the government so that necessary travel facilities could be arranged for them. Migrants who were left jobless and homeless following the lockdown were also housed here. Sources in the district administration said that as almost all of those who had registered had left for their native places, and with most economic activities in the state having been resumed, the government decided to close down the shelter home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-govt-shuts-fatorda-shelter-home-hundreds-gather-outside-stadium/articleshow/76251448.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Few private schools begin live classes, others from June 15||PANAJI: Using online resources like Google Meet and Zoom, some private schools in the state have already begun live classes, while others are gearing up to start later this month. The classes are also recorded and uploaded on the school website, YouTube channel or app so that students with network issues can access the video later. Institutes, who are set to begin classes later this month, said they are doing hand-holding for parents on how best to access online classes. Some are also in the process of assisting parents identify network issues and resolve them. Officials at the Vidya Vikas Academy, Margao, said that they began efforts to make use of online resources in teaching two years ago, which helped them to begin live teaching sessions for Class IX, X and XII as soon as lockdown 1.0 was declared. “And from June 4 onwards, we have begun online classes right from the nursery level. We also conducted a survey to understand connectivity issues, devices available to parents, etc, while the lower classes were on vacation up to June 3. This helped us be prepared for live classes,” school principal Joble Bijoy told TOI. She said that the Zoom app is used for live interactions, while recorded versions of the class are also made available to students who have connectivity issues. Sharada Mandir School, Miramar, has informed parents that it has been decided to begin online interactive classes from June 15. Deepak Khaitan of Sunshine Worldwide School said that the institute has divided classes into smaller sections and Microsoft Teams is being used to conduct live sessions since May 4. “We had begun work on it two years ago and so when the lockdown happened our teachers were already getting trained. As soon as the lockdown was announced, we have provided legal Microsoft licences to all 1,200 of our students. This platform is specifically for schools,” said Khaitan. Principal of Margao’s Manovikas School, Lavita Rodrigues, said that live classes will begin shortly at the institute and currently YouTube videos are uploaded daily for students of all classes. “We are using various approaches to ensure learning continues. The school is working on introducing a more interactive platform shortly. Our school app, which has integrated all the essential features, ensures all communication is maintained between the school and our parents. Also, our teachers have been available on-call throughout to our students,” said Rodrigues. Chairman of The King’s School Melvin Pereira, however, said that while they are already carrying out online teaching, there are many issues that are yet to be resolved. “Our teachers have been preparing their own videos and sending them across so students. We use CampusCare and Fliplearn and also WhatsApp,” he said. But connectivity has been the greatest hurdle, said Pereira. “That’s the main reason we have not opted for live classes as it’s impossible for the entire class to be connected at the same time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/few-pvt-schools-begin-live-classes-others-from-jun-15/articleshow/76251461.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 8, 2020||Goa||Valpoi to follow MHA-approved SOP||Valpoi: The Valpoi Municipal Council has decided that the citizens of the town will strictly follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by MHA to avoid transmission of coronavirus. A special meeting of the councillors was convened on Sunday by VMC chairperson Akhtar Shah, after two positive cases were detected in Sattari. The VMC will submit a memorandum to the Sattari deputy collector Mangaldas Gaonkar on Monday to issue orders to implement the SOP in the Valpoi market. The VMC officials said they will also request the deputy collector to direct the police to restrict the movement of vehicles in Valpoi. “We have informed the health minister and local MLA Vishwajit Rane about the decision taken by the VMC,” Shah said. The councillors said the public wants a complete lockdown, but it cannot be done until the government decides. “We will be issuing an appeal letter to all the traders and businessmen to strictly follow the guidelines. If they fail to cooperate, we will penalise them,” Shah said. Councillor Ramdas Shirodkar said that a municipal van will announce the SOPs and create awareness in all wards and the panchayats will be requested to do the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/valpoi-to-follow-mha-approved-sop/articleshow/76251469.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||247 seafarers return from Brazil||Panaji: After a harrowing wait in Brazil, which is the world’s second worst-hit country in terms of Covid-19 cases, 247 stranded seafarers employed with MSC Cruises and Costa Cruises returned to Goa on a chartered Qatar Airways flight. The flight, the eighth repatriation flight to land at Goa International Airport, touched down around 1.40am from Sao Paulo, Brazil. The seafarers have now been taken to hotels booked by their employers while their swab samples have also been collected for testing, said revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar. “The eighth repatriation flight with 247 stranded Indians landed at Goa International Airport a few minutes back from Sao Paulo, Brazil. Till date, 1,510 passengers have landed at Goa through chartered repatriation flights,” said Goa airport director, Gagan Malik. The seafarers were quarantined aboard ships anchored at Santos Port, in Brazil. The return of the stranded seafarers was facilitated by the ministry of external affairs, the cruise companies and Airports Authority of India. The flight to Goa is the second and final batch of seafarers to return to India from Sao Paulo, said the Indian Consulate in Brazil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/247-seafarers-return-from-brazil/articleshow/76251479.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Bicholim civic body plans to lockdown town||Bicholim: In view of the rising novel coronavirus cases in the state, the Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) is planning to extend the lockdown. BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar convened an emergency meeting of the councillors and BMC chief officer Vivek Naik, on Saturday, especially after cases were reported in neighbouring Sattari. Gaonkar said they will meet chief minister Pramod Sawant and demand a “strict lockdown in areas where Covid-19 cases are increasing”. He said that a lockdown is necessary in Bicholim as people are not following the prescribed norms. Gaonkar appealed to the people not to come to the market unnecessarily and to wear masks when moving out of their residences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-civic-body-plans-to-lockdown-town/articleshow/76251485.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||2 Mashem schools take teaching online||Poinguinim: Two educational institutions from Canacona taluka, S S Angle Higher Secondary School from Dapot-Mashem and Shri Nirakar Vidyalaya, a high school in Mashem, commenced online classes for their students from Saturday. Prashant Naik, the president of Shree Nirakar Education Society, which manages these schools, told reporters that “the response from students was overwhelming”. He said that presently science, maths and language subjects are being taught to Class XII students. “The attendance was 100% even though a few students come from remote areas of Cotigao and Gaondongrim panchayats,” said Naik. The students from the remote Cotigao area go to Gaondongrim, where internet connectivity is available, and attend the online classes from there, he said. Headmaster of the Nirakar high school, Hemant Kamat, said that they have begun conducting English and maths classes for the students of Classes VII, IX and X.  “From Monday, we will start online classes for students of Classes V and VI,” said Kamat. Naik said that they would implement online teaching very soon at their high school in Tudal, Gaondongrim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-mashem-schools-take-teaching-online/articleshow/76251488.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Mauvin pushes for Vasco lockdown||Vasco: Panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho on Sunday appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to impose a total lockdown in Vasco to contain the spread of coronavirus from the Mangor Hill containment zone to other parts of Mormugao taluka and all over the state. Godinho told reporters, “Considering the galloping number of cases linked to Mangor Hill, which are obviously impacting the entire Mormugao taluka, a lockdown is inevitable. The chief minister has to immediately take a step in this direction in order to ensure that the pandemic does not spread to other parts of the taluka and other parts of Goa.” The Dabolim MLA said the disease can be contained and brought under control by taking precautionary and preventive measures, but first a total lockdown of the entire port town should be ordered with immediate effect. “The people should also follow all the health measures and guidelines issued by the MHA and state health authorities by maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and using sanitizers. It is the duty of the people to remain cautious and cooperate with the government,” Godinho said. The state saw 33 new cases on Sunday of which 30 were linked to Mangor Hill .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-pushes-for-vasco-lockdown/articleshow/76251498.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||CM has vested interests, says Lourenco||Vasco: Curtorim Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco on Saturday alleged that chief minister Pramod Sawant was not declaring a lockdown in Vasco due to “vested interest”. “When people’s lives are at risk and Sawant does not take bold steps, it clearly shows that there is some vested interest behind it,” said Lourenco, who spoke to reporters at Baina. He urged the government to make arrangements to treat Covid patients from Vasco in a hospital at the port town, as the one at Margao was full. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-has-vested-interests-says-lourenco/articleshow/76251504.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Cops detain 10 crew members aboard barges||Vasco: The harbour police on Sunday detained 10 crew members on board two Maharashtra-registered barges for anchoring at Sancoale and entering Goan waters without Covid-negative certificates. The harbour police said that while patrolling on Sunday they noticed two barges with five crew members each. “They had permission from the Captain of Ports but had not procured permission from Mormugao Port Trust,” police said. They will be taken to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim on Monday for Covid tests. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-detain-10-crew-members-aboard-barges/articleshow/76251509.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra has 35% of Covid-19 cases, and 60% of insurance claims||MUMBAI: Roughly one-third (35%) of all Covid-19 cases in India are from Maharashtra, but when it comes to insurance claims from those treated for the virus, 60% are from the state, according to data from IRDAI. Insurers attribute this to two factors – one, the higher penetration of insurance in Mumbai and Pune compared to other metros; and two, that there is more testing, hospital capacity and beds available in Mumbai. Delhi and West Bengal also have a higher percentage of people opting for private health insurance care compared to the proportion of cases. Delhi has 11% of all cases but 15% of claims; likewise,West Bengal has 3% of all cases and 5.4% of claims. But none of these states have a disproportionality as stark as Maharashtra’s. Insurers say this is because on many financial indicators like active investors in the stock markets or mutual fund holders, Mumbai has the lion's share. "We sell more insurance in Maharashtra than anywhere else in India. Individuals in Mumbai and Pune have always been aware on the need for health insurance even before the pandemic...Maharashtra certainly has a higher insured population," said Sanjay Datta, chief underwriting claims, ICICI Lombard Insurance Co. Another reason why Maharashtra could be getting more claims at this juncture is because its government healthcare system is getting overwhelmed. "States like Kerala and Karnataka have lower cases and lower claims; their government healthcare infrastructure hasn't reached tipping point. That is not the case with Maharashtra," said an official with the National Health Authority (NHA) of India. It is also possible that higher private health insurance claims are being recorded because of higher hospital capacity and number of beds in the state, said insurers. The state accounts for nearly one-fifth of the 35,000 hospitals in the Rohini network, a chain of partnered hospitals of insurers. "It is also possible other states are just not testing enough; and people are being sent back home because private hospitals don't have the capacity or the testing equipment/facilities to handle Covid-19 patients," said an official with the National Health Authority (NHA) of India. Insurers also say that government policies in different states, access to testing/ treatment in private healthcare, availability of resources, could have all led to this disproportionality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-has-35-of-covid-19-cases-and-60-of-insurance-claims/articleshow/76251906.cms||Rachel Chitra
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Eat, Pray and Shop: Delhi steps out into a changed world||NEW DELHI: In a major step forward to restoring normalcy in the city — and learning to live with Covid-19 — the Delhi government on Sunday allowed restaurants, shopping malls and places of worship to open from Monday. They will have to comply with the standard operating procedures issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on June 4. At a digital press conference, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that hotels and banquet halls will continue to remain closed as the government might need to attach them with hospitals to expand health services due to the surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city. “The central government has issued specific guidelines regarding opening of these places which include maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. All these guidelines prepared by experts would be followed in Delhi,” Kejriwal said. The order was issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev. The SOPs have some common elements. Only people showing no Covid-19 symptoms will be allowed to enter these places after going through thermal screening and hand sanitisation. Distance is name of the game as Delhi unlocksThey will have to wear masks all the time, avoid physical touch and maintain social distancing inside the building. While the Centre’s SOP suggested staggered entry in shopping malls and restricting the number of people in elevators, the Delhi government did not come out with separate instructions on this. Restaurants will use only 50% of their sitting capacity, disposable menu cards are to be handed out and the tables are to be properly sanitised after the customer leaves. There is special focus on sanitisation and disinfection of lavatories. For shops in malls, the guidelines suggest keeping the number of customers at a time to minimum and promoting contactless ordering and digital mode of payment. Gaming arcades, cinema halls and children’s play areas in the malls will remain closed. At places of worship, touching of statues, idols and holy books has been banned while people will be allowed to enter only after washing their hands and feet with soap and water. Large gatherings will continue to remain prohibited, said officials. Kejriwal urged senior citizens to remain indoors. “Senior citizens are the most vulnerable section right now. If there are young people in your house who are going outside for work, avoid any interaction with them and maintain social distancing,” he said. The lockdown, fear of a large gathering and the daily spiral in the number of cases has meant zero business for restaurants. Piling rents, pending excise duties and uncertain footfalls have sucked life and liquidity out of the industry. Restaurateur Varun Puri, who runs popular brands Imly and Duty Free Bar, says he gets 20 messages a day from real estate consultants proposing sale of fully functional properties. He feels sad that some of these had opened barely a few months ago. While he is busy with home delivery orders for his dining brand, he says he has no plans for reopening his bars. Fixed timings, reduced seating, social distancing norms, no permission to serve alcohol and lack of support from authorities and landlords may force many outlets not to reopen. Even if they do so, they won’t be able to last for even six months, feel most restaurateurs. Diners are, meanwhile, in for an entirely new experience. Thermal scanning for temperature will greet you at the entrance. The food may have to be ordered in advance though apps and reservations will be a must. The table may not have fine linen covers, and in place of napkins, you will have sanitisers. At some restaurants, you might be greeted first by a “hygiene manager” who would explain the cleanliness protocol and hand over details of body temperature of the staff before giving you the menu in case you haven’t pre-ordered. Visiting malls too may no longer be the same. You might have to check the real-time foot traffic on a mall’s app, book time slots to visit and know which is the best hour to visit, as 50% occupancy rules are followed. Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Shopping Malls, said they will open between 11am and 8pm, visitors will have body temperatures checked and will need to have the Aarogya Setu app on their phones. Some malls will only allow those with a pre-paid receipt of food orders to enter the food area, changing rooms in apparel stores will be done away with and refund and exchange of products will not be encouraged. Ambience Malls will sanitise every vehicle and its app will allow visitors to book parking slots, access contactless parking, order food and get notifications on health and safety measures. Arjun Gehlot, director, Ambience Malls, said most retail and food outlets will be resuming operations. Meanwhile, places of worship in the city have been preparing the entire past week for opening according to the SOP spelt out by MHA. S K Kaushal of the administration of Shree Adya Katyayani, Chhatarpur temple, said that a machine has been deployed to disinfect the entire premises. And after the temple complex is opened for public, hourly sanitisation drills will be carried out. He added that arrangements are being made to maintain hand hygiene by keeping hand sanitizer bottles at entry points. “We are also planning to hand out masks to devotees,” he said. According to the new arrangements at the Chhatarpur temple, neither will devotees be allowed to give offerings to the deity, nor will any prasad be handed out. Gurdwaras are not likely to allow people to sit inside anymore, asking them to pray and exit from the other side. All major gurdwaras in Delhi have installed sanitization tunnels. “All water taps have been fitted with pedals, so you don't need to touch them with your hand. Our volunteers will keep sanitising the premises every few minutes,” said Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa. He says multiple entry points have been created to ensure there are no long queues outside. Watch TOI Daily: Delhi gets ready to open shopping malls, religious places||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eat-pray-and-shop-delhi-steps-out-into-a-changed-world/articleshow/76251923.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Goa||Asymptomatic Covid patients to be treated at Shiroda PHC||Margao: The state government on Tuesday took over the primary health centre at Shiroda, and designated it as a Covid care centre. South Goa district collector Ajit Roy, who issued a notification to that effect, said only asymptomatic Covid positive patients will be housed there. Roy has also issued an order under provisions of the Disaster Management Act requisitioning the services of the entire premises of the Gomantak Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Shiroda, and notified it as a Covid care centre to house asymptomatic patients. “That’s a back-up hospital, in case numbers of positive cases spike,” he said. The OPD and emergency of the PHC has been shifted to the Ayurveda hospital. The combined strength of the two hospitals designated as Covid care centres is nearly 160. Deputy director, health services, Dr Ira Almeida, who was overseeing the arrangements at the PHC Shiroda until late evening said that space has been made to accommodate 60 beds in the hospital. “All arrangements are in place. Since today will be sort of a test run of the Covid care centre, not more five patients will be admitted tonight. From tomorrow, all asymptomatic positive patients will be admitted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda,” Almeida said,. “We have a specialist team looking after patients at the ESI Covid hospital. We required their expertise more for our symptomatic patients. We now see that we should be prepared for the possible increase in patients,” said secretary for health Nila Mohanan. Ten Shiroda locals were arrested by Ponda police for opposing the government’s decision to use the PHC as a facility for Covid-infected people. Police resorted to a lathi charge to disburse the mob. They arrested Shavik Naik, 21, Jose Fernandes, 49, Anacleto Agustinho, 31, Shivanand Naik, 53, Peter Cruz, 35, Camilo Fernandes, 40, Mayur Parkar, 23, Agnelo Cruz, 42 and two others. With inputs from Suraj P Kaisuvker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/asymptomatic-covid-patients-to-be-treated-at-shiroda-phc/articleshow/76251518.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 8, 2020||Goa||Cong wants lockdown of port town, more testing||Panaji: The state government needs to test every person in Vasco, especially Mangor Hill, and conduct random tests for Covid-19 across the state, the Congress said on Sunday. The party also called for a complete lockdown in Vasco till cases subside. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, the party’s two district presidents also called on the state government to implement the Rs 100 crore economic stimulus package outlined by opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “The first request of ours is that Vasco should be locked down because cases are increasing everyday at Mangor Hill,” said South Goa Congress president Joe Dias. “The government has stopped testing at Vasco, I request the government to ensure complete community testing in Vasco and Mangor Hill. At the same time, in Goa, random testing has to be done.” Reacting to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that 80% of the state’s revenue has been lost, the Congress also demanded that the government reduce the size of the cabinet to five ministers to cut down on expenses. “There are many corporations that are not doing much and these should be suspended or temporarily closed. There are consultants and advisors for every department who charge lakhs, they should be removed or suspended till the economy improves,” said North Goa district president for the Congress, Vijay Bhike. Pointing out that panic is setting in across the state due to the rising cases, the Congress questioned the state’s haste in allowing restaurants, religious places and malls to open up. It has also decided to provide essential food items to Mangor locals if the state does not meet its promise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-wants-lockdown-of-port-town-more-testing/articleshow/76251543.cms||---
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi throws open borders, beds for super-specialty||NEW DELHI: The Delhi cabinet on Sunday decided to reserve the admission of patients to state government-run and private hospitals to only the residents of the city based on the fear that the limited Covid-19 beds may get occupied by people from the neighbouring states. Hospitals run by the Centre and super-speciality health facilities providing treatment for oncology, neurology, among other ailments, can continue to admit patients from other states. Medico-legal victims of road accidents and acid attacks, irrespective of their place of residence, that have occurred within Delhi will also get treatment in state-run hospitals. Delhi government also decided to open the state borders that were closed last week despite the Centre lifting restrictions on the movement of people. The move was taken to prevent patients from other states from getting admission in hospitals in the capital. Officials said patients would have to provide an address proof, such as Aadhaar, passport, voter ID, electricity or water bill, bank passbook, among other documents with a Delhi address, to get treatment in the state-run and private health facilities. Those without an address proof would have to approach hospitals run by the Centre. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the decision to reserve Delhi government’s hospitals was based on over 7.5 lakh suggestions received from people and the report submitted by the five-member expert committee led by Indraprastha University’s vice chancellor Dr Mahesh Verma. “All Delhi hospitals were open for patients from across the country till March, but the decision to reserve beds was taken due to the surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the past few days. Delhi government is working relentlessly to arrange for more beds for the city’s residents. If we get more cases, where will we accommodate them?” Kejriwal asked. The CM added that 90% of suggestions were that till the Covid-19 situation existed, Delhi hospitals should be reserved for the city’s residents. In 2018, Delhi government in a pilot project had decided to give preference to Delhiites at state-run GTB Hospital, but Delhi high court had set aside the circular after a petition was filed against it. “At any given time, 60-70% of patients in Delhi hospitals are from other states and treatment is not denied to anyone. But right now Covid-19 cases are increasing. This is why I asked for suggestions,” Kejriwal said. The expert committee, while considering the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, in its analysis stated that by the end of June Delhi would need nearly 15,000 beds for patients infected by the novel coronavirus. “If we open the hospitals for all, the 9,000 Covid-19 beds will be filled within just three days,” said the CM. “There is a need to maintain a balance. Delhi government hospitals have around 10,000 beds and Centre’s facilities another 10,000. For now, we have decided that 10,000 beds of state hospitals will be reserved for the city’s residents. The beds of central government health facilities and private hospitals providing special treatments and surgeries will be open for all,” added Kejriwal. As of now, five Delhi government hospitals have been earmarked to treat Covid-19 positive patients. Several private hospitals have also been fully or partially converted into Covid-19 designated facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-throws-open-borders-beds-for-super-specialty/articleshow/76251946.cms||Atul Mathur
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Eat, pray or shop, but watch your step if you plan to go out||HYDERABAD: After a 77-day hiatus and amidst rising Covid-19 cases, malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship are set to open in non-containment zones in Telangana from Monday. This comes even as the state’s Covid-19 count has surpassed the 3,500 mark with 154 new cases on Sunday. While eagerly waiting for customers to return to their favourite haunts, malls in the city have taken up a slew of measures as per state government’s guidelines on social distancing norms. “From thermal screening and sanitisation at the entrance to social distancing in food court and other common areas, we have taken up measures to ensure safety of all those visiting the mall. Not all shops may be open as stores will individually take a call on resumption of operations. We don’t expect the same kind of footfall as it was in December,” said Indraneel Majumdar, head, Sarath City Capital Mall. Dining out with your family or friends is set to be a more contact-less and digital experience than ever as hotels and restaurants in the city have introduced new set of norms to ensure safety of diners. Distancing must at all shrinesDining will mark entry of digital menu cards, contactless buffets, fumigation of hoes, baggage during check-ins to ensure compliance of safety rules. “Limited menu with popular items will be offered for the first few weeks as we expect low footfall. We expect the business to pick up over the next two months once the number of Covid-19 cases drop,” said Jagdish Rao, secretary, Telangana State Hotels Association. Guests checking in hotels will have to follow an elaborate SOP such as disinfecting shoe-soles, thermal screening. Shrines too will be maintaining social distancing among devotees. Distribution of prasadam and holy water has been banned, though rituals can be performed with less attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-eat-pray-or-shop-but-watch-your-step-if-you-plan-to-go-out/articleshow/76251948.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 90-year-old wrestler, steam engine driver wins battle against Covid-19||MUMBAI: Former wrestler Chokhaji Avhad has lived up to the sobriquet of 'Khandesh ki Bijli'. The 90-year-old won the toughest fight of his life against Covid-19 and returned home recently. "I have won the battle against Covid-19 and I'm returning home," the nonagenarian declared on being discharged from the railway hospital at Bhusaval, his home town, on June 4. Avhad, who was a railway employee, tested positive on May 21 and was admitted to the Railway hospital the same day. His 81-year-old wife wife, who was hospitalised after testing positive, has recovered too. However, their 56-year-old daughter, who contracted the virus, succumbed. Both Avhad and his wife were admitted to the ICU, but did not require oxygen or ventilator support. The other members of their family of seven were home quarantined as they tested negative. His son Navin says his father showed tremendous courage. "We were shaken, but he lifted our morale saying nothing would happen to him. He got himself admitted to the Bhusawal Division Railway Hospital." Navin says his father's healthy and disciplined lifestyle, which includes an exercise regimen along with an hour of meditation, as well as the care and attention provided by the doctors and nurses helped him beat the virus. Avhad started his career in the Central Railway as assistant driver on steam engines. He went on to work on all types of locomotives, including diesel and electric engines, and retired 31 years ago on May 31, 1989. During his stint in the railways, he bagged several awards for meritorious service. However, wrestling has remained a lifelong passion and Avhad has participated in competitions at the state level. Navin says he used to be called 'Khandesh ki Bijli' for his prowess in the mud akhadas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-90-year-old-wrestler-steam-engine-driver-wins-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/76251952.cms||Manthank Mehta
June 8, 2020||Thane||Thane: Two private hospitals fined for taking in patients with no symptoms||THANE: The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) took action against two private hospitals for admitting 16 asymptomatic Covid patients, despite a TMC mandate, and slapped a penalty of Rs 1 lakh for each of the 16. Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal said TMC had issued a warning to private hospitals against admitting patients who did not show any symptoms, in a bid to ensure beds are available for critical patients. A Kalwa-based private hospital admitted three, and another in Thane admitted 13. Records accessed by TMC showed that these patients did not require medical attention, and had occupied beds for over a week. "Hospital managements were warned early last week, but they refused to listen. Following this, we issued notices and penalties," said Singhal, adding that it had been made clear that beds and ICUs are to be made available only for critical patients. - Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-two-private-hospitals-fined-for-taking-in-patients-with-no-symptoms/articleshow/76251954.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 8, 2020||Delhi||Five hospitals in two days: Denied bed, man dies in Delhi||NEW DELHI: For Vikas Jain, what started out as a simple fever for his brother-in-law, 47-year-old Narender Jain , in the last week of May turned out to be what he had feared the most. In a now-familiar story playing out virtually every day in the city, Narender, who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, died on June 3 after being shuttled between five different hospitals for two days for the lack of a bed.  Narender was first taken to hospital on June 1 after his fever kept rising and he became breathless. The family first took him to a local hospital in Shahdara, little knowing that they would have to move from one hospital to another just for treatment.  Vikas says after approaching the first hospital, they were told it did not have a facility to get a coronavirus test done. They then headed to Pushpanjali Medical Centre at Karkardooma, where they say his symptoms were checked, but again it was not equipped to handle Covid-19 patients. " We then went to Max Patparganj and the situation was even worse there. They had no beds, but after pleading with them to admit him as his condition was getting worse and he was having trouble breathing, they finally agreed but said he would be admitted as an emergency case, asking me to deposit 50,000 upfront," said Jain, who says a number of tests were done on him before he was ultimately checked for Covid-19. "On June 2 at around 8am, he was tested for Covid-19 and before that, we were told his sugar was high, he had water in his lungs and had kidney problems too. They wanted permission from me for a dialysis too, but I refused. After the test was done, we waited for an entire day and on June 3 at 9am, we got to know he had tested positive. The hospital flat out refused to treat him any further, saying they had no beds for Covid-19 patients," said Jain, stating the family was shocked at the lack of availability of beds. Vikas says his brother-in-law had diabetes, but otherwise lived a healthy life. When they asked Max for an alternative, Jain said they were referred to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital at Tahirpur. "We asked them to ensure there were beds, but when we reached at around 2pm on June 3, they told us an ICU bed would be needed for his condition, and none were available. We were then told to go to GTB Hospital, but we had to wait for nearly two hours as no private ambulance was ready to take a Covid-19 patient and the government ambulance wasn't arriving. Finally, I convinced a private ambulance to take him to GTB and we reached at 5pm," said Jain, who says after being admitted, there was little attention given to his brother-in-law. Jain says within hours, Narender's condition deteriorated and he was dead by 7.30pm. "We kept asking them to put him on a ventilator, but they said it wasn't required. After that, we waited for a couple of hours and no one was there to move his body to the mortuary. When someone came, it was only one staff attendant and I had to help him," said Jain, who says when they reached Nigambodh Ghat for cremation the next day, it was teeming with bodies being cremated according to Covid-19 protocol. "We waited nearly three hours for the cremation as there were so many bodies before us." Jain, who has since then even posted on Facebook, warning others to take the situation seriously and not venture out, says his sister and her three children have also tested positive now. "At the hospital you would assume they would be better prepared, but we moved his body around ourselves at so many places. My brother was diabetic, but he was healthy otherwise and we lost him in a matter of days. We can only hope others don't suffer the way we did," he says. When contacted, an official from Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, told TOI they were unaware of the facts of the case and will be looking into the details. Max however says the 80 beds commissioned for Covid-19 care were full at the time but immediate care was provided to the patient when he was admitted and was referred to GTB hospital after he tested positive. “The patient had a known history of diabetes and hypertension. He was immediately attended to and stabalised by the ER team, respiratory team, medicine team and nephrology team in the ER. Meanwhile his swabs were sent and the report was received the same day as positive. The patient required ICU admission and due to non-availability of ICU beds at the hospital, he was referred to GTB hospital for further management,” said Max Healthcare in a statement. “Our medical team co-ordinated for an ICU bed at GTB and the patient was shifted in an ACLS ambulance thereafter. There are 80 beds commissioned at Max Hospital, Patparganj, for Covid care. These have been fully occupied and we are doing our best to accommodate patients arriving at our emergency,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/five-hospitals-in-two-days-denied-bed-man-dies-in-delhi/articleshow/76251960.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Repair shops gear up for big rush to fix gadgets gone kaput in lockdown||MUMBAI: Chartered accountant Shailendra Kumar blames his excessive enthusiasm for his iPhone display screen going blank. After his daily evening shopping for groceries, he would scrub all his belongings clean. But his phone did not quite agree with the generous doses of sanitiser that he dabbed. As offices open on Monday, Kumar will be among the many customers expected to queue up at mobile phone and laptop repair shops in the city. "We have been inundated with calls from customers during the lockdown but couldn't attend to them as the shop was shut. From Monday, we expect massive footfalls," said Mulund-based mobile repair shopowner Deepak Dama. Customers have complained of softwares slowing down, speakers not working or apps not getting downloaded. But Dama cautioned that not all repair work can be attended to until the spare parts wholesale market in south Mumbai opens up. "As of now, we can make do with parts ordered before the lockdown and lying around. Beyond that, we wil have to ask customers to leave their handsets with us indefinitely," said Dama. Computer technicians are witnessing a huge uptick in demand for webcams, now that school students are likely to attend online classes for a while. "Those with two kids want webcams fitted to desktops so one of the kids can use it and the other can use a laptop for online classes. Then there are families who want laptops on rent. Business has increased three-fold," said Prashant Shetty, owner of Hi-Tech Electronics in Borivli. However, paucity of manpower is leading to xclients being refused. "Most of my staffers have left for their home towns or stay far off. I do not want to take a risk by making them travel to work. I'm running a one-man show right now," said Shetty. The demand for laptop repairs is such that some service centres have started giving appointments to avoid crowds. "Maintaining social distancing is vital, so we are giving out four appointments a day from Monday. We will not allow anyone without prior appointment," said Rupans Sharma, manager of a laptop service centre in Andheri that specialises in fixing Macbooks. Sharma reiterates that staff strength is an issue. Some mobile repair shops like Shiv Mobiles in Dahisar East has already witnessed sizeable footfall between Friday and Sunday. Most complaints are about inability to charge phones or screens cracked after a fall. Government guidelines have forbidden opening of shops inside malls. Proprietors of these shops have offered to fix phones at their homes if clients can drop and pick them up. "My customers know me well. I have offered to fix their gadgets at home if spare parts are available," said technician Nirav Shah from Borivli. As offices reopen, computer service centres are expecting a surge in business "We've offered to pick up machines, fix them and return them," said Kesavan Nadar of Sanjeevani Computers in Sion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-repair-shops-gear-up-for-big-rush-to-fix-gadgets-gone-kaput-in-lockdown/articleshow/76251977.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana plasma therapy plan hit as donors fail to turn up||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s plan for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients is now in the ICU. Though the state has 1,742 recovered patients, there isn’t a single new donor for its convalescent plasma therapy. The convalescent plasma trials on critical Covid-19 patients began at the state-run Gandhi hospital on May 10. And encouraged by the results of the first five patients who underwent plasma therapy, the state sought approval from ICMR to try it on 15 more. But now they are struggling to get donors for the past two weeks. Earlier, nearly 50 novel coronavirus patients, including a large pool of those who attended the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi, showed interest in plasma donation, but only five came forward. A list of 32 such donors from the Tablighi meet were also given to health minister Eatala Rajender by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, health department officials said. However, there are no signs of donors. “The donations have hit a roadblock after the initial few donors,” admitted a health department official. “Many patients initially expressed interest to donate. But most are scared to come to the hospital, many have misconceptions and are being discouraged by neighbours. We are trying our best to counsel and motivate them. Our laboratory staff who specialise in plasma collection for this purpose have been calling them,” said Dr Narasimha Rao Netha, deputy superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. Since plasma for the trials can be donated only by Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the virus and meet certain criteria, donations must necessarily come from within the recovered patients pool. ‘Therapy showing encouraging results’Convincing patients tough: OfficialThe current treatment is limited to general supportive care, with the provision of critical care and ventilator support as there is no approved specific therapy or vaccines available as on date. Convalescent plasma therapy, although in the trial stage, is showing encouraging results in our state too. But we need donors to carry forward the trials,” added the official. “We are constantly trying to encourage patients to donate as the initial trials have shown encouraging results. But we have not been able to convince many patients,” said a senior official from the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-plasma-therapy-plan-hit-as-donors-fail-to-turn-up/articleshow/76251968.cms||Amrita Didyala
