June 9, 2020||Kochi||#Unlockingdiaries: With safety protocols set, city malls will reopen today||After about two-and-a-half months, the malls in Kochi are all set to re-open today. With thermal screening, hand sanitisers at every shop, frequent disinfection routines and policing to ensure customers wear their masks at all times, the shopping experience is guaranteed to get an overhaul, as we take a look at the various precautions that will be followed from today. Shibu Philip, business head of Lulu Mall, says, “Following the norms, we can accommodate about 15,000 people an hour and this number would be constantly tracked. All stores have undergone deep cleaning prior to re-opening.” Meanwhile, Joji John, an Oberon Mall official, says, “Malls are a lot safer with all government regulations being followed to the dot, as compared to regular shops where even maintaining social distancing is a challenge. We are expecting around 15,000 people a day.” Social distancing alertsPosters about the need to follow social distancing are placed from escalators and lifts to all corners with crowd potential. In Lulu Mall, stickers marking 1.5m gaps will be up, making it easy for customers to adhere to social distancing. Those with flu-like symptoms would be denied entry. The malls will also have their temperatures maintained between 24 to 30 degree Celsius. Staff will also wear face shields at Lulu and there will also be a restriction on customer numbers on escalators and the 1.5 m distance would be followed even at the two-wheeler parking. Contactless payment and disposable crockeryRestaurants will operate at 50% seating capacity. Lulu will try to use e-menu and is also developing an app for its food court, says Shibu. “It will let customers scan a QR code that will let them get a menu card, also let them pay without physically going to the counter,” he says. Meanwhile, Joji says, “In Oberon, we will have disposable menu cards and crockery, and will try our best to avoid cash payment.” Dedicated sanitisation teams Regular cleaning of AC units, exhaust fans, other filters and drain lines are being undertaken to ensure dust levels are kept at a minimum in all malls. Sanitisers are also kept on all floors. Shibu says, “All common areas in the Lulu mall and all customer touch points are being frequently disinfected by a dedicated sanitisation team. A disinfectant team can be contacted by all retail partners in case they need assistance. We also have a Pandemic Response Team that will ensure all the guidelines are implemented and they will be available 24/7 to handle any crisis. We have also installed sensor-based vehicle tyre disinfection facilities and disinfection mats at entrance.” At Oberon, sanitising has been going on for the past three to four weeks, following the standard operating procedures. Aarogya Setu AppAll customers, retailers, staff and vendors need to download the Aarogya Setu app to ensure zero presence from the identified red zones in the malls. Suspended services during Unlock 1.0: The following facilities are unavailable till further notice: • Entertainment zones and cinema halls • Valet Service • Pram service • Prayer hall • Baby care Room • Baggage and helmet counters • Smoking area City malls are busy getting sanitisedWatch City malls are busy getting sanitised||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unlockingdiaries-with-safety-protocols-set-city-malls-will-reopen-today/articleshow/76262644.cms||Deepa Soman
June 9, 2020||Bengaluru||City restaurants embrace face shields & gloves, diners make a beeline for their favourites||On Monday, the first day of Unlock 1.0, Bengaluru was finally bustling with activity. After months of inoperation, malls opened their gates to customers and restaurants across the city — most of which were restricted to offering only take away during the lockdown — now welcomed diners. Needless to say, safety measures including face shields, sanitizers, thermal scanners and masks were a common sight. Darshinis and eateries saw customers queuing up to get a taste of their favourite food. Sneha Gowda, a student who was meeting her friends for the first time since the lockdown, said, “I didn’t meet my friends for two months. This is the first time I’m meeting them in public since the lockdown. We meet up at Airlines Hotel regularly and wanted to grab a cup of filter coffee that we have been missing.” Talking about the safety measures in place, another customer at a hotel said, “The restaurants are taking adequate measures. We are stepping out with masks and are sanitizing our hands regularly. In fact, when I met my friends, we didn’t hug or even shake hands. It felt strange, but we were maintaining social distance.” Despite the low footfalls at the malls on day one of Unlock 1.0, restaurant owners are confident that things will pick up in a month or two. “We have implemented all the safety measures, including limiting the number of tables at our restaurant. Our staff are wearing face shields, gloves and masks,” said Diwakar Rao, the proprietor of Airlines Hotel, adding that though they saw a rather dull morning, the number of diners started increasing towards the evening. Another popular city eatery, Koshy’s, was operating at less than its usual crowd. Spotted enjoying a meal there, were director SD Aravinda and his actor-art director brother Avinash S Divakar. “Koshy’s is not allowing more than two people to dine at one table. Our temperatures were checked and we had to sanitize our hands. The servers too are wearing masks and gloves. This is what things are going to be like,” said Aravinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/city-restaurants-embrace-face-shields-gloves-diners-make-a-beeline-for-their-favourites/articleshow/76268478.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Chlorine gas cylinder was lying for 10 years, probe marked||MOHALI: A day after chlorine gas leak at Balongi waterworks left 50 residents hospitalized, Punjab principal secretary (water supply and sanitation) Jaspreet Kaur has marked an inquiry into the episode on Monday. The probe has been marked to the superintending engineer (SE), Mohali, who has been asked to submit the report within seven days. Interestingly, during the preliminary enquiry, the officials had discovered that the chlorine gas cylinder was lying unnoticed on the water works premises from the past about 10 years. The principal secretary said, "We have discovered that the chlorine gas cylinder was lying unnoticed on the water works premises from the past 10 years. We have marked an inquiry to the SE and asked him to submit a report within a week. Two major points are to be enquired as to how come no one noticed the cylinder lying there from the past 10 years and why it was not deposited in the godown and disposed of properly. Secondly, officers have been asked to check other water works." "Since the past several years, the department has not used gaseous chlorine and we use liquid sodium hypochlorite for the purpose of chlorination at all water works." On Sunday evening, panic spread in Balongi after around 50 people, including women and children, complained of nausea and had to be rushed to the civil hospital, Phase VI. They were later discharged. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chlorine-gas-cylinder-was-lying-for-10-yrs-probe-marked/articleshow/76270596.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University comes out with exam guidelines||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration will have to make alternative arrangements for quarantine centres instead of using Panjab University hostels if the government allows opening of educational institutions in July, said PU registrar Dr Karamjeet Singh in a communication sent to the administration. The administration has taken over four hostels, including girls' hostel numbers 8, 9, 10 and international hostel, and converted them into quarantine centres. "If the campus will be open for students, hostellers will start coming back and the administration should plan accordingly," said the registrar in the letter. The authorities decided the semester examinations for final semester of undergraduate and postgraduate will be conducted in the first phase after the reassessment of situation by the authorities. Accordingly, students of final semesters are advised to prepare for their examination. Revised general guidelines for July semester examinations have been uploaded on PU website as reference sample paper said, R K Singla, DUI. Professor Parvinder Singh, controller of examination, PU, said pattern of paper has been changed and students will be given wider choice keeping in mind that full syllabus was not covered. Sukhbir Kaur, DSW (women), said the university is in process of drafting a standard operating procedure for hostels which will be executed when the government allows the opening of education institutes. She said data is sought by the wardens about number of inmates in each hostel so that a minimum number of students will be called on campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-comes-out-with-exam-guidelines/articleshow/76270595.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 44 school charging consolidated fee, says parents||CHANDIGARH: The tussle between parents and the school authorities in Chandigarh doesn't seem to end. On Monday nearly 250 parents of St Joseph School, Sector 44, submitted a complaint to the fee regulatory body stating that despite orders to charge only tuition fee, the school was taking consolidated fee from them. Parents of students of other schools also protested for the same reasons. The parents of St Joseph School signed and submitted the complaint to director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar, who also is member secretary of the fee regulatory body constituted under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, and extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh. In the complaint, which the parents personally handed over to Brar, it has been stated, "As per the UT administration's order dated June 3, 2020, the schools are only allowed to charge tuition fee (without any hike). However, the school is not complying with the same and demanding the consolidated hiked fees along with admission fee/annual charges/tuition fee/maintenance charges merged into one under the head of tuition fee, thus defying the order. The school has already made a norm of charging a consolidated fee without disclosing the several heads for which the same is being charged. The school has sent a message on June 5 for pressurizing all parents to deposit the full hiked fee by June 15 otherwise it has threatened to impose fine." They further stated, "The total fee is equal to tuition fee, which means that the school merged all heads like admission fee/annual charges/tuition fee/maintenance charges etc. and has named it tuition fee during the session 2019-20 unnecessarily and illegally. Now, the school is charging this hiked fee under one head (tuition fee) on monthly basis in the current session 2020-21." The parents have requested the director school education that till the pendency of this complaint, the school be asked to not charge any "unjustified tuition fee from the parents or impose any penalty." The protesters have also sought that only those parents should be required to pay fee that had opted for the online classes provided by the school and this fee be reduced to cover only the school's cost of providing online classes. Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh parents' association, said over 100 complaints had been submitted by the parents individually and some feel victimization of their children by the school authorities. "So we are now going to file joint complaints. Today was the first joint complaint against St Joseph's. More such complaints will be submitted in the coming days." Brar said, "We will take up the matter during meeting of the fee regulator body."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-44-school-charging-consolidated-fee-parents/articleshow/76270608.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Brahmanand is new GFDC chairman||Panaji: The state government has appointed Goa’s first Arjuna Award winner, Brahmanand Shankhwalkar, as the new chairman of Goa Football Development Council (GFDC). Since the resignation of Rufino Monteiro in November 2018, the GFDC has functioned without a chairman. For the last two years, no council committee meeting has been held as well, but that will all change now with Brahmanand getting the top job. “Let the fears over Covid-19 subside a bit and then we will get cracking. There is so much to do. I am thankful to the state government for this appointment,” said the former India captain. The GFDC has been in the eye of a storm in recent times over the use of funds and disbursement of grants. A complaint has been filed with the vigilance department as well with top officials, including its former chairman, member secretary and a long-serving member, under the scanner. Brahmanand, though, is looking ahead and has promised to give the sport a major boost. “My focus will be on grassroots. That is the need of the hour. We have to ensure that kids continue to fall in love with the game and not get disenchanted. We have to ensure there is a steady supply chain and for that we will need the help of everyone, crucially the parents,” said Brahmanand, Goa’s most decorated footballer who had a stellar 25-year career with Panvel SC, Salgaocar SC, Churchill Brothers and Anderson Marine. Brahmanand – with Dr Shrikant Ajgaonkar, brother of sports minister Manohar Ajgaonkar as vice chairman -- will be helped in the council committee with fresh faces like Arjuna awardee Bruno Coutinho, former Navelim MLA Avertano Furtado and former India midfielder Lector Mascarenhas. Members like Sanjiv Nagvenkar and Pradeep Chodankar have retained their places in the 11-member council, while the likes of Agnelo Fonseca, Shantaram Naik and Stanislaus D’Souza return for a second stint in the all-important council. The state government has also reconstituted the general assembly, crucially with three members from the Goa Football Association (GFA). Vice-president Lavino Rebello, general secretary Jovito Lopes and co-opted member Valente Fernandes are among the 14 general assembly members, but with the general assembly having met just once in the last two years, their role in decision-making will be limited. The GFDC is Parrikar’s creation when he declared football as the state sport in his budget speech in 2012. He handpicked Rufino Monteiro as the chairman and provided him with an annual grant of Rs 5 crore. After more than six years at the helm, Rufino resigned in November 2018, but since submitting his resignation, the government was unable to find his replacement. “The need of the hour is to look ahead. I am sure that the new committee will do justice to their roles,” said Brahmanand. GFDC council committee: Brahmanand Shankhwalkar (chairman), Dr Shrikant Ajgaonkar (vice chairman), Aleixo da Costa (member secretary), Avertano Furtado, Bruno Coutinho, Lector Mascarenhas, Agnelo Fonseca, Shantaram Naik, Stanislaus D’Souza, Sanjiv Nagvenkar and Pradeep Chodankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/brahmanand-is-new-gfdc-chairman/articleshow/76271487.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 9, 2020||Goa||Edu Bedia stays with FC Goa, signs two-year extension contract||Panaji:Edu Bedia is set to become FC Goa’s longest-serving foreign player as the Spanish midfielder has signed a two-year extension which will keep him at the Indian Super League (ISL) club till the summer of 2022. Edu left Real Zaragoza and came to India in 2017 when he was lured to Goa. Over three seasons, Edu featured 51 times for FC Goa in the ISL. He has been the supply chain for star striker Ferran Corominas and has himself scored nine goals, including one against Chennaiyin FC in the second-leg semi-finals last season. “I’m thrilled to continue my journey with FC Goa. It has been a wonderful experience for me so far and I’m excited to be a part of the future of this team. I have had some great moments and want to achieve even more success during my time here,” said Edu. In his first season, Edu helped FC Goa reach the semifinals. Next year, Edu did even better only to see Goa lose in the final against Bengaluru FC. But a month later, they clinched the Super Cup, a first title for the club.  “We are very pleased that Edu will be continuing with us. Edu has been a very important player for the team for a few years now and we are confident that he will remain a key component of the squad in the future as well. His quality is there for all to see, and hopefully he can help us add some more trophies to the FC Goa cabinet,” said FC Goa’s director of football Ravi Puskar. Last season, the emergence of Hugo Boumous meant Edu’s appearances were restricted to 13 games with only 529 minutes on the pitch, mostly coming on as a second-half substitute in a tactical change. Although FC Goa bowed out in the semifinals, they finished top in the league stages and earned a spot in the AFC Champions League. Edu will have to rediscover himself and cement his place in the starting 11, especially with new coach Juan Ferrando at the helm for this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-bedia-stays-with-fc-goa-signs-two-year-extension-contract/articleshow/76271563.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Unlocking Diaries: Pune's iconic Mahatma Phule Mandai and Tulshibaug reopen with all safety measures||For over two months, Pune’s iconic vegetable market — Mahatma Phule Mandai, and the bustling shopping destination —Tulshibaug, have been unusually quiet and deserted, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, on Friday, both places resumed functions, albeit with a new set of rules, including frequent sanitisation, hygiene checks, social distancing, odd-even rule and using the govt’s Aarogya Setu app. Maintain a safe distance, please!While the mandai has close to 1000 small vegetables and fruit stalls, only around 100 were operational between 9 am and 5 pm on Sunday. With designated areas and social distancing markings, vendors were seen urging people to maintain a safe distance while making purchases. Gajanan Ladkad, a vegetable vendor, shares that he was happy to be back, but also adds that managing the crowd was a little difficult owing to the holiday. “In the 50 years that I have been selling vegetables here, this was the first time that the mandai was closed down for months. Today, we saw familiar faces, albeit covered by masks, and had quick conversations with our customers. We are following all safety norms- wearing masks, using gloves and hand sanitisers and asking everyone maintain social distancing. This is the new normal for us now,” shares Ladkad. Business is important, but safety comes firstIn Tulshibaug, where the shops have resumed operations on odd and even days, safety is of utmost importance too. One of the clothing shops at the vicinity is allowing patrons to enter only if they have the Aarogya Setu app installed and after checking their body temperature. “We want people to visit the shop and business to go on, but with all necessary precautions. We allow only one person to enter at a time,” says Gajendra Chouhan, from the shop. Only around 30 shops are currently functioning in Tulshibaug and there are regular checks by police personnel patrolling the area. Unlock 1.0: Pune's famous Tulshibaug market opens after 2-month shutdownAdopting a third-person passing policyAnother vegetable vendor, Hrishikesh Talekar, says that while business is a little slow right now, they have to get innovative to keep going. He says, “We have a third-person passing policy wherein one of us passes the vegetables that customers select. We don’t let customers touch the vegetables. We wear masks and gloves and sanitise our hands regularly.” Precautionary measures for shoppers A regular at the mandai, retired ACP Pradeep Ashtaputre says that he has been purchasing grocery from here since 40 years. “Over the years, we have formed a relationship with the vendors. We trust them completely with the produce and hence we come here,” says Pradeep, a resident of Sinhagad Road. Another shopper, Kishore Shahane, adds, “We are taking all precautionary measures while buying. On a regular Sunday, the market would be jam-packed with customers, but this Sunday there were fewer people.” For extra precautions, some vendors, who are in touch with their regular customers through WhatsApp, are asking them to download the Aarogya Setu app as well. “We urge patrons to wear masks and hand gloves and download the app. We also give them details of what is available in the market and at what price so that they don’t waste time enquiring and bargaining,” says Devendra Kale, a vendor. Watch The iconic Mandai reopens with all safety measures for the public||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mandatory-aarogya-setu-download-no-contact-policy-and-temperature-checks-in-place-as-mandai-and-tulshibaug-reopen/articleshow/76271262.cms||Rishabh Deb
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai schoolboy creates a coronavirus-themed game||The COVID-19 pandemic has spread a wave of anxiety and despair across the world, however, there are people who are doing their creative bit to lift the gloom with things like positive messages and uplifting talks and pictures. This also includes video games that not only get people to have fun, but also create awareness. One such video game, Wrath of the Virus, has been created by Mumbai’s 10-year-old Ayush Sankaran. He also topped an all-India game development contest recently, where the theme was ‘Fight Against Covid’. ‘There is a masked man in the game who stays safe, and I wanted to highlight that’While talking to BT, Ayush says, “I kept reading about people not following safety precautions and norms like social distancing to keep coronavirus at bay; so I wanted to bring out all these ideas in my game.” He then goes on to share more details and informs, “In this game, there is a blue emoji to represent you. The phone needs to be tilted to help you escape those who are infected. There is a masked guy, too, but nothing happens to him. This gets the message across that if you wear a mask, you are safe.” The Malad-based student reveals that it took him 10 days to create the game. “I enjoy doing this, so it was fun. I’m glad that all the coding knowledge of the last four years has helped me. My parents have played the game and they simply love it. I’m waiting to show it to my friends and schoolmates now.” For now, he has submitted the game to the MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) app of the month — a program where app inventors can submit their creations — under the coronavirus challenge category. SETTINGS, STORY ARE CRUCIAL IN APOCALYPTIC GAMESMumbai-based gaming expert Rishi Alwani says games based on pandemics are more popular now. “It has a lot to do with how the game worlds are presented. For instance, a game called The Division 2 takes place after a nasty smallpox pandemic sweeps through the US, where the setting is visually arresting with deserted cities and wilderness; it also has an engaging story. Another game called Fallout has players playing a courier in a post-apocalyptic waste. It’s compelling!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-schoolboy-creates-a-coronavirus-themed-game/articleshow/76269319.cms||Ismat Tahseen
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Constant sanitisation, disinfectant sprays, less contact procedures: Salons amp up safety measures||With proper safety and hygiene norms in place, salons across NCR are now open for business. Constant sanitisation of surfaces and tools, temperature checks and staff wearing PPE kits are just some of the precautions salons are taking, to ensure complete safety of both staffers and customers. Mask, Aarogya Setu App a must to visit salonsPankaj Sharma, Assistant Manager, Toni&Guy, says, “We aren’t allowing customers without a mask and the Aarogya Setu app on their phones. We check their temperature, and if it’s high, they cannot enter. We are using disposable towels, sheets etc to ensure safety” And what if the customer is worried about the staff’s health? Karun Punchhi, owner, Dolls Salon, Vasant Kunj, says, “Before the service, we ask the client if they’d like the staff’s temperature checked as well. We want our customers to feel safe, and that’s why we’ve also switched to a white uniform, as it assures the customers of its cleanliness.” ‘Staff has to test negative for COVID-19’ Some salons have made it compulsory for their staff to test negative for COVID-19. Sahiba, a staffer at Looks Salon, says, “Our staff has to have a COVID-19 negative certificate to work.”A staff member at Geetanjali Salon says, “We are only accepting clients through pre-bookings. When a client comes, we ask them questions on their health, check their temperature, and spray them with disinfectant.” Sahil Khan, hairstylist, Smuk Salon, says, "We are using sterilising cabinets to clean our tools after each use. While it takes longer, it ensures the customer's safety.” Salons also tell us they’re spacing apart appointments so that they have time to clean up the area. Staffers must have COVID negative reportNo more chit-chat sessions with staffersSalons have temporarily stopped serving beverages, removed magazines and are adhering to a no chit-chat policy. Beauticians, however, say that this is affecting their "personal equation" with their clients. Shabnam, a beautician, who now provides home services, says, "We have personal equations with our clients. My clients used to spend over one-two hours on a pedicure. Now, since we don't have conversations, the session lasts 20 minutes.” ‘It feels like the vibe of the salon has gone’While salons have bookings for haircuts and root touch-ups. people are avoiding facials. Seema Nanda, owner, Nomadic Spalon, Noida, says, “We are using monodose kits for facials. Procedures like hydradermabrasion, mesoporation, oxygenation are in demand as there is no direct contact involved.” Vandana Mehra, who recently visited a salon, says, “It feels like the vibe of the salon is gone. It was so quiet that it felt like I was doing something wrong, and both the salon staff and I were extra conscious of not touching surfaces.” Rupali Narula, who visited a salon for facial, says, “I was asked to choose whether I wanted the staff to wear gloves or not, and I opted for them. The staff wore a fresh pair of gloves, and followed all safety protocols.” Watch Salons back in business with new protocols||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/constant-sanitisation-disinfectant-sprays-less-contact-procedures-salons-amp-up-safety-measures/articleshow/76269360.cms||Niharika Lal
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||With masks, mostly, Mumbaikars flock to promenades and parks||With Unlock 1.0, Mumbai has entered the first phase of relaxation of lockdown rules. It also includes permission for outdoor physical activities like cycling, jogging, running in public spaces like parks, playgrounds, gardens and promenades between 5am to 7pm. With this, Mumbaikars are back to their outdoor fitness routines, albeit, with necessary precautions in most cases. Prominent walks — right from Marine Drive, Bandstand, Carter Road and Powai, among others — saw fitness enthusiasts thronging their favourite spots. ‘Going for a run outdoors does not mean we can flout social distancing rules’ The wave of enthusiasm by Mumbaikars as they headed to sea-facing areas did not go down well everywhere. A photo of a huge crowd of walkers at the Marine Drive promenade drew criticism for not practising social distancing. Malabar-Hill based runner Kranti Salvi, who runs on the stretch regularly, says, “We need to understand how serious coronavirus is. Exercise is one thing, but let’s not flout social distancing rules.” Sameer L, a resident of Santacruz West, says, “The government has given us permission for outdoor activities, but that does not mean we should flock in large numbers to promenades and parks. Wearing a mask and walking in a large group is not okay, social distancing must be maintained. If we don’t do that, this crisis will continue.” No screenings, but boards with government instructions installed at garden entrance: BMC Ram Dotonde, BMC spokesperson, told BT, “We have opened these recreational facilities, but with safety precautions in place as per government orders. We ensure that there’s no rush and that people are maintaining social distance and wearing masks.” When asked if there were screening kiosks at the gardens, he said, “Individual screening is not being done at the entrance, but we’ve installed boards with instructions. People have to follow all the guidelines mentioned on it.” Celebs’ day out With the wheels of Unlock 1.0 set in motion, celebs like Milind Soman and his wife Ankita Konwar, Neha Dhupia and Rakul Preet Singh were among the first ones to step out. A few days ago, Kareena Kapoor Khan was seen strolling at the Marine Drive promenade with husband, Saif Ali Khan and son, Taimur. Writer Salim Khan was seen taking a brisk walk at the Bandstand promenade. Celebs, who were reportedly spotted catching up with their walk or run, include Rhea Chakraborty and Tara Sutaria, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-masks-mostly-mumbaikars-flock-to-promenades-and-parks/articleshow/76270287.cms||Debarati S Sen
June 9, 2020||India||Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh talk tough, say India won’t bow to China’s muscle-flexing||NEW DELHI: Amid a tense standoff with China, two members of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) — defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah — on Monday asserted that India will not give into muscle flexing by China to grab more land in the Ladakh sector. Singh and Shah, while addressing virtual rallies of BJP workers at the interval of barely two hours, said that India will make no concessions to anyone at the cost of its national interest and national pride. Shah also struck a combative tone saying that India, like US and Israel, has the capability to carry out pre-emptive strikes to defend its territory as he recalled India’s strikes inside Pak territory in retaliation against terror attacks at Uri and Pulwama. “We've also seen terrorist attacks like it used to happen earlier but PM Modi did not sit silent like previous PMs. He answered with airstrikes and surgical strikes by entering Pakistan and teaching them a lesson. This showed the world that India would not endure the encroachment of its borders,” Shah said while addressing the party workers of Odisha. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, on the other hand, asserted that any bid to hurt the dignity and sovereignty of the country will not be tolerable as India never intends to do so with other countries. In a virtual rally addressed to the audience of Maharashtra as part of party’s "Jan Saamvad” rally on the completion of one year of the Modi 2.0, Singh said, “India’s dialogue with China is going on at military and diplomatic levels. There was a dialogue at military level on June 6, which was very positive and both the countries have agreed to continue talks to resolve the ongoing tussle.” Defence minister further said, “We don’t hurt any country’s dignity and self respect and don’t even tolerate any such bid towards own country. I want to assure people that leadership of the country is in strong hands.” Defence minister spoke about the ongoing border standoff by referring to Congress leaders’ continuous queries over the reported tension on the India-China border as senior opposition party leaders including Rahul Gandhi have been vocal about it and are demanding that the government should make a formal statement about the issue and make the country aware about what is happening at the border. “Some Congress leaders are repeatedly questioning about what is happening on the border. I want to assure people of the country that I will give a detailed information about the issue in the Parliament as we have nothing to hide from the people,” Singh said making it clear that the government is ready to respond the opposition queries as the Monsoon session of the parliament, whose dates are yet to be formally announced, is set to witness exchanges over the tension on the India-China border. Singh recited a “punned” couplet of Mirza Ghalib to take dig at the Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who also punned a Ghalib’s poem to attack the government and Shah over the border issue. “Hanth mein dard ho to dawa kije, “hanth hi mein dard ho to kya kije,” Singh recited, implying that if there is pain in the hand one can seek medical treatment but what to do when there is problem with the hand (Congress symbol) itself. Watch Chinese chopper activities escalate along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-rajnath-singh-talk-tough-say-india-wont-bow-to-chinas-muscle-flexing/articleshow/76272485.cms||Akhilesh Singh
June 9, 2020||Business||Jolt for malls as retailers, restaurants refuse to open||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Large shopping malls, which have been feeling the pinch of a long lockdown, received another blow on Monday as several top retailers and restaurants refrained from opening outlets due to a deadlock over new rental agreements. While some big mall owners, such as DLF, Nexus, Phoenix and Select City, have offered to waive 50% rent during the lockdown period, most of these determined retailers, which operate over 100 brands among them — including Levi’s, Bata, Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein and Madura Garments — have demanded a full waiver. They also want further restructuring of rent through revenue share and reduction in minimum guarantee for six-to-nine months. “We will continue to hold and not accept the 50% rent waiver during the lockdown, which the large mall groups are offering,” the retailers said in an internal communication among themselves. “We discussed that we should all be patient and hold for a week to two weeks if push comes to shove as the waiver gains are far higher than revenue upsides right now. Malls have climbed down from 0 to 50% and many may get to 75% to lure a few of us.” Sources, however, said the ground reality was different as most of these malls from Nexus to Select saw 40-60% stores opening on the first day. Some of the brands that opened their doors, included Benetton, Reliance Brands, Zara, H&M and Starbucks. In Forum Mall, which retailers said had offered rent waiver upfront, all brands opened. “We are reaching out to retailers individually to discuss and we are sure that as we open gradually, everybody will agree to open their stores,” said Pushpa Bector, executive director at DLF Malls. “We need to collaborate at this time and they (the retailers) are our partners.” Over the next one-to-two weeks, these discussions are likely to flesh out the specific contours of the arrangements between mall owners and retailers. The retailers are expected to gather again on June 11 to discuss the options on the table. Meanwhile, at the capital’s iconic shopping destination Khan Market, a popular bookstore and a cafe, Full Circle and Cafe Turtle, downed shutters after talks with the market association fell through. “The guidelines allowing restaurants to stay open only till 9 pm is a non-starter. So, it won’t move the needle for these outlets to start restaurants in large malls immediately,” said a top Mumbai-based restaurateur. Independent standalone landlords have shown better reaction to these negotiations.” Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), said around 250 malls, out of 650 large ones (above 100,000 square feet) were open on Monday. “We are hoping more malls should open in the coming weeks as retailers and malls owners iron out their differences over commercial arrangement,” he said. Watch Video report: Hyderabad malls open, witness low footfall on first day of its reopening||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jolt-for-malls-as-retailers-restaurants-refuse-to-open/articleshow/76272596.cms||John Sarkar
June 9, 2020||India||LG junks govt order on hospitals; creates problem for Delhiites, says Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: A day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that all private hospitals, except the super-specialty ones, and state-run hospitals in the national capital will be reserved for “bona fide” residents of Delhi, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal reversed the order. Exercising his powers as chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority under Section 18(3) of the Disaster Management Act, Baijal issued an order on Monday saying that no patient shall be denied treatment for not being a resident of the national capital. The CM said this would create a huge problem for Delhi residents but seemed resigned to the situation. In a separate order, the LG also made it mandatory for the state authorities to follow the testing strategy laid down by the ICMR “without any deviation”, which includes testing of all asymptomatic persons who came in direct contact with a confirmed case. The Delhi government had last week released its own Covid-19 testing strategy, omitting the testing of asymptomatic per sons who have been in contact with a confirmed case. The LG, who is the Centre’s appointee, and the Kejriwal government were at loggerheads over several issues during the AAP government’s previous term. This is the first time since AAP formed a government for the third time that the two have faced off. Reacting to the LG’s order on not denying treatment on the basis of domicile, the CM, who is indisposed, said: “LG sahib’s order has created a huge problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment to people coming from all over the country during the corona epidemic is a big challenge. It seems to be God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment to all,” he tweeted in Hindi. LG साहिब के आदेश ने दिल्ली के लोगों के लिए बहुत बड़ी समस्या और चुनौती पैदा कर दी हैदेशभर से आने वाले लोगों के लिए… https://t.co/hu1QvUs4zL— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1591626375000Late in the evening, the principal secretary of the health and family welfare department of the Delhi government issued an order setting aside Sunday’s notification. The Delhi government had taken its decision on the basis of a report submitted by a five-member expert committee which suggested that all beds in Delhi would be occupied within 2-3 days if patients from outside the city were allowed to come for treatment. Kejriwal had added that over 90% of the 7.5 lakh people who responded to his request for a feedback had also suggested the same. The LG Anil Baijal said the Delhi high court had, in its order on a writ petition filed by Social Jurists, a civil rights group, examined the constitutional provisions in detail, especially Article 14 and 21, and held that denying patients medical treatment on grounds of not being a resident of NCT of Delhi was impermissible. He added that the Supreme Court has also invariably held in successive judgments that “Right to Health” was an integral part of the "Right to Life" under Article 21 of the Constitution. His order said: “…all government and private nursing homes/clinics situated in NCT of Delhi have to extend medical facilities to all Covid-19 patients coming for monitoring/treatment without any discrimination of being resident or non-resident of NCT of Delhi.” The central government also issued a statement saying that the LG’s order would bring “relief to patients and their families from outside Delhi who are seeking treatment during the pandemic”. Kejriwal had said on Sunday said that the state-run hospitals and the Centre’s hospital had around 10,000 beds each. “For now, we have decided that the 10,000 beds under the Delhi government will be kept for residents. The beds under the central government can be used by all. Private hospitals covering special treatments and surgeries will be open for all,” the chief minister had said. In the second order, the LG insisted that ICMR’s strategy for testing for nine categories, including asymptomatic, direct and high-risk contacts of aconfirmed case between Day 5 and Day 10 of coming into contact, be followed in Delhi. “To contain the spread of Covid-19, it is essential to conduct a thorough contact tracing of the affected persons, especially in containment zones, and as such, the ICMR strategy for Covid-19 testing should be followed without any deviation,” Baijal said in his order. He pointed out that the directorate general of health services had issued an order on June 2 changing the requirement of testing asymptomatic, direct and high-risk contacts of aconfirmed case. "This deviation in the ICMR guidelines can result in inadequate contact tracing of affected individuals and can result in further spread of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi," he said in his order. Watch Covid-19: Delhi LG Anil Baijal overrules Arvind Kejriwal's decision, orders Delhi govt hospitals to treat all patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lg-junks-govt-order-on-hospitals-creates-problem-for-delhiites-says-kejriwal/articleshow/76272792.cms||Atul Mathur
June 9, 2020||India||BJP may add 9 Rajya Sabha seats to its tally in June 19 polls||NEW DELHI: The BJP, which saw a dip in strength from 81 to 75 in Rajya Sabha after biennial polls in March, is likely to add nine seats to its current tally after June 19 polls, taking the total count of NDA’s seats to 100 making it fairly secure in terms of passing legislations as it will need just 22 more votes for a simple majority. Though NDA would still be 22 seats less than the majority mark in the House of 242, any legislative move of the ruling alliance will, however, not be impacted in the monsoon session as four nominated members and the friendly parties such as AIADMK, BJD, YSRCP and TRS may invariably be on board. The Modi government had in any case broken the Rajya Sabha jinx with the passage of the triple talaaq and the nullification of Article 370 bills but the numbers will enhance confidence of NDA managers that the Upper House will not upset the legislative applecart. A total of 24 seats will go to polls on June 19. While elections to 18 got deferred in March due to Covid-19 situation, six others are those which are going to be vacant in the next 40 days – one each in Arunachal Pradesh (June 23) and Mizoram (July 18), and four in Karnataka (June 25). The gain of nine seats to BJP will bring its total tally in the Upper House to its highest ever mark of 84 while the other big party Congress may see its current tally reduced from 39 to 37 in the June 19 polls. The current situation where Congress is struggling to keep its flock together in Gujarat, it appears that BJP may bag three of the four seats in the state. Besides four seats each from Gujarat, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the other 12 seats are to be filled from Madhya Pradesh (3), Rajasthan (3), Jharkhand (2) and one each from Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. The party-position in these states’ assemblies indicate that the BJP may get two of the three seats from Madhya Pradesh and one each from Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur. Watch Rajya Sabha polls: BJP may add 9 seats to its tally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-may-add-9-rajya-sabha-seats-to-its-tally-in-june-19-polls/articleshow/76272868.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 9, 2020||India||Covid peaks in different parts may not be at the same time: Panel||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic may peak in different parts of the country at different times, the 15th Finance Commission’s high-level panel on health has observed, suggesting pooling of resources between states to ensure better availability of health infrastructure in every state. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS and convenor of the high-level group (HLG), underlined the need for a mechanism so that health resources like manpower and equipment could be moved from one state to another as per need. He said some states may be better equipped to manage increasing number of cases, while others could be challenged. Based on a statistical analysis, the panel said the path of the pandemic so far had also been different across states. Some like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Bengal and Delhi continued to have a large number of active cases. However, there was some moderation of the curve in states like Andhra, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala though spikes continue to happen. Overall, the average daily growth rate in infections from May 14 to May 18 considered by the study was estimated at around 5.1%. Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the Covid-19 curve had not yet flattened but the impact had got distributed for a long haul of two to three years. Though he said deaths too had got distributed or spaced out, it is vital to keep mortality rate below 5%, cautioning that if the number of deaths per day rose to 1,000-2,000, it would become “alarming” for the government. The ICMR also noted that the current strategy of ‘track, trace and treat’ was working well except in Maharashtra and Gujarat. The HLG, which met last month, made recommendations in three broad groups — very short-, short- and medium-term measures. Very short-term measures included rapid testing for surveillance, containment, ensuring supply of cost-effective medicines, rural mobile health units and supply of equipment like ventilators, PPEs, masks, continuous oxygen supply, and ‘hop in hop off’ service for Covid-19 patients. For short-term, the measures included ‘outbreak management plan’ for the health sector and financing the development of a vaccine. The panel suggested increasing investment on health, addressing shortfall in health workforce, exploring possibilities of covering the remaining 60% of the population under Ayushman Bharat and creation of an All India Medical Services on the pattern of Indian Civil Services as medium-term measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-peaks-in-different-parts-may-not-be-at-the-same-time-panel/articleshow/76272958.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||#unlockdiaries:Nahoum’s welcomes back bakery loyalists with almond pastry, plum cake and more||Loyal customers poured in at Nahoum and Sons on Monday as the iconic bakery in New Market reopened doors 79 days. They are currently operating with just 25% staff and have limited items on the menu. “Gradually, we will bring back more products. Ever since New Market opened on June 1, we’ve been flooded with calls from our esteemed customers asking why our bakery didn’t open that day. We deal with perishable items and with the ongoing labour and transportation issues, we took time to reopen after two rounds of sanitisation,” said manager Jagadish Chandra Haldar, who has been working there from 1978. What’s available?Heart cake, plum cake, brownie, almond pastry, jam tart, garlic bread, sliced bread and German bread ‘I’ll buy garlic bread and heart cake’Giovanna Caruso, who was the first customer Nahoum’s greeted on Monday morning, shares her experience with CT I am from Italy but a lot of my friends stay in Kolkata and I visit every year. This time I got stuck here because of the lockdown. Last Monday, I came to New Market with a lot of excitement but seeing Nahoum’s closed, I returned home with a heavy heart. No one was sure when they would reopen. However, when I visited the market on Wednesday to buy a kitchen board, one of the shopkeepers informed me that the bakery was reopening today. And so, here I am at my favourite place in town right after the gates opened. I will go around every corner of the shop for the smell I’ve been missing since so long. I knew the old man who used to sit at the counter and every person in the shop knows me well as I get a lot of goodies packed from here every year while flying back to Italy. I have been their customer for more than 40 years and there is a host of memories associated with this place. Some of those memories are etched on my heart. I love their breadsticks and plum cake. Sadly, they don’t have the breadsticks today, so I will buy some garlic bread and heart cake. Now that everything is gradually reopening, I hope to fly back to Italy soon with some delicious goodies from Nahoum’s. I have positive vibes seeing some people in New Market. This is the new normal and we ought to accept it. We need to move on while respecting social distancing, safety and hygiene norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlockdiariesnahoums-welcomes-back-bakery-loyalists-with-almond-pastry-plum-cake-and-more/articleshow/76264586.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 9, 2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal develops symptoms, to take Covid test today||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has developed Covid-like symptoms and will undergo test for novel coronavirus. After developing mild fever and sore throat, he has cancelled all meetings since Sunday and gone into self-isolation. “The chief minster started feeling down since Sunday afternoon. He has fever and pain in the throat. He has put himself into self-isolation at his residence. All meetings have been cancelled since Sunday. He will undergo Covid test on Tuesday,” AAP MP Sanjay Singh said. As Kejriwal has a medical history of diabetes for a long time, doctors have advised him to avoid meetings and stay isolated, Singh said. “I pray to God that everything is fine and he recovers very fast and returns to work,” he added. During the complete lockdown, Kejriwal mostly worked from home and also attended various meetings through videoconferencing before returning to the secretariat on a regular basis following the relaxations. Not only Aam Aadmi Party functionaries but also several members of the opposition BJP and Congress have wished him a speedy recovery. In the meantime, three staff at the office of the North district magistrate have tested positive for novel coronavirus, prompting an extensive sanitisation exercise. But all of them are without any major symptom and under home isolation. A contact tracing will be undertaken and “all those with Covid symptoms will be tested”, said an official. Watch Delhi CM Kejriwal unwell, to take Covid test tomorrow: Sources||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-develops-symptoms-to-take-covid-test-today/articleshow/76272980.cms||Alok K N Mishra
June 9, 2020||Business||Lufthansa offers to fly in empty, take out fliers back to Europe||NEW DELHI: In a first, a major foreign airline group has sought India's nod to operate ferry flights (without passengers) to the country and fly out passengers from here till regular services are allowed.  German major Lufthansa has requested India to allow it and group airline Swiss to fly from some metros to its hubs in Europe - Frankfurt, Munich and Zurich. At the moment, Air India's Vande Bharat Mission flights are the only connections for flying in and out of India apart from repatriation flights organised by foreign countries. "We are willing to operate only outbound (flights with passengers) from India if we are allowed to transport all categories of persons as per the MHA order..."  We are willing to operate only outbound (flights with passengers) from India if we are allowed to transport all categories of persons as per the order of ministry of home affairs and if we can publish a schedule in advance for an entire period. We had requested this from the ministry of civil aviation," said a Lufthansa spokesperson. The fares on these special flights is more that the fares charged on regular schedule services. For instance, Lufthansa group's one-way Mumbai to Zurich and Frankfurt fares start at Rs 39,743 and Rs 38,273, respectively. India has suspended schedule international services till the month-end, for now. India recently allowed corporates and organisations to hire international charters to fly in countrymen stranded abroad. It also allowed some categories of foreigners to fly in here on charters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lufthansa-offers-to-fly-in-empty-take-out-fliers-back-to-europe/articleshow/76273032.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 9, 2020||India||Capital steps out gingerly, checks temp of new normal||NEW DELHI: Wherever you go, they put a gun to your head. In malls, restaurants and places of worship, temperature checks are the new normal. Eyes sting with the smell of disinfectant in restaurants. Going to a mall feels like an airport security check. It’s a brave new world, but not everyone was racing to embrace it. On Monday, the ones who ventured out found some things hadn’t changed: Temple bells pealed in the morning. But there was no jostling. At the Jhandewalan temple, Roop Nagar resident Ashish Sharma (52) was among a handful of devotees. He said he couldn’t recall the last time he had entered without standing in a queue. Gurdwara Bangla Sahib has a sanitisation tunnel now. Touching the steps with your forehead is forbidden. Masks and sanitiser are part of the regulation. But Manjeet Singh took it all in his stride. “People have to slowly return to normal again,” he said. “We can wear masks.” The same will to adjust showed at the few restaurants open for dining in. A senior bureaucrat made his way to Khan Market’s Blue Door Cafe. He said he had missed eating there. Sagar and his fianceé weren’t so lucky. They had planned a date at their favourite Punjabi Bagh restaurant after almost two months of distancing, but found it was only doing takeaways. Given the difficulties of ensuring hygiene and distancing, most restaurants in major markets like GK-2, Vasant Kunj, and SDA are only open for takeaways. If restaurants have reduced seats, malls have gone further for physical distancing. While some of the biggest on es like DLF Promenade, Emporio, Pacific Mall and Shoppers Stop remained closed Monday, others have set up contactless sanitiser dispensers, sanitisation tunnels and body temperature scanners integrated with metal detectors. Nobody’s taking chances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/capital-steps-out-gingerly-checks-temp-of-new-normal/articleshow/76273063.cms||---
June 9, 2020||India||Covid-19: Mumbai at 50,000, set to go past Wuhan’s tally||NEW DELHI: Mumbai became the first Indian city to record 50,000 Covid-19 infections, with the addition of 1,311 cases on Monday, even as the nationwide count of fresh cases dropped below 10,000 for the first time in three days. The Maximum City has by far the maximum number of Covid-19 infections among Indian cities, with Delhi a distant second at 29,943 cases. Mumbai’s count was 50,085 on Monday. In comparison, the Chinese city of Wuhan, the first epicentre of the pandemic, has an official total of 50,340 cases, as per a PTI report. India’s Covid-19 count rose to 2,65,960, with 9,395 fresh cases added till late on Monday, as per data from state governments. This was a drop from the tallies of Saturday and Sunday, when 10,434 and 10,785 cases, respectively, were reported. However, the death toll remained high with 271 fatalities recorded during the day, taking the total toll from the virus to 7,467. Mumbai reported its highest single-day toll of 64 deaths out of 109 in Maharashtra on Monday. Delhi too reported as many as 62 fatalities, many from earlier days, while Gujarat recorded 31 and TN 17. ALSO READ: Coronavirus live updates: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal undergoes Covid-19 testDeaths rose sharply in Haryana as well. The state reported 11 fatalities, its highest in a single day. As usual, the largest number of new cases came from Maharashtra at 2,553. At least three states reported their highest singleday jump in infections — TN (1,562 new cases), Jharkhand (187) and Manipur (100). The number of fresh infections remained high in Delhi at 1,007, Gujarat (477), Bengal (426), Uttar Pradesh (412), Haryana (406) and Karnataka (308), among others. TN on Monday reported 1,562 new cases and 17 deaths pushing the infection count to 33,229 and toll to 286. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accoun ted for 1,149 with its tally rising 23,298, a health department bulletin said. This was the se cond straight day of 1,500-plus cases recorded in TN, which has been reporting over 1,000 for the past several days. Haryana reported one case on an average every six minutes in past 24 hours. Once again NCR continued to dominate in number of cases. The maximum number of 243 cases once again came from Gurgaon, which breached the 2,000 mark and reached 2,165 cases, including 1,577 active patients. The district’s death toll too has gone up to nine. Faridabad followed with 97 new cases and four deaths. The total for district has gone up to 773 cases and 13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-mumbai-at-50000-set-to-go-past-wuhans-tally/articleshow/76273073.cms||---
June 9, 2020||India||LAC situation stable, controllable: China||NEW DELHI: After the military dialogue on the border stand-off, China on Monday said the two countries will work to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border and “create a good atmosphere”. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said the two sides had agreed that they needed to implement the consensus reached by PM Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping that differences didn’t escalate into disputes. Beijing described the situation at the border as “stable and controllable”. The Chinese state media warned that while the situation in Ladakh was unlikely to turn into another Doklam, the stand-off was going to continue a little longer because of the “complexity” of the situation. It quoted an analyst as saying the issue wasn’t going to be resolved until the time India stopped building infrastructure “on Chinese territory”. Global Times quoted analysts to say that since Doklam, all kinds of bilateral mechanisms, including on military, diplomatic and local issues, had been established and that this had eliminated the possibility of an incident escalating into a crisis. “That being said, the ongoing stand-off is not likely to end immediately, as concrete issues must still be resolved... the trigger of the event, India’s construction of infrastructure on Chinese territory, must be stopped, or China will not accept the situation,” it quoted an expert as saying. The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said diplomatic and military channels of the two sides had maintained close communications on the situation along the border. “One consensus is that the two sides need to implement the two leaders’ consensus and make sure that differences do not escalate into disputes,” she said. The spokesperson added that the “two sides will work to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border and create a good atmosphere... So the situation overall is stable and controllable and the two sides are ready to engage in consultation to properly solve the relevant issues.” Her remarks came a day after MEA said India and China had agreed to continue military and diplomatic talks to “peacefully” resolve the stand-off in accordance with bilateral agreements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-situation-stable-controllable-china/articleshow/76273106.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 27-year-old with no comorbidities dies||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: A 27-year-old Covid-19 patient from Rajendra Nagar in Ghaziabad died late on Sunday at Santosh Hospital, a day after he was admitted. He did not have any comorbidities. The man had, according to a source, come in contact with a Covid-19 patient in Delhi. About a week ago, he had been admitted to the isolation ward at MMG District Hospital after he had fever. He tested positive. When his condition started deteriorating late Saturday, he was moved to Santosh Hospital. He had difficulty breathing and had been placed on ventilator. He was cremated at Hindon bank on Monday morning. The death of another Covid-19 patient, a 68-year-old man, at LLRM Medical College was also added to Ghaziabad’s death toll on Monday — 11 have died so far. In Noida, too, a Covid death was added to the toll with the report of a 73-year-old who had died of cardio-respiratory failure last Friday coming back positive on Monday. He had also been suffering from chronic kidney and coronary artery diseases. The Salarpur village resident’s case is the ninth Covid death in Noida. An 84-year-old man from Sector 10 also died on Sunday. “His death audit has not been done yet,” said district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohare. The number of cases in Ghaziabad went up by 28 on Monday, taking the total to 502. Of them, 184 are active cases. Noida reported 21 new cases, taking the total to 653 and the number of active cases to 221.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/27-year-old-with-no-comorbidities-dies/articleshow/76273275.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: 27-year-old with no comorbidities dies||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: A 27-year-old Covid-19 patient from Rajendra Nagar in Ghaziabad died late on Sunday at Santosh Hospital, a day after he was admitted. He did not have any comorbidities. The man had, according to a source, come in contact with a Covid-19 patient in Delhi. About a week ago, he had been admitted to the isolation ward at MMG District Hospital after he had fever. He tested positive. When his condition started deteriorating late Saturday, he was moved to Santosh Hospital. He had difficulty breathing and had been placed on ventilator. He was cremated at Hindon bank on Monday morning. The death of another Covid-19 patient, a 68-year-old man, at LLRM Medical College was also added to Ghaziabad’s death toll on Monday — 11 have died so far. In Noida, too, a Covid death was added to the toll with the report of a 73-year-old who had died of cardio-respiratory failure last Friday coming back positive on Monday. He had also been suffering from chronic kidney and coronary artery diseases. The Salarpur village resident’s case is the ninth Covid death in Noida. An 84-year-old man from Sector 10 also died on Sunday. “His death audit has not been done yet,” said district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohare. The number of cases in Ghaziabad went up by 28 on Monday, taking the total to 502. Of them, 184 are active cases. Noida reported 21 new cases, taking the total to 653 and the number of active cases to 221.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/27-year-old-with-no-comorbidities-dies/articleshow/76272532.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Noida||Urdu poet (93) beats Covid-19, invites doctors home for dinner||NOIDA: When Anand Mohan Zutshi ‘Gulzar’ Dehlvi was hospitalised with fever and cough, doctors were extremely worried. The Kashmiri Pandit poet, who had joined rallies for Independence as a young Inquilabi and got India’s first Urdu science magazine off the block, was a month shy of 94. And he had comorbidities: heart ailments, hypothyroidism and an enlarged prostate. But after a week of being critically ill with Covid-19, Dehlvi made his way home on Sunday after full recovery. “He invited us home for dinner,” said Dr Abhishek Deshwal, in charge of the ICU at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida. “He is a very positive person.” In the last week of May, Dehlvi was admitted to Kailash Hospital. The poet, a post-graduate in arts from Hindu College, had fever and cough, symptoms of Covid-19. His test results came back positive and he was referred to Sharda Hospital on June 1. He was admitted to the ICU and put on invasive ventilator support because of his serious condition. “When I examined the patient, he was critically ill, had altered mental status and his oxygen saturation (level of oxygen in the blood) was very low,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of the hospital, who attended to Dehlvi. “We treated him with high antibiotics, antiviral, multivitamins and put him on non-invasive ventilation (NIV) support. He was given a high-protein diet with ryles tube (a narrow bore tube that goes into the stomach through the nose).” After three days of intensive treatment, Dehlvi started improving. “The oxygen level got better. We removed the NIV support mask on Friday and tested him again. His report came back negative the next day. He was discharged on Sunday after we saw how he was doing in room air, checking if the pneumonia was gone,” Dr Kumar said. Dehlvi will now be in a seven-day quarantine at home. “He was very happy to be home, see my mother and me. He is still weak and resting,” said Anoop, his son, who moved into his parents’ Sector 26 home nine months ago from Mumbai to take care of them. The poet-academic-journalist, who has participated in hundreds of mushairas including Jashn-e-Rekhta in 2015, will celebrate his 94th birthday on July 7. Even as Dehlvi's son has arranged a full-time attendant for him, his spirits are very high, said Zutshi. “His recovery is such an inspirational story, that we feel very motivated to work harder. We are extremely happy and wish him a speedy recovery,” Suhas LY district magistrate told TOI. A product and practitioner of ganga jamuni tehzeeb (a syncretic fusion of Hindu culture with Muslim religious elements), Dehlvi according to his son, took on the agname ‘Gulzar’ and ‘Dehlvi’ very early on after his love for Urdu poetry and having spent his life in old Delhi’s Gali Kashmeerian where he was born on July 7, 1926. An alumni of Ramjas and BVJ Sanskrit School, Dehlvi did his Masters in Arts from Hindu College Delhi and retired from Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) 30 years back. As the first editor of Science ki Duniya, India’s first popular science magazine in Urdu, he was supported by then Minister of Education Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. A Gandhian at heart, Dehlvi’s enigma lay in his sherwani and churidaar pajaama with Nehru cap for the many mushairas that he attended during his chequered literary journey. Little wonder that the poet who traces his ancestry to Kashmir has been a strong proponent of observing Holi, Diwali, Janmashtami, Shivratri and Eid with equal elan calling it the composite India for which he has received many felicitations including from former vice president Mohammad Hamid Ansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/urdu-poet-93-beats-covid-invites-docs-home-for-dinner/articleshow/76272586.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
June 9, 2020||Noida||Woman cricketer injured in e-way car crash||GREATER NOIDA: A 25-year-old woman cricketer returning to her Delhi home from Agra, along with her seven pet dogs, suffered significant facial injuries after her Alto crashed into the grille on the side of the road near the Navada exit of the Yamuna Expressway on Sunday night. One of the pet dogs died in the accident, while the others are being treated at a veterinary hospital. Police suspect Rakhi Sharma might have dozed off at the wheel for a while or got distracted by the dogs and lost control of the vehicle. However, People for Animals (PFA) has lodged a complaint of negligence against her. The accident occurred around 9.30 pm when Rakhi was coming back to Delhi from a friend’s house in Agra after being stuck there for over two months due to Covid-19 lockdown. Rakhi, a state-level cricketer, currently plays for Chandigarh, her family said. Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (Zone 3), said that as soon as they had received information about the crash from the toll operators in Navada, a police team immediately reached the spot and rushed the injured woman to Kailash Hospital. “The injured dogs were also taken to a veterinary hospital in Greater Noida, where one of them — a female German Shepherd — succumbed to its injuries,” he said. Singh said Rakhi suffered severe facial injuries. “Either she had dozed off behind the wheel or got distracted by the dogs in the car. The Alto was also badly damaged. The six other injured pets, including five puppies around six months old, and a Siberian Husky, were all sitting next to Rakhi in the car,” he said. Activists from PFA filed a complaint against the woman for violation of Transport for Animals Act as well as Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, along with rash driving and negligence. Kaveri Rana, PFA’s district president, alleged that the woman had stuffed seven dogs in her Alto car. “The injured dogs have fractures all over their bodies, and the condition of some are very critical. Also, there’s clear negligence from her side that led to the death of one of the dogs, we seek an FIR against her,” she said. The police said that an FIR will be registered only after due investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-cricketer-injured-in-e-way-car-crash/articleshow/76272593.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
June 9, 2020||Business||Paytm Payments Bank profit up 55%||Mumbai: Paytm Payments Bank, which was the first in the sector to turn profitable, has posted a net income of Rs 30 crore for FY20 — a 55% increase over Rs 19 crore in FY19. The bank said that it has increased its customer base in smaller cities, which has resulted in revenues for the fiscal crossing Rs 2,100 crore. The bank also announced a chequebook facility for accountholders. Though online transactions are more efficient, some entities require cancelled cheques for on-boarding customers for direct payments. The bank said it had facilitated 485 crore transactions worth Rs 4.6 lakh crore. Domestic money transfers have accounted for around Rs 29,000 crore. The number of current and savings accounts has risen to over 5.8 crore, helping the bank double its deposits in savings accounts to over Rs 1,000 crore, compared to the previous year. “In FY20, we have registered growth across all parameters, including the number of accountholders, saving account deposits, fixed deposits and transactions. Our focus remains on launching innovative products & services to accelerate financial inclusion in our country,”said Paytm Payments Bank MD & CEO Satish Kumar Gupta. The bank said it now has a debit cardholder in every district of India and registers over 45 lakh debit card transactions every month. Recently, Paytm Payments Bank launched a direct benefits transfer (DBT) facility, which allows customers receive benefits of over 400 government subsidies directly into their savings accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-payments-bank-profit-up-55/articleshow/76269433.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||24-year-old ‘ECMO patient’ recovers, returns home after 12 days on heart-&-lung support||Kolkata: A 24-year-old woman from Kalighat who was put on artificial heart-and-lung support for 12 days during treatment for Covid-19, returned home on Monday, probably becoming the first in India to defeat the virus despite being on extra corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support. “ECMO is a procedure in which the patient is given artificial heart and lung support. We do this in patients when the lung condition is extremely bad and ventilation support cannot help much. We draw in blood from the patient’s body and re-oxygenate it by increasing the oxygen level in her blood and re-infuse it into the body to improve saturation,” said Soham Majumdar, ECMO specialist at AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria. Majumdar pointed out that unlike the other two patients at Delhi and Chennai, the 24-year-old patient from Kolkata came out of both ECMO and ventilator, making her survival an important step in clinical management of Covid-19. She was admitted to AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria, on May 17 with high fever and severe breathing distress. Doctors noted that her oxygen saturation had gone down to 34%, causing serious concern. Although she did not have any co-morbidities, doctors felt her obesity — she weighs around 100kg — could be a reason behind her severe condition. According to her father, she had been suffering from high fever and a sore throat since May 10. In a few days, she started having severe respiratory distress. She was put on ventilation the next day. But when her oxygen level kept declining, doctors decided on ECMO support. “It is not always possible to clinically manage respiratory distress in Covid-positive patients with just ventilator support. In some cases, putting the patient on ECMO support becomes crucial, like in this case. And it helped us bring her back from a near-death situation,” said Mahuya Bhattacharya, critical care & internal medicine specialist. She was on ECMO support for 12 days and brought down to ventilation support as her lung condition improved. “We are very happy that she is going home. We believe she is the first Covid-positive patient in India to have survived after being put on ECMO support,” said Saswati Sinha, critical care specialist of the hospital. “I gave given up all hope of taking my daughter home. I’m grateful to the doctors and nurses who helped her pull through,” said the patient’s father. Earlier, the hospital’s critical care team discharged a Covid patient who had been on ventilation for 34 days.  “We are extremely proud of our critical care team, all other doctors and healthcare workers who are combating Covid-19 from the frontlines. We want everybody to know that we are equipped to support even the most extreme cases,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/24-year-old-ecmo-patient-recovers-returns-home-after-12-days-on-heart-lung-support/articleshow/76270369.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 9, 2020||Business||Forging industry looks at sourcing labour locally as many return home||Chennai: India’s forging industry, is preparing to cut back its dependence on migrant labour even as it battles poor orders from vehicle manufacturers and a capital crunch. Association for Indian Forging Industry (AIFI), the apex body for the industry, officials said that around 60% of its workforce currently comprises temporary migrant labour. A large portion of that workforce has returned to home states and forging companies are now working towards increasing local sourcing of labour said S Muralishankar, president of AIFI.“MSME’s in general and forging industry in particular has to do more local sourcing of labour and they have started looking at it,” Muralishankar said. “Currently local workers comprise 30% of the requirement but going forward factories will look at hiring more,” he added. “Companies are facing a problem currently not only with migrant labour but also rural workers who have returned to their native villages.”The industry, which employs around 1 lakh people directly saw a 25%-30% decrease in volumes in FY20 due to the slowdown. With vehicle demand being negligible now, the staffing will also take a hit. “Many forge shops depend only on migrant labour particularly in the north and west clusters. They will take a hit,” said Vidyashankar Krishnan, MD, MM Forgings. But the bigger issue is the lack of demand. “OEMs are now buying in hope,” he said. “Except those supplying to the tractor industry or with export buffers, others are suffering.” MM Forging has decided not to fire either permanent or temporary workers and expects most of its migrant workers to return, said Krishnan.The forging industry situation is part of the bigger picture of auto component industry which is currently working on 8%-10% capacity utilisation. “The component sector is operating at 8%-10% capacity utilisation. Over the last 2-3 years, the employment mix in the components sector has changed from 50% contractual labour to around 70% today. At such low levels of production, the industry is being forced to lay off employees, largely contractual,” said Vinnie Mehta, director-general ACMA. The good news is that the industry is getting enquiries from global Tier-1 suppliers who are looking for an alternative to Chinese sourcing. “Tier-1 companies and OEMs are looking at alternatives and we are getting queries,” said Muralishankar. “Currently we are in the sample testing stage and it will take 8-12 months for orders to be confirmed. Till then we have to survive,” he added.Tamil Nadu is the third biggest forging cluster in India after Ludhiana-Delhi and Gujarat-Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/forging-industry-looks-at-sourcing-labour-locally-as-many-return-home/articleshow/76270384.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 9, 2020||Business||No FY21 credit growth despite govt schemes||Mumbai: Rating agency Crisil has said that bank credit growth could be zero in FY21, or at best 1%. This is despite government efforts to boost lending through schemes like the Rs 3-lakh-crore guarantee for loans to small businesses. According to Crisil, the lockdown has led to significant disruption in operations with limited capacity utilisation across sectors. This will lead to corporate loans, which account for half of bank credit, shrinking. Retail lending, which is about a fourth of overall credit and was holding fort so far, is also expected to slide amid job losses and salary cuts that will lead to reduced expenditure on discretionary items. Purchase of new homes and vehicles are expected to be delayed, impacting demand for financing. Disbursements across most asset classes will see a significant decline this fiscal. Crisil had earlier expected bank credit to grow 8-9% in FY21 before the Covid-19 crisis. The revised forecast, which lowers the credit growth number by 800 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), presumes a base case scenario of gross domestic product (GDP) contracting 5% this fiscal. What this means is that bank credit, which grew by Rs 6 lakh crore from Rs 97 lakh crore in FY19 to Rs 103 lakh crore by March 2020, will hardly grow this year. Despite the decline in disbursements, credit growth will be positive on account of lower repayments during the moratorium and capitalisation of interest accumulated. However, the remaining one-fourth of the overall credit pie — comprising micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) along with agriculture — offers some solace. MSME loans are expected to grow the most at 6-7% this fiscal, riding on the government’s stimulus package — particularly the Rs 3-lakh-crore Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line — and are likely to be driven by public sector lenders. Agricultural loans will likely grow 3-4%, supported by expectations of a normal monsoon and faster recovery in rural India from the pandemic. Overall, however, given the expected economic contraction — the first time in four decades — the banking sector is expected to witness one of its slowest years. “The uncertainty has led to increased risk aversion among lenders. While the RBI has been reducing policy rates and the government has introduced measures to encourage lending, banks continue to be risk-averse, as reflected in higher surplus liquidity parked with the central bank and the high credit spreads for most borrowers,” said Crisil Ratings director Subha Sri Narayanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-fy21-credit-growth-despite-govt-schemes/articleshow/76270465.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Business||IndusInd’s promoters seek to up stake in bank||Mumbai: Shares of IndusInd Bank gained 7% on the BSE to Rs 452 after its promoters said that they would hike stake in the private lender. On Monday, the bank shared a letter it received from its promoters — IndusInd International Holdings and IndusInd Ltd, who currently hold 14.68% stake in the bank. “We have to inform that we shall now purchase additional shares from the open market in India, within the overall regulatory prescribed promoter equity holding cap,” the promoters said. Currently, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) requires shareholding in banks to be capped at 15%. It is not clear whether IndusInd has received any dispensation for increasing promoter stake beyond this level. The holding companies were promoted by the Hinduja group to launch the first new-generation private bank in India in 1994, following the liberalisation in 1991. Ashok Hinduja, chairman of the group, had said in March that they have written to the RBI, seeking an increase in shareholding from 15% to 26%. The promoters had cited the special dispensation received by the promoters of Kotak Mahindra Bank to retain 26% holding, subject to their giving up voting rights. In the wake of the Yes Bank moratorium in March 2020, shares of IndusInd were badly beaten down with the price falling from a 56-week high of Rs 1,601 in June 2019 to Rs 235 on March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indusinds-promoters-seek-to-up-stake-in-bank/articleshow/76270423.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Pvt hosps ‘forced’ to levy extra for safety measures||Madurai: Many private hospitals in Madurai district which have started passing additional costs to the patients, said they are doing it in order to manage the rising costs of safety measures and equipment for Covid-19 including N95 masks, personal protective equipment (PPE), disinfection etc. While they maintain that the extra cost is natural and not exorbitant considering the current situation, there are no proper guidelines on it.Mostly, inpatients and patients undergoing surgeries or deliveries are charged extra. “We have not yet worked out the cost for surgeries and deliveries. PPEs, N95 masks etc. are not given at subsided rates to private hospitals. So, when we buy from the open market, the cost is high. Private hospitals are not profiting from charging patients extra but rather facing losses. We are only trying to break even with the rising costs,” said Dr A K Ravikumar, state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA).According to doctors at private hospitals, PPE overalls cost Rs 350-500 per piece and a new kit is required every patient. “For deliveries, we were using disposable HIV safety kits which too cost around the same and the charges reflect in the final bill during delivery. Similarly, the cost of PPE is also mentioned. For one delivery, in our hospital, the final bill used to come for Rs 7000-10,000. But, now it is around Rs 15,000,” said a gynaecologist from a private hospital.IMA doctors also said that the extra costs for PPEs are also not covered by insurance companies and hence patients are forced to bear it. The additional costs also vary from patient to patient depending on the type of case and treatment.Doctors from private hospitals further said that PPE kits were also being used in general wards. “Obviously, we are facing additional costs for proper periodic disinfection of the hospital and procurement of PPEs and N95 masks. The direct costs passed on to the customers is 10% of the expense. ,” said Dr S Gurushankar, president of Association of Healthcare Providers of India and chairman of Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Center. On Saturday, a bill charging Rs 100 for ‘Covid-19 disinfection’ from a private fertility clinic in Madurai had gone viral on social media drawing public ire. The post claimed that merely for using hand sanitisers, Rs 100 was charged. However, authorities at the respective private hospital refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-hosps-forced-to-levy-extra-for-safety-measures/articleshow/76271823.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL filed over funds for cows drying up in lockdown||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court raised the issue of dried up funds for the panjarapols in the state after the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic and it sought directions to the state authorities to provide funds for upkeep of the cows.Since the issue raised in the PIL was caused because of the Covid-19 situation, the high court ordered that the PIL should be tagged with the court’s Suo Motu PIL with regard to lockdown and Covid-19. The petition for the bovines will now come up for hearing on June 19, said petitioner’s advocate Pratik Thakkar.Three petitioners including tow donors from Mumbai approached the HC submitting that the funds in the panjarapols across the state have dried up after the lockdown. There is a shortage of fodder for thousands of cows kept in these cattle pounds.The petitioners also highlighted the government police that it provides Rs 25/day for one month for a cow that it placed in panjarapol. It was contended that average expenditure per animal is nearly Rs 100/day and the amount that the authorities spend after an animal for a month is paltry. The PIL seeks direction to the government authorities including Gauseva and Gaucher Vikas Board to increase the funds for proper maintenance of animals in panjarapols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-filed-over-funds-for-cows-drying-up-in-lockdown/articleshow/76270896.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana alerted about fake Aarogya Setu app||HYDERABAD: Intelligence officials have alerted various state government departments about the fake Aarogya Setu app link that was found to have originated in Pakistan. Acting on an alert issued by the central security agencies, the state intelligence wing sent a letter to various departments. In the letter it said, “Pakistan based cyber actors have initiated a campaign to compromise Android based smart phones/devices of Indian defence personnel and government officers”. “They are sending specifically crafted messages to the officials through SMS/WhatsApp, with a link to click and download a fake Aarogya Setu app. As the user tries to download the app by opening the link, a malicious app (chat me) downloads on the device and begins data exfiltration to the servers of adversary based outside India,’’ the intelligence department said in the communication. According to Hyderabad police, they have not received any complaints regarding this issue, so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-alerted-about-fake-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/76271825.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 753 students to get Rs 3.38 crore aid for research||AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided that the 753 students pursuing research in higher education will be given an assistance of Rs 3.38 crore. This was announced by education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. The assistance will be given to the students at a function organized through a webinar. Chudasama said that in order to ensure that the students get into quality research the government has launched a scheme for high-quality research. The programme will be attended by the heads of the department from various universities, vice-chancellors, PhD guides among others. Chudasama said that after the launch, the 753 students of 34 universities will be paid the first stipend amount of Rs 45,000 for three months at 15,000 per month. The amount will be paid directly in the bank accounts of the students. He said that the universities in the country are paying more importance to research. “Gujarat government has also decided to give impetus to quality research,” he said. He said any student who is enrolled in the research programme after June 1, 2018 be it a private university or a government college will be eligible for the assistance under the programme. Of 1,258 students, who had made online applications, 1,011 had uploaded their documents. Later these applications were verified at the university level by the nodal officer and when found in order, the application was forwarded to the research scrutiny committee. A total of 848 applications were received by the committee of which 753 were approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/753-students-to-get-rs-3-38-cr-aid-for-research/articleshow/76270809.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Treat muddamal as urgent matter: HC||AHMEDABAD: A day after the Bar Council of Gujarat’s representation, the Gujarat high court’s chief justice, Vikaram Nath, on Monday decided to treat the cases for muddamal (property seized in connection with criminal case) as urgent matters and ordered the benches in the high court and all district courts to grant urgent hearing to these cases. In response to the Bar’s request to the chief justice to reopen lower courts, the HC said in a circular, “In so far as physical functioning of the courts is concerned, the Committee of three Hon’ble Judges constituted for the said purpose is likely to give its report in a couple of days. After considering the same, an appropriate decision would be taken within this week.” Meanwhile, the HC as well as all lower courts have been asked to treat the matters relating to Section 451 of CrPC as urgent matters. “Therefore, urgent notes in fresh as well as pending matters relating to Section 451, CrPC be dealt with appropriately,” the circular reads. The HC has also decided at this juncture that the cases pertaining to land acquisition and motor vehicle accident claims can wait for hearing. A representation was made by the Bar on Sunday to the CJ for reopening of lower courts. The CJ assured them that the decision would be made after consulting the committee of judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/treat-muddamal-as-urgent-matter-hc/articleshow/76270840.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Collectors can now decide land premium cases of up to Rs 15 crore||GANDHINAGAR: In an important decision, the state government has empowered district collectors to decide land premium cases up to Rs 15 crore. The earlier limit was Rs 5 crore. The decision is expected to reduce file flow at the revenue department in the secretariat and decrease time taken for approvals. The revenue department, in a government resolution (GR) said, “Under the Tenancy Act, to convert new tenure land to old tenure land for agriculture or non agricultural purpose, premium approval limit power for the collector was Rs 5 crore till date and for over Rs 5 crore, it was in the powers of the government. Reducing the time limit for applicants for the said purpose was under the consideration of the government so by this GR it has been decided to increase premium case deciding powers of the collectors from present jantri value of Rs 5 crore to Rs 15 crore. For over Rs 15 crore, government’s permission will be required. All other instructions will remain same as earlier.’’ The anti-corruption bureau often receives complaints against officers of the revenue department, who seek bribes in land premium-related cases. Moreover, with collectors being given more powers to decide land premium cases, applicants will also save time and money travelling to the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/collectors-can-now-decide-land-premium-cases-of-up-to-rs-15-crore/articleshow/76270864.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FIR filed over fake Instragram account of teen girl||AHMEDABAD: A 19-year-old girl registered an FIR on Sunday with cybercrime police station of someone creating a fake Instagram ID with her photograph and phone number. The girl had made her initial complaint in January, but the police received the IP details of the accused this Saturday and called the complainant to file a formal case. The girl, who has studied up to Class 12, stated in the FIR that one of her followers on social media had messaged her to let her know that some unknown person has made her fake ID on Instagram. “On checking, she found the fake ID in with her photo taken from her original Instagram ID,” said a police source According to the FIR, to learn who had created her fake ID, she messaged that person on the fake ID from her original ID to ask why he had made her fake ID. “However that person told her that he is based in America and asked the complainant girl to give her mobile number. After some time that person called the complainant on her number, but the girl has stated that she can’t recall the number from where the call had come,” said a police official. The girl has further stated in her FIR that the person who had faked her ID has put the screenshot of their talk and her number on the fake Instagram ID. “Soon the girl started receiving messages from unknown people. She called up one of the numbers and asked the account holder from where he got her number. The account holder said that the he got the number from her Instagram ID,” added a cyber-cell official. The girl had first approached cybercrime police station on January 20. “We got the IP log address of the device from which the girl’s fake Instagram ID was made on Saturday and hence registered a case against an unknown person. We will soon round up the accused,” added a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-filed-over-fake-instragram-account-of-teen-girl/articleshow/76270933.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Secret cavity to hide liquor found in car||AHMEDABAD: With the first phase of the undoing of the lockdown, ‘Unlock-1’ in progress, police are cracking down on bootleggers and the liquor mafia. In Ramol on Sunday, police caught two persons, Govindsinh Chauhan and Dilipsinh Chudavat, from the basement of Naiya Business Complex near Vastral Crossroads. The two had made a special chamber below the back seat of a car, to store liquor. Cops found 24 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in the chamber. “They confessed that they had got the IMFL bottles to deliver to customers. Both have been sent for Covid-19 tests before they can be arrested,” said a senior Ramol police official. In another incident, Amraiwadi police raided a gambling den in Kaliya Estate near Rabari Colony Crossroads and caught eight persons gambling. Those held were Dinesh Marwadi, Ishwar Marwadi, Babulal Marwadi, Dinesh Patel, Mukesh Patel, Ashish Chauhan, Rahul Goswami and Pavan Pareva. “We recovered playing cards, their vehicles and mobile phones worth a total of Rs 2.65 lakh . They will be sent for Covid-19 tests before we arrest them,” said a senior Amraiwadi police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-found-to-have-secret-cavity-to-hide-liquor/articleshow/76270946.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for extortion note in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths on Monday arrested Anup Devnath Gajbhiye of Bopal for dropping an extortion note in front of a bungalow. The chit was dropped into the bungalow in Satyagrah Chavni area on May 4, and demanded Rs 20 lakh.Crime branch sources said that the accused had written in the chit that if the money was not paid, the family would be killed. The complainant, who does not want to disclose his identity, had approached special commissioner of police Ajay Tomar. A team under police inspector N R Brahmbhatt was formed. “Scanning thousands of numbers of phones whose owners were near the area, and using human intelligence, we nabbed nabbed Gajbiye near Bopal Bridge,” Brahmbhatt said. Crime branch sources said that the accused hails from Nagpur and was working in a private company in the city. “However, due to disputes with his colleagues he had to quit. To take revenge, he had dropped the chit,” said a crime branch source. “He did not know the bungalow owner. He had picked the house randomly.” The accused has been sent for a Covid-19 test after which he will handed over to Satellite police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-extortion-note/articleshow/76270917.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Patna||‘Maoists’ torch earth-moving machines, assault three men||PATNA: A group of suspected Maoists allegedly set three earth-moving machines on fire and brutally assaulted some employees of a private road construction company in Jamui district on Sunday night. Construction work on the Bishanpur-Patharia Road under Bongi panchayat came to a halt as workers escaped from the camp office, fearing threat to their lives. According to police, around 15 armed men swooped down on the construction site around midnight when workers were sleeping after parking the machines on the campus of a nearby government school. The attackers asked the staff of the firm to pour petrol on the machines and set them on fire. However, when three of them, Dilip Kumar, Deva Kumar and Subhash Kumar, defied their diktats, they were brutally assaulted. Later, the suspected extremists torched all the three machines and escaped with cash and cellphones snatched from the employees. Sources claimed that the Maoists were sore over the arrest of two fellow activists from a village falling under the Chakai police station area in the district on Sunday. Jamui additional SP (operations) Sudhanshu Kumar told this newspaper that the functionaries of the construction company had not lodged any complaint related to either demand of extortion or threat to the employees, earlier. Chakai police station SHO R K Tiwari said raids were on to arrest the culprits. “The attackers retaliated against the police operation in which two hardcore Maoists were arrested from Saron village on Sunday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoists-torch-earth-moving-machines-assault-three-men/articleshow/76268900.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Patna||Eurasian skylarks, other rare birds spotted in Bihar||PATNA: A Bihar-based bird watcher, Naveen Kumar, recently spotted a flock of Eurasian skylarks in the Ganga diara area. This is arguably the first time that Eurasian skylarks have been spotted in the state. According to experts, these migratory birds are spotted only in north Indian states during the winter season. They are found in cultivated and fallow land as well as around wetland. Naveen spotted the birds while he was boating with others in the Ganga diara area last Sunday. At first, he could not identify the birds as they looked similar to the oriental skylarks. However, he captured the images in his camera. Naveen said Eurasian skylarks look much larger than the oriental skylarks, with a longer tail and relatively shorter bill. “These larks are different from the others because of the distinct bushy crest on their heads and a beak with a curve to the tip of the upper mandible and nostrils. The beak is partially covered by feathers,” Naveen said. He added, “The larks’ song is the most musical and their flight is relatively relaxed with slower wing beats. This is an unusual sighting in Bihar. It is encouraging for bird enthusiasts to see these large, streaked brown larks with a short crest.” Meanwhile, state coordinator of Indian Bird Conservation Network (IBCN) Arvind Mishra also spotted rare species of birds in Bhagalpur’s Ganga area. Flocks of falcated duck were spotted after 25 years in the district. He also spotted grey povers. “I first spotted falcated duck (gadwall-sized dabbling duck from the east Palearctic) in 1995 in Bhagalpur. After that, these ducks were sighted in Jamui in 2018 and 2019. Male duck can be identified with a rainbow-like head that flashes green and copper, a silvery body and dark green eyes. Brownish females resemble female gadwall but have a dark bill,” Mishra said. He added, “As far as grey plover is concerned, it is the first sighting in the state. These birds can be found in Artic coastal region. They can be identified because of their white and silvery-grey back, black beak and legs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eurasian-skylarks-other-rare-birds-spotted-in-bihar/articleshow/76268950.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: Hotels, eateries open up with hope & prayer on lips||PATNA: Hotels and restaurants in the city resumed their operations on Monday opening up for guest check-ins, private dining services and banquets after a gap of more than two months due to the Covid- 19 lockdown. As expected some hotels got lukewarm response on Day 1 of re-opening while a few in posh areas claimed it was a good start for them. Guests were allowed in after thermal screening and a sanitisation procedure which included, walking through a disinfectant tunnel, hand-sanitisation and luggage sanitisation. Akhil Kochhar, vice-president of a private hotel at Beerchand Patel Marg was satisfied with the response citing 15 bookings at its private dine-in area for lunch and 10 check-ins on the first day. “I feel customers’ confidence is a little low but soon we will regain their confidence. We had a few guests for dine-in area at lunch and a few people booked tables for tomorrow as well. The private dine-in space has given some confidence to our guests. Also, we have purchased fogging machines to sanitise the rooms,” Kochhar said. BD Singh, the general manager of a five-star hotel near South Gandhi Maidan said the customers flow at the dine- in area was good. “We received 7- 8 bookings for dine- in, however, only two people check- in at the hotel,” he said. Some customers appeared satisfied with the new arrangements and safety precautions taken by the hotels and restaurants. Vijay Kumar Yadav, who dine- in with his family at a hotel in Frazer road said they were sanitised before entering the private dine-in area. “We came from Sitamrahi for some family function here in Patna. We stayed at the hotel for a day. Everything was perfect, we got e- menu on our mobile phone and payment was also digital. Everything we got here was packed in plastic,” he said. However, Mohd Ziaullah Khan, owner of two private hotels on Bailey Road, said the market was dull on Monday. “We haven’t received any guests or bookings. A few people called for queries about the booking, rates and other information. I think it will take time to win back the customers’ confidence,” he said. Standalone restaurants, however, claimed that they received not more than 30% of their pre-lockdown figure of daily customers. “The footfall was quite low. It will take time for people to beat the fear and have enough trust to come out again,” said Shibu Kumar of a restaurant at Saguna More. He added, “Proper distancing is being maintained between tables. We have even reduced the numbers of tables to provide a safe experience to customers. Besides, every visitor is being screened at the entrance.” Hospitality manager of a restaurant in Rajvanshi Nagar, Vishal believed people are still unaware about the reopening of eateries. “We are making people aware that we are open for dine-in now. Apart from this, we are also sending them messages about the hygiene norms we are following,” he said. Some restaurant visitors this paper spoke to said they were not entirely at ease. Boring Road resident Satyam Kapoor, who along with his two friends visited a restaurant for lunch, said even after taking all necessary precautions, he felt unsafe. “People are still taking things very lightly. Most of them removed their masks after entering the restaurant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hotels-eateries-open-up-with-hope-prayer-on-lips/articleshow/76269164.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 9, 2020||Patna||Patna zoo, parks to reopen from Tuesday||PATNA: The Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, and all other big parks in the city will reopen on Tuesday for visitors from 5.30am and 10.30am with restrictions in place for preventing Covid-19 spread. This arrangement will continue till further orders. Only those parks with proper security and other arrangements, like Rajdhani Vatika (Eco Park), Veer Kunwar Singh Park and S K Puri Children’s Park, will open. The zoo will be open only six days a week (except Mondays), said principal secretary of department of environment, forest and climate change, Dipak Kumar Singh, on Monday. He said boating, golf cart riding, toy train, theatre hall (Interpretation Centre), Children’s Park and zoological areas would remain closed till further orders. “There are two reasons behind the reduced timing — people generally avoid outings during summer and no visitor is allowed in the zoological section and other facilities for the time being. So, limited number of people would come. We would see the response of people for a week and then decide about the reopening of other facilities,” Dipak said and added: “As per the Centre’s guidelines related to Covid-19 pandemic, people above 65 and below 10 years and pregnant women should avoid coming to the zoo.” The zoo authorities said limited number of people would be allowed. Their movement would be closely monitored through the CCTV cameras and by security personnel. Zoo director Amit Kumar said visitors would be allowed only in botanical areas, which is almost 70 acre of the premises. “Barricading has been done at several points to stop people from entering the zoological areas. Guards are also deputed. Markings have been made for people to follow the botanical areas only,” he said. An advisory has also been issued for the visitors, like wearing face mask, which they can purchase from the ticket counters also. Thermal screening of all visitors will be done at the entry point. People suffering from fever, cough and cold will not be allowed inside the zoo. The visitors have to carry their own hand sanitizer and water bottles as a precautionary measure. Spitting is strictly prohibited. Social distancing norm has to be maintained at water points and washrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-zoo-parks-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/76269305.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: After virtual classes, it’s time for online exams now||PATNA: After conducting virtual classes for nearly two months amid the Covid-19 lockdown, educational institutes are holding online examinations and mock tests to analyse the students’ performance. Many of them have made necessary arrangements that include creation of usernames and passwords for pupils. The students of classes I to X of Litera Valley School appeared for a five-day long online examination last week. Principal Sharat Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Monday, “At first, they took an online test with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). Later, our teachers gave them subjective questions that they downloaded and answered within a stipulated time. After the exam, they scanned the sheets and mailed them to the respective teachers.” He added, “We will publish the results once the teachers have corrected the sheets.” Meanwhile, colleges and institutes like Development Management Institute (DMI) and Indian Institute of Technology-Patna (IIT-P) held virtual exams on Monday. DMI dean Niraj Kumar said, “We had subjective and objective papers. In the latter, students answered MCQs that were automatically saved in our software.” At IIT-P, altogether 350 final year students of different programmes took an online test on Monday. Joydeep Chandra, professor in charge of the computer centre, said, “Keeping in mind the future of our students, who will now step into the outside world for jobs, we took this step.” The IIT-P had also conducted a mock test for its undergraduate and postgraduate students in May-end. St Xavier’s College and St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology (SXCMT), on the other hand, held online internal exams of undergraduate students on Monday. SXCMT student Sahil Verma said, “I appeared for an online test with MCQs. It was a new experience for me.” Online presentations: Some institutes are encouraging their students to give online presentations. St Xavier’s College of Education (SXCE), for instance, is holding mock tests, debates, quizzes and PowerPoint (PPT) presentations for the teacher trainees. “The students prepared PPTs and presented them online in front of a group of panellists with the help of a mobile application. They were also given marks,” SXCE faculty member Deep Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/after-virtual-classes-its-time-for-online-exams-now/articleshow/76268334.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 9, 2020||Kochi||Need not open churches in unsafe circumstances: KCBC||KOCHI: Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) on Monday came out with a statement that the policy of the Church is that churches need not be opened in situations where safety cannot be ensured. “There has been a demand from various corners that worship, a basic need of people, should be brought back to normal when other aspects like travel, construction activities, government offices et al are also being brought back to normalcy. The restricted permission was given under these circumstances by the governments. Churches have the compulsion that it should be opened for worship only by strictly following these restrictions. In circumstances where safety cannot be ensured, there is no need to open churches,” KCBC said. It added that in case of reopening, if there is a chance of a spread of infection, then the rituals should be stopped. “Concerned archdioceses can act with wisdom in these aspects and all Catholic dioceses are following this pattern,” said the statement. Jacobite Syrian Christian Church also came out with a statement late on Monday urging faithful to open churches only in areas where it is safe. “The situation has changed from the time in which the Church leaders demanded the reopening of churches... Churches should be opened only in locations where it is sure that all government restrictions and the previously issued reopening guidelines from the Church can be followed,” said a statement from Joseph Mar Gregorios, Metropolitan Trustee of the Jacobite Church. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/need-not-open-churches-in-unsafe-circumstances-kcbc/articleshow/76269464.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Patna||Dusty rallies to make way for digital electioneering in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar is gearing-up for the country’s first digital electioneering since Independence. The Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant social distancing norms have forced almost all major political parties to start preparations for tapping the digital media. Bihar deputy CM and senior state BJP leader’s recent prediction digital electioneering this time seems to have turned into reality with the BJP blowing the poll bugle with union home minister Amit Shah’s digital rally on Sunday. “As per feedback received from different mediums on which the digital rally was broadcast more than 1.5 crore people watched it across Bihar,” SuMo told TOI on Monday. He added, “Conventional method of door-to-door campaigning will also be used as lockdown eases but traditional public meets are unlikely this time.” Senior leaders of other political parties are also exploring the virtual medium to interact with their workers and functionaries ahead of the crucial elections. JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar launched the digital election campaign of his party on Sunday by interacting with booth-level officer-bearers in five districts and followed it up on Monday with functionaries of eight more districts. LJP chief Chirag Paswan as well as leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly Tejshwi Prasad Yadav have also been holding video-conferencing sessions to interact with functionaries and workers. Congress legislature party (CLP) leader and the oldest MLA in Bihar, Sadanand Singh, agreed that the coming elections will be fought differently. “I won the first assembly election in 1969 from Kahalgaon using door- to- door campaigning and small public meets in villages. With the advancement of technology, the electioneering method evolved and the Covid-19 pandemic has necessitated digital platforms as the only safe method of electioneering. And it is very much feasible as even people in rural areas as well since even daily wagers carry mobile phones now,” Singh told TOI on Monday. He added, “Initially it was difficult for old-timers like me to get acquainted with new technologies but we at Congress have been conducting online meetings with party workers at village and block level for more than two years now.” Experts believe digital means have far better reach and are more efficient. “Covid-19 or not, digital platforms have gradually evolved as most viable option for reaching out to masses. All political parties have to re-invent themselves to get used to them and the lockdown has only acted as a catalyst,” political observer and member secretary of Patna-based Asian Development Research and Institute (ADRI) said. However, apprehension are being raised about the limitations for smaller regional parties in competing with bigger players in the digital battle zone. “BJP can organize large scale digital rallies as they have the resources. But how will smaller regional parties like HAM (S) or RLSP manage digital electioneering,” RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said. But others believe that expenditure on digital electioneering is comparatively less. “Organising digital rallies is the cheapest mode of election campaigning. Several lakhs, manpower and time involved in organizing conventional rallies is also saved in organizing digital rallies,” SuMo said. CLP leader Sadanand Singh also said digital electioneering will keep a tab on usage of money and manpower in elections to a large extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dusty-rallies-to-make-way-for-digital-electioneering-in-bihar/articleshow/76268849.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 9, 2020||Patna||5,000+ and counting: Experts say no flattening of curve in sight in Bihar||PATNA: Health experts feel the Covid-19 curve is not going to flatten soon as cases are increasing exponentially and the first phase of unlocking has just begun. The number of Covid-19 cases reached 5,070 in Bihar on Sunday and 3,615 of them infected were migrants, who returned since May 3. Bihar recorded over 1,000 new cases since June 4 only. The first three cases in state were recorded on March 22 and the number crossed 100 on April 20, 500 on May 3 and then 1,000 on May 15. The figure doubled on May 22 and crossed 3,000-mark on May 27. “The number of Covid positive cases is going to shoot further. The state government needs to be ready accordingly with regard to the number of beds and infrastructure required,” said noted public health expert T Sundararaman, former head of the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s National Health Systems Resource Centre. When asked if there could be any slowdown in new cases as migrants are not coming any more, he replied, “Many migrants with viruses have already entered the state. Now they will pass it on to their relatives and contacts and chances of spreading it further increases. All those having any Covid symptom should be tested immediately.” He advised the government to further increase the number of tests to know the real scenario. “In terms of Bihar, the government should at least do 10,000 tests in a day,” he said. Muzaffarpur-based paediatrician Dr Arun Shah said cases would further increase. “With relaxations, we have opened a Pandora’s box and we keep our fingers crossed. There is no doubt that community transmission is there in the country. The only silver lining is low fatality rate,” he said. Country’s noted virologist and former head of ICMR’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology, Dr T Jacob John, said the government should immediately start planning for future as testing is not the solution. “Test is to tell us which way the wind is blowing. Now the government should pro-actively start planning in terms of beds, manpower and equipment. Training of nurses and doctors should be done. The government should also identify the vulnerable people and protect them to keep the mortality rate in check.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5k-and-counting-experts-say-no-flattening-of-curve-in-sight-in-bihar/articleshow/76268406.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: PPU assistant professors rue delay in salary payment||PATNA: The recently appointed assistant professors working in different constituent colleges under Patliputra University (PPU) claimed they have not been paid their salaries since November 2019, causing much hardships, especially during the lockdown period. Altogether 70 to 80 assistant professors were appointed on the recommendation of Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) on June 3, 2019 and posted to the PPU colleges by the state education department in November 2019. They said majority of them have come from other states and are living in rented accommodations. As such, they have to pay rent and manage other household expenses. ‘One cannot survive without financial support, particularly when there is no other source of livelihood in the city due to the lockdown,” an aggrieved teacher said, wishing anonymity. Patliputra University Teachers’ Association president A K Singh Thakur demanded regular payment of salaries and threatened to resort to a direct course of action, if the teachers’ demands were not fulfilled soon. However, PPU media incharge Prof B K Manglam said the university had paid salary for March 2020 to them and asked the college principals concerned to submit bill details of each of the newly appointed teachers at the earliest to the university office to expedite salary payments to them due for the rest six months. Webinar: The College of Commerce, Arts and Science, a constituent unit of Patliputra University, organized a webinar on ‘Living Under the Shadow of Covid-19’ on Monday. College principal Prof Tapan Kumar Shandilya presided over the webinar. Head of the English department, Prof Saloni Kumar, was the convener. On Sunday, the college had organized a webinar on ‘National Resource Management in India: Post Covid-19 Scenario’. Several academics and students of the college participated in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-assistant-professors-rue-delay-in-salary-payment/articleshow/76268930.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Patna||Shopping malls in Patna come back to life, finally||PATNA: Traders did a brisk business in the city as shopping malls reopened after more than two months of lockdown on Monday. With several people stepping in to shop and eat, executives at the malls were busy ensuring adherence to social distancing norms. They said the common areas were disinfected on an hourly basis and the body temperature of the visitors was checked with infra-red thermometer. Asharam Singh, chief security officer at a shopping mall on Patliputra-Kurji Road, said 6,000 people visited the establishment on Monday. “The mall used to register footfall of 20,000 people per day before the lockdown. As the multiplex, game zone and most restaurants are shut, very few people visited the mall on Monday,” he said. Singh said stickers have been pasted at the shops to help visitors maintain social distancing. “The employees wore masks, gloves and encouraged the use of sanitisers,” he said. Ankur Chopra, marketing head at a mall on Fraser Road, however, said the footfall of customers was more than the expectation. “As the mall opened after more than two months, people mostly did need-based and luxury shopping,” he said. One Hansika, who was spotted at a mall on Fraser Road at 2pm, said, “I bought gift for my friend. The safety measures were quite good unlike the normal shops where people are not adhering to guidelines issued by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shopping-malls-in-patna-come-back-to-life-finally/articleshow/76268518.cms||Archi Rani
June 9, 2020||Business||Credit risk funds bleed for 14th month in a row||MUMBAI: Credit risk funds, the type of mutual fund scheme at the core of troubles for Franklin Templeton MF, saw net outflows of over Rs 4,700 crore in May. This was the 14th consecutive month of outflows from these schemes since the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) started publishing segregated data on various types of MFs. From a high of nearly Rs 80,000 crore that credit risk funds managed at the end of April 2019, total assets under management (AUM) by this high-risk category of schemes was at Rs 35,222 crore as of April 2020. This further fell to Rs 30,469 crore by May end. Between March and April of this year, the total outflow from credit risk funds was a staggering Rs 20,158 crore, while in May the loss was limited to Rs 4,754 crore, Amfi data showed. On a conference call, the MF industry trade body Amfi’s chief executive N S Venkatesh said that the slide in AUM loss from credit risk funds has more or less been arrested. Industry sources said that the outflow had started soon after IL&FS defaulted on its loans in September 2018 and the slide has continued since then. The outflow was a little over 36% in April 2020, after Franklin Templeton MF announced on April 23 the closure of six of its debt schemes, including its credit risk fund. “On the debt side, investors taking advantage of the conducive reducing interest rates trend and shift towards high quality AAA-rated papers has resulted in a steady rise in the net flows. Credit risk concerns have ebbed, following regulatory support, and redemptions have come down…we would see investors allocating higher quantum of savings to high quality debt paper,” Venkatesh said. Monday’s monthly data disclosure by Amfi also showed that the total AUM of the fund industry showed an uptick of almost Rs 71,000 crore, or 2.9%, to Rs 24.5 lakh crore, despite volatile stocks and debt markets, and an extremely weak outlook for the economy, Venkatesh said. The industry wide net inflow for the month was aided by strong net purchases into liquid funds (Rs 61,871 crore) and arbitrage funds (Rs 10,806 crore), Amfi data showed. Net inflows through systematic investment plans (SIPs), on the other hand, showed a slight dip, but the monthly figure was still in the Rs 8,000-crore-plus range for the 18th consecutive month. Against a net inflow figure of Rs 8,376 crore in April 2020, total inflow through SIPs for May was Rs 8,123 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-risk-funds-bleed-for-14th-month-in-a-row/articleshow/76270454.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Of 405 deaths, 21% were above 75 years in West Bengal||KOLKATA: About 36.4% of deaths among Covid patients in Bengal have been in the age group of 60 and above. Among them, those who were 75 and above were more at risk, contributing to 21.1% of all deaths of Covid patients in the state. An analysis of all 405 deaths of Covid patients in Bengal by the health department on Monday did not classify the deaths as “due to Covid” and “due to co-morbidities”, clubbing all together instead. Till June 7, Bengal had reported 72 deaths due to co-morbidities. Among them, 52 were reported in Kolkata. While 4.7% of the Covid-positive patients have died, 40.2% have been treated and discharged from hospitals. Bengal, till Monday, had treated and discharged 3,465 cases. Kolkata has reported 260 of the state’s 405 deaths and accounted for 1,471 of the 4,743 active Covid cases in Bengal. A health department study of all 405 deaths in Bengal indicated that in 65.6% cases, the deceased had co-morbid conditions. These conditions were mostly hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, chronic kidney disease (CKD) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Some cases were being treated for malignancy and few others were on dialysis. These diseases were acutely prevalent in victims who were 60 years old and above. The other facet which came out in the study dealt with death in women where hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases and CKD were present in 79% of cases. In men, these were present in 75% of cases. Malignancy and COPD, however, appeared more in case of the men who fell victim to Covid. The data also revealed that people in the 0-45 age group only formed 2.5% of the deaths in Bengal. In this case, the fatalities have been the least in the 16-30 age group, which experts said was due to high immunity levels. The Union health ministry data suggested that Bengal’s deaths were lower than Maharashtra (3,060), Gujarat (1,249), Delhi (812) and Madhya Pradesh (412). However, Bengal recorded a sharp spike in cases with 426 testing posit-ive on June 7, 128 among them in Kolkata. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged people to be careful and maintain social distance. The trend of Covid cases being reported from districts, which have witnessed a huge migrant influx, continued. Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and North 24 Parganas reported a significant number of Covid positive cases on June 7. Bengal has 22,731 people in institutional quarantine and 1.5 lakh in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/of-405-deaths-21-were-above-75-yrs/articleshow/76270274.cms||Saibal Sen
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal increases pay of frontline Covid-19 warriors||KOLKATA: The West Bengal government has enhanced the stipend for junior doctors in the state, bringing cheer among the frontline Covid warriors during this pandemic. Minister of state health for health and family welfare Chandrima Bhattacharya announced the hike for interns, house staff, post-graduate trainees and post-doctoral trainees on Monday. The doctors said this will encourage them to work harder during this tough time. “We, as young doctors, are really happy with this stipend hike. It will definitely boost the morale of thousands of junior doctors like me working hard during this period of pandemic,” said Saurav Sarkar, an intern at SSKM Hospital. “These junior doctors are our warriors and they are working very hard. The chief minister, despite this economic crisis, has enhanced their stipend in recognition and appreciation of the hard work these junior doctors are putting up,” Bhattacharya said. “Around 10,000 junior doctors will benefit from this hike and the stipend amount will keep increasing from time to time as and when DA is implemented,” she added. Even though junior doctors from different medical colleges had raised several issues, including the insufficient number of personal protection equipment (PPE) and masks available, none had taken to cease-work. They said that now the supply of masks and PPE is regular and the enhanced stipend will encourage them to work harder. “It is a welcome move recognizing the efforts by junior doctors, especially the interns who had just started work when the pandemic reached India. They will be hugely encouraged,” said Indrajit Malik, a third-year post-graduate trainee in surgery at NRS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-increases-pay-of-frontline-covid-warriors/articleshow/76270543.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 9, 2020||Business||Gold loans shine among small businesses||CHENNAI: There is heightened interest for gold loans among borrowers as more farmers, small merchants and businesses kick-start stalled economic activity. Gold loans are the easiest and the fastest to be processed and disbursed and, with the rising rates of the yellow metal, more money is now available for the same gram. According to RBI norms, 75% of the value of pawned gold can be lent. Sample this: Private lender City Union Bank has seen a 7% spike in gold loan disbursements (when the normal average growth is 3%). Also, the average ticket size has doubled from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3.5-Rs 4 lakh. The demand has increased in districts that fall in green zones, like Thanjavur, Madurai and Trichy in Tamil Nadu, indicating resumption of economic activity. “We have disbursed Rs 60-crore gold loans, of which Rs 40 crore are new sanctions, in the last one month. The cost of borrowings stands at an average of 11% for gold loans and 9% for priority sector agri-gold loans,” said City Union Bank DGM R Lakshminarayan. Non-banking finance company Manappuram Finance said the average ticket size of loans in this segment has seen a marginal rise from about Rs 38,500 to Rs 41,000, driven by higher gold prices. “With resumption of business operations, there is some uptick in demand. Though it is yet to come back to pre-lockdown levels,” its MD and CEO V P Nandakumar said. “Understandably, metro and urban locations are seeing higher demand, as we are yet to see a material uptick in rural and semi-urban areas. However, new customer acquisition had come to a halt during the lockdown,” he said. The lender expects a 10%-12% YoY growth this year. Another private lender IIFL Finance has disbursed over Rs 700 crore in May 2020. Its head of gold loans product, Saurabh Kumar, said, “The demand for gold loans has gone up significantly after resuming operations in tier-2 and -3 cities where we have significant presence. Initially, we didn’t see a big spike in numbers because of mobility restrictions. However, towards the last week, footfalls in branches increased along with disbursal of loans. Top-ups on existing loans contributed more than 15% of overall disbursals.” The SBI, in its March quarter earnings statements, said it has sanctioned 4.5 lakh new gold loans in FY20. The bank also said personal gold loans have received excellent (compared to previous year) response. Federal Bank said they have seen a 10x spike in demand for gold loans in May over April, with over a fourth from tier-2 and -3 centres. The bank’s VP Mohan K said, “Gold loan demand shot up nearly 10x in May, with the average ticket size rising from Rs 1.1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh in the last one month.” State-owned Indian Bank, which merged Allahabad Bank with itself, has seen a 10% rise in the average ticket size of gold loans at Rs 88,000. About 3.30 lakh accounts availed of gold loans, amounting to Rs 3,000 crore, in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-loans-shine-among-small-businesses/articleshow/76270349.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad flooded in just two hours of rain||AHMEDABAD: The monsoon preparedness of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation washed away in just two hours of rain as almost all underpasses became closed for traffic. A wall collapse was reported from Mithakhali underpass which was recently opened after widening. The city reported heavy rains between 4pm and 6pm on Monday. The highest rainfall in city for the day, 74mm, was reported from Gota, followed by 66.5mm in Bodakdev area. The heavy rains once again led to waterlogging in at least eight places and five incident of tree uprooting were reported from the West and North-West zones of the city. Waterlogging was reported from near Vastrapur and Panchkrut Apartment in the North-West zone and waterlogging was reported from Helmet Crossroads, AEC Crossroads, Pallav Crossroads and Ankur Crossroads in the West Zone. Helmet and AEC crosrroads have been reporting waterlogging every year. AMC officials said two trees were uprooted near Ashram Road - one near City Gold and one near Bata showroom. Another tree was uprooted near the passport office. The city reported 30.97mm of rain on Monday, and since June 1 it has received 76.48mm of rain. Officials said 3,322 cusecs of water was released from Vasna Barrage, and as the flow increased in the river the AMC and irrigation department decided to release water downstream. The weather officials said that the maximum temperature came down to 36.8C which was 3.9 degree below normal, while the minimum temperature that is the night temperature was 26C which was also 2 degree below normal. IMD officials said that an upper-air cyclonic circulation over Gujarat and neighbourhood areas persisted on Monday. Heavy rainfall was recorded in parts of Amreli and Jamnagar in past 24 hours, they added. “Thunderstorm with lightning accompanied by gusty wind (30-40 kmph) could be expected on Tuesday in almost all districts of Gujarat. Heavy to very heavy rainfall expected in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Kheda, Surendranagar, Morbi, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Rajkot, Botad, Jamnagar and Kutch on Tuesday,” said an IMD official. Wall Collapse at MithakhaliAt least 10 feet of a boundary wall of Mithakhali underpass toward the side coming from Mithakhali to Ashram Road collapsed. No one was reported injured. AMC officials rushed to the spot and cleared the area immediately. However, a residential society is situated adjacent to the damaged wall. Officials said further rain can wash off the mud and earth, and the nearby flats, which are vacant, may collapse. Staff from the road project were rushed to the spot and work for protection of the wall has begun on a war footing. Underpasses ClosedAMC staff said that all underpasses in the city including the Shahibaugh underpass which leads to the airport were closed for traffic on Monday during rain. The waterlogging was cleared soon after rain stopped. Boy injured as tree falls on him A 13-year-old boy suffered injuries on his head as a tree fell on him when he was walking near Sutharwava locality in the Gomtipur area of the city on Monday. The boy, Sabir Maniar, a resident of Samsherbaug in Gomtipur, was taken to Shardaben hospital in Saraspur where he received 10 stitches on his head. A local councillor Iqbal Shaikh demanded an inquiry against erring officers of garden department alleging that various representations have been made to trim tree branches but no actions were taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-flooded-in-just-two-hours-of-rain/articleshow/76270730.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||SEZ exports show signs of improvement||AHMEDABAD: After taking a massive hit in April, exports from Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in Gujarat are now showing signs of improvement. The exports from 20 operational SEZs in Gujarat declined by 5% in May. The fall was steeper at 60% in April due to the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. The exports are expected to be normalize by July. The total exports from Gujarat’s functional SEZs stood at Rs 6,757 crore in May, which is 5% lower than Rs 7,085 crore registered in May 2019. As against this, exports had plummeted by whopping 60% to Rs 5,903 crore in April 2020 from Rs 14,700 crore in the corresponding month of the previous year, said sources citing government data. On month-over-month basis, exports in May show an increase of 16% over April 2020. “The month of April was disastrous for exports with production units remaining completely shut for the most part of the month due to lockdown measures,” said a source. “Even after relaxations, the disruption in raw material supply chain, the reduction in movement of ships and the cancellation of orders took a heavy toll on exports in April,” the source added. The exports, however, started improving with production units in SEZs gradually resuming operations after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) granted permissions to manufacturing units in SEZs to operate from April 20. Almost all SEZ units are now operational. Although there are issues related to the availability labour, production units have increased their shifts to overcome the problem of workforce shortage. As a result, production has remain unaffected by the labour shortage, added people in the know. With opening up of foreign markets and shipping lines operations getting smooth, exports are likely to normalize by July and reach on a par with exports registered in the same month last year. Some industry players even see a growth in monthly exports by July. Seven of the 20 functional SEZs posted an increase in their exports in May over the corresponding month last year. These include names like Reliance SEZ, Dahej SEZ, GIFT SEZ, TCS and L&T’s IT/ITes SEZs in Gandhinagar and Vadodara respectively, said people in the know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sez-exports-show-signs-of-improvement/articleshow/76270788.cms||Kalpesh Damor
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Over 100 out of 212 cops defeat coronavirus||KOLKATA: Around 212 Kolkata Police personnel have tested positive for Covid, but at least one in every two cops has recovered and several have rejoined work. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that frontline workers, particularly members of the organized force — police, CISF, CRPF, drivers — who are more exposed due to their jobs, have been victims. “I gathered from today’s Covid update that 20 policemen have contracted the virus,” the CM said. Among those who tested positive in the past 48 hours are officers from Regent Park police station. However, after many efforts, the case surge at Police Training School has been arrested. “Everyone’s health is being monitored at the unit level. There is no news of a special committee being formed for this,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. Across the nation, MHA has said that 55 police and CAPF personnel have died, 5,828 have tested positive and another 10,781 have been quarantined. Sources said with rise in number, facilities were bolstered at Dumurjola police quarantine centre where a doctor is now constantly available. Senior officers have also hailed the perseverance of assistant sub-inspector Atul Chandra Das from Garfa police station, who managed to beat Covid despite a 70% heart blockage, and Pragati Maidan OC Chandan Roy, who completely recovered despite suffering from diabetes. The death of a 47-year-old constable suffering from Covid two days ago, the first in Kolkata Police, put the spotlight back on the battalion barracks that have reported multiple cases and a protest. Commissioner Anuj Sharma has now ordered DCs and joint CPs to ensure voices from the battalion are heard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-100-out-of-212-cops-defeat-corona/articleshow/76270428.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 9, 2020||Varanasi||CM opens e-Rudrabhishek facility at KVT, reviews Kashi Vishwanath Dham work||VARANASI: Ahead of reopening of Kashi Vishwanath Temple on Tuesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday reached the temple and launched the facility of e-Rudrabhishek. He also reviewed the progress of the Kashi Vishwanath Dam (corridor) project in the evening. Yogi also inaugurated TrueNAT machines for Covid-19 testing at non-Covid-19 hospitals — SPG Divisional hospital of Varanasi and district hospital in Azamgarh — to enable seamless health services for the patients suffering from other ailments. The CM’s chopper landed at Police Lines ground in Varanasi at around 6 pm. After holding a brief meeting with public representatives of Bharatiya Janata Party, he reached Kashi Vishwanath temple. After bowing before Lord Vishwanath at the sanctum sanctorum from some distance, he inaugurated the e-Ridrabhishek facility at the temple, said chief executive officer of KVT Vishal Singh adding, that this ritual would be performed with the help of tabs by a batch of eight priests being trained to perform e-Rudrabhishek. Before leaving the temple premises Yogi also inspected the ongoing construction work inside the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project area and asked the officials to ensure its timely completion. From the temple, the CM reached SPG divisional hospital and inaugurated the TrueNAT machine there to start Covid-19 test facilities there. Earlier, the CM’s chopper landed at Azamgarh Police Lines in the afternoon, where after holding a meeting with BJP leaders, he visited the district hospital and inaugurated the newly installed TrueNAT machine. He also took stock of the condition of Covid-19 facilities in the district, condition of the doctors and supporting staff. Before leaving Azamgarh, he held a meeting with the officials of district administration, police, health and other departments at the Police Lines auditorium. He said that hospitals in the state have been divided into Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 facilities. Infected persons are being treated at Covid-19 facilities, he said adding that in non-Covid-19 hospitals patients suffering from other ailments are being treated. To ensure that patients at non-Covid hospitals are being treated properly, the TrueNAT machines are being installed in all 75 districts, and in case of doubt about infection in any patient the doctors will get the sample tested with this machine within one and half hour. Currently 15,000 samples are being tested in the state per day and efforts are on to enhance the testing capacity, he said adding that more than four lakh people have been screened in UP while facility of ventilators is being ensured in all the districts. He said that 1.57 lakh migrants including 85,900 labourers and skilled workers have returned to their homes in Azamgarh district since May 1 . Among 34 lakh labourers, who have been given financial help of Rs 1,000 each, 54,000 labourers are from Azamgarh, he said highlighting other initiatives of his government to give financial support to labourers, beneficiaries of various schemes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-opens-e-rudrabhishek-facility-at-kvt-reviews-kv-dham-work/articleshow/76269135.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||NBMCH to go back to normal ops||Siliguri: North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) will returned to normal functioning of all departments from Tuesday rather than restricting itself to emergency cases. With at least eight doctors testing positive, and 35 healthcare workers and 22 nurses attached with NBMCH sent into quarantine, the hospital on Saturday had decided to entertain only critical patients for the time being. On Monday, officer on special duty (OSD) Sushanto Roy said a circular regarding the hospital functioning as usual will be released soon. ”A circular was drafted on Saturday by NBMCH authorities saying it will temporarily suspend all services except attending to emergency cases. We held a discussion on this on Monday and asked them to bring back normal functioning since people from all North Bengal districts depend on NBMCH. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also keeping a watch on the hospital. From Tuesday, the services at NBMCH will go back to normal. NBMCH will treat all patients and a notice will be circulated on this, ” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nbmch-to-go-back-to-normal-ops/articleshow/76270449.cms||Roshan Gupta
June 9, 2020||Patna||Caution the buzzword as places of worship reopen in Patna||PATNA: Places of worship, such as temples, mosques and gurdwaras reopened in the city on Monday after a gap of nearly two-and-a-half months amid several safety norms. The turnout of devotees, however, was low at all the religious places. Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction reopened with the devotees visiting the temple as per specified time slots based on alphabetical order. Secretary of Mahavir Mandir Trust Kishore Kunal said 10 automatic sanitiser dispensers have been installed on the temple premises. “The devotees are properly screened before being allowed to enter the premises,” he said, adding the footfall of devotees on the first day of reopening of the temple was quite low. Patna City resident Ashmita Pandey, who visited five temples, including Mahavir Mandir, on Monday was quite elated. “Standing in long queues due to overcrowding used to be one of the problems at most temples. With the new rules in place, I saved a lot of time,” she said. Meanwhile, several people were seen waiting outside the temple in order to normalise their body temperature amid hot weather. Akhil Shrivastava, who visited the temple at 1pm, was denied entry as his body temperature was measured at 101 degrees Celsius. “The heat increased my body temperature,” he added. At Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara, the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh, the number of devotees was quite low. M S Dhillon, secretary of Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Prabandhak Committee, said locals from all religions visited the gurdwara. “The social distancing norms were maintained at the langar halls,” he said. Maulana Mohd Alam Quasmi, convener of Tanzeem Tehreek Aiemma Masajid, an association of Imams in Bihar, said altogether 139 mosques reopened in Patna on Monday. “All the mosques have removed curtains, mats and carpets as a precautionary measure. For social distancing, we have put yellow markings on marble flooring. Only people wearing face masks are allowed entry at the mosques,” he added. Maulana Shamimuddin Munami, head of Khanekah Munamiya, Mitan Ghat, said the prayer was conducted amid all precautionary measures on Monday. Meanwhile, some churches in the city are likely to reopen by the end of this week. Fr Pius Prashant, SJ, parish priest of Queen of the Apostles’ Church, Kurji, said basic preparations were still underway. “We need some more time to complete arrangements. The church may reopen either on Friday or Saturday,” he added. The Bishop House, St Joseph’s Pro-Cathedral Church, however, was open for devotees on Monday. Fr Prem Prakash, head of the church, said only limited devotees were allowed for prayer service. Low footfall at Vishnupad Temple World famous Vishnupad Temple, the symbol of final salvation and the most important ‘pindadaan vedi (altar)’, reopened in Gaya on Monday with a special session of mantra chanting. The footfall of devotees was very low. However, Mahabodhi Mahavihara was not opened on Monday. According to Abhishek Singh, DM-cum-chairman of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee, the shrine will reopen for the devotees on June 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caution-the-buzzword-as-places-of-worship-reopen/articleshow/76269232.cms||Archi Rani
June 9, 2020||Patna||Fulfilled poll promises: Bihar CM to JD(U) workers||PATNA: JD(U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar on Monday said he has fulfilled all the promises made to the people of Bihar before coming to power in 2005. Addressing his party’s district-level workers through a video app, Nitish said he had promised ‘development with justice’ before taking oath as the CM in November 2005. “I have successfully implemented scores of schemes in the last 15 years to ensure proper development of disadvantaged groups like backwards, dalits and tribals by elevating their social status besides empowering women. I also implemented welfare schemes for minorities while maintaining social harmony,” he said. Referring to the 15 years (1990-2005) of RJD rule of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, Nitish said people were so disappointed during the ‘pati-patni’ (husband-wife) regime that no one had even imagined in 2005 that Bihar would make so much progress in the next 15 years (2005-2020). Recounting the major works done under his chief ministership, Nitish called upon the party leaders and workers to go to the people with facts and data and give a befitting reply to the opposition, who had launched a misinformation campaign ahead of the forthcoming assembly elections in state. Elections are due in October-November this year. The JD(U) chief addressed the party workers of Madhepura, Supaul, Saharsa, Araria, Kishanganj, Purnea, Katihar and Darbhanga districts in four separate sessions. On Sunday, he had addressed the JD(U) workers of East Champaran, West Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Madhubani districts. “About 3,800 to 4,500 party workers are attending the virtual meeting in each session,” JD(U) national general secretary and state’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI. Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, Nitish said he was not sure whether the JD(U) leaders would be able to hold election meetings and rallies this time like previous elections. He asked party workers to get connected with the people of their areas through social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp. Addressing the workers, building construction minister Ashok Choudhary said the state government’s total budget for minorities in FY 2004-05 was just Rs3.45 crore. “Today it has increased to Rs600 crore. Similarly, the total budget for SC/ST in 2004-05 was just Rs40 crore. It increased to Rs1,550 crore in FY 2018-19. “The budget of the SC/ST has increased 38 times because of the leadership of Nitish ji,” Choudhary said. JD(U) national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and WRD minister Jha also addressed the party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fulfilled-poll-promises-nitish-to-jdu-workers/articleshow/76268815.cms||Madan Kumar
June 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar gears up to fight annual floods||PATNA: Apart from coronavirus, the state is also gearing up to fight annual floods following Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast about onset of monsoon around June 12. Last week, CM Nitish Kumar had asked the water resources department (WRD) to complete all the flood-fighting schemes before the onset of monsoon. Normally, monsoon arrives in Bihar on June 12, but the forecast is that it might vary by one or two days. WRD sources said the department has been busy implementing the flood-fighting schemes, like strengthening embankments at the vulnerable points and taking up anti-erosion work. Of the 28 districts, 15 are identified as flood-prone and 13 as vulnerable to floods depending on the quantum of rain, chance breach of flood protection embankments and their aligned earth works and structures, as well as erosion caused by the rivers. The state has over 3,900km of flood-protection embankments and the WRD has identified around 300 schemes for implementation and timely completion. The north Bihar districts bordering Nepal are prone to floods. The area is vulnerable to at least five major flood-causing rivers – Mahananda, Kosi, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak and Gandak – which originate in Nepal. Some south Bihar districts have also become vulnerable to floods from Sone, Punpun and Falgu rivers. Further, the floods might come in more than one phase like it happened last year, when even Patna suffered unprecedented waterlogging in September-October. WRD sources said its flood forecasting cell, attached with the flood control wing, is ready to give 72-hour advance alert about the likely floods that could be caused by the Kosi. Recently, NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar, officers from the Union ministry of water resources and the central disaster management department had a videoconferencing with the WRD officials from states in the Gangetic basin. Bihar WRD secretary Sanjeev Hans represented the state at the virtual meeting. “The stress of NITI Ayog vice-chairman was on improving, expanding and strengthening the non-structural measures, like flood forecasting wing, and efficient management of the flood disaster,” WRD source said. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar had earlier asked the divisional commissioners, DMs, SSPs and SPs concerned to get ready to fight floods. He had asked the officials and engineers to make joint inspection of the flood-protection embankments, repair roads in the flood-prone areas and also procure and store medicines to fight the outbreak of any epidemic. State WRD secretary Sanjeev Hans had also asked field chief engineers and officials to complete the ongoing flood protection schemes and submit the detailed inspection reports to the state headquarters by May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-gears-up-to-fight-annual-floods/articleshow/76268881.cms||Abhay Singh
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana bullying doctors amid Covid-19: BJP||HYDERABAD: The chief of Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party, Bandi Sanjay Kumar, on Monday alleged that the state government is threatening the doctors and healthcare workers if they conduct Covid-19 tests. Addressing a press conference on Monday, Kumar said that doctors in the state-run hospitals are at the receiving end of apathy as the government is refusing to conduct tests and is asking them to attend to their patients despite having symptoms of Covid-19. He also alleged that state is hiding Covid-19 details in the bulletins. Stating that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) never asked the state to test less number of people, he said: “The state government has to be transparent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bullying-docs-amid-covid-19-bjp/articleshow/76271829.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cross complaints lodged for fight over cricket in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a fight over cricket, two persons attacked each other with stumps and bats on Sunday. Cross complaints were lodged by both parties. According to the FIR lodged by Mohammed Sharif Pathan , 30, on Sunday afternoon some boys of his society were playing cricket in the nearby Chandola lake. He went there and asked to play but they did not let him. “This enraged Pathan and he took out the stumps and threw them on the ground. A youth named Nasiruddin Ansari came their and asked Pathan why he was not allowing the boys to play cricket and started abusing him. When Pathan asked him not use abusive language, Ansari beat Pathan with a stump. Nasiruddin, in his complaint said that his brother had gone to Chandola lake to play cricket with his friends on Sunday afternoon. “Pathan came there and pulled out the stumps and stopped them from playing. As Ansari reached there, Pathan started fighting with him and abused him. After that, Pathan pulled out a knife and ran after Ansari to stab him. However as other people intervened, Ansari was saved. We have started investigation and have rounded up both parties,” said a Isanpur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cross-complaints-lodged-for-fight-over-cricket/articleshow/76270951.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Business||SBI reduces lending rate by 25 bps||MUMBAI: SBI announced its 13th consecutive cut in marginal cost of lending rate (MCLR) — the benchmark for corporate loans — by 25 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). After the cut, the bank’s one-year MCLR stood at 7%. The bank also announced the new retail lending rate, which comes down automatically with a reduction in the RBI’s repo rate. Last month, the RBI had reduced the repo rate by 40bps. The bank said that its external benchmark-linked lending rate (EBR) as well as repo-linked lending rate (RLLR) reduces by 40bps. The EBR is reduced to 6.65% from 7.05% with effect from July 1 and the RLLR is down at 6.25% from 6.65%, effective June 1. Consequently, EMIs on eligible home loan accounts linked to MCLR will get cheaper by approximately Rs 421 and those linked to EBR/RLLR will get cheaper by around Rs 660, for a 30-year loan of Rs 25 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-reduces-lending-rate-by-25bps/articleshow/76270491.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Patna||RJD, JD(U) locked in war of words over Covid crisis||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday launched a scathing attack on the state government over its handling of Covid-19 pandemic. While Lalu accused chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar of not leaving his house in this hour of crisis, Tejashwi alleged that testing for Covid-19 was abysmally low in the state. The ruling JD(U), however, said the Bihar government has handled the pandemic much better than many other states. “In Bihar, the number of coronavirus cases is increasing with each passing day. Doubling rate has also increased, but testing rate is very low. In a state with 12.60 crore population, less than one lakh tests have so far been done. The CM should explain the reason behind low rate of testing,” Tejashwi said. The younger Yadav scion also questioned the CM’s “silence” on status of health infrastructure in the state. “It is baffling that the CM is mum on the number of ventilators and ICU beds available in the state,” he said. Lalu, on the other hand, slammed Nitish for not coming out of his house and leaving the public in the middle of the battlefield. The incarcerated RJD chief tweeted that people will take count of all these in the upcoming state assembly elections. Hitting back at Lalu, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the CM has handled the Covid-19 crisis in very efficiently. “Money was transferred into the bank accounts of lakhs of migrant workers. Similarly, lakhs of migrants were quarantined upon their return to the state. The government has also been devising ways to provide jobs to them. Tejashwi should visit his constituency to see the reality,” he said. Another JD(U) state spokesperson, Anjum Ara, slammed Tejashwi for misleading people and giving wrong data. “Census was done in 2011 and fresh census is due next year. The population data cited by Tejashwi is unauthentic and misleading. He is already facing court trials in money laundering case. Hope he does not face another charge of misleading people by using false data. Also, the state government has spent over Rs 8,538 crore on managing Covid-19 crisis. Being an opposition leader, Tejashwi should know what the government is doing instead of telling lies to people,” Anjum added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-jdu-locked-in-war-of-words-over-covid-crisis/articleshow/76268827.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 9, 2020||Patna||Raj Bhavan initiates steps to curb ‘unnecessary’ expenses||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan has initiated steps to curtail unnecessary expenses at Raj Bhavan with a view to ensuring availability of funds for proper implementation of various Covid-19 related welfare schemes of the state government. The chancellor has also directed the universities to reduce their expenses for helping the government in accelerating the execution of schemes aimed at prevention of the pandemic spread and saving people’s lives. “It is our duty to ensure that the government does not face any financial constraint in providing proper medicare and relief to the people affected by this pandemic,” he said. The chancellor would not approve of any proposal regarding new construction work at Raj Bhavan during 2020-21 fiscal. Only the essential ongoing construction and repair work would be completed. All the Raj Bhavan secretariat wings have been directed to use alternative sources of energy to cut expenses on power consumption. Purchase of new vehicles has also been stopped and orders have been issued to ensure minimum use of fuel. Chauhan has also directed the officials to drastically curtail expenses on ceremonial functions and dinners. He has further asked the vice-chancellors to take similar austerity measures in organizing functions and help save money for relief and rehabilitation work, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raj-bhavan-initiates-steps-to-curb-unnecessary-expenses/articleshow/76268909.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Hall fire: Owner held responsible for criminal negligence||Madurai: The owner and manager of Padmapriya Marriage Hall in Srirangam in Trichy district, in which 64 people died and 33 injured in a tragic fire accident in 2004, have to equally share the blame for the accident for their negligence, the Madras high court has said. The court said that while observing that the occupier has a duty to ensure safety of visitors against all foreseeable dangers and harm.The court was hearing an appeal filed by four people - first accused Dharmaraj, videographer, fourth accused Ramasamy, owner of the marriage hall and fifth accused Sadagopan, manager of the marriage hall and the sixth accused Murugesan, the electrician.The Trichy sessions court in 2012, convicted and sentenced them under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC and under section 338 (Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC. Dharmaraj's assistant Balaji, who was the second accused was sentenced to pay only fine and Selvam, who was the third accused died before the commencement of trial.Justice G R Swaminathan observed that Ramasamy was criminally negligent for running an unlicensed marriage hall which was previously a residential building. The judge observed that Sadagopan’s conduct was inexcusable and that he should not have permitted putting up the pandal in the terrace portion and drawing temporary electricity connection. If he had been strict, the entire tragedy could have been averted, he said. The judge further said that Sadagopan knew that there were no fire extinguishers, and the staircases did not allow easy escape. Since the conduct of Ramasamy and Sadagopan was the proximate cause for the deaths, they have to equally share the blame. Though their conviction was confirmed, the judge modified their sentence - Ramasamy and Sadagopan were directed to undergo three months and six months simple imprisonment respectively. After Ramasamy undertook to pay Rs 40 lakh compensation to the victims’ family members, the judge directed the Trichy principal district judge to distribute the amount to the affected people by applying appropriate yardstick based on situational considerations. Justice Swaminathan confirmed the conviction and sentence of Murugesan, citing that the cause of the accident was due to unsafe drawing of electricity connection. The judge acquitted Dharmaraj from the case stating that it was Balaji who was holding the focus light, when it came in contact with the decoration papers and resulted in the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hall-fire-owner-held-responsible-for-criminal-negligence/articleshow/76271850.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Protective gear: HC lauds Madurai Corpn for efforts||Madurai: Appreciating the steps taken by the Madurai Corporation to monitor the use of protective gear such as masks and gloves by cleanliness workers, the Madras high court said it expects the same kind of development from other corporations as well.The court was hearing two public interest litigations - one filed by R Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of an NGO ‘People’s Watch’ and another filed by members of the Louie Sanitary Workers Welfare Association.Pursuant to an earlier direction of the court, the city engineer of Madurai Corporation, S Arasu appeared via video conferencing before the court on Monday. Arasu submitted that a circular has been issued to the zonal assistant engineers to monitor the use of protective gears such as masks and gloves by cleanliness workers who are involved in maintenance of drinking water and underground drainage system works. He also submitted that action would be taken in case of failure in supervision.The counsel appearing for one of the petitioners, Henry Tiphagne submitted that after the intervention of the court, he did not find any cleanliness worker without protective gear in Madurai Corporation limits. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi appreciated the steps taken by the Madurai Corporation. The counsel appearing for Nagercoil Corporation submitted that necessary steps have been taken to provide safety gear to all cleanliness workers and they would also follow similar monitoring mechanism. Following this, the judges adjourned the case to June 22 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protective-gear-hc-lauds-madurai-corpn-for-efforts/articleshow/76271837.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Architect develops partitions to make offices, public places safe||NAGPUR: In the post-lockdown period, donning safety gears or keeping entire face covered all the time to avoid getting infected through aerosols and saliva droplets may become cumbersome, beside giving one a feeling of claustrophobia. Looking at the challenges, a 23-year-old architect from city has developed see-through partitions for offices, restaurants, airports and other public places to help people interact without any hassle, with the same peace of mind like that in pre-Covid times. Made from acrylic plastic material, the partitions are easy to install, have clear visibility and can be customized as per need, as per the architect. Aseem Ahmed, the entrepreneur, has distributed complimentary pieces to Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) executive engineer, FDCM, and MADC top officers. Ahmed said each piece costs around Rs1,000 to 1,500. “I am not going to manufacture it on commercial basis. The idea can be adopted by anyone. The aim is to help society regain the same ease of interaction when people start seeing each other like before,” he said. He said at restaurants it can be used not just between friends but also as a protective shield from others occupying different tables. “The partitions can be mounted on a metal holder near the table. At airports, it can be used at check-in counters while in offices we have already seen officers finding it comfortable and safe,” he said. The 23-year-old said these partitions can be used in multiple combinations. VIDC executive engineer JM Shaikh said he has started feeling more safe after installing the partitions in his cabin at Sinchan Bhavan in Civil Lines. “It is a good idea. Many people come to meet us. Now, I don’t have any fear while interacting with visitors,” he said. Chartered accountant Kapil Bahari said the partitions are good, especially for professional, people who have continuous interaction with others, and even doctors. “The partition is quite stable. When we are in office sitting across each other, it is not possible to use mask all the time. Even the face shield is not so effective as there is till chance of it getting contaminated,” he said. Bahari said the best part of the partition is that it can be sanitized frequently and moved to a place where there is a need. “I found it a practical solution in today’s times. You don’t feel any hindrance,” he said. A restaurant owner said they having been exploring the possibility of using the partitions when they open up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/architect-develops-partitions-to-make-offices-public-places-safe/articleshow/76271821.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal develops symptoms, to take Covid-19 test on Tuesday||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has developed Covid-like symptoms and will undergo test for novel coronavirus. After developing mild fever and sore throat, he has cancelled all meetings since Sunday and gone into self-isolation. “The chief minster started feeling down since Sunday afternoon. He has fever and pain in the throat. He has put himself into self-isolation at his residence. All meetings have been cancelled since Sunday. He will undergo Covid test on Tuesday,” AAP MP Sanjay Singh said. As Kejriwal has a medical history of diabetes for a long time, doctors have advised him to avoid meetings and stay isolated, Singh said. “I pray to God that everything is fine and he recovers very fast and returns to work,” he added. During the complete lockdown, Kejriwal mostly worked from home and also attended various meetings through videoconferencing before returning to the secretariat on a regular basis following the relaxations. Not only Aam Aadmi Party functionaries but also several members of the opposition BJP and Congress have wished him a speedy recovery. In the meantime, three staff at the office of the North district magistrate have tested positive for novel coronavirus, prompting an extensive sanitisation exercise. But all of them are without any major symptom and under home isolation. A contact tracing will be undertaken and “all those with Covid symptoms will be tested”, said an official. Watch Delhi CM Kejriwal unwell, to take Covid test tomorrow: Sources||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-develops-symptoms-to-take-covid-test-today/articleshow/76271896.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 9, 2020||Meerut||UP: In the middle of road, ex-MLA cuts cake with axe, video goes viral||MEERUT: A video has gone viral on social media in which former Bulandshahr MLA Shri Bhagwan Sharma aka Guddu Pandit can purportedly be seen cutting a cake placed on a car’s bonnet with a giant battle axe in the presence of scores of supporters. In the video – which was streamed live from his Facebook account – Sharma can be seen cutting a cake placed on the bonnet of a red SUV on the highway. He later puts tilak on a youth’s forehead and the cake was distributed among his supporters who kept raising slogans. Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar confirmed that the video was shot in Noida on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. Later, an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC for violation of lockdown orders was registered at Dadri police station in Noida. “My birthday is on July 10. I was returning to Bulandshahr from Noida as my mother-in-law had passed away. A group of youth were celebrating someone’s birthday. When they spotted me, they came in front of my car. I couldn’t have run them over. They put the cake on the bonnet of my car and requested me to cut it,” Sharma clarified, claiming that he also advised them not to celebrate on the highway and to adhere to the social distancing norms. Known for such antics, the former lawmaker has been booked at least five times in the last two months for flouting lockdown norms. In an earlier case registered against him on May 12, Sharma was booked for violating lockdown norms after he was found “luring exhausted migrant labourers by offering them food and beverages” outside his home. Watch Shocking! Former MLA axes cake, mocks social distancing norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ex-mla-cuts-cake-placed-on-cars-bonnet-with-battle-axe-in-middle-of-road-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76271841.cms||Piyush Rai
June 9, 2020||Business||TCG Lifesciences to expand ops, add manpower||Kolkata: TCG Lifesciences, one of the leading contract research and manufacturing services (Crams) companies globally, promoted by New York-based TCG, is planning to expand operations and recruit additional manpower despite Covid-19 lockdown. The Crams player in the field of drug discovery and development has also released a full annual bonus to each of its 1,500 employees. The company has completed this exercise in both its manufacturing unit in Hyderabad and the R&D unit in Kolkata. Swapan Bhattacharya, managing director of TCG Life Sciences, said that out of 1,500 employees, 1,200 is in Kolkata and rest 300 is in Hyderabad. “By March, 2021, we shall hire an additional 15% workforce. The total number would be more than 200 taken together in both the centres,” he added. Bhattacharya also said that the company is expanding its infrastructure in Kolkata as well to accommodate additional workforce. Elaborating on the bonus, he added that this is a part of many encouraging moves that the company has been taking to fuel the morale of its resources since the Covid-19 pandemic has affected human lives. “The COVID-19 outbreak has caused havoc not only by its death toll but has also shattered the economy in the short term. We were faced with a scenario to completely shut down operations when the lockdown was imposed. However, with the support of our Board, leadership team and our loyal and committed employees, we were willing to take the risk to continue operations. At the same time, our meticulous safety preparations have led to a zero-Covid incidence. Our people are our greatest assets and represent the core strength of the TCG family,” Bhattacharya added. A company official pointed out that not only have they released the annual bonus, TCGLS has also started the process of annual performance appraisal for the employees. “They are also planning a ‘Rewards & Recognition’ programme to acknowledge the notable contributions of many of its resources during this unprecedented global crisis,” he added. TCGLS’s offices in Hyderabad and Kolkata have been operating seamlessly, as research and manufacturing works related to the pharmaceutical and biotech sector fall under critical services, said a top company official. “They have divided the workforce and the work hours into three shifts, complying with all government guidelines and health safety measures. Daily transportation facilities and food (breakfast, lunch and dinner), according to work shifts are being provided by the organisation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcg-lifesciences-to-expand-ops-add-manpower/articleshow/76270671.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shoppers stop as most malls stay shut||NEW DELHI: It was the death of many plans and get-togethers on Monday as the biggest malls in the city — DLF Promenade, Emporio, Pacific Mall and Shoppers’ Stop — chose to keep their shutters down on the first day of relaxations. Hundreds of visitors were turned away from the entry gates, leaving them with no option but to head to others markets. A contactless hand sanitiser, temperature check with a handheld IR scanner, passage through a sanitisation tunnel and finally another body temperature check via a scanner integrated with the metal detectors, these were the hurdles that Abhineshwar and his friends went through before entering Select City Walk. “We missed you. Welcome Back” read the messages on the walls. The popular south Delhi shoppers’ paradise had ground markings to ensure social distancing and airconditioning was kept slightly warm as part of safety measures. The number of visitors was, however, quite low and almost half the outlets were either closed or cleaning was on in their premises. Escalators had three-step distancing rules with the ones to avoid marked with red crosses. While outlets like Starbucks, The Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf, Yum Yum Cha, Hotel Delmaar and Punjabi Grills were closed, employees of other outlets were thankful that the mall had reopened. DLF Emporio and Promenade were also shut. Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Shopping Malls, said, “We are prepared to open our malls in adherence with the guidelines laid down by MHA and local authorities. We will be looking at reopening our malls between 11am and 8pm this week. Use of Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for customers to enter our malls. We are also going to maintain the six-feet social distancing norms. Our F&B brands will reduce seating arrangements to 50%.” At Ambience Mall in Vasant Kunj, visitors were greeted by guards wearing personal protective equipment. Mall employees worked hard to keep all the frequently touched surfaces like hand rails, escalators and door knobs disinfected. Chirag Chaturvedi, a resident of Safdarjung Enclave, said, “We can only take limited precautions. In the end, it is likely that one may still catch the virus. But we can’t live scared.” An official from Ambience Mall said, “A select number of shops are open as the others are still preparing to reopen their stores. The footfall is low, but the shoppers are satisfied with the safety measures.” Vishal Sharma, an employee of Uniqlo retail, was excited about rejoining work and had left his Rohini home early. “It feels good coming back to work after two months. During this period we were troubled as we weren’t able to fulfill our sales target,” he said. He, however, was unsure if a large number of customers would come to the malls soon. Pacific Mall in west Delhi was shut on Monday leaving many visitors disappointed. Abhishek Bansal, executive director, Pacific Group, said, “We are planning to open D21 and Tagore Garden malls from June 9 and 13, respectively. Apart from social distancing and hygiene guidelines, we will give educational messages on Covid-19 through online and offline platforms. We have also partnered with a hospital for training and support, Covid-19 Task Force and ERT.” Star City mall in east Delhi wore a deserted look with barely a couple of shops open there. A crowd was only seen at a mobile service centre where people had queued up to get their phones repaired. Entry to the mall was allowed after checking temperature and sanitisers were placed on the ground floor. Raju Yadav, a liquor store employee, said, “We will open after a couple of days as we need to check our stock and share the details with the excise department.” At V3S mall, entry was only allowed if visitors had the Aarogya Setu app on their phone. Two trays with disinfectants had been placed outside. The entry and exit points were also different. However, most of the shops were closed. Nancy, whose wedding is scheduled in the first week of July, said, “I came with my sister to buy a vanity set, but the shop here didn’t have many varieties.” At Cross River mall, visitors only needed a drop of sanitiser and a temperature check to enter. A handful of shops and kiosks were open, but they hadn’t seen any customers since morning. (With inputs from Paras Singh and Mohammad Ibrar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shoppers-stop-as-most-malls-stay-shut/articleshow/76271864.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 9, 2020||Goa||TCP board takes up 67 zone change applications||PANAJI: After a long hiatus, the Town and Country Planning Board met on Monday and took up 67 applications for zone change under section 12 of TCP Act for consideration. A total of 82 applications were received by the department, of which, nine applications were rejected and four were deferred, said TCP minister Chandrakant Kavalekar. Kavalekar told reporters that of the 67 applications taken up for consideration, 49 applications are for plots which are smaller than 500sqm while 18 applications pertain to plots larger than 500sqm. “We have not considered any land which falls in Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) or No-Development Zone (NDZ) or private forests or if the land is partly zoned then we have asked for inputs or reports from the concerned departments,” Kavalekar said. At least 20 applications received by the department sought change in zone for plots that are smaller than 300sqm. The nine applications for change of zone were rejected as the land is categorised as forest area, paddy fields, NDZ and private forests. As per the provisions of Section 16B of the Town and Country Planning Act, the TCP board is empowered to change zones in the regional plan. The TCP Act was amended in 2018 to add Section 16B and it became a huge source of controversy for its potential for misuse and was subsequently challenged in the high court. The board also received two applications from individuals asking for roads shown in their property to be deleted. “We gave preference for smaller plots. There are some areas which were paddy fields, marked as private forests, partly orchard land or forest land which we have rejected,” said the minister. Kavalekar also said that a few appeal cases against decisions taken by the Planning and Development Authorities were heard but no decision was taken. “We got a few cases for appeals against decisions taken by the PDAs for which we had hearings. There were three hearings. We have heard their appeals and in the coming 15 days we have sought reports on the cases,” said the deputy chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-board-takes-up-67-zone-change-applications/articleshow/76272629.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cabbies protest for safety kits||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases in Telangana on the rise, cab drivers in the city took to the streets, on Monday, demanding health insurance, adequate safety kits for drivers and other precautionary measures. Close to 50 employees from various cab aggregator firms — and other app-based platforms — organised a silent protest at Habsiguda. They rued how despite repeated appeals, their employers have failed to provide them with the necessary kits. “We have appealed to both Ola and Uber to provide safety kits for the drivers, but haven’t received anything from them . The much-touted financial assistance from the companies has also reached a very small percentage of drivers If they don’t provide even safety kits, we cannot protect ourselves,” said Ravi Goud, who is associated with Uber and Ola. Shaik Saluddin, national general secretary of the Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT) said, “Along with the regular safety kits, we urge the app-based platforms to provide us with a health insurance policy, increase fares of app-based cabs , reduce the commission amount .” However, cab-aggregators said that the safety of passengers and drivers is top priority for them. “Driver partners’ well-being is Uber’s key priority. Uber has sourced more than 3 million three-ply face masks, 1.2 million shower caps, 200,000 bottles of disinfectants and 200,000 bottles of sanitisers for free distribution to all driver partners across India. In case drivers choose to source the required PPE themselves, Uber will reimburse costs. Distribution of PPE kits has been ongoing in Green and Orange Zones since the relaxation of the lockdown,” said an Uber spokesperson. In a recently issued press release, Ola said that it has launched a new initiative 'Ride Safe India', reaffirming its long-term focus to provide driver-partners and citizens a safe and reliable mobility experience, as India continues its fight against the pandemic, post the lockdown. Ola has also committed Rs. 500 crores to enhance safety in mobility in the fight against COVID-19 and have introduced 5 layers of safety that include strictly adhering to steps that ensure the highest standards of safety and hygiene for every ride.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cabbies-protest-for-safety-kits/articleshow/76271924.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeking SOPs dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation which sought the state government to issue standard operating procedures to be followed while reopening the religious places of worship. As the state government informed that religious places in the state would not be opened for the time being due to Covid-19 spread, a division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi dismissed the petition stating that the plea was filed prematurely. The petition was filed by M Jayabarathi, a resident of Tuticorin district. She had stated that devotees should be screened before permitting them inside the religious places and issuing such standard operating procedures would help prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeking-sops-dismissed/articleshow/76271889.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Jharkhand man gets 10 years prison for murder||Colva: Principal district judge B P Deshpande on Monday convicted and sentenced Ignasius Minj from Jharkhand to 10 years imprisonment for causing death of Thadeus Bara from the same state. On the intervening night of July 8 and July 9, 2018, the 36year-old victim was found dead with injuries on the front and back of his head at a construction site in Varca. Upon receiving the complaint from the labour contractor, then police inspector of Colva Filomena Costa inquired about the incident with the other workers on the site. Subsequently, police nabbed the accused moving around the village. A wooden rafter which was used as the weapon of murder was also seized by the police. Public prosecutor Ladislau Fernandes examined 13 witnesses in support of his case. Judge Deshpande in his judgment held the accused guilty for offence punishable under Section 304 (II) IPC. While sentencing Minj to suffer 10 years incarceration, he was also ordered to pay a fine of Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jharkhand-man-gets-10-years-prison-for-murder/articleshow/76272630.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||College lecturer among two held with leopard, deer skins in Nayagarh||BHUBANESWAR: The special task force (STF) of the Crime Branch on Monday arrested two persons, including a lecturer at a private arts college, in a forest in Nayagarh district on charges of smuggling wildlife organs. The STF seized two leopard skins and two spotted-deer skins from the accused, who were identified as Pratap Kumar Nayak (24) and Kishore Chandra Dehury (29). Dehury teaches in a college in Nayagarh. Sources said the accused were about to strike a deal to sell the expensive skins in Giripuja forest in Dasapalla area when the STF sleuths swooped down on them. The accused, who are residents of Nayagarh district, planned to sell each leopard skin for Rs 7 lakh and deer skin for Rs 1 lakh. The STF came to know that a man from Dasapalla had contacted the two smugglers to buy the animal skins to decorate his home. “We are trying to find how the accused came by the leopard and deer skins. It is not yet clear whether they killed the animals. During interrogation, they claimed that a tribal poacher had sold the animal skins to them for a few thousand rupees. We will take the accused in remand for questioning,” STF’s deputy inspector-general J N Pankaj told TOI. The STF will send the seized animal skins to the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, for forensic examination. “The chemical or forensic test will ascertain the species and age of the animals as well as the nature of death. We found some holes in one of the leopard skins, and think the animal may have been gunned down by poachers. The other leopard’s ankle was broken, indicating it may have been caught in a trap,” Pankaj said. In the past one and a half years, the STF has dismantled three big wildlife organ smuggling rackets in the state. In November 2019, it had arrested three persons in Kalahandi district and seized a leopard skin and ivory from them. In July 2019, the STF had arrested a jail warder and a police havildar for alleged links with a leopard smuggling racket in Deogarh district. In March last year, STF personnel had seized four leopard skins from the Kuchinda area in Sambalpur district and arrested ten persons in phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/college-lecturer-among-two-held-with-leopard-deer-skins-in-nayagarh/articleshow/76269497.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 9, 2020||Meerut||Dalit youth’s murder: Heavy police force deployed in Amroha village, DM & SP meet his kin||BIJNOR: Heavy police force was deployed in Amroha’s Domkheda village and several senior officials, including district magistrate (DM) and superintendent of police (SP), visited the house of a Dalit teenager who was shot dead allegedly by four upper caste men on Saturday night. On Monday, Amroha DM Umesh Mishra and SP Vipin Tada reached the village and met the slain youth’s family members and villagers to take stock of the situation. 17-year-old Vikas Jatav was shot dead allegedly by the four persons on Saturday night. All the four accused were booked for murder and two of them have been arrested. Police said that a dispute over Rs 5,000 led to the murder. But the father of Vikas alleged that he was murdered by the four upper caste men after an argument over entry into a temple. “The fight had erupted after Vikas went to the temple to offer prayers on May 31. The upper caste men objected to it and Vikas argued with them,” said Omprakash, the father. A complaint was also filed on the same day, but local police didn’t act, he alleged. “If police had taken some action against the accused, my son would have been alive today,” a distraught Omprakash had said on Sunday. But, SP Tada said that there was a dispute between Vikas and the accused over Rs 5,000. “The brother of Vikas had taken a mango orchard on rent. Two of the accused were also partners with him. Later, they fell out after a money dispute. There was a brief fight over it a few days ago," the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dalit-youths-murder-heavy-police-force-deployed-in-amroha-village-dm-sp-meet-his-kin/articleshow/76271858.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 11 areas off micro-containment zone list in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has declared that 11 micro-containment areas will no longer be considered as such, and extra curbs have been lifted from these areas. However, another 35 areas in the city will continue to be under micro-containment zones. Rajiv Gupta, ACS forest and environment, who is overall in-charge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar held a meeting for the purpose at AMC on Monday. Gupta said that after reviewing the situation it was decided to remove 11 areas or societies from the list of micro-containment zones. The remaining 35 will continue to be in micro-containment. Of these 35 areas, six are in the West zone and two are in the South-West zone. The areas of West zone, which are in micro-containment include Tavakal village in Maktampura and Shree Nandnagar Part-3. A total of 954 houses in these two areas are in micro containment. AMC officials said that since these 11 areas are now out of the micro-containment list, the offices, malls, religious places and restaurants situated here will be allowed to function from 8am to 7pm. Malls can function as normal adhering to the standard operation procedure issued by the Union home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-areas-off-micro-containment-zone-list/articleshow/76271917.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Raj BJP files FIR against Guj MLAs lodged in Mt Abu||Jaipur: Rajasthan BJP has filed an FIR against Gujarat Congress MLAs and a private resort owner where the lawmakers are staying for flouting the lockdown rules under the Rajasthan Epidemic Disease Act on Monday. The FIR has been filed at Sadar Police station in Mt Abu by BJP’s Jay Singh Rao on the instructions from state president Satish Poonia. The Congress MLAs from Gujarat were brought to Mt Abu fearing defection to the ruling BJP in Gujarat ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled on June 19. “The local administration at the behest of the state government violated the lockdown rules by allowing at least 40 people, including 22 Congress MLAs, to stay at a resort on June 7 which could potentially spread Covid-19. It is important to note that the time when they entered the resort, the state was under the lockdown with a complete closure of hotels and resorts. During the day, these MLAs along with their personal staff held closed-door meetings which were attended by the local administration is again a gross violation,” said Rao. The FIR was submitted at the Sadar police station on Sunday. However, the receipt of the same was given to the applicant on Monday. Sirohi SP Kalyan Meena confirmed the development. “A police complaint has been filed in this regard and the incident is being investigated,” said Meena, who disconnected the call and later didn’t respond to the calls. Sources said, on Sunday police refused to file any complaint, but when BJP hinted of going to the court, police acted on the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-bjp-files-fir-against-guj-mlas-lodged-in-mt-abu/articleshow/76271886.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Varanasi||Religious places get ready to reopen today after two months of lockdown||VARANASI: Religious sites in the temple town of Kashi will be reopened from Tuesday after remaining closed for over two months in view of Covid-19 lockdown. On the eve of reopening of the religious sites, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, IG Varanasi range VS Mina and other senior officers held a meeting with their authorities and directed them to take all prescribed precautions before opening as the threat of Covid-19 is yet not over. ADM (City) VK Singh said most of the prominent religious sites have started submitting forms issued to them for adopting standard operating procedure (SOP) and cross-checking of its execution will be done by the teams led by magistrates concerned. In case of overlooking of SOP, necessary action would be initiated against the site concerned, he added. On Monday morning, the commissioner and IG convened a meeting with the authorities of religious sites, including prominent temples, mosques, gurudwaras, churches and others. During the meeting, the commissioner made it clear that following guidelines prescribed by the government for the religious sites for opening amidst threat of Covid-19 will be mandatory. “Each devotee will enter the religious site after thermal scanning and on detection of Covid-19 symptom, the authorities concerned will immediately contact the health officials for his/her proper health check up. Number of devotees inside any site will not exceed than five at a time while others waiting outside will form queue by maintaining minimum six ft distance with others,” said the commissioner. “If any religious site wants to keep its doors closed any further, it was free for doing so as there is no compulsion. Continuous announcement of precautions against Covid-19 through loudspeakers at the sites will be a must,” he said. He asked the participants to ensure that format for SOP given to them was properly filed and submitted to local police station apart from ensuring its cent percent compliance. He said that each devotee will go inside the religious site after sanitising hands and will not touch anything including idols, bells, images, walls, holy books. He further appealed to the religious authorities to take proper care of the norms prescribed in guidelines as the menace of epidemic is still continuing. Regarding the forms prescribed for furnishing by the religious sites, the ADM City said that it had been distributed through police stations and many sites have also submitted it. He said that cross-checking of the compliance of SOP would be started with the opening of religious sites on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/religious-places-get-ready-to-reopen-today-after-two-months-of-lockdown/articleshow/76269461.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Prayers from home? Just a handful of visitors at Delhi shrines||NEW DELHI: This Monday was unlike the others in the past couple of months. Temple bells were pealing, kirtan played in gurdwaras, mosques were open for namaz and pews had been cleaned for churchgoers to pray. While there was a slight rush in the morning owing to devotees who prayed daily, few people were seen throughout the day. Some passing by also decided to stop and pay obeisance to God. As part of unlocking the capital gradually, proper sanitisation measures and usage of masks at these places were the new normal. Manjeet Singh, who prayed at Gurudwara Bangla Sahib almost daily, couldn’t allow this opportunity to pass. Visiting with his wife, he said, “People have to slowly return to normal again. We can wear masks, use sanitisers and ensure we don’t touch too many things. As long as one does that, visiting a religious place shouldn’t be a problem.” The gurdwara had installed a sanitisation tunnel for people to pass through before entering. The tradition of touching the steps had been prohibited and one couldn’t sit inside either. Also, water taps had to be operated with foot pedals. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC), said instructions had been issued to keep the crowd moving along with disinfecting the premises. Similar precautions existed at the Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place. Entry was allowed only after a devotee disinfected his hands and got temperature checked with a handheld infrared thermometer. Touching anything, including applying a tilak by the priest, had been stopped too. “We have made all safety provisions, but the fear of contracting the disease in crowded places has kept visitors away. We informed the regular devotees about the opening, but only a handful turned up in the morning,” said Suresh Sharma, mahant of the temple. Shops selling religious items outside the places of worship were back too, but most sellers said it would take several months for things to get back to normal. Deepak Diwana, a vendor selling flags bearing religious symbols outside Hanuman Mandir, said procuring stock was another problem. He had only brought a handful of items anticipating there wouldn’t be many takers. Ravi, a florist, told TOI that he hadn’t sold anything and didn’t expect the situation to improve anytime soon. “As days pass, people will start reverting to their old habits. Since flowers are sold fresh, my garlands will become worthless now,” he added. Anshul Bansal, who sold prasad outside the temple, said they hadn’t prepared even “1% of the usual quantity”. “Only staunch Hanuman bhakts paid a visit today,” he added. At Jhandewalan temple too, only a handful of people offered prayers in the morning. Ashish Sharma (52), a resident of Roop Nagar who had been visiting the temple since his childhood, couldn’t recall the last time he had entered without a queue. “Sanitisation facilities are in place and temperature of visitors is being checked, but people seem wary of stepping out of their homes. Even I wouldn’t have come, but I was passing by and decided to pray to the goddess before heading to work,” he said. At Sacred Heart Cathedral, the gates were shut since morning. “During weekdays, only a handful of tourists visit the place. The cathedral might open for the Sunday mass,” said the person in-charge of the gate. Jama Masjid, however, saw a sizeable crowd on the first day of its reopening. People came for Zohar and Asar prayers of noon and afternoon, respectively. “All devotees brought their own janamaz(prayer mats) and there were specific places for them to stand and pray. Our members were stationed at the entrances to check the temperature of visitors,” said Mufti Owais, adding that the central hauz (tank) had been cleaned and announcements were made that people should do wazu (ablution) at home. The Fatehpuri mosque in Chandni Chowk, meanwhile, had fewer visitors. “Most people prayed in the main area on the marble floor as it was hot outside. We had put up stickers at specific places for people to stand,” said Mufti Mukarram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/prayers-from-home-just-a-handful-of-visitors-at-city-shrines/articleshow/76271925.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 9, 2020||Varanasi||Three-month-old girl among Gorakhpur coronavirus survivors||GORAKHPUR: A three-month-old baby was among those won the battle against novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Little Arham, a resident of Basti, tested positive for the disease at BRD Medical College in April. The baby was put under observation and was breastfed by her mother. “The baby’s mother tested negative for the virus. Under the constant supervision of our doctors and treatment, the baby recovered within 14 days. She was discharged on April 27,” said principal of BRD Medical College Ganesh Kumar. As metros like Maharashtra and New Delhi struggle to contain the spread of the deadly virus, a state like Uttar Pradesh – with far fewer infrastructural resources – seems to be making an impressive headway in its fight against novel coronavirus. Many district officials credited the state’s success to the efforts of its CM Yogi Adityanath. A seer-turned-politician, Yogi who has been a five-time MLA from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha constituency. Little Arham wasn’t the only ‘Covid miracle’ which was reported from Gorakhpur – Yogi’s home turf. A 49-year-old man, Babulal, came to BRD Medical College after returning from Delhi, where he tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19). He was admitted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital after he suffered a cardiac arrest. He later also tested Covid-19 positive. However, the hospital discharged him days later and he returned home. When Babulal experienced breathing problems a few days later, his family took him to private a hospital in Gorakhpur, from where he was referred to BRD Medical College. He was admitted to the medical college on April 26 and was the first Covid-19 case to be reported from Gorakhpur. “He was kept in an isolation ward. He recovered in a month, after undergoing treatment at our hospital and being monitored by our doctors,” said the principal. District officials said that the CM himself monitored the progress of Arham and Babulal’s treatment. Yogi is known have motivated health workers and other first responders, while inspecting healthcare facilities in person at regular intervals. The testing capacity of the state has increased by over 15,000 per day in the state and till date more than 4 lakh Covid-19 tests have conducted. All district hospitals have been equipped with TrueNat machines and the number of novel coronavirus patients returning home after treatment has increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-month-old-girl-among-gorakhpur-coronavirus-survivors/articleshow/76269499.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatmala project: Farmers call off stir after assurance||Jaipur: BJP MP Kirori Lal Meena on Monday joined the farmers in ‘Chipko Andolan’ to protest acquisition of land for the Bharatmala Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project and for not fixing land compensation at the market value. Later, they called off the stir after they met Dausa collector, who told them that NHAI and private builders have been asked not to start construction work until compensation amount for their land is provided to them, as per the 13-point agreement signed with the state government. “When we met Dausa collector (Avichal Chaturvedi) this morning, he requested us not to continue with the protest. He said the report prepared on the basis of the 13-point agreement has been sent to the state government (chief secretary) and gave us a copy of the report. He also told us that NHAI has been asked to stop construction work till the compensation amount at market value is not provided to us,” said Himmat Singh Gurjar, convenor, Pradesh Kisan Sangharsh Samiti. “He issued an order to NHAI to stop construction work of the expressway carried out by the private builder. Later, we called off the protest,” he added. “We have asked them (builders/NHAI) not to start work on the land of the farmers until compensation is given to them,” said Dausa collector Avichal Chaturvedi. The farmers had earlier alleged that the government had not kept its word in compliance with the 13-point agreement signed with the farmers. “We demand compensation four times the DLC rates or market value of the land. But, the government has not fixed the rate at market value of the land,” he had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatmala-project-farmers-call-off-stir-after-assurance/articleshow/76271912.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Waiting to return home, Indian med student dies in Kyrgyzstan||Hyderabad: A student from Bihar, who was pursuing medical studies in Kyrgyzstan, died in Bishek on June 2. The student had been unwell and contacted the Indian embassy seeking help for returning home. However, she was not accommodated on first Vande Bharat flight to India on May 26. Puja Kumari, 23, was a third year medical student from Navi Nagar in Bihar’s Nawada. Her death is not related to Covid-19, postmortem has revealed. The administration of the college where she was studying tried to send her body home. But because of expected delays, her last rites were performed in Bishek on June 3. While some of the students conducted Hindu rituals, her body was buried and not cremated, as per the customs of the Muslim majority city. Several students have urged the authorities in Kyrgyzstan to facilitate their journey home, but to no avail. Jakka Sushma, a student from Telangana, said a flight to Hyderabad has been scheduled later this month. “But thousands of students cannot continue to be here for so long,” she said. Following Puja’s death, some India students put out videos saying if the Indian embassy had helped the medico, she would probably avail better medical treatment in India. “She went to the embassy several times to plead her case but did not get a response,” said Anshuman Chaurasia, a student from Uttar Pradesh who is also pursuing medical studies in Kyrgyzstan. The Indian embassy in Kyrgyzstan did not respond to a mail from TOI seeking information about efforts being taken to help the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waiting-to-return-home-indian-med-student-dies-in-kyrgyzstan/articleshow/76271922.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVP staff strike work, Ahmedabad municipal corporation steps in||AHMEDABAD: After the nursing staff of SVP Hospital went on a flash strike, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) stepped in and announced that no changes to service conditions of contracted or outsourced Covid-119 workers will be permitted and such workers will be eligible for benefits AMC staff get. After a meeting with the contractors and outsourcing agencies involved in Covid-19 work, the AMC announced that they would not be allowed to change service conditions, transfer or change workers. The contracted nursing staff and ward boys had twice earlier gone on flash strikes, as the agencies were imposing a 20% cut to their salaries. The striking workers claimed that they were earlier promised a monthly salary of Rs 35,000 and now the agency, Updater Service Private Limited, was now saying that they would get only Rs 22,000. After the meeting, the SVP management announced that the agency would not deduct the workers’ pay as announced in the email to them. It also announced that 20% additional salary will be paid under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the workers would be provided accommodation till June 30. It also announced an additional incentive of Rs 250 per day. After the incident, a notification was issued by AMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar declaring that contracted workers at hospitals run by the AMC are designated Covid-19 workers. The AMC stated that the workers will carry out their duties at the hospital they are working at and no change in hospital or workplace would be allowed without permission from the AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-staff-strike-work-amc-steps-in/articleshow/76271943.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Siddha doc seeks Ayush to test his medicine||Madurai: A siddha practitioner has moved the Madras high court seeking the ministry of Ayush to conduct virology study and publish the results after testing the herbal medicine formulated by him as a possible solution for Covid-19 cure. In his petition, S Subramanian, a resident of Madurai, stated that a situation has arisen where people are suffering from an infectious Covid-19 disease. “If we use our ancient siddha herbal medicines, we would prevent the spread of such viruses,” he said. Stating that he has been practising siddha for more than 30 years, he has formulated a mixture of 66 herbs called IMPRO which could be a cure for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/siddha-doc-seeks-ayush-to-test-his-medicine/articleshow/76271915.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cases near 30,000, positivity rate of Covid 27%||NEW DELHI: The positivity rate of Covid-19 in Delhi is as high as 27%, government data shows. As per the latest update, 3,700 people underwent Covid-19 testing in the last 24 hours in the national capital. Of them, 1,007 (27%) tested positive. Last week, the positivity rate (cases confirmed per 100 tests) in Delhi was 26%. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan termed the situation worrisome and said the state government needed to ramp up testing, coupled with aggressive surveillance, contact tracing and stringent containment and perimeter control of hotspots. However, government data shows sharp decline in testing numbers; from 6,361 on June 4 to 5,187, 5,180 and 3,700 on June 5, 6, 7 and 8 respectively. “Some of the labs have been debarred from testing pending enquiry into inconsistencies in following the norms. This could have led to the reduction in testing numbers,” said an official. Delhi is the third most affected state in the country with over 29,000 Covid cases. The death toll due to the disease mounted to 874 on Monday, with the state authorities confirming 62 more fatalities caused among those infected. These deaths took place from May 30 to June 6, and 27 of these fatalities occurred on June 5, they said. The highest spike of 1,513 fresh cases was recorded on June 3. In a bulletin issued on Monday, Delhi health department said the death toll from coronavirus has risen to 874, and the total number of cases was 29,943 at present. It, however, added that the cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case-sheets received from various hospitals. Due to the rising number of cases, many people are finding it difficult to get a hospital bed. Delhi government has, therefore, decided to set up round-the-clock helpdesks at various state-run hospitals to ensure smooth and hassle-free admission of patients amid the pandemic, officials said. These helpdesks will function in two shifts of 12 hours each and consist of two officials of Delhi government and one police constable during night duty hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cases-near-30k-positivity-rate-of-covid-27/articleshow/76271937.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Varanasi||Congress playing cheap politics during pandemic: Satish Mahana||GORAKHPUR: Industrial development minister Satish Mahana slammed Congress party accusing it of playing cheap politics even in the time of global pandemic. Addressing a press conference through video conferencing, he said, “Congress party is playing cheap politics even during pandemic as it is in the clutches of one family. Rahul Gandhi makes statements but is not able to explain them and later the entire party explains the meaning.” “Congress ruled the country for decades and always showcased the poverty in country. When Britain’s PM came to India, they took him to a hut to show poverty in India, while PM Narendra Modi showcases the country’s youth as its strength and as a result the nation’s fame and strength has increased under his guidance,” Mahana added. Due to right decisions of PM Modi and CM Yogi, Covid-19 is comparatively controlled in our country, he said. “PM Modi restored the faith of people, hence they gave a huge mandate. They know PM Modi does what he says. He abrogated Article 370 and gave reply to those who alleged that BJP only talks of temple and never gives a date. The government is also tackling terrorism effectively,” he said. “Yogi was the first CM to assist migrant labourers return to the state during lockdown and helped them reach home. Now, the CM is providing jobs to migrants. We are mapping the skills of migrants so that jobs could be provided to them. Before lockdown, less than one lakh people were working in MNREGS but now more than 41 lakh people are working,” the minister said. “Government is making all efforts to attract more and more industrialists. We are trying to bring the companies that are leaving China,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cong-playing-cheap-politics-during-pandemic-mahana/articleshow/76269513.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Guj Cong MLAs to stay in Raj for next 10 days||Jodhpur: Twenty-two Congress legislators from Gujarat will remain in Rajasthan for the next 10 days. These legislators had been shifted to a resort in Sirohi near Ambaji on Rajasthan-Gujrat border on Sunday after BJP started poaching them before the rescheduled Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. Sources said the other Congress legislators were lodged at a hotel in Palampur, Gujarat. There were rumours that they were being shifted to Jaipur from the resort on Monday but according to the sources, the idea was dropped due to Corona virus threat. “The legislators will remain in the resort till at least June 18 and would be leaving for Gujarat only a day before the Rajya Sabha elections,” according to a party source. Congress had decided to shift its legislators away from Gujarat as three of its MLAs resigned at the behest of BJP ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections so far. Accusing BJP of engaging in unethical practice of threatening and buying its legislators despite the pandemic situation, PCC president Amti Chanvda had said on Sunday that these legislators had been taken to Abu Road so that the further strategy could be discussed with them. Taking offence at this step of Congress, the local BJP unit had submitted a complaint against the resort owner for violating the Covid -19 guidelines. Besides the legislators, some party leaders have also been staying in this resort to keep an eye over the ever-changing situation. The Congress now has only 65 MLAs in the 182-member House, 12 fewer than the 77 seats it won in the 2017 elections to the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guj-cong-mlas-to-stay-in-raj-for-next-10-days/articleshow/76271928.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong MLAs seek Harsimrat’s response on Akal Takht acting jathedar’s views on Khalistan||Ludhiana: Congress MLAs Amrik Singh Dhillon, Surinder Dawar and Kuldeep Singh Vaid launched a scathing attack on Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal over the statement made by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on Khalistan. The MLAs have questioned as to what are Harsimrat’s views on the statements. In a joint statement issued here on Monday, the MLAs said “We hope Harsimrat realises that SGPC is a statutory body, which functions under a constitution. Now, that the Akal Takht jathedar has publicly supported the demand for Khalistan, will Harsimrat Badal, as the sole representative of the Punjabis in the Union Cabinet, move a resolution in the Cabinet, asking for secession from India.” “We hope that Harsimrat remembers that she was elected by lakhs of Punjabis, who are both Sikhs and Hindus. There are lakhs of Hindus living in all parts of the world, who are Nanak Naam levas and follow the teachings of the Sikh Gurus. Hindus also visit Sikh shrines in large numbers. Is SGPC president and his master Sukhbir Badal looking at throwing over 1 crore Hindus out of Punjab, just like Kashmiri Pandits, who were thrown out and driven out of their native lands,” they said. The MLAs also stated that the jathedar Akal Takht has also said the present Indian government had an ‘anti-Sikh approach’. “Will Harsimrat resign from the Union cabinet immediately for being a part of the anti-Sikh Union government and also for her failure to protect the interests of the Punjabis, and Sikhs in particular? Will Sukhbir pull out of the BJP-led Union government for pursuing an anti-Sikh approach and agenda? Does the SAD support the divisive and even secessionist agenda being pursued by the SGPC president?” The MLAs also asked Sukhbir and SGPC president to clarify their stand regarding the statement of former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia, who has said that the jathedar had hurt the feelings of Punjabis. “Sukhbir Badal has made wild allegations about the anti-Sikh policies of Congress regimes. What is he going to do about the serious statement of the jathedar that the Union government, of which his wife is a cabinet minister and his party a coalition partner? Shouldn’t he immediately pull out of the Union government as well as the Cabinet,” Congress MLAs questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-mlas-seek-harsimrats-response-on-akal-takht-acting-jathedars-views-on-khalistan/articleshow/76270757.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Park that spreads message on saving water||Madurai: A water gallery with big plans for the city’s future, is now creating awareness on the importance of water conservation - reuse, recharge, recycle and reduce - and it has been drawing hundreds of students and public alike for the last year-and-a-half. Founder and director of Nanneer, N Karthikeyan, says that this was an initiative started to give back to the society. He quit his job in a telecom firm to set up this park. “I was no expert in water management, so I spent two years working closely with water experts and activists throughout the country, including NGOs in Karnataka, to acquire knowledge for the purpose,” said Karthikeyan. An idea that sprung up in 2012 turned into a reality only in March 2018. “Seeing something (in real) has a better impact than passing a message or reading about it,” he said. Visits to his park, which has photographs, prototypes and life size models of various water harvesting structures is free. This is not aimed at making a revenue but to spread awareness as people still do not know the importance of conserving water which is within their reach, he said. A 1,000 square feet house can have a good RWH system for as less as Rs 10,000 and it could be enhanced with additional features upto Rs 50,000. “A basic recharge pit could be set up for as less as Rs 2,000, using materials that are available locally. If you want to use it for recycling grey water, you will have to spend a little more on buying a couple of canna plants which are effective in removing the impurities from water,” he said. Children should be made water warriors right from kindergarten and made to realise the importance of conserving water, says Karthikeyan, who volunteers at schools to spread awareness. Students from many schools in Madurai have visited this park. “My future vision is to make Madurai self reliant for its water needs by constructing water harvesting and recharging pits on roads and also places where water gets stagnated and enhancing the groundwater table throughout the district, working alongside the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/park-that-spreads-message-on-saving-water/articleshow/76271940.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Allahabad||2 healthcare workers test positive, tally reaches 127||PRAYAGRAJ: Two health care workers were new novel Covid-19 cases reported from the Prayagraj district here on Monday. With these new cases, tally in the district reached 127. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that women , aged about 30 and 32 years, were working as health care workers and were also close in contact of a coronavirus positive patient . This patient tested positive for Covid 19 infection on June 2. Dr. Sahai further added that both the health care workers, residents of Chakiya Manne road and Chuck Mandi (naini) were in strict home quarantine since June 2 and are being shifted to Covid 19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa on Monday. Till now, there are 43 active cases and 26 of them are undergoing treatment at Covid 19 Level One hospital and 17 in SRN Level Three Hospital. While 80 patients have recovered and discharged, four others have died of coronavirus infection so far in the Prayagraj district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-healthcare-workers-test-positive-tally-reaches-127/articleshow/76269539.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Resident assns help BMC to keep corona at bay||Bhubaneswar: The Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and community leaders, most of them senior citizens, have been playing an important role to alert and inform the city authorities about persons returning home from outside the state. They are also sensitising people not to look down upon Covid patients and also keep watch on people, who have been advised home quarantine, said a Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) source. The BMC for past two weeks has turned to community leaders to check corona spread in the city, which has so far recorded 89 positive cases. Saurendra Kumar Mohanty, secretary, Maitree Vihar RWA, said they are not only sensitising people residing in their areas about corona virus but also are helping in distribution of masks and sanitisers among people. “We had been doing our bit as members of the RWA to keep the virus at bay even before the stranded people started trickling into the city. Our task doubled after return of the people. We have been apprising the city authorities of the returnees. Also, we advise people not to attach any stigma to infected people. We monitor the people in home quarantine. Since people are educated, our task becomes easy as they adhere to the norms,” Mohanty told TOI. Officials of BMC and city police have intensified community interaction programmes as part of the strategy to get travel history and health details of people. The RWAs and other socio-cultural organisations have been roped in to help the city authorities create awareness, said a BMC official. Ashwini Sundaray, a former corporator of BMC, has ensured that people in Jayadev Vihar and its periphery maintain social distancing and wear masks. “We have been helping the surveillance teams also to reach out to people in the colonies so that the teams can get the updates on their health status. This, I think has helped the city to bring the virus infection under control compared to other areas,” he said. The capital city doesn’t witness rush of migrants (unskilled and semi-skilled workers), the seasonal workers who are returning to several districts. But, after the flights and train services resumed, it has been recording return of mostly students and professionals. They are staying in home or paid quarantine. Satyabrata Dash, president of Khandagiri Anchalika Bikash Parishad, said they even go to the shops to tell the owners that they should ensure social distancing. “Even we help draw circles in front of the shops so that people don’t jostle for space and stand one metre apart while shopping,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/resident-assns-help-bmc-to-keep-corona-at-bay/articleshow/76269519.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Covid test in an hour at Balrampur hosp||Lucknow: Testing for novel coronavirus infection, which currently takes over 24 hours, will now be done in just 60 minutes with the India made TrueNAT testing machine. Early test results will help in expediting the treatment process of both the Covid and non-Covid patients. While KGMU is already using the machine for sample testing, Balrampur hospital is the first district hospital to get the machine. The hospital will start testing samples on it from Tuesday. “We have done some technical trials of the machine and will begin using it for sample testing from Tuesday,” said Balrampur hospital chief medical superintendent (CMS) DrRK Gupta. Until now samples collected at Balrampur hospital of suspected Covid-19 patients were sent to KGMU for testing and the report would take around 24 hours to come because of the sample load at KGMU. “It is a PCR testing machine which uses a number of processes to separate the RNA which is then read for delivering a test report,” he added. The machine was approved by ICMR in May for testing of novel coronavirus sample. It is an Indian diagnostic testing machine which was made for detecting drug resistant tuberculosis. “The machine has an advantage of giving results in just about 60 minutes. It is an indigenous machine and should be promoted. We have been using it for TB sample testing and now for Covid-19. If the machine has a confirmatory chip in it, samples will not have to be sent to KGMU for reconfirmation,” said KGMU microbiology head Prof Amita Jain. “We are getting TrueNat machines installed at various district hospitals and medical college so that the duration taken in sample testing reduces drastically and treatment can begin accordingly,” said medical education director, Dr KK Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-test-in-an-hour-at-balrampur-hosp/articleshow/76272632.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Agra||FIR against UP teacher who worked at 25 schools notes Hasanpur village as her home, but hamlet has never heard of her||AGRA: An FIR lodged in Amethi district against Anamika Shukla — who was registered as a teacher in 25 schools in UP and took home a salary of 1 crore in 13 months — has listed Mainpuri district’s Hasanpur as her native village, but a TOI investigation revealed that the address is incorrect, which has deepened the mystery surrounding the case. The FIR in Amethi district against the teacher lists her address as Hasanpur village, which is based on documents she had submitted to the education department at the time of her joining as a teacher at the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in Amethi. But gram pradhan Mahendra Singh told TOI that Hasanpur was a village with only Dalit population. “Shukla is an upper caste. No one from an upper caste lives in this village,” he said. On Saturday, Kasganj police had arrested one Priya Singh who was using credentials of Anamika Shukla to work at KGBV Faridpur. Notably, FIRs have been filed against different ‘Anamika Shuklas’ in several districts across the state. Police suspect that multiple people were impersonating Shukla and using her academic records even as there is no clarity on who the real Shulka is.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fir-against-up-teacher-who-worked-at-25-schools-notes-hasanpur-village-as-her-home-but-hamlet-has-never-heard-of-her/articleshow/76269509.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi is home, but are you a Dilliwallah?||NEW DELHI: Praveen Gamru, an electrician, heaved a sigh of relief after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal overruled the AAP government’s decision to reserve private and state-run hospitals for the residents of the national capital. A 37-year-old native of Madhya Pradesh, Gamru has been living in Delhi for a little over a year but did not have a single document from the list shared by the government to prove his current domicile. He feared that he would have to go without treatment if he was infected by novel coronavirus. “I share a room with five others from my state in west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar. All my documents, including Aadhaar and bank passbook, have the address of my village in Shivpuri district,” Gamru said. He is probably among lakhs of such migrants living in the capital to earn some money. Many of them stay in Delhi for a few months and return to their hometowns, especially during the harvest season. They live in rented accommodations and keep travelling between their hometowns and Delhi. With little income, they can’t afford treatment in big specialised hospitals or private nursing homes and mostly rely on the government’s health facilities. The documents that the AAP government made mandatory for getting treatment in state-run or private hospitals in the times of the corona pandemic included voter ID-card, current passbook of a bank, post office or kisan account, patient’s ration card, passport or driving licence, income-tax return filed or assessment order, latest water, telephone, electricity or gas connection bill, postal department’s post received or delivered in patient’s name at the given address or Aadhaar card made prior to June 7, 2020. Pranab and Madhumita Choudhury, both in their 70s, has moved from Assam to Delhi to live with their son who works for an advertising agency. While their son has Delhi’s address proof, all their documents have the address of their Dibrugarh house. “We moved to Delhi in 2017. Our voter IDs and Aadhaar cards are registered in Assam. There are no ID to establish that we are now residents of Delhi. But the fact is that we moved to Delhi permanently to be with our son’s family primarily because of health issues,” the father said. Shivika Anand, who works for a travel agency, lives in a rented accommodation and also has no document to prove that she lives in East of Kailash. The only local documents she has are her Gurgaon-based company’s identity card and a rent agreement of her East of Kailash flat. “I was born in Patiala and studied in Chandigarh. The bank account where my salary is credited has Patiala’s address. I have a rent agreement but that was not acceptable. Thank God, the order has been reversed,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-is-home-but-are-you-a-dilliwallah/articleshow/76271958.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||After Governor’s assent, Gairsain now state’s summer capital||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya on Monday gave her assent to making Gairsain the summer capital of the state. After presenting the state budget in March this year, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced Gairsain as the summer capital of the Himalayan state. After the governor gave her nod, the CM said, “Today is a historic day. The decision to make Gairsain the summer capital has been taken keeping the sentiments of people in mind. People from all sections of the society have welcomed the decision. This was mentioned in our party’s vision document too and we have delivered on our promise.” He added that the move will have a long-term impact on the state. “Several sectors will benefit from the decision and there will be more job opportunities. People living in far-off places will now have to cover a smaller distance to reach the capital city and approach the government,” added the CM. Reacting to the development, Congress state chief Pritam Singh said, “The decision has been taken to grab the credit of the developmental works undertaken by the Congress government in Gairsain. Assembly building was built and other infrastructural works were carried out during the Congress regime and people understand this very well.” He added that the move will create confusion regarding the state capital. "When the state was created, Dehradun was chosen as the temporary capital. Now that Gairsain has been made the summer capital, the CM should have announced Dehradun as the winter capital. This has made the situation even more confusing." Meanwhile, BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat welcomed the move. “We have fulfilled our poll promise and now our focus is on the development of the area. The move is a tribute to the people who fought for statehood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-governors-assent-gairsain-now-states-summer-capital/articleshow/76268437.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government school teacher, 50, dies of Covid-19||NEW DELHI: A 50-year-old English teacher on Sunday became the first casualty to Covid-19 in a Delhi government school. Shivji Mishra, who worked at a school in east Delhi’s Kalyanvas, was the sole breadwinner of his family. Following his death, Government School Teachers’ Association (GSTA) has demanded compensation for his family and a government job for one of the children or his wife. A resident of Kalyanpuri, Mishra is survived by his wife and two sons. While the elder son is in college, the younger one studies in Class XII. Ayush Mishra, the younger son, told TOI, “We got a call from Safdarjung Hospital at 3pm informing us about his death. He was first admitted to a nearby private hospital on May 22. After a few days the hospital asked us to take him away. We tried to get him admitted to several hospitals, but none of them had empty beds. On June 5, we took him to Safdarjung.” Since the lockdown, Mishra was deployed at the ration distribution centre and from May 19 to 21 he was ferrying migrants. “He fell ill on May 21. He didn’t have any other illnesses,” said 16-year-old Ayush. Ajay Veer Yadav, GSTA general secretary, said Mishra was the first teacher to have died of Covid-19. Earlier, a teacher who died also had another illness. “Mishra lost his life while performing his duty. The government had announced ex gratia of Rs 1 crore for a government servant who dies on duty. We hope the promise is fulfilled,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-school-teacher-50-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76271956.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: After ‘Anamika’, all KGBV teachers under govt lens||LUCKNOW: Days after TOI broke the story about a science teacher, Anamika Shukla, who was found working at 25 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) drawing over Rs 1 crore as salary in 13 months, UP basic education department has asked officials to launch document verification drive in all 746 KGBVs. A chain of residential schools, KGBV hires teachers on contract. State project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, and director-general of school education Vijay Kiran Anand, on Monday wrote to basic shiksha adhikaris of all districts to verify academic and personal records of teachers and academic resource persons in KGBVs. TOI is in possession of a copy of the order. In the order, Anand had referred to letters regarding selection of teachers in KGBV issued by the office of state project director since January 3, 2011. These letters, issued from time to time, state that validation of academic records of candidates selected for appointment in KGBVs, is a must. Their salaries will be released once their documents are duly assessed. All BSAs have been directed to hold a fresh verification drive of the entire teaching staff at KGBVs. Documents which will be verified include academic records – high school, intermediate, graduation, training certificate (BEd in most cases), TET qualification certificates, mark sheets, and personal records like address proof and Aadhar card. Anand has asked BSAs to intensively verify all documents in accordance with the candidates’ Aadhar cards, and send the report to his office. The report should carry the signatures of district coordinator (girl education) and the BSA, he added. The deadline to complete the verification drive is June 26. The decision was taken after an odd case of a teacher Anamika Shukla was found to be teaching simultaneously at 25 KGBVs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-anamika-all-kgbv-teachers-under-govt-lens/articleshow/76272634.cms||Isha Jain
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||NMC set to unlock Mominpura, split into 12 smaller c-zones||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started to unlock Mominpura containment zone by splitting it into 12 small containment zones limiting the restrictions to only those areas which have reported Covid-19 cases in the last 28 days. Main roads in this zone will also be opened paving way for restarting of non-essential shops after a span of 66 days. Till date, Mominpura has registered 308 coronavirus cases, including four deaths, despite being a containment zone since April 4. The area being vast, the already short-staffed police department faced a Herculean task in clamping down the movement of people in the containment zone. The NMC revised its containment zone policy around 15 days ago and started notifying smaller areas for effective monitoring. Following the policy change, the NMC has taken a decision to revise Mominpura containment zone also. Also, resistance from the residents was on the rise due to prolonged restrictions. A few politicians and activists also raised demand for freeing areas which did not report any Covid cases. NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “Cases from Mominpura containment zone are being reported on a daily basis. Now, we will improve monitoring by demarcating smaller zones.” “Main motive is to break the continuing chain of virus spread by proper contact tracing, quarantining and prohibiting movement of people for non-emergency purposes. The decision has been taken after detailed deliberations and consulting the police department,” he said, adding the details were also shared with the locals in two-three meetings. Work to barricade all entry and exit points of smaller zones has started. Areas out of the containment zones will be freed only after completion of this. Buffer zone system will be continued where the NMC will keep a watch, but the area will not will be barricaded, he said. Mominpura is the biggest among 51 containment zones notified till date in the city. It comprises all areas covered from IGGMCH Chowk to railway line towards kabrasthan to Panchpaoli RoB to Agrasen Chowk to IGGMCH Chowk. Now, there will be a containment zone covering all areas located between Bhagwaghar Chowk to Mominpura Chowk to Sharda Chowk to Naalsahab Chowk to Bhagwaghar Chowk. This is biggest among all 12 zones. Area wise, this zone was at par with the first one when a cap seller tested positive on April 4. With rise in cases, the area of the containment zone also was expanded. As per new zone policy, Timki will be the second biggest and remaining 10 will be limited up to only the areas from where Covid cases were reported in last 28 days. It will be a challenging task for the NMC to barricade 12 new zones as the areas have several entry and exit points. It will also be a Herculean task for the police to deploy personnel on each entry and exit points. In case of free movement of people from smaller zones, chances of transmission of disease to other areas cannot be ruled out, say some officials. As per revised policy, main roads like Bhagwaghar Chowk to Mominpura Chowk, Golibar Chowk to RuB going toward Kharbi Chowk etc will be freed. Non-essential shops situated on these roads and some freed areas can open till 9pm. Even, restaurants situated out of the 12 containment zones can start home delivery. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe will issue a notification related to smaller zones after completion of barricading the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-set-to-unlock-mominpura-split-into-12-smaller-c-zones/articleshow/76272020.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Bharuch man arrested for cheating jeweller of Rs 72 lakh||VADODARA: A man from Bharuch was arrested on Monday for cheating a jeweller of Rs 72 lakh under the pretext of selling him gold last week. Cash amounting to Rs 19.8 lakh was also recovered from the accused Yogendrasinh alias Dattu Jadav. Jadav and two other accused — Raju and Manoj had struck a deal with the jeweller Viral Choksi, who also lives in Bharuch. The trio had promised to sell three kilograms of gold biscuit to Choksi for Rs 72 lakh cash. Choksi was lured into the offer as the trio had said that they were selling the gold at Rs 20,000 less than the market price. Once before the lockdown and on June 1, Choksi had bought two gold biscuits weighing 100 grams each from them which instilled confidence in him. On the evening of June 3, the accused asked Choksi to come near a party plot on Ajwa Road to take the delivery of gold and hand over the cash. Jadav did not meet Choksi, but Raju and Manoj took cash from him and disappeared after diverting Choksi’s attention. Later, Choksi called Raju, but the latter had switched off his phone. Police said that while probing in Bharuch about the duo, they nabbed Jadav. “He does not have any criminal history, but he is known for notoriety,” said a police official. During interrogation, Jadav told cops that of the total cash, Raju had given him Rs 20 lakh and kept the remaining with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bharuch-man-arrested-for-cheating-jeweller-of-rs-72-lakh/articleshow/76270818.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||DEO held for taking bribe from teacher||Dindigul: Sleuths of the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) on Monday arrested the district education officer (DEO) of Dindigul while he was receiving Rs 5,000 bribe from a woman teacher. The arrested DEO has been identified as T Subramanian. According to police sources, Subramanian had demanded Rs 5,000 from Christie, a teacher in Muthualagupatti, a suburb of Dindigul town, recently. She had approached him asking him to clear Rs 3 lakh salary arrears pending with the department. He asked her to visit a school in Dindigul town where he was supervising exam paper evaluation. The teacher, who accepted to pay the bribe, alerted DVAC officials. A team led by DVAC deputy superintendent of police Nagarajan set a trap and arrested Subramanian red- handed while receiving the bribe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deo-held-for-taking-bribe-from-teacher/articleshow/76271953.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Five Myanmar nationals arrested in Telangana's Zaheerabad for entering India illegally||HYDERABAD: Five nationals believed to be from Myanmar, including three women, were arrested in Zaheerabad town in Sangareddy district on Monday evening. A few Aadhaar cards and two Indian passports obtained from Hyderabad were recovered from them. They have been identified as Noor Kamal, Zubair, Ruksana Begum, Rena Begum and Kausar Begum. The five were arrested on the charge of illegally entering India. They were booked under the Indian Passport Act, the Foreigners’ Act and cheating charges.  Zaheerabad town police are now probing as to how Noor managed to get hold of Indian passports. Officials said when some of these nationals were making calls to Myanmar, they came under radar of security agencies. Intelligence sleuths alerted the police, who nabbed them.“They came to Kolkata before coming down to Hyderabad a few years ago. Several months ago, they shifted to Zaheerabad. They startedworking at construction sites ,”police told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-myanmar-nationals-arrested-in-zaheerabad/articleshow/76271960.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Restaurants reopen to brisk dine-in business||Madurai: Restaurants, which opened for dine-in on Monday for the first time since the beginning of the lockdown, witnessed brisk business with customers showing confidence in eating out. Hotels followed the government rules such as thermal scanning of customers and disinfection once in three hours, while the suppliers wore masks, gloves and caps, besides keeping social distancing. While the government had allowed only takeaways, it permitted hotels and restaurants to function with 50% customers abiding various safety precautions. “We felt safe to have food at hotels as precautionary measures are in place. Although we have been eating parcels during lockdown, eating at restaurant with friends is an experience. We enjoyed it after a long time,” said S Ilamaran, a resident of K K Nagar. Only 60% hotels and restaurants have opened for dine-in business as hoteliers were uncertain of the business as the timing is restricted to 8 pm. Hoteliers say that they get 30 to 40% business after 8 pm as people have the habit of eating out late. They have urged the state government to allow hotels to function till 10 pm. Eateries providing parcels only too face business loss as police force them to close down from 7.30 pm onwards. Often eatery owners have to dump unsold food items. S K Arun Lal of Express Biryani said that he is planning to open his dine-in restaurant on Tuesday. He urged the state government to allow hotels to function till 10 pm. “It is like starting the hotel afresh. We have to carry out extensive cleaning work. As the prime season of April and May is over, it would be tough to run the business without government support,” he said. K L Kumar, president of Madurai District Hoteliers’ Association, said that most of the hotels have restricted their menu due to the fear of going unsold. Only 20% of the hotels offered the usual menu. He put forth some demands from central government to revive the hotel sector. He urged the government to relieve them from GST till the end of this year and the government to contribute to the provident fund and ESI of the hotel employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restaurants-reopen-to-brisk-dine-in-business/articleshow/76271964.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Noida||Covid busts the myth of NCR: Close to Delhi of dreams, but not close enough||NEW DELHI: Where are you from? That’s usually one of the first questions that anyone I meet for the first time asks me. Delhi is never the right answer as it only makes people more curious. Because that is usually followed by, “We all are from Delhi, but where are you really from?” When the probe intensifies, I give in and reveal that I’m a Bengali and a Dilliwallah. “Oh, you are from West Bengal?” The answer is yes and no. My ancestors left Bengal two centuries ago and settled in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. I know the language well and my maternal grandfather’s house is in Kolkata, but despite the annual visits during summer vacations my knowledge of the state is limited. My grandfather moved to Delhi in the 1930s and initially lived at Gole Market with his uncle’s family. After marriage, he moved to a rented place in Karol Bagh. It was around 1950 that he moved to the newly built government flats in Vinay Nagar. The name of the area that came up on agricultural land acquired from residents of Pillanji village denoted “humility”. This is the area where my family would spend the next 60 years. During graduation, I realised that I had to compete with students from other states to get a seat in a Delhi University college. Those were the late 1990s and 90% marks were not normal, which helped me land a seat in a South Campus college with marks that wouldn’t allow me to sit at a Satya Niketan bus stop now. However, I never heard my parents or anyone talk about DU seats for Delhi students. Delhi is the national capital and it was natural that its university would attract the brightest minds. When I applied for a print journalism course in Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC), the only branch apart from Delhi was in Dhenkenal, Odisha. There were only a few seats for thousands of applicants and I was lucky to get a chance to study at IIMC, Delhi. In a class of 35, only about five students were “from” Delhi, but that never bothered us. It was also around this time that my father first showed signs of a heart problem. Safdarjung Hospital was the closest and that is where he was treated. In the next decade, visits to AIIMS and GB Pant hospitals, which boast of some of the best cardiologists in the country, became a routine affair. The OPDs of both GB Pant and AIIMS overflowed with patients, many from neighbouring states and, in the case of AIIMS, from as far as West Bengal. We had to wait for hours to meet a doctor. Even while gasping for breath from the exertion and taking puffs from his inhaler, I never heard my father grudge about the crowd. “We have the best hospitals in the country and two of them at a walking distance. Imagine travelling hundreds of kilometres and staying on the roadside for treatment. We are lucky we live here,” he used to say. After my father’s demise, we had to leave Sarojini Nagar, the only home I knew. I wanted to own a house, but found myself priced out in Delhi. The odds of landing an affordable DDA flat were too high, so I decided to move to Ghaziabad. Though we live in Ghaziabad, we shop at Sarojini Nagar market, watch films at Cinepolis in Laxmi Nagar, love to eat at Saravana Bhavan and, on special occasions, at United Coffee House or Zen in Connaught Place. Our family physician is in Delhi. Delhi Metro made it possible for me to reach from one part of NCR to another seamlessly and the region did feel like an organic, contiguous entity. Covid-19 changed all that. District administrations of Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurugram closed borders with varying restrictions and, finally, so did Delhi. There are many like me for whom Delhi is still home. We thought of ourselves as residents of an urban sprawl called NCR. But Covid-19 proved that the boundaries, which we believed only existed on maps, are actually quite rigid and run deep. NCR is just a mirage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/covid-busts-the-myth-of-ncr-close-to-city-of-dreams-but-not-close-enough/articleshow/76275350.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||NHRC seeks action in arsenic poisoning death||LUCKNOW: In a notice to UP chief secretary on Monday, the National Human Rights Commission has directed the government to “take appropriate action” in the death of one Usha Devi, who allegedly succumbed to arsenic poisoning in March this year. Referring to a complaint made before it on March 16, 2020, by Inner Voice Foundation, an NGO working on arsenic pollution in eastern UP, the commission has said: “This complaint be transmitted to the concerned authority for such action as deemed appropriate. The authority concerned is directed to take appropriate action within 8 weeks associating the complainant/victim and to inform them of the action taken in the matter.” In 2015, based on directions by NHRC, the then UP chief secretary Alok Ranjan had passed an order, directing that if someone had appeared to have died of arsenic poisoning, a magisterial inquiry was to be constituted to assess the cause of death. “If confirmed that no source of clean drinking water was made available to them (deceased) because of which the person was forced to consume arsenic laced water leading to death, appropriate compensation should be given from the CM’s discretionary fund,” the order said. Saurabh Singh, who heads the Inner Voice Foundation, says that while arsenic has been claiming lives by the dozen in the eastern parts of UP and connected areas of Bihar, the government has so far not issued compensation to a single person. “The government is flouting its own rules by often not even setting up magisterial enquiries, let alone accepting that arsenic is causing deaths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nhrc-seeks-action-in-arsenic-poisoning-death/articleshow/76272638.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Bank staffer tests Covid-19 positive, branch shut||VADODARA: Another bank branch in Chhota Udepur district suspended its operations after one of its staffers tested positive for coronavirus last weekend. The Gadh Boriyad branch of Bank of Baroda (BoB) shut its operations and around 10 staff members have home quarantined themselves as Covid-19 report of one staff member turned out to be positive on Saturday. The employee is currently undergoing treatment in Ahmedabad. He was planning to fly back to his home in Hyderabad when his reports arrived. Sources said that the man had developed mild fever on June 2 and next day his temperature spiked due to which he was sent home to Naswadi town early. On June 4, swab samples of three staff members were collected for tests. Since the reports did not arrive next day, the coronavirus affected staff member booked his flight tickets through website and went to Ahmedabad airport on Saturday in a hired car. Health department sources said that while he was waiting for departure at the airport, the reports were received. “We could not get through his mobile phone, but later he responded to one of his colleagues’ call. He was convinced by his colleague to get himself admitted,” an official said. When he agreed, the health department coordinated with their counterparts in Ahmedabad and the man was admitted. Meanwhile, the other bank staffers were asked by their higher-ups to quarantine themselves for a week. On Monday, when the branch, which serves around 80 villages in the tribal-dominated district, did not open several customers who had travelled several kilometres for banking work had to return empty-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bank-staffer-tests-positive-branch-shut/articleshow/76270798.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court resumes working after 2 month closure||PRAYAGRAJ: Working in Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow Bench resumed on Monday after a two-month closure due to Covid-19 lockdown. Earlier, during closure, the cases were heard only through video conferencing. Now, with the opening of high courts, physical courts have resumed functioning adhering to social distancing norms and other measures to check spread of deadly coronavirus. Physical filing of cases had already commenced from June 3, 2020. On Monday, all those advocates whose cases were listed in the court were permitted entry into the campus after verification of e-passes and proper thermal scanning and sanitization. Keeping in view the present scenario created due to spread of coronavirus, only six advocates are permitted to remain inside the courtroom at any given time. As soon as the hearing of their cases was completed, the advocates had to leave the campus of the court. In addition to physical courts, the advocates have also been provided the facility of arguing their cases through video conferencing, if so needed. However, the chambers of all advocates shall remain closed so as to ensure proper social distancing. Automatic thermal scanner and sanitizer dispensing machines have been installed at all important points of the high court. Moreover, ambulances as well as medical staff have been directed to stay in alert mode so that any medical urgency may be dealt with immediately. Narrating Monday’s experience, a high court lawyer, whose case was listed before the court, said “it was really a nice experience working in an all-together new environment”. He further added that while entering from main gate (gate number three), the process of thermal scanning as well as the process of sanitization was made, which was really commendable. “In addition to it, the sanitization machines have been installed in the court’s corridor. It was nice working in a very light and stress free environment while keeping a certain distance throughout the court proceedings and even outside it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-resumes-working-after-2-mth-closure/articleshow/76269545.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Plan to station modified isolation coaches at railway stations||Ludhiana: At a time when the number of Covid-19 cases are rising in the country, the railway authorities are preparing a development plan to station modified isolation coaches at different main stations of Ferozepur division,including Ludhiana railway station, for strengthening the present healthcare system in fight against the pandemic. Higher authorities of the Northern Railway have taken the decision to place these coaches at major stations of the division, where several cases have been reported about passenger’s body temperatures being abnormal, who have come there to either board trains or alight from these at the station. The authorities have completed the work on setting up 400-500 isolation beds in different coaches of trains for tackling Covid-19 patients at different stations. They had identified the Ludhiana railway station as a potential emergency hospital for stationing these kinds of isolation coaches for providing better healthcare to patients while travelling from one city to another through railway transportation. Giving inputs on this proposal, a high-rank official of Northern Railway on condition of anonymity, said, “The railway authorities have analysed the report of the daily increase in the number of Covid-19 cases across the states, and felt the need to station such coaches for dealing with these cases in the upcoming months because paramedical companies are yet to find any solution to this deadly virus.” Divisional railway manager (DRM)of Ferozepur division Rajesh Aggarwal has revealed that the engineering department of the division has finished the work of manufacturing these coaches in Kapurthala by removing middle berths from all nine cabins of the premium coaches and further equipped them with air conditioning system.” “Lower berths in cabins would be available for patients. Here two patients can be treated in one cabin and a total 16 patients would be able to get better medical facilities in all cabins of the isolation coach. Upper berths of cabins can be utilised for storing patient’s baggage and one cabin near the toilet will be used as medical department,” he said. “The railway has converted the existing toilet into bathroom by plugging in the toilet pan and installing a shower system for convenience of patients. One cabin is kept for doctors and their equipment and provision of proper power supply has been made. These are being sanitised properly before and after the execution of work each day,” the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/plan-to-station-modified-isolation-coaches-at-railway-stations/articleshow/76270785.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Surat||Boiler pipe bursts at textile mill, 7 injured||SURAT: Seven workers sustained burns, of whom three are said to be critical, after the pipe attached to the drum for collecting hot water from the boiler burst at a textile dyeing and printing mill in Palsana on Monday. Sources said that the incident occurred at Vivekline Industry private limited at Palsana industrial estate at about 10.55 am. According to the police, the seriously injured victims identified as Paresh Rathod, Jakariya and Iqbal were taken to a private hospital at Kadodara. However, the other four managed to escape with minor burns, said cops, identifying them as Lalu Rathod, Dilip Rathod, Jitu Rathod and Ajay Yadav. “Water at very high temperature is used for dyeing the fabrics in the boiler. The hot water is then passed through the drums from the pipes. One of the pipe of the drum got burst and the hot water spilled over the victims, who were standing near to the drums,” said police sub-inspector CM Gadhavi. “All the three victims who have sustained serious burns above 60% have been kept in the ICU of the private hospital,” Gadhavi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/boiler-pipe-bursts-at-textile-mill-7-injured/articleshow/76269542.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Bois locker room: Delhi Police file case after girl gets threats||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has registered a case after the girl who exposed the ‘bois locker room’ chats received threats from random accounts. A senior officer from the Cyber Cell confirmed that the girl had filed a complaint and based on that a case has been registered. “We would like to clarify that this is not related to the snapchat screenshot. The girl had posted the bois locker room chats on her social media account after which she started getting threats from various random accounts, some even offensive with foul language. We are identifying the user of the accounts.” said a senior police officer. Earlier, a man was arrested and a juvenile apprehended after chats from the bois locker room were exposed — in which young school boys and pass outs were explicitly talking about woman of their class and even morphing random pictures of girls who had public accounts. Over two dozen students were also questioned in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bois-locker-room-case-filed-after-girl-gets-threats/articleshow/76271970.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid busts the myth of NCR: Close to Delhi of dreams, but not close enough||NEW DELHI: Where are you from? That’s usually one of the first questions that anyone I meet for the first time asks me. Delhi is never the right answer as it only makes people more curious. Because that is usually followed by, “We all are from Delhi, but where are you really from?” When the probe intensifies, I give in and reveal that I’m a Bengali and a Dilliwallah. “Oh, you are from West Bengal?” The answer is yes and no. My ancestors left Bengal two centuries ago and settled in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. I know the language well and my maternal grandfather’s house is in Kolkata, but despite the annual visits during summer vacations my knowledge of the state is limited. My grandfather moved to Delhi in the 1930s and initially lived at Gole Market with his uncle’s family. After marriage, he moved to a rented place in Karol Bagh. It was around 1950 that he moved to the newly built government flats in Vinay Nagar. The name of the area that came up on agricultural land acquired from residents of Pillanji village denoted “humility”. This is the area where my family would spend the next 60 years. During graduation, I realised that I had to compete with students from other states to get a seat in a Delhi University college. Those were the late 1990s and 90% marks were not normal, which helped me land a seat in a South Campus college with marks that wouldn’t allow me to sit at a Satya Niketan bus stop now. However, I never heard my parents or anyone talk about DU seats for Delhi students. Delhi is the national capital and it was natural that its university would attract the brightest minds. When I applied for a print journalism course in Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC), the only branch apart from Delhi was in Dhenkenal, Odisha. There were only a few seats for thousands of applicants and I was lucky to get a chance to study at IIMC, Delhi. In a class of 35, only about five students were “from” Delhi, but that never bothered us. It was also around this time that my father first showed signs of a heart problem. Safdarjung Hospital was the closest and that is where he was treated. In the next decade, visits to AIIMS and GB Pant hospitals, which boast of some of the best cardiologists in the country, became a routine affair. The OPDs of both GB Pant and AIIMS overflowed with patients, many from neighbouring states and, in the case of AIIMS, from as far as West Bengal. We had to wait for hours to meet a doctor. Even while gasping for breath from the exertion and taking puffs from his inhaler, I never heard my father grudge about the crowd. “We have the best hospitals in the country and two of them at a walking distance. Imagine travelling hundreds of kilometres and staying on the roadside for treatment. We are lucky we live here,” he used to say. After my father’s demise, we had to leave Sarojini Nagar, the only home I knew. I wanted to own a house, but found myself priced out in Delhi. The odds of landing an affordable DDA flat were too high, so I decided to move to Ghaziabad. Though we live in Ghaziabad, we shop at Sarojini Nagar market, watch films at Cinepolis in Laxmi Nagar, love to eat at Saravana Bhavan and, on special occasions, at United Coffee House or Zen in Connaught Place. Our family physician is in Delhi. Delhi Metro made it possible for me to reach from one part of NCR to another seamlessly and the region did feel like an organic, contiguous entity. Covid-19 changed all that. District administrations of Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurugram closed borders with varying restrictions and, finally, so did Delhi. There are many like me for whom Delhi is still home. We thought of ourselves as residents of an urban sprawl called NCR. But Covid-19 proved that the boundaries, which we believed only existed on maps, are actually quite rigid and run deep. NCR is just a mirage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-busts-the-myth-of-ncr-close-to-city-of-dreams-but-not-close-enough/articleshow/76275344.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors in Ahmedabad start tPA medical trials||AHMEDABAD: Along with the medical trials for varioys drugs including remdesivir, lopinavir, hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin and interferon on Covid-19 positive patients, the state health department has also initiated trials of various methods and treatment protocols to see what works best in local conditions. After encouraging results in plasma therapy, the hospitals at Civil Hospital have also initiated tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) treatment for critical patients. Dr R K Patel, director of Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre at Civil Hospital and member of the state government-formed Covid-19 research group, said that it’s a thrombolytic treatment (dissolving blood clots). Experts said that the method is used in critical patients showing symptoms of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) developed by Covid-19 patients. The treatment aims at dissolving blood clots quickly to stabilize the patient, they added. “We have also started research on anti-platelet drugs and patients on dialysis with a combination of drugs,” said Dr Patel. “Tocilizumab injections have shown good result on critical patients so far.” Senior health experts said that the team of doctors are keeping a close watch on national and international developments to ensure that the patient doesn’t turn critical with conditions such as cytokine storm and doesn’t need a ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-in-city-start-tpa-medical-trials/articleshow/76271965.cms||Parth Shastri
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Malls reopen to less footfall, most shops remained closed on Day 1||Ludhiana: As the malls reopened after lockdown due to Covid-19, on Monday, these witnessed less footfall. However, the authorities managing the work at the malls are hopeful that the numbers will increase in the days to come. As the malls reopened after March end, fewer number of customers were visible and many shops remained closed on the first day. However, adequate security measures were taken by the malls, most of which are located on Ferozepur road. At the entry of all malls, there were either round marks or the authorities had got shoe stickers pasted for customers to tell them where to stand. After that, thermal scanning of the visitors was done before entering. The authorities were noting down the name, contact number of the visitor and then issued a token to them after which he/she was allowed inside. A team of workers were sanitising the lifts, grills and doors, etc. A worker at a mall said that they were allowing the visitors only after thermal scanning and necessary checking. He added that only those wearing masks and having Cova app were allowed in. A senior functionary at a private mall said the shops would open gradually as the staff, which had gone out, would take time to return. He confirmed that footfall had been less but hoped that the numbers would increase gradually after people get adapted to the new scenario. Meanwhile, many residents said it would take time before people start going to malls. “As of now, the cases are there in the city, so people will have reservations to go to such places due to Covid-19 threat. However, once the cases are controlled, more people will go to malls. People are not even going to busy markets due to the threat,” said Kamaljeet Singh, a businessman of Model Town area. A resident asking not to be named said a sizeable number of people, mostly parents of children, used to go to malls for watching movies, having food and for playing games, but many of them were avoiding this due to Covid threat. He added that scenario was expected to improve only after Covid vaccine comes in the market. box: Some guidelines for malls * For entering shopping malls, every person shall have Cova app on their phones. In case of a family, one person having the app shall be permitted to enter the mall. Loitering in the mall will not be allowed * Entry to malls shall be based on a token system, based on the maximum capacity. Besides, a maximum time limit for a person/a group of persons entering the mall should also be enforced. The management shall ensure that no more than 50% of the maximum capacity shall at any point of time enter the mall or are present in a single shop * Each shop shall have markers to indicate social distancing for those waiting to enter. Lifts shall not be used except in case of disabled persons or in medical emergency. Health team of the district shall regularly check the employees working in shops of the mall. Restaurants/food courts shall only allow takeaways||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/malls-reopen-to-less-footfall-most-shops-remained-closed-on-day-1/articleshow/76270805.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Govt to allow cycling on more roads to ease commuting woes||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday decided to allow more roads for cyclists in Kolkata. The CM has asked Kolkata Police to check the feasibility to make sure it does not lead to accidents. The CM said that people who are using cycles to reach work should be careful and should avoid main roads since state and private buses have started plying.  Even though thousands of state buses are plying, many are preferring bicycles to maintain social distancing and that is why the CM felt that smaller roads, which are connected with the main roads can be used by the cyclists. She said, “I have asked police to find out the roads which can be used by cyclists that will not lead to accidents. I cannot give any guarantee that there will be no accidents. I don’t want accidents. The cyclists have to ride safely and be cautious .” On Monday evening, each Kolkata Police traffic guard OCs were asked to provide a list of roads, which can be taken out of the purview of the earlier notification that was passed six years ago.“The problem with the existing policy is that while one road has been reserved, the connecting one has been reserved against cycling. No cyclist thus can reach central Kolkata and Sector V where most offices are located. ,” explained an ACP.“Given that most of the cyclists are coming from North 24 Parganas and Howrah and from the southern suburbs, we can try and dedicate a lane on alternate flanks during morning and evening for them. Similarly, there is a possibility that we can bring down the restricted roads to anywhere down to 40 to 50 from the present 62. ,” explained an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-to-allow-cycling-on-more-roads-to-ease-commuting-woes/articleshow/76272639.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||186 Covid patients recover in a day, highest ever in state||Dehradun: The state on Monday recorded 56 new Covid-19 cases, which took the tally to 1,411. On the same day, the health department discharged 186 novel coronavirus patients of which 83 are from Nainital. This is the highest single day recovery reported in Uttarakhand so far. Results of over 6,000 samples are pending for the past 10 days. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that 20 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Pithoragarh which has the lowest recovery rate among all the 13 districts, while 31 people were discharged from Dehradun. Meanwhile, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said that there is no need to panic despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases while adding that the state has more than 20,000 beds for such patients and suspect cases. He added that the state has 243 ICU beds and 126 ventilators. Singh said that the doubling rate of cases in the state has improved and it has gone above 16 days now. He added that around 1.3 lakh people are in quarantine in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/186-covid-patients-recover-in-a-day-highest-ever-in-state/articleshow/76269531.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Firm designs city’s first electrostatic disinfection machine||Nagpur: A firm has designed the city’s first electrostatic disinfection machine named ‘Encee-Spray’ based on technology from Council for Scientific and Industrial Research’s Central Scientific Instruments Organization (CSIR-CSIO), a Government of India’s research institute, based in Chandigarh.Claiming it to be the first of its kind in India, Rite Water Solution’s director Abhijeet Gaan stated that the machine comprises an electrostatic spraying unit and an on-site disinfectant generator. Its demonstration was held at DCP Traffic office in Civil Lines on Friday.“An electrostatic disinfection is one of the most efficient and effective methods to apply disinfectant and sanitizing agents to living and non-living surfaces. It offers a favourable approach to increase spray deposition to hidden areas with reduced usages of chemicals,” said Gaan.Explaining the usage of the machine, he said that it significantly reduced the chemical cost as disinfectant was generated on-site from the salt solution. “The electrostatic sprayers are ideal to disinfect any area by filling up the disinfecting chemicals in the sprayer. It’s best suited for surface disinfection of coronavirus which is 0.1 micron in size,” said Gaan.The electrostatic spraying has several advantages over conventional sprayers. “It has become the most popular solution in the US for surfaced disinfection and many airlines such as Delta and Southwest, Marriott group of hotels, schools, restaurants and several private and the US government institutions are using these sprayers against Covid-19. A comparative study conducted by United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) for electrostatic sprayer highlighted the advantages over conventional sprayer,” said Gaan. Quoting some findings, the young director said the MHA had mandated all workspaces to practice disinfection on a daily basis, not only for the premises but also for all the staff, vehicles and other material. “There are approximately over one lakh hospitals, over 2.5 lakh local bodies, 9,000 trains, 8,500 stations, 673 aircraft, 123 large airports, 1.28 lakh hotel rooms, 8,000 cinema screens and over two lakh workspaces in India. All these would need disinfection solutions in a big way to keep their premises free from the deadly virus,” he said, adding, there was a large scale demand for providing efficient and cost effective disinfection solution for infection prevention at workplaces.“Encee-Spray aims to be the one system which can ensure full proof and cost effective solution to meet the massive needs in the country with a Made in India product based on the government technology,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/firm-designs-citys-first-electrostatic-disinfection-machine/articleshow/76267541.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Covid busts the myth of NCR: Close to Delhi of dreams, but not close enough||NEW DELHI: Where are you from? That’s usually one of the first questions that anyone I meet for the first time asks me. Delhi is never the right answer as it only makes people more curious. Because that is usually followed by, “We all are from Delhi, but where are you really from?” When the probe intensifies, I give in and reveal that I’m a Bengali and a Dilliwallah. “Oh, you are from West Bengal?” The answer is yes and no. My ancestors left Bengal two centuries ago and settled in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. I know the language well and my maternal grandfather’s house is in Kolkata, but despite the annual visits during summer vacations my knowledge of the state is limited. My grandfather moved to Delhi in the 1930s and initially lived at Gole Market with his uncle’s family. After marriage, he moved to a rented place in Karol Bagh. It was around 1950 that he moved to the newly built government flats in Vinay Nagar. The name of the area that came up on agricultural land acquired from residents of Pillanji village denoted “humility”. This is the area where my family would spend the next 60 years. During graduation, I realised that I had to compete with students from other states to get a seat in a Delhi University college. Those were the late 1990s and 90% marks were not normal, which helped me land a seat in a South Campus college with marks that wouldn’t allow me to sit at a Satya Niketan bus stop now. However, I never heard my parents or anyone talk about DU seats for Delhi students. Delhi is the national capital and it was natural that its university would attract the brightest minds. When I applied for a print journalism course in Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC), the only branch apart from Delhi was in Dhenkenal, Odisha. There were only a few seats for thousands of applicants and I was lucky to get a chance to study at IIMC, Delhi. In a class of 35, only about five students were “from” Delhi, but that never bothered us. It was also around this time that my father first showed signs of a heart problem. Safdarjung Hospital was the closest and that is where he was treated. In the next decade, visits to AIIMS and GB Pant hospitals, which boast of some of the best cardiologists in the country, became a routine affair. The OPDs of both GB Pant and AIIMS overflowed with patients, many from neighbouring states and, in the case of AIIMS, from as far as West Bengal. We had to wait for hours to meet a doctor. Even while gasping for breath from the exertion and taking puffs from his inhaler, I never heard my father grudge about the crowd. “We have the best hospitals in the country and two of them at a walking distance. Imagine travelling hundreds of kilometres and staying on the roadside for treatment. We are lucky we live here,” he used to say. After my father’s demise, we had to leave Sarojini Nagar, the only home I knew. I wanted to own a house, but found myself priced out in Delhi. The odds of landing an affordable DDA flat were too high, so I decided to move to Ghaziabad. Though we live in Ghaziabad, we shop at Sarojini Nagar market, watch films at Cinepolis in Laxmi Nagar, love to eat at Saravana Bhavan and, on special occasions, at United Coffee House or Zen in Connaught Place. Our family physician is in Delhi. Delhi Metro made it possible for me to reach from one part of NCR to another seamlessly and the region did feel like an organic, contiguous entity. Covid-19 changed all that. District administrations of Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurugram closed borders with varying restrictions and, finally, so did Delhi. There are many like me for whom Delhi is still home. We thought of ourselves as residents of an urban sprawl called NCR. But Covid-19 proved that the boundaries, which we believed only existed on maps, are actually quite rigid and run deep. NCR is just a mirage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-busts-the-myth-of-ncr-close-to-city-of-dreams-but-not-close-enough/articleshow/76271978.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||KMC plans spl buses, roster to ensure smooth functioning||Kolkata: Sensing difficulties being faced by a section of Kolkata Municipal Corporation in reaching office, the civic brass on Monday decided to introduce bus services for the civic employees who come to the city from suburbs. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of board of administrators (BOA) governing the KMC on Monday had a talk with municipal commissioner Binod Kumar and asked him to take effective steps for introduction of bus services for KMC employees. This apart, the civic brass was also keen on introducing a roster for the KMC employees, who come from far-off districts and thus can’t come every day in absence of local train services.Later, Hakim said the KMC would keep its fleet of buses ready at nine different areas to pick civic employees from suburban areas. “It is true some civic employees may face difficulties in reaching the civic headquarters or other KMC offices in absence of regular mass transport system. We will arrange buses for the KMC employees, who come from the suburbs,” Hakim said. Hakim claimed that 80% civic employees had turned up at the KMC headquarters on Monday after a circular was issued by the municipal commissioner on Saturday stating the civic authorities wanted 100% attendance from Monday. Sources in the KMC said civic employees from remote places had turned up at the headquarters fearing disciplinary action. A 56-year old woman, who is posted with the KMC health department, had to hire a car for Rs 5,500 from Panskura (West Midnapore) to reach the headquarters. According to a civic official, apart from health department, workers from other departments were also seen in large numbers. However, a section of employees complained of poor upkeep of office rooms as several rooms were locked during past two and half months due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-plans-spl-buses-roster-to-ensure-smooth-functioning/articleshow/76272644.cms||Saikat Ray
June 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man booked for killing stray dog||SURAT: Based on a complaint lodged by a dog lover in Pal area of the city, Adajan police booked a resident of Palanpore Gam on Sunday for allegedly killing a stray dog. The complainant alleged that he had to run in circles for seven days to get his offence registered, but ny then the carcass was already disposed by the local civic authorities before investigation could take place. Police booked accused Hitesh Patel under various sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Indian Penal Code for killing the stray canine. “Initially when we approached the Adajan police, they laughed at us and were not at all ready to register an offence. After getting help from the office of Maneka Gandhi and the Animal Welfare Board of India, did cops register my plaint,” said Hemant Jain, a stock trader and a dog lover who kept feeding strays throughout lockdown. “Me and other dog lovers who regularly go to feed stray dogs in Palanpore Gam area were also threatened with our lives, but police did not mention this in the FIR. I doubt if police will take any strict actions in the case,” Jain added. “Police have registered an offence and if needed the accused will be arrested. The person who killed the dog doubted that it was a rabid dog,” said J B Bumbadia, police inspector, Adajan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-booked-for-killing-stray-dog/articleshow/76269566.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kanpur||Malls & hotels open, but get lukewarm response||KANPUR: City’s hotels, malls and restaurants after being given permission on Sunday, opened on Monday but received a lukewarm response from the denizens. However, cinema halls or multiplexes remained shut as they had not been granted permission to operate. A prominent mall at Bada Chauraha did not open. Confirming the development, Hemant Soneja, who owns branded wristwatch stores, said: “The mall did not open today. We were intimated about it. Once the mall opens, we shall also open our stores and follow all guidelines such as maintaining social distancing, sanitisation.” On being asked if he was getting business in his market store which sells branded watches, Soneja said that the business is tardy and it may take time for it to pick up. “There are not much buyers. Only those who have marriage function at home are coming to us. Such customers are making purchase of wrist watches,” he added. Meanwhile, other malls also either did not open or else witnessed low turnout. This was so because people do not wish to risk contracting the coronavirus. However, in the malls also the shops selling different products shall open on an alternate basis. While stores selling electrical, electronic, mobile, furniture, plastic, utensils, gift items, shall open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, stores selling clothing items, cosmetics, footwear, jewellery, watches, leather goods shall open on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. Shops selling essential items such as bakery products, sweets, meat shall operate on a daily basis. The city malls have remained shut for over two months due to the extended lockdown. And now with relaxations coming into force, it is expected that the business activities would get back to normal. But rising number of corona cases both in the city and the country has ensured that the people are alert. As a result, crowds did not turn up. The footfall in malls may increase gradually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/malls-hotels-open-but-get-lukewarm-response/articleshow/76272191.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Devotee count low at religious places||Ludhiana: Not much footfall was witnessed at religious places on Monday after lockdown of over two and a half months. Devotees were not allowed to enter without mask and sanitising hands. Further, they were not allowed to touch the idols and holy books. Ashok Jain, president of Sidhipeeth Mahabali Sankatmochan Shri Hanuman Mandir, Haibowal, said, “Not many devotees visited temples on Monday. I think people are just being cautious and not coming out of houses. We have kept a thermometer at the entrance and also hand sanitisers. Circles have also been made in the temple to implement social distancing.” Mahant Narayan Das Puri of ancient Sanglawala Shivala said, “There was rush in the morning, for which we had deployed sevadars to make them stand in queues by ensuring safe distance. Everyone entering the temple premises was given a sanitiser to clean hands. We have already wrapped the bell with tape so that nobody touches it. Banners asking to keep precautions have been pasted inside the temple. Due to religious significance to pouring water over Shivalinga, most of the people had brought utensils from their homes. Besides, prasad was not distributed in the temple.” In gurdwaras too, the footfall of devotees was not the same as before lockdown. Surinder Singh Chawala, president of management committee of Gurdwara Singh Sabha, B R S Nagar, said the footfall of devotees was quite less than usual. Marely 40-45 people visited the gurdwara. A sanitising tunnel has been set up at the entrance of gurdwara premises. Only devotees with masks were allowed to enter the gurdwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/devotee-count-low-at-religious-places/articleshow/76270823.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Part of terrace collapses in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A part of terrace slab of a dilapidated apartment in Naranpura area of the city collapsed on Monday. However, no one suffered any injuries in the incident. But a Covid-19 positive patient had to shift to his brother’s house as the block was vacated by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) after the incident.  According to local residents, no one was living in that flat on the third floor of the Asopalav Flats in Naranpura for around 20 years. However, as one Covid-19 patient, 31, was living on the second floor of the building, he along with nearly 30 others had to move out of the flats. The patient had to move to his brother’s place till he was given further accommodation. His brother told TOI, “We had bought two flats in October last year but the issue of dilapidated condition of the flats was always there.” Officers of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Service (AFES) informed the deputy estate officer of west zone, Chintan Shah, to remove risky part of the building so that it would not cause any loss of lives or properties in near future, said an AFES officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/part-of-terrace-collapses/articleshow/76272085.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Set up pharma park in Lucknow: Drug manufacturers||Lucknow: The UP Drug Manufacturers’ Association has again pressed for setting up a pharma park in the state capital, saying it had mooted a proposal for the second time in 2017 after BJP came to power, and had it been implemented then UP would have been better prepared in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to MSME principal secretary, the Association president Prashant Bhartiya said they had been pressing for establishing a pharma park in Lucknow since 2010, but no action was taken by then government. Subsequently, since setting up of a pharma park was mentioned in BJP’s manifesto for the 2017 assembly elections, they approached the industries department once again but nothing was done. “The chief minister has recently said that a pharma park will be set up in UP, we welcome his initiative. We have been pushing for the park since 2010 and had submitted a detailed proposal to the industries department in 2017. As per our information, UPSIDC had taken back 40 acre land which was allotted to UPDPL. If this land is allotted for the pharma park, we will be able to set the ball rolling in one go,” he said. The association says that Lucknow has a huge medicine wholesale market and the state’s annual consumption of medicines is over Rs 40,000 crore. Of this, 17% is Lucknow’s share. The pharma park will include units on R&D, basic drugs, formulations of new molecules based on nano technology and allied industries. The association has a tie-up with Central Drug Research Institute for technical collaboration. In the letter, the association has also pointed out that the delay in setting up the pharma park may have cost the state crucial points during the pandemic. It says, “…if the government had approved the entire project way back in 2017, we would have been ready by this time to fight Covid-19 by contributing directly to present needs, be it formulations or R&D.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/set-up-pharma-park-in-lucknow-drug-manufacturers/articleshow/76272643.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 20% mall rats say hello, 90% of them say buy-buy as well||KOLKATA: Malls in Kolkata recorded the highest ever conversion rate on Monday with only customers intent on making a purchase or having a meal visiting the malls that resumed business in the Covid era. Stores selling apparel, cosmetics and phones fared better than others but nearly everyone, even a nail art store, earned revenue after a two-and-a-half month shutdown when life had turned topsy-turvy and jobs uncertain. At South City mall, the city’s largest and among the most popular malls in terms of footfall before Covid forced the closure in mid-March, the footfall at around 6,000 was way below the 30,000-35,000 the mall would attract on a regular Monday. But the absence of buzz was more than made up by the jingle in store cashboxes as nearly everyone who arrived making a purchase. “Normally, only 4%-5% of people who come to the mall to shop while 80% spend time in the food court. But on Monday, only serious customers came to the mall and 90% of them shopped. The food court, too, had 800 customers by 6pm,” said South City Mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. At Acropolis mall, which draws far fewer footfall than South City on an average weekday, the conversion was as high, up from the usual 25%-30%. Stores selling cosmetics with eye makeup were much more in demand than lip products. “With masks now a reality, all the attention is on eyes,” a store salesperson pointed out. Amidst the Covid pandemic, a young doctor took a break to get a makeover at a nail art store. Her motto: “You only live once.” Cellphone and laptop stores recorded higher than usual sales, fuelled by school closures and online classes. “People have been somehow managing with whatever device they had at home. But they have rushed to buy laptops and phones at the first possible opportunity on Monday,” said a store manager at City Centre I. Quest Mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra, who has been managing malls for over a decade, said he had never seen such a high conversion ratio. “Earlier, 30% of people who walked in shopped. On Monday, around 80% people shopped. It was also nice to see the delight of store staffers who are relieved to be back at work,” he said. Customer discipline and proactiveness to adhere to social distancing norms also left many mall managers pleasantly surprised on Monday. “I had thought customers would have to be told to queue up or wear the mask. But I was wrong. My staff didn’t have to step in even once as customers adhered to self-discipline,” said Acropolis general manager K Vijayan. While 50%-60% stores were open on day I, the count will go up as the week progresses. Ramesh Pandey, general manager of Ambuja Neotia group that runs City Centre I and City Centre II, felt footfall, too, would seadily rise as customers gained confidence. For Sudarshana Gangulee of Mani group that operates Mani Square as well as Mehra and Bagree, there was a feeling of deja vu on Monday. “It reminded me of the first day of the mall. This reopening is actually starting all over again,” said Gangulee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/20-mall-rats-say-hello-90-of-them-say-buy-buy-as-well/articleshow/76270807.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Man hacks son-in-law to death||Hyderabad: A man killed his son-in-law by attacking him with an axe when the victim was fast asleep at his home in Narsapur village of Nizamabad district, in the wee hours of Monday. Kammarpally police said that 40-year-old B Sarman Naik and members of his family were sleeping outside their house at Somidi Ragidi tribal hamlet. At around 3 am on Monday, Sarman’s father-in-law B Pathya Naik (65) came to his house and attacked him with an axe. He struck Sarman on his neck causing the victim to cry out in pain. On seeing this, the accused fled. Sarman’s wife and their daughter woke up to see him bleeding profusely and Pathya fleeing. Within a few minutes, Sarman died. “Pathya and son-in-law always used to fight with each other regularly over petty family issues. Two days ago, there was an argument between the two. The accused bore a grudge and on Monday early morning, he killed Sarman,” Kammarpally sub-inspector Mohammed Asif told TOI. Both the victim and accused are farmers. The accused was taken into custody and a case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. The accused was allegedly under the influence of alcohol at the time of committing the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-hacks-son-in-law-to-death/articleshow/76271975.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||No Char Dham Yatra till June 30: Devasthanam Board||DEHRADUN: The Char Dham Yatra will not begin till June 30 at least, CEO of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, Ravinath Raman said on Monday. He added that pilgrims from within the state or outside will not be allowed in the four Char Dham shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri before June 30 although local traders and those who run hotels in the shrine towns will be permitted. He added that a decision to start the yatra will be taken after June 30. Priests (teerth purohits) of the Char Dham shrines who had for a long time been protesting against the move being mulled by the state government to begin the yatra, welcomed the decision. “At the present moment when the Covid crisis is raging, it is best to postpone the yatra even though livelihoods of scores of people depend on it,” said Anil Shukla, a priest at Kedarnath. The priests along with local public representatives of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts, where the four revered shrines are located, had a meeting with respective district administration officials on Monday and stressed that they are against resuming the Char Dham Yatra before June 30 owing to the Covid-19 scare. Earlier, on Sunday, the teerth purohits had said that they will not conduct puja in the temples if the government went ahead with its decision to start the yatra. Rudraprayag district magistrate (DM) Vandana (who uses only her first name), told TOI that “from priests to local businessmen and even residents, all were unanimous in the view that the yatra should start after June 30.” "Residents around Kedarnath have said that they don’t want people from the state and even outside to attend the yatra even if that means losses for them," the DM said. Chamoli DM Swati Bhadauria added that traders from Joshimath and other towns in Chamoli wanted to go to Badrinath to renovate and clean their shop and hotels which were lying vacant for around seven months. "We have granted them permission," she added. Uttarkashi DM Ashish Chauhan also said that priests, businessmen and residents near both Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines had been unanimous in the decision to delay the yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-char-dham-yatra-till-june-30-devasthanam-board/articleshow/76269538.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 9, 2020||Kanpur||5 test +ve for Covid in Kanpur Dehat||KANPUR: Five fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Kanpur Dehat district on Monday, taking the total tally to 37. Out of 37 positive cases, eight corona patients have been discharged till now and there are 29 active cases undergoing treatment at Covid-19 hospitals. One person has died so far in the district. Among fresh cases, a woman hailing from Ninaya village of Sarwankheda block, who along with her family had returned from Noida contracted infection, according to district health department official. “Her sample, which was sent to Covid lab on June 4, tested positive on Monday,” official added. Similarly, two locals of Aujhan village, who were quarantined at Sneh Lata degree college, have tested positive. In Rajpur block’s Budhauli village, a four-year-old girl and her mother have tested positive. “All five cases have been under isolation at Covid hospital in Gajner area of the distric,” said chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Katiyar. The health authorities are trying to trace their contacts while close contacts of infected persons have been qurantinedand their villages are being sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/5-test-ve-for-covid-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/76272220.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kanpur||18 new cases surface in Kanpur, tally 543||KANPUR: Covid-10 tally is on a rapid rise in the city, as 18 fresh cases were registered on Monday. With this, the total count of corona cases increased to 543. Also, one more person succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday , taking the toll to 17. The ity had also witnessed one Covid death on Sunday. The only relief is that 23 corona positive persons, who had recovered fully ,were discharged from Covid hospital Rama Medical College. Still, 187 people who had contracted coronavirus, are undergoing treatment. Of the total 543, 339 corona patients after recovering from the disease have been discharged. Health department informed TOI that 18 fresh cases of coronavirus were recorded on Monday. The department stated that the new cases had come up from areas like Anwarganj, Meerpur Cantt, Juhi, Ramaipur, Billhaur, Laxmipurwa, UHM, Darshanpurwa and Sooterganj. Further, 446 samples for corona tests had been collected and have been sent for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/18-new-cases-surface-in-city-tally-543/articleshow/76272184.cms||---
June 9, 2020||India||Sundari, the tigress that no state want||BHOPAL: While a Maharashtra tiger is slowly adjusting to solitary confinement at Van Vihar Bhopal for three human kills, the stand-off has deepened between the Madhya Pradesh and Odisha governments over translocated tigress ‘Sundari’, who was captured on similar charges. The Odisha forest department has sent reminders to Madhya Pradesh to “take this tigress back”, but officers here are said to be reluctant. Now, National Tiger Conservation Authority has been asked to decide its fate, saidsources. Sundari was shifted from MP’s Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR) to Satkosia Tiger Reserve (STR) in Odisha’s Angul district on June 28, 2018, and was released in the wild on July 6. She had been moved to Odisha a week after translocation of MB2 — a male tiger from Kanha. This pair was part of the country’s first inter-state tiger translocation project. Sundari was captured by Odisha forest officials on November 6, 2018, after it killed two people in the STR core area. MB2 was killed by poachers a week later. “We have sent our opinion that we won’t be able to take it back. It cannot be re-wilded,” said a wildlife officer in MP. Odisha officials say they are waiting for NTCA’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sundari-the-tigress-that-no-state-want/articleshow/76273133.cms||P Naveen
June 9, 2020||Madurai||Cases spike in south, source tracking on||Madurai/Trichy: As many as 73 Covid-19 cases, including one imported case were reported in south Tamil Nadu on Monday. The total number of cases per day in the region has crossed 50 thrice during the past week taking the tally to 1,870. All the 10 districts have reported at least one new case. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 16 new cases from five districts taking the total tally to 1,023 on Monday. Madurai, which saw five Covid-19 cases on Monday, continues to reports local cases showing influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms but the source of infection is under investigation by the health officials. A three-month-old girl from Melur, 27-year-old man from Sellur, and 37-year-old woman from Anupanadi, who were all from containment areas, tested Covid-19 positive after showing ILI symptoms. The remaining two cases were those with ILI symptoms who resided in proximity to the district collector office and Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) Mortuary but did not have any travel or contact history. The highest number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region was recorded in Tuticorin district for the second day in a row with 26 local cases. Tuticorin became second to cross 350 after Tirunelveli with 355 cases. Dindigul district reported nine more cases, while Kanyakumari recorded seven cases. Sivagangai district, which has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the region, on Monday, saw seven fresh cases. The total number of cases in the district is 42. The lone imported case was recorded in Tirunelveli, which also saw three local cases. Covid-19 cases have shown a declining trend in the district after a massive spike last month due to influx of people from other states. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases were also recorded in Ramanathapuram (6), Virudhunagar (4), Tenkasi (3) and Theni (2). A 30-year-old man hailing from Sendurai in Ariyalur district tested positive for Covid-19 in Chennai. Sources said the patient underwent a swab test in a private hospital where he visited to treat his back pain. As the test result confirmed the infection, his family members in Chennai were home quarantined. The asymptomatic patient has moved to an institutional quarantine facility in Chennai. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Ariyalur district has surged to 381. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Thanjavur district has climbed to 117 with four new cases on Monday. A 25-year-old resident of Thanjavur is among them. Employed in Chennai, he had visited Thanjavur a few days ago and went back to Chennai. As he tested positive, health officials alerted authorities in Chennai. Following which, he has been admitted to the Stanley Government Hospital in Chennai. Two men aged 68 and 27 from Kumbakonam also turned positive. A 54-year-old woman from Pattukottai also tested positive. With five new cases, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Nagapattinam has climbed to 81. In Tiruvarur the total count touched 62 with three new cases. Pudukottai district also saw three more cases. The total count of the district touched 36 on Monday. Trichy, Perambalur and Karur reported no cases to add to its count on Monday. In Trichy, 14 patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-spike-in-south-source-tracking-on/articleshow/76272024.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 shifting back to cities: Govt||Lucknow: The coronavirus pandemic is slowly shifting back to cities after recording its presence in the rural arm, said state government officials on Monday, adding that the onus of Covid-19 prevention now lies with the urban population. According to experts, the progression of Covid-19 in UP may be divided into four legs—arrival of foreign travellers, Tablighi Jamaat attendees, health workers and, hospitals and migrants. The infection making a comeback to cities marks the beginning of the fifth leg. “Prevention is the only reliable arsenal and hope, especially as the country is nearing a peak,” they said. Urging citizens to take preventive behaviour seriously, officials said that while they have clear indications that the situation in villages is under control, the risk of spread has moved to cities, where both population density and general activity are high especially with everything opening up. “At the moment, the most important contribution towards curbing spread of coronavirus is needed from those living in cities. This is because the wave of migrant cases is on the decline and in fact it will fade away in a few days. The new gush is coming in urban districts, particularly in Meerut division,” said principal secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. Prasad added, “It is important that urban residents stay extra cautious and work towards prevention of coronavirus spread. This becomes especially crucial as lockdown has almost ended and business as usual is all set to take over. The fact that population density in cities is higher than villages adds to the importance.” The official Covid-19 bulletin showed that 176 of the 412 new cases reported on Monday belonged to six districts in Meerut division with Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad accounting for 100 cases. Health officials suggested that any kind of unnecessary public interaction, meetings and movement outside homes must be avoided. “Extra attention must be paid to preventive measures like wearing masks, washing hands with soap and water for at least 30 seconds and following cough hygiene,” an officer said. About the Covid-19 wave declining in villages, he said that state health department got a mega exercise conducted to see if the ‘nigrani samitis’ were working well and also to assess if home quarantine was followed by isolated migrants religiously. “For this, general residents from 72 villages across 18 districts where the number of migrants was high were tested. The villages selected had at least 50 migrants living there for at least 15 days. The 1,700-odd samples tested negative, suggesting that the risk in villages was under control. It also speaks for the fact that surveillance has been on the right track so far,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-shifting-back-to-cities-govt/articleshow/76272674.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||MP Dev facilitates safe return of migrants from Jammu and Nepal||Kolkata: Sixteen-year-old Puja Majhi had gone to visit her father in Jammu after writing her Madhyamik exams from Rajnagar Union High School. Her father, Tapan Majhi, was a goldsmith in Udhampur and had settled there 16 years ago. All was well till the day of their return when lockdown was announced. Their confirmed return tickets were cancelled leaving the family stranded for over two months. Majhi, a migrant labour, was among the 39 people returning on a bus from Jammu to Ghatal on Monday. For all of them, star-turned-MP Dev is their “saviour”. “I have no words to describe how difficult life has been in these three months. I used to make jewellery for the wedding season and earned a decent monthly sum of Rs 10,000-12,000. But after lockdown, there was no income at all. People didn’t even have food,” he said. DevDevFour days ago, they had made frantic calls to reach Dev to rescue them. After umpteen calls and emails, the bus was allowed to travel from Jammu to Ghatal. “Actually, Jammu is a sensitive zone and it was a challenge to get permission. We got the ID card of the bus driver. Three years ago, I had met Ajatshatru Singh, who is a descendent of the last Dogra ruler. I explained the situation to him and sought his help. He put someone on the job. Finally, I got in touch with the divisional commissioner of Jammu and the permission was granted on Monday morning,” said Dev. Not just Majhi’s family, a few others from Ghatal had also gone to Jammu in March. Among them was 28-year-old Sanjiv Samanta. “On March 6, we had boarded the Himgiri Express from Howrah to reach Jammu. This was supposed to be a holiday-cum-pilgrimage,”he said. Worse was the financial crunch. “One can stay at a relative or a friend’s place for a few days. They are migrant labourers in Jammu with limited resources. Staying for months on end at their place is overstaying our welcome. So, we took up a rented place and had to pay Rs 4,000 monthly,” Samanta said. Dev has also facilitated the return of migrant labourers from Nepal. “Many people from Ghatal work as goldsmiths in different parts of India and even abroad. A group of 36 migrant labourers were stuck in the no man’s land between the India and Nepal border. After bringing the matter to our CM’s attention, she extended all her support to bring them back,” Dev said. Bringing the labours back isn’t enough, he said. “We have to organize their food. Once they return, arrangements are immediately made for their Covid-19 tests at government hospital. Till the test results are out, they are allowed to stay in isolation at home or at schools.” Last Tuesday, the first group from Nepal returned to Ghatal. Among them were two pregnant women and six children. Another 247 migrant labours, who were brought back from Nepal subsequently, are now in home quarantine. There are 750 more on their way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mp-dev-facilitates-safe-return-of-migrants-from-jammu-and-nepal/articleshow/76272660.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: IAS officer Hareet Shukla tests Covid-19 positive||GANDHINAGAR: Hareet Shukla, the 1999-batch Gujarat cadre IAS officer who is secretary, science and technology department and also the in-charge CEO of Dholera SIR, has tested positive for Covid-19 and is in home isolation as he has mild symptoms only. Shukla has almost recovered and is expected to join work after completing the mandatory isolation period. Shukla who is also secretary of the Gujarat IAS association, was given the key work of ensuring procurement for Covid treatment at all the government hospitals. Shukla, 44, is the first secretary-rank IAS officer in the state to test positive. Few staffers of the GSBTM (Gujarat State Biotechnology Mission), who were working under Shukla and a few employees of the department have also tested positive. Shukla was interacting with health department officials, however it has not been established how he got infected. He said, “I don’t have any symptoms now, after I tested positive a few days ago. I felt some symptoms so I got myself tested and the result was positive. On doctors’ advise, I was home quarantined and I am fine now. I will return to work in about a week after getting a negative test result.” He advised people not to panic and follow protocols laid down by the government and doctors. “Together we will fight against the pandemic and win,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ias-officer-hareet-shukla-tests-ve/articleshow/76272082.cms||Kapil Dave
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Shaikpet tehsildar arrested by ACB; Rs 24 lakh, gold seized||HYDERABAD: The tehsildar at Shaikpet was arrested by anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths for possession of Rs 24 lakh unaccounted cash at her house in Gandhi Nagar. The ACB team conducted a surprise raid at Ch Sujata’s residence and seized Rs 24,19,400 cash and gold jewellery. The tehsildar and her husband, who is a university faculty, were questioned about the source of the cash. “The versions of tehsildar and her husband were contradictory. They were also not clear about the total amount they had at home. They said they had sold some property to relatives, who had paid them in cash. But when questioned, the relatives said they have nothing to do with the money. The couple could also not furnish any land documents,” said an ACB official. The complainant, Khalid, told ACB that the tehsildar had in December 2019 demanded Rs 14 lakh as bribe to settle the Road No 14 land dispute in his favour. “The complainant stated that he could not arrange Rs 50 lakh and the tehsildar had asked him to meet revenue inspector Nagarjuna Reddy to discuss the matter,” said the ACB official. According to the bureau, Sujata refused to cooperate with interrogators and said that she did not know who Khalid was. However, data analysis of calls made by the tehsildar and the complainant has revealed that he spoke to her was also present in the same cell tower location as that of tehsildar on a specific date last December. “Based on the available evidence, we arrested Sujata for possession of unaccounted cash,” said an ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shaikpet-tehsildar-arrested-by-acb/articleshow/76272844.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, sampling to be done by rural medical officers||Ludhiana: Punjab government has decided to hand over Covid-19 sampling and collection process to rural medical officers (RMOs) working under the department of rural development and panchayats. The director, health and family welfare, Punjab, shot off a letter to all civil surgeons of Punjab to hand over the process of sampling to RMOs working under various zila parishads of Punjab. In continuation of the order, training will be imparted to community health officers, nurses and pharmacists. The director wrote that three-day training of the above staff for RT PCR Covid-19 testing to be done and should be completed within 10 days. The ICMR has also come up with an online application of RT-PCR proforma, according to which details of the sample collected be directly sent online through an app, which is being updated from time to time. It has also updated the offline proformas, for which the whole staff is to be given training. The training will be conducted at flu comers and at least two individuals per batch will be trained. Rural Medical Officers Association president Deepinder Bhasin said, “Rural doctors are already doing the sampling and collection process of Covid-19 cases. This seems to be updation of the training module but medical officers of the health department have been left out.” Bhasin added, “The government is reposing full faith in the working of the rural doctors, who have been doing duty for Covid-19 round the clock for last three months. Medical officers of the health department also need to be trained, as 550 out of 1,186 posts of RMOs have been lying vacant for more than nine years. Besides, the health department has recruited more than 3,500 doctors in the past eight years. The rural dispensaries are being run by doctors with additional charges, which needs to be addressed. The rural dispensaries which had OPD catering to around 3.5 lakh patients per month is closed due to non-availability of rural medical officers in the dispensaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-sampling-to-be-done-by-rural-medical-officers/articleshow/76270846.cms||Mehak Jain
June 9, 2020||Kanpur||Couple killed, 2 kids injured in accident||KANPUR: A couple was killed and their two children were injured in a road accident near Peetampura village under the limits of Sikandara police station on Kanpur-Agra national highway in Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday morning. The couple died soon after the accident, while their two sons who sustained wounds have been admitted to Sikandara Community Health Centre, the police said and added the family was riding a two-wheeler, when their vehicle was hit by a speeding truck near Peetampura village in Sikandara police area on Kanpur-Agra highway. The police identified the deceased as Shankar Singh (44) and Sapna (40) of Madora village under the limits of Kuthaund police station in Jalaun district. “Their two minor sons Devendra (10) and Raghvendra (8), who sustained wounds are undergoing treatment at Sikandara CHC,” said Sikandara Kotwali officer Rajnesh Singh Chauhan. He further said that Shankar, who used to run a flour mill, along with his wife and children was heading to take part in ‘terahanvi’ ritual of their relative in Kanpur. The driver after abandoning the truck fled, the police said and added that searches are underway to arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-killed-2-kids-injured-in-accident/articleshow/76272214.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Madurai||40-year-old patient hacked to death inside Madurai hospital ward||MADURAI: In a daring incident, a five-member gang, armed with sharp weapons, entered the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai early on Monday morning and hacked to death a 40-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment there. The incident, which is suspected to be a case of previous enmity, took place in ward number 101. The deceased was identified as V Murugan from Karumbalai in Madurai city. He is survived by his wife Nagalakshmi and two children. According to police sources, the gang, wearing masks, entered the annexure building of GRH at around 5.30am and hacked Murugan to death. The incident sent shivers among other patients and attenders in the hospital building who ran helter-skelter for safety. The murderers managed to escape before higher officials, including deputy commissioner of police (law and order) E Karthick reached the spot. Police sources said there are more than 10 CCTV cameras in and around the ward and the footage is being checked. Police suspect that the murder was due to a previous motive, as Murugan was one of the accused in the murder of Rajasekaran, which took place in July, 2019. Chandru from Karumbalai was the primary accused in that case. A case was registered under various sections of IPC including 302 – punishment for murder and 449- trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death. Arunpandi, Vigneswaran and Karanraj and a few others were named as suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/40-yr-old-patient-hacked-to-death-inside-hospital-ward/articleshow/76271988.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 9, 2020||Bareilly||SI shunted out for demanding Rs 700 bribe in Budaun||Bareilly: A sub-inspector in Budaun district’s Islamnagar area was divested of his official responsibilities and attached with Police Lines on Monday after a video footage purportedly showing him seeking a bribe of Rs 700 from a local went viral on social media platforms.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Budaun, Ashok Kumar Tripathi, said, “Taking cognizance of the viral video, we have sent the sub-inspector to Police Lines. SP (rural) has been directed to probe the matter. Further action will be taken on completion of the inquiry.”According to sources, a man in Noorpur Pinanuni village had a dispute with other villagers over the release of water in the field. When the man approached Noorpur Pinanuni police outpost, the sub-inspector demanded bribe to resolve the issue. A video of the incident went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/si-shunted-out-for-demanding-rs-700-bribe-in-budaun/articleshow/76268488.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 9, 2020||Kochi||Temples under SNDP to open from Tuesday||ALAPPUZHA: Temples of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam will be opened for devotees from Tuesday, said SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan. Speaking to TOI here on Monday, Natesan said that the yogam owns over 2,000 temples including guru mandirams in the state and devotees can come to temples by following guidelines issued by both the Union and state governments. “The governments have allowed to open the temples following the demand of various religious leaders. The governments have issued guidelines for devotees visiting the temples. So, we will open the temples adhering to those guidelines,” said Natesan. Brahmana Sabha against opening temples now Palakkad: Kerala Brahmana Sabha has opposed the government’s decision to allow reopening of temples in the state. In a statement here on Monday the Sabha president Karimpuzha Raman said, “The government has announced many relaxations with respect to the lockdown which commenced on March 24, 2020. The temples are conducting essential poojas without allowing public darshan. But many riders and conditions make it practically difficult to go to the temple. There is a likelihood that the very purpose of lockdown to prevent community spread will be defeated if we start congregating in a big scale.” “The temples under Brahmana Sammoham management will not allow devotees till the end of this month,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/temples-under-sndp-to-open-from-today/articleshow/76269574.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC against reserved hospital beds||NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi government reserved hospitals for its residents, two petitions were filed in Delhi high court on Monday challenging the move. Both the petitions challenged the government’s order dated June 7 issued through its health and family welfare department, where it asked both government and private hospitals and nursing homes in the city to ensure only bonafide residents of Delhi were admitted for treatment. The petitions filed by two lawyers assailed the move, arguing that the decision violated the basic fundamental right to health of the public at large. “The Act of the respondent to classify patients as resident and non-resident of Delhi is discriminatory and against the constitutional duties imposed upon the respondent. Right to health is a fundamental right and can be abridged only in a manner known to the law, or otherwise, they are sacrosanct and the respondent cannot deprive the citizens their right,” one of the petitions stated. Another plea said one of the petitioners was a permanent resident of Bihar but had been living in Delhi since 2015, while the other was a permanent resident of Uttar Pradesh but was studying law in the capital and was a resident since 2017. It argued that such category of residents might face hardship and challenges due to the arbitrary order issued by the Delhi government since it adversely affected them. “The order is violative of Article 14 & 15 of the Constitution as the same treats a person residing in Delhi and not having a valid proof of residence as per the exhaustive list mentioned therein the aforesaid notification unequally with other persons,” the plea argued, urging the high court to intervene. It added that the petitioners were “under the justifiable apprehension that the treatment meted out to the individuals... would be prejudicial, biased, unfair, unjust and highly discriminatory,” and requested the court to quash the decision while ordering the government to fulfill its constitutional obligations and put in place efficient health infrastructure. Both petitions are likely to be heard during the week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-in-hc-against-reserved-hosp-beds/articleshow/76272032.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC refuses to lift stay on Franklin Templeton e-voting||AHMEDABAD: In a setback for Franklin Templeton, the Gujarat high court on Monday not only refused to lift its stay on its e-voting for unit-holders on winding up of the six fixed-income schemes, but also confirmed the stay on the voting till the forensic audit report appears in public domain. Upon receiving complaints of mismanagement of funds following the company’s winding up decision, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had ordered a chartered accountant firm to conduct a forensic audit on six debt funds worth Rs 28,000 crore. After the HC on June 3 stayed the company’s scheduled e-voting among its unit-holders on the winding up process, FT approached the HC for vacation of stay arguing that this would adversely affect its more than 3 lakh investors and the repayment would get delayed further. The e-voting among unit-holders was planned between June 9 and 12. After hearing the arguments, Justice Gita Gopi dismissed the company’s challenge to maintainability of the petition filed by Ahmedabad-based investors – the promotors of Rasna group Arzee and Persis Khambhatta and Khambhatt Trust, who invested Rs 6.5 crore in FT’s debt funds. The court accepted the arguments by Khambhatta’s lawyer and said, “Amidst allegations of mismanagement of funds and fraud, the unitholders would not be having the opportunity of informed decision making while casting the e-votes for the option given by the applicants (company and its trustees). No winding-up process could be concluded without the consent of the unit-holders, as has been laid down in sub-regulation 15(c) of Regulation 18 of the Regulation. The Trustee shall have to obtain the prior consent of the unit-holders when a majority decide to windup or prematurely redeem the units. Thus, in view of the above provision of law, the interim injunction granted is confirmed till the forensic audit report comes in public domain”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-refuses-to-lift-stay-on-franklin-templeton-e-voting/articleshow/76272073.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Hunger games start: Restaurants strap safety belt, confident of turnaround in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Restaurants in Kolkata resumed their services to a lukewarm response on Monday after a lockdown-imposed two-and-a-half-month closure. While footfall remained comparatively low till evening, the crowd swelled marginally between 6pm and 9pm. With seating capacity reduced to 50% and an early closure (9pm), it was a slow start for city eateries that expected a steady rise in footfall in the course of the week. TimesViewReopening of eateries is one of the most vital signs of a society coming back to life. But, as in all other sectors that involve a degree of human interaction, all precautions and recommendations need to be followed.The usual lunch crowd was still missing at Park Street. There were no queues despite seats being reduced by 50%. “Being the first day post lockdown and with public transport remaining inadequate, we did not expect a full house. But the crowd did swell in the evening and around half of our tables were taken up. This should steadily go up as the week progresses,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. Mughlai chain Oudh had a good beginning with around half the tables taken up at its Salt Lake and Deshapriya Park outlets. The crowd thinned in the evening, though. “We were apprehensive about the turnout but were surprised to find enthusiastic foodies turning out. Our guests appreciated the safety measures we have taken to maintain the hygiene standards. We saw a 25% customer presence on the very first day of the re-opening, which, we feel will should go up gradually once people are more comfortable to dine out,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury. Guests were rare at Song-Hai in central Kolkata, too. “It’s been a disappointing day but this is just the beginning. The situation is still not normal and people remain wary of stepping out. But things will improve soon,” said owner Sudesh Poddar. Footfall was better at Aminia. “We expect this to pick up in the next few days. Take-away sales, too, were good across all the stores. Table occupancy remained more than 50% in some outlets,” said Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia. Some popular restaurants like Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta remained shut. But some outlets of these chains may resume in a few days, said Anjan Chatterjee, chairman of Speciality Restaurants. “Our standalone outlets may open in the next two-three days. Our mall outlets will remain shut since there is a lack of clarity on some issues. Timing is an issue at malls that now shut down by 8.30pm. Peak dinner time in summer is between 8.30pm and 11pm,” said Chatterjee. The restaurant section of Flury’s opened its doors on Park Street on Monday. Most of the favourite items, from tea to snacks and pastries, were available to order. “We had a lot of inquiries over phone about whether we were re-opening on Monday. We saw a happy trail of customers throughout the day,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hunger-games-start-restos-strap-safety-belt-confident-of-turnaround/articleshow/76270842.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chairman of tri-state FIA succumbs to Covid-19 in New Jersey||AHMEDABAD: A A prominent NRI leader Ramesh Patel, 78, died due to Covid-19 complications in New Jersey on June 7. A native of Gamdi village of Anand, Patel is best remembered as the organizer of the biggest Independence Day parade outside India that attracted Indian dignitaries and celebrities year after year. He was chairman and founding member of Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) tri-state (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut) – an umbrella organization of various Indian associations in the three states having one of the biggest concentration of NRIs in the US. Digant Sompura, chairman of NRG committee at GCCI and secretary of Vishwa Gujarati Samaj, said that Patel was among the pioneers of Indian organizations in the US. “He went to the US for higher education in engineering in 1950s when migrating to the US had not become a trend. He worked extensively at forensic department of NYPD. Later in life, he strived to help fellow Indians in the US,” he said, adding that he is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Indian ambassador to the US, tweeted on Sunday, ‘Very sad to learn about the passing away of Ramesh Patel, the Founder Member and Chairperson of Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) after 2 month long fight against Covid 19. A highly respected Indian American Community leader, we will miss him very much.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chairman-of-tri-state-fia-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-nj/articleshow/76272105.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||City gets first government lab for Covid-19 test||Ludhiana: With the number of Covid-19 cases rising and the need to ramp up testing getting more pressing by the day, the city got its first government lab for Covid-19 tests. The civil hospital here has set up its own lab in room no. 18 with an initial staff strength of 4, who have been imparted training. TrueNat machine, used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis, can be used for screening and confirmation of Covid-19 cases, which has been recommended by the ICMR on May 19, with an added step. The test usually looks for the E gene (found in SARS and SARS-CoV2 viruses), but will now test for the RdRp gene (found only in SARS-CoV2, which causes Covid-19) as well. As part of efforts to ramp up the testing capacity, Punjab government had approved the use of True Nat system for conducting coronavirus test and two samples were tested recently, which turned out to be negative. Ludhiana has conducted 11,522 Covid tests so far. The daily average right now is about 500 tests a day, which it plans on ramping up to 700, which is where the new government lab comes in. The district has two testing options — the two private labs in the city, the CMCH and DMCH, or the government labs at PGIMER, Chandigarh and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Private labs are expensive. The Patiala lab is in a different city and has a backlog of samples from other districts of the state, and so reports of results take a while to come. With a government lab within the city, both time and cost will be reduced. This becomes all the more important at a time the city is witnessing a surge in the number of cases, adding at least 70 for the past week. District has 358 cases now, of which 176 are active. Dr Rajesh Bagga, civil surgeon, said, “TrueNat system is now a comprehensive assay for screening and confirmation of COVID-19 cases. According to the ICMR guidelines, all samples of suspect COVID-19 will be first tested and all positive samples would be subjected to confirmation by another step. Step 2 is confirmatory, where sample will be sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, for counter testing. However, all samples that test positive may not require further RT-PCR based confirmation.” Dr Kulwant Singh, nodal officer and in charge of laboratory, said, “We cannot exceed the capacity of holding tests of 10-12 suspects with True Nat per day. It takes one and half hour to complete the procedure for two tests. We process two samples at a time and get results in one and half hours. With the turnaround time for a single test being 90 minutes, only emergency tests will be conducted at the civil hospital.” What is TrueNat? The TrueNat is a diagnostic tool, which involves two-step step process —E gene screening assay for suspected Covid-19 samples, followed by a confirmatory assay of RdRp gene. As per the ICMR guidelines, if the E gene screening is negative, the sample will be considered as true negative. But if the sample is positive, the RdRp assay will be done, which will serve as a confirmatory test. If the sample tests positive, it will be considered as true positive and an RT-PCR test will not be required further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-gets-first-government-lab-for-covid-19-test/articleshow/76270879.cms||Mehak Jain
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Tea stall owners at rly station suffer as business fails to pick up||Ludhiana: Even since the strict lockdown after the outbreak of Covid-19, rail transportation service was largely affected. But this has further brought untold misery upon authorised tea stall owners at Ludhiana railway station, who didn’t earn even a single penny for the past two months, struggling to manage their daily expenses. Although the Railways have resumed its service of long-route passengers trains to different states, but it has not provided any sort of relief to tea stall owners who are struggling to find a chance to work under these tough circumstance with shortage of manpower and resources. There are almost 15 vendors who used to run the business of serving hot tea and coffee to around 80,000 passengers passing through city station during peak hours when heavy rush appeared for catching long-route trains. But after the outbreak of Covid-19, they are struggling to find even a single customer for selling tea and coffee and hve not been able to earn a single penny for managing the household expenses. In the wake of the present conditions, some tea stall owners have refused to open their stalls at the station and adopted some other way of earning their livelihood like selling vegetables or working in grocery stores for home delivery. A tea stall owner, Ashok Gupta, who is working at the city station for the past 30 years, said, “I have been working as an authorised tea stall owner at the city station for the last three decades but have not seen such a crisis in life. I never imagined in my life that such a bad situation would be there and now many tea sellers will have to generate some source of income for managing family expenses.” He further said, “For almost 70 days, all authorised tea as well food stall owners didn’t earn even a single penny. After the resumption of train services, now new terms and conditions were imposed on us about don’t serve unpacked food item to passengers and only take away system would be allowed. Due to this, our business has totally come to end and we have decided not to open stalls for next several days until the situation returns to normalcy.” Another tea stall owner, Rajesh Sharma, said, “A sense of fear is there among passengers, who are totally avoiding food stalls in view of safeguarding their health. But they should thinks that we are like daily wagers who manage their expenses with everyday earnings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tea-stall-owners-at-rly-station-suffer-as-business-fails-to-pick-up/articleshow/76270857.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: No darshan for now at Padma temple; TDB temples to open||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple will remain closed for devotees till June 30. Earlier the temple authorities had planned to reopen the temple from Tuesday. The decision was reviewed and amended on Monday. Travancore Devaswom Board decided to go ahead with the opening of temples under its jurisdiction on Tuesday. Sree Dharma Sastha temple at Sabarimala will be opened for devotees for Mithunam month pooja on June 14. Since March 21, Padmanabhaswamy temple restricted entry for public. It was proposed to reopen the temple for devotees with restricted darshan timings taking Covid-19 precautions. V Ratheesan, executive officer, Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, said that the administrative committee decided against the reopening of the temple for devotees, due to continuing Covid-19 crisis. “There was demand from devotees and other stakeholders in the administrative committee that the temple should remain closed for devotees due to rise in Covid-19 cases. The temple entry for devotees is closed till June 30 and decision regarding entry to devotees will be taken in the next administrative committee meeting based on the Covid situation. The reason for the decision is that in case the priest gets infected, then the temple will have to be closed,” said Ratheesan. As per the earlier decision, the temple authorities had completed all arrangements for devotees’ visits. Around 100 devotees had registered for darshan, when online reservation for entry was started from Monday morning. “The disinfection work is an on-going process at the temple. We bought disinfection and fogging machines and had given purchase orders for other equipment. It will be used when the temple reopens for devotees,” said Ratheesan. Thiruvambady, Paramekkavu temples to remain closed The managing committees of Thiruvambady and Paramekkavu devaswoms have decided not to allow devotees into the temple for the time being. The Thiruvambady Devaswom authorities said they would be keeping a close watch on the Covid-19 developments for 15 days, and would take call on admitting the devotees to the temple. The authorities of the famous Palayur Marthoma Pilgrim Centre have also decided not to hold any holy mass at the church till June 27. NSS chief cautions against visiting temples NSS general secretary G Sukumaran Nair has cautioned against visitng temples in the prevailing situation. Speaking to TOI on Monday, Nair said that his view is pertained to the temples belonging to the NSS only. There are hundreds of temples belonging to the NSS in the state. “It is better not to give permission to devotees for visiting temples until worship of god is possible according to the customs and rituals we have been following,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-darshan-for-now-at-padma-temple-tdb-temples-to-open/articleshow/76269612.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand hoteliers say government’s guidelines on opening of hotels ‘impractical’, cannot be implemented||NAINITAL/HARIDWAR/MUSSOORIE: A day after the state government issued guidelines on the opening of malls, hotels and religious places, hoteliers from popular tourist destinations in the state said they feel that the restrictions aren’t practical. While hotel owners said they are amenable to the rule that prevents them from accepting bookings from areas with a high number of Covid-19 cases, they added that the rule of a guest having to book a stay of at least seven days would be difficult to implement. “People generally stay in Nainital for a couple of days, before heading to other destinations. Therefore, making a week-long stay mandatory is not going to work,” said Ved Sah, the owner of Alka Hotel on Nainital’s Mall Road. The fact that the government has also stipulated that the tourists will not be able to venture outside is again a hindrance as hoteliers say that tourists come to see a place and not simply to stay in hotels. “If a tourist visits Nainital, they would want to go for boating on the lake or just take a stroll down Mall Road. The government has made it mandatory for us to take an undertaking from tourists, saying they won’t visit any local attractions or public premises. Why would anyone come to Nainital to stay confined in their hotel room?” said Dinesh Sah, president, Nainital Hotels and Restaurants Association. The other concern is that most hotels have been converted into Covid care centres by the district administration. So even if hotels are allowed to open, there won’t be many left for tourists to book. “First, the district administration took over 22 hotels and then they acquired 54 more. Several others are just lying vacant,” said Ved Sah, adding even though he managed to pay his staff in the past two months that the hotels remained closed, it was becoming increasingly difficult to keep doing that. Expressing similar concerns, Sandeep Sahni, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Uttarakhand, said, “A majority of tourists come from the 75 cities that are on the government’s list of being the most affected by Covid-19. If visitors from these cities are not allowed, we’ll hardly get any footfall. There should be a ban based on containment zones and not cities.” Sahni also suggested there should be a relaxation in quarantine norms for those visiting the state for official or business purposes. Hotel owners in Haridwar are also equally incensed with the government’s guidelines. “Many bereaved people come to Haridwar to immerse ashes. The last rites begin on the 13th day of someone’s demise and last for two to three days. How will it work out if they have to stay for a week and cannot even go out of their hotels? We have asked the government to amend the rule and let people book a minimum of three-day stay,” said president of Haridwar Hotels Association, Ashu Sharma. (with inputs from Anmol Jain & MS Nawaz)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hoteliers-say-governments-guidelines-on-opening-of-hotels-impractical-cannot-be-implemented/articleshow/76269576.cms||Prashant Jha
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||FIR against three Churu hospital staff for ‘anti-Muslim chat’||JAIPUR: A case has been registered against three persons, including a woman doctor of a private hospital in Churu’s Sardarshahar, for WhatsApp chats in which the trio allegedly stated that they will not treat Muslim patients. The chats are of April 8. The screenshots of the chat that went viral on social media has been used to file the FIR following a complaint. An apology was also issued on social media by Dr Sunil Choudhary, who runs the hospital, claiming that the hospital does not exclude any one community and all patients are treated. The three persons named in the FIR are Dr Bhagwati Badaliya, Lalit Singh and Ankita who had allegedly posted the messages on a group chat. The chat had messages like ‘stop attending to Muslims patients’. The messages allegedly followed the same theme with one member saying that 'Muslims should be asked to go to a Muslim doctor'. Sardarshahar police station SHO Mahender Dutt Sharma said, "Initially, we just received a complaint in the control room and on Sunday night. Another person came forward with the same grievance following which we registered the FIR.” The case has been registered under IPC sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, others), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and Disaster Management Act 2005. “We will conduct an investigation to check the authenticity of the messages as only screenshots are available with us at present. Also it has to be found as to who clicked the screenshot and circulated them on social media. As of now, we will not arrest anyone till all the facts are verified," added the SHO. Meanwhile, the hospital administration maintained that they will take required action only after the police investigation. "Right now, we are not thinking of taking any action against the staff till their charges are proven by cops. We have records to prove that no patient has been denied treatment based on their religion. Probably, some member of the group circulated the chats but there was no intention to hurt any religious sentiments,” Dr Choudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-3-churu-hospstaff-for-anti-muslim-chat/articleshow/76272043.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur discom registers 6,052 cases of power theft in 20 days||JODHPUR: The Jodhpur Discom has registered a staggering 6,052 cases of power theft in the past 20 days. Since the first of this month, 2,376 cases of power theft have been registered apart from 1,222 cases of other irregularities. “We have registered 6,052 cases of power theft and other irregularities in the past 20 days since May 18,” said superintending engineer (vigilance) A R Jangid. He added that on Saturday itself, a special drive was initiated in 10 districts of Jodhpur Discom, in which a vigilance team of 658 executive engineers and assistant engineers raided 1,441 places and 1,351 cases were registered. “Of these 1351 cases, 1,023 pertained to power theft and 328 were related to other power-related irregularities accounting for Rs 113.10 lakh,” Jangid said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-discom-registers-6052-cases-of-power-theft-in-20-days/articleshow/76272056.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara Covid-19 cases touch 1,340 as 35 more test positive||VADODARA: For the first time in the recent past, the number of Covid-19 tests significantly increased in the city. Tests were conducted for 171 samples since Sunday evening and 35 were found positive. About 140 to 150 samples were being tested in the city for the last few days, barring some exceptions. Monday’s medial bulletin of the civic body, however, included results of 171 samples tested in the city and district. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases in Vadodara went up to 1,340. The death toll due to Covid-19 remained at 47 with no fresh deaths being confirmed by the administration. The fresh cases include 13 from the south zone of the city, 10 from north zone of the city, four from east zone and three from the west zone. Three cases from the rural parts of the district even as two who tested positive were from outside the district. The cases in rural Vadodara were reported from the Dabhoi and Vadodara talukas. Tuesday also saw 61 persons being discharged from various facilities and home quarantine. This took the total number of discharged patients up to 856. The active cases now stand at 437 including 38 on ventilators and BIPAP machines and 58 on oxygen support. As many as 1,062 persons have been quarantined at their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-covid-19-cases-touch-1340-as-35-more-test-positive/articleshow/76270834.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Env min issues notice to Koradi, then OKs TOR||Nagpur: Despite the Union environment ministry issuing show cause notice to Mahagenco for non-compliances at Koradi Thermal Power Station, the expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the ministry has granted terms of reference (TOR) for environmental clearance of the two proposed 660 megawatt units at the plant. This has come to the fore a day after TOI reported that the state cabinet has stayed the proposed project due to lack of funds. TOR is the first step in grant of green nod. In December last year, EAC had refused to grant TOR for the second time citing failure to control pollution from the plant. Furthermore, EAC had stated that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) might take action against Mahagenco officials for not installing flue gas desulphuriser (FGD) — a technology to control sulphur dioxide emissions from the plant. In January this year, the ministry issued a show cause notice to Mahagenco for non-functioning of Effluent Treatment Plant and Ash Water Recycling System, emissions exceeding permissible standards, discharging effluents into open drains, and not establishing piezometric wells around the ash pond. As per the minutes of the meeting held on April 10 this year, the EAC has issued six additional TORs in addition to the standard one. These include environment impact assessment (EIA) of pollution load, actual status of pollution without FGD and with FGD, compliance of show cause notice issued by the ministry, status of action plan submitted as per the recommendations of the EAC sub-committee which had visited Koradi last year, fly-ash generation and utilization, and emissions of existing units in comparison with emission standards. Mahagenco is yet to install FGD on existing 660MW units of the plant even though it was one of the conditions in environmental clearance granted in 2010. As per the minutes, the company will install the technology by 2022 which is the extended deadline granted by the ministry. Environment activists said the TOR should be granted only after emissions are controlled. “First, FGD should be installed and its impact should be studied. Only then the project be issued a TOR. When the TOR was rejected in December last year and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has also highlighted pollution levels from the plant, how can the ministry go ahead with the project,” asked Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil Foundation. Following a complaint filed by activist Ankita Shah, CPCB had sent a team for inspection which in its report had highlighted high pollution levels in Koradi area. Stating that the cabinet stay was an eyewash, president of Vidarbha Environment Action Group Sudhir Paliwal said, “Preparatory work for the new units is going on. It should immediately stop and Mahagenco must inform MoEFCC that the project has been stayed.” Slamming the move, Sunil Dahiya, analyst at Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), said, “India already has surplus generation capacity and it makes no sense to go for new investments in coal from economic, environmental or climate change perspectives. MoEFCC, being the guardian of air and environment for us, has the job to reduce pollution levels but it’s doing exactly the opposite by allowing coal projects to move in the development stages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/env-min-issues-notice-to-koradi-then-oks-tor/articleshow/76272205.cms||Ashish Roy
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Exodus hits ‘vehra’ owners hard; workers say these are unhygienic||Ludhiana: In a big jolt to hundreds of city residents who are dependant on the rental income from letting out rooms in ‘vehras’ (shared accommodation rented by a group of migrant workers) to labour, lakhs of rupees of their rental income have been wiped off due to labour exodus from Ludhiana. But regardless of this, the ‘vehra’ owners have shown their big heart and not only did they waive the two months rental of their tenants, but also helped them with money to return to their homes. However, in a startling revelation it has emerged that a big majority of the migrant workers who left from Ludhiana have done so because of the unhygienic conditions in the ‘vehras’, which normally have five-seven rooms or more in one complex and four -five people live inside one room by paying per person charge to the owner. Besides, these ‘vehras’ have one common washroom for all occupants. According to information available with TOI from different sources, there are more than 2,000 such ‘vehras’ in different parts of the city, mostly in the industrial and mix land use areas. Giving more information, Gurdeep Singh Garcha, a prominent ‘vehra’ owner from Dhandari Kalan, said, “I have several ‘vehras’ in the Dhandari Kalan area and we used to house hundreds of workers in these properties before the lockdown. But now the situation is such that these have become more of haunted houses with hardly 10% occupants living inside as compared to the earlier times.” “The quantum of our losses can be judged from the fact that we had already waived two months rental as per government’s orders and then when workers started leaving Ludhiana and majority of them expressed inability to pay their their old dues and power charges, we let them go without paying even these. Moreover, there were close to 40-50 such workers whose condition was really miserable and they did not even have single penny in their pockets and we even gave financial assistance to them, ranging from Rs 500-Rs 1,000 each,” he added. According to Santosh Singh, a migrant worker living in a ‘vehra’ near Bhagat Singh Colony, “Life in a ‘vehra’ is very miserable as it is just like a cage where four-five people are stuffed inside one room and there is no space to even sit or roam inside the ‘vehra’. Moreover, all common amenities like washroom are to be shared with all 20-30 occupants of the ‘vehras’. How can one expect us to follow social distancing norms and take care of hygiene in these ‘vehras’ during times of Covid-19. This is one of the reasons why most of the workers have left Ludhiana already as they think they are better at home rather than being caged inside a ‘vehra.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/exodus-hits-vehra-owners-hard-workers-say-these-are-unhygienic/articleshow/76270890.cms||Mohit Behl
June 9, 2020||Surat||NHRC notice to DGP, Surat police commissioner||SURAT: Following a complaint it received about the suspicious death of 36-year-old Odiya migrant on May 14 in the hands of Surat police, the National Human Rights Commission issued notices to various government officers in the state seeking action taken report. The notices served on May 28 to Gujarat State Human Rights Commission at Gandhinagar, state’s director general of police (DGP), city police commissioner and district magistrate, Surat who have been asked to submit a report before August 8. NHRC has asked magisterial inquiry report under criminal procedure code section 176 in which a magistrate inquires “covering all the aspect leading to death including action, if any, taken on the complaint by the relatives of deceased.” The notice mentions the complaint that Satyawan alias Satya Swain of Odisha was beaten to death by Gujarat Police for violating social distancing norms during lockdown. The rights body has also demanded furnishing of crucial documents in the case like investigation and site plan of the scene of occurrence and panchnama, complete medical treatment record of the deceased including inquest, post mortem, video cassette/CD of PM examination, chemical examination and histopathology report of viscera along with forensic science laboratory report on final cause of death. It also sought action taken report on the magisterial enquiry report, medico legal certificate, final outcome or status of departmental action within police department. The complaint was lodged by Srikant Padhi, president of Rashtriya Odiya Yuvak Pratishthan (ROYP) and a lawyer in Bombay High Court, who wrote a letter to Justice H L Dattu, chairperson of NHRC on the incident. “I hope the NHRC inquiry will ensure justice is done. I have requested it to check for CCTV footage of the spot,” Padhi told TOI. R B Brahmbhatt, city police commissioner, however, maintained that from investigations so far it is clear that the man died due to heart attack and not from being beaten by the police. “We are yet to receive the NHRC notice. Once we get the notice police will submit all the required documents and investigation report as asked,” he added. Meanwhile, a complaint of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been lodged against Amroli police station officials in Bhanjanagar police station of Ganjam in Odisha on May 17 in the same incident. The complaint was lodged by Santosh, elder brother of Satyawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nhrc-notice-to-dgp-surat-police-commissioner/articleshow/76269652.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 9, 2020||Kanpur||Four test Covid +ve in Hamirpur||KANPUR: Four migrants have tested positive for Covid-19 in Hamirpur district on Monday. A major sanitation drive was taken up in areas, where positive persons, used to stay. The total tally of corona positive patients reached 17 in the district. All four men, who are daily-wagers, had arrived from big cities. Their sample report tested positive on Monday. Subsequently, they were admitted to Covid -19 hospital. Hamirpur Nagar Palika sources said sanitation and other measures were taken up in the areas from where the positive persons belong. They added that details were being collected from their respective kin to identify the cause of the infection and their contacts. “All these, people are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 hospital. With the four fresh cases, the total tally in the district went up to 17, while there were 14 active cases. Three patients were cured and discharged,” informed chief medical officer Dr RK Sachan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-test-covid-ve-in-hamirpur/articleshow/76272228.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Locust swarm enters Bundi from Bhilwara||KOTA: A locust swarm, nearly 4-5 km long, entered Bundi district from adjoining villages of Jahazpur Panchayat Samiti in Bhilwara district on Monday morning, causing panic among the residents and prompting district officials to swing into action to drive away the pests out of the district before they could settle over the trees and vegetation for the night. While the locals started beating plates and exploding crackers; official vehicles, fire tenders sounded alarms not to settle them at a place and to chase them off the district. However, the swarm by Monday evening, reached Keshoraipatan area of the district. The locust swarm, after a night’s halt in adjoining Dhor village of Jahazpur Panchayat Samiti in Bhilwara district, entered Bundi district on Monday morning and moving through Basoli, Vijaynagar, Nayagaun, Barodiya villages, the locust swarm spread over to Bundi city at noon, deputy director, agriculture department, Bundi, Ramesh Chand Jain said. Various teams attached with locust control in the district were already alert and efforts were immediately put in place to drive away the insects from the district, and sirens were sounded not to allow the locusts to settle at a place, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locust-swarm-enters-bundi-from-bhilwara/articleshow/76272075.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kanpur||Licences of 3 liquor shops suspended after excise inspector beaten||KANPUR: Taking strong action for thrashing an excise inspector by an advocate at the behest of the owner of a foreign liquor shop of Arya Nagar, the district magistrate, on the recommendations of the excise department on Sunday suspended the licences of three liquor shops, including the Arya Nagar shop and sealed them on charges of irregularities and obstructing a public servant from performing his duties. The Arya Nagar liquor shop is owned by Sudhir Goenka. Excise inspector Nirankar Nath Pandey alleged that while inspecting the shop on June 4, he had found bottles of illegal QR code. On inquiry, Ashish Kumar Shukla advocate, connected with the owner, manhandled him. The excise inspector lodged a complaint with the police. Ashish in his counter FIR alleged that the excise inspector was involved in a brawl over transaction. The excise department on Sunday sealed the three shops. Deputy excise officer Shiv Hari Gupta said that on his recommendation, the district magistrate suspended the license of the three shops. A notice had also been served on them asking them to reply within seven days, he said. Excise inspector Nirankar Nath Pandey stated that license holders of all three shops wer found to have same address. Ashish Shukla’s connection with the liquor shops was also being tracked, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/licences-of-3-liquor-shops-suspended-after-excise-inspector-beaten/articleshow/76272296.cms||Anant Chandak
June 9, 2020||Pune||14 more succumb to nCoV, 202 turn positive in Pune||Pune: Fourteen more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, taking the casualty count in Pune to 429 so far. Besides, 202 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Monday, of which 179 were recorded in Pune municipal limits alone, pushing its case tally up to 8,156. Fourteen new cases were recorded in Pimpri Chinchwad and nine in rural areas. The positive case burden in PMR is now inching closer to 10,000-mark, with the case tally hitting 9,739 on Monday. Among the deceased, 11 were aged above 60. Three patients succumbed at the Sassoon General Hospital, including a 65-year-old woman of Parvati, a 69-year-old woman from Kharadi and a 70-year-old woman from Yerawada. Among those dead at private hospitals include a 65-year-old man from Chandannagar, a 78-year-old man from Nana Peth, a 70-year-old man from the Market Yard area, a 67-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 30-year-old woman from Gokhalenagar, a 72-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 60-year-old man from Ghorpadi, a 64-year-old man from Pune Camp, a 70-year-old woman from Dhankawadi, a 35-year-old man from the Pune station area. District health officials said 3,075 active cases of Covid-19 were being treated at various hospitals and centres in the region, of which 2,509 were in PMC, 369 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 197 in the rural areas. A total of 241 patients were in critical condition and being treated at various hospitals. A total of 182 patients were discharged on Monday after they were declared cured, taking the discharge tally to 6,235 in the region so far. When it comes to quarantined, over 45,000 people were in isolation in PMR, of which more than 37,000 were in PMC areas alone. Areas sealed in Pimpri Chinchwad The health department of PCMC stated in a press statement that more areas in Dalvinagar, Kalewadi, Bhosari, Kharalwadi, Pimpri, among others were sealed on Monday night. There will be a prohibition on entry and exit in these areas, the statement said, adding that wearing of masks would remain compulsory for the citizens in the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-more-succumb-to-ncov-202-turn-positive-in-pune/articleshow/76272092.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 9, 2020||India||2 Chhattisgarh cops held for arming Maoists||RAIPUR: Police in Sukma have detained two police officers for allegedly supplying arms and ammunition to Maoists and working as their urban contacts in Bastar. One of the accused cops is a sub-inspector and the other a head constable. There are indications that more policemen may be involved, say sources. The two policemen are being interrogated. It is suspected that they used to forge maintenance records of ammunition and pass it on to middlemen to be forwarded to Maoists, say police. They allegedly earned a 'commission' from the sale of prohibited calibre ammunition.  It's the arrest of four alleged middlemen earlier this month that led Bastar police to these two cops. Over 1,100 bullets were seized from them. According to Bastar Range IG P Sundarraj, police had nabbed two men on June 4 in Sukma on suspicion of supplying ammunition, explosives and other stuff to Maoists. A .303 rifle, an SLR and 395 rounds of ammo were seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-chhattisgarh-cops-held-for-arming-maoists/articleshow/76273176.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Two men kill their wives in Barmer and Jalore||Jaisalmer: A man killed his wife with an axe while she was sleeping in Gudamalani police station area in Barmer district late on Sunday night. The man suspected his wife of having illicit relations. He was arrested within four hours of the crime. In another incident in Jalore district, a man murdered his wife over some dispute and committed suicide under the Ahore police station area. Jaisalmer SP Anand Sharma said Shanti Devi, wife of Mohanlal, resident of Band was murdered by her husband with an axe. “Both used to have fights over the wife’s character and he killed her,” Sharma said. The SP said that the couple have four children. In the inquiry Mohanlal said that his wife’s character was not good and he felt humiliated when people talked about his wife. This angered him and he killed his wife. In the second incident, after a fight the husband killed his wife and committed suicide by hanging himself in Nosera village in Jalore district. According to police, Bakhtaram Meena lodged a case and said that his sister Sayra was married to Kaluram 18 years ago. On Sunday both had a fight while working in the field after which Kaluram attacked Sayra with an axe and killed her. Later he hanged himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-men-kill-their-wives-in-barmer-and-jalore/articleshow/76272094.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||55 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: A total of 55 Covid-19 cases, including 24 contacts of positive cases and 10 having influenza like illness (ILI), surfaced in Punjab on Monday. The overall tally of positive cases has reached 2,663. Of total positive cases reported in last 24 hours, 14 were from Jalandhar, six were contacts of positive cases . Amritsar recorded 12 fresh cases, while nine cases came from Ludhiana and five from Patiala.  Three cases each were reported from Nawanshahr and Pathankot while two cases each were from Faridkot, Mohali and Sangrur. One person each was tested positive in Moga, Gurdaspur and Fazilka. Two deaths were reported — one each in Amritsar and Patiala — taking the overall tally of deaths to 53. A total of 22 patients were discharged after they recovered. In Amritsar, five residential areas of the walled city were declared containment zones. According to an official report, eight-month-old Sukhdeep Sigh from Gopalpur Munjvind village near Kathunangal was admitted in the paediatric department of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. He had high fever and cough. He was admitted in the ICU and was put on ventilator support. After he tested positive for Covid-19, he was shifted to the isolation ward of the hospital, where he died. Out of the 14 patients who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Monday, seven had no known sources of infection. Seven other patients are contacts of already known patients while one is a prisoner. The seven new patients either reported in OPDs or came with ILI. This assumes significance as already source of infection to an astrologer Neeraj Tiwari, who was not tested before or after his death but later four members of his family tested positive, is not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/55-new-cases-two-deaths-in-punjab/articleshow/76272099.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai co gets OK to use sepsis drug for Covid clinical trials||Mumbai: In another instance of ‘repurposing’ an existing therapy, Mumbai-based Bharat Serums and Vaccines (BSV) has received regulatory approval to initiate clinical trials of critical care drug, Ulinastatin, for Covid-19 patients. Ulinastatin is used in India for severe sepsis and other critical clinical conditions like acute pancreatitis. Managing director and chief executive officer Sanjiv Navangul told TOI that the company received approval from the drug regulator to conduct a clinical study on Ulinastatin, for mild-to-moderate acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) patients with Covid-19. The company joins other domestic firms including Glenmark, Sun Pharma, Biocon and NovaLead Pharma that are conducting trials of potential drugs for Covid-19. While there is no approved and proven treatment against SARS-CoV-2 virus yet, only experimental drugs are being used as supportive therapy. Clinical trials on 120 patients are expected to start at hospitals over the next three weeks, and results will be available by December. Though there is no scientific study on Ulinastatin yet, certain countries like China are believed to have used it for Covid-19 therapy. Ulinastatin is a “well-researched, fairly old drug”, available in the country since 2012 and manufactured by few companies including BSV. Around one million vials have been used in the country. The company’s brand, U-TRYP had sales of Rs 24 crore for the 12-month period ended April. The price of a vial is around Rs 1500 each, with the therapy expected to cost around Rs 30,000-50,000 per patient for a protocol of minimum seven days. “There’s a good chance of the drug working on hospitalised Covid-19 patients who have breathlessness,” he said, adding the company has done seven trials in India for other indications. Ulinastatin is manufactured at the company’s facility in Thane (Maharashtra). The mortality risk is higher when an individual with Covid-19 infection develops ARDS and pneumonia. ARDS causes dry cough, heavy breathing, breathing difficulties and increased heart rate. Ulinastatin, in such cases, can be used as a remedy to combat the underlying inflammatory condition related to ARDS in Covid-19 patients. Meta-analysis of over 2,300 ARDS patients globally treated with Ulinastatin has shown significant improvement in oxygenation index, shortening duration of mechanical ventilation, reduced mortality and ICU stay as compared to conventional therapies, the company said. The Rs 1,000-crore portfolio of BSV includes drugs for hormones, monoclonals, equine human serums and plasma derivatives. It is one of the major products of Japan-based Mochida Pharmaceuticals, and is also manufactured in China and Korea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-co-gets-ok-to-use-sepsis-drug-for-covid-clinical-trials/articleshow/76272119.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Staycation deals to steer hotels out of Covid loss||Kolkata: Star hotels in Kolkata rolled out attractive offers for city residents, enticing them to make up for the missed holiday by spending a few days in pampered luxury at discounted rates. All major hotels have unveiled staycation packages that has discounts on rooms as well as food and beverage. “With the pandemic still around, many will not risk travelling to new places. It is an opportunity to offer them an experience without having to worry about safety and hygiene. We are offering our rooms at 50% the rate for city residents and the offer is valid for a year,” said JW Marriott vice-president (east India & Bangladesh) and Kolkata general manager Gaurav Singh. ITC Sonar Bangla, too, has introduced a staycation offer. “We have packages for couples and family that include transfers and stay that is guaranteed to offer the best in terms of safety and security. We are the only hotel where nearly 200 staff have been accommodated on the premises to ensure that they are not exposed to risk. We also have a WelcomLab where all tests, including swab tests, are done in-house,” said ITC hotels area manager (east) and Royal Bengal & ITC Sonar general manager Tejinder Singh. Hyatt Regency Kolkata has announced a special staycation offer, including complimentary guestroom and meals for two children, discounts on dining, one complimentary meal daily and complimentary beer. Though it will take a while for room bookings to take shape, hotels began receiving inquiries on weddings. The restaurants, too, got off to a good start with ITC registering a full house at the reduced 50% capacity to adhere to social distancing norms. Taj Hotels area director (east) and Taj Bengal general manager Manish Gupta said: “We have to ensure complete safety for all our guests. We are looking forward to this opening phase and hopefully the situation would gradually improve from now on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/staycation-deals-to-steer-hotels-out-of-covid-loss/articleshow/76270918.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Somnath, Dwarka temples open cautiously||RAJKOT/VADDOARA: Abode of the Gods in Saurashtra, including Somnath and Dwarkadish temples, opened their doors to public after 80 days on Monday. Devotees were strictly instructed to wear masks, gloves and follow social distancing while getting a darshan. Also, limited number of people were allowed to enter the temples and were ushered out immediately after praying. The devotees are neither allowed aarti nor prostrating on the floor for benediction. All temples are scanning devotees outside the entry gate with temperature guns as well as sanitizing hands. However, two major pilgrimage sites near Vadodara, including the Mahakali Temple at Pavagadh and Kuber Bhandari temple at Karnali, have decided against opening their temples on Monday, a decision taken in view of devotees’ safety and other reasons. One of the 12 Jyotirlingas, the Somnath temple opened with only a handful of devotees on the first day as those above 65 years and less then 10 years of age aren’t permitted. The temple has also revised its timings to 7:30am to 11:30am and 12:30 pm to 6:30pm slots now. Devotees coming from other districts are told to book online appointments after June 12. The Khodaldham temple at Kagvad near Rajkot also opened for devotees. In wake of the ongoing development work on the Pavagadh mountain and other development works, the authorities at the Mahakali Temple decided against opening the temple. Trustee and secretary of Shri Kalika Mataji Mandir Trust, Raju Bhatt, appealed devotees to worship at their residences itself till June 20. The trust at Kuber Bhandari on the banks of Narmada river has also decided to wait till June 22 to open their doors. This was done for devotees’ safety as the premises of the temple is small, said manager of the trust Rajni Pandya. He said that this was to prevent spreading infection in the rural areas. The Havelis of Vaishnav sect will, however, remain closed till June 21 in Rajkot. Mosques too opened with caution. Javed Dhupelwala, a minority leader in Vadodara, said that most mosques had opened on Monday following strict social distancing norms. “Elderly and small children below 10 years of age have been asked to stay away. People also wore masks while offering namaz in the mosques. Announcements regarding precautionary measures are also being made,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/somnath-dwarka-temples-open-cautiously/articleshow/76276796.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19 cases: Delhi travel, Unlock 1.0 fuelled Haryana spike, says Anil Vij||CHANDIGARH: As the number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana head north, the state’s home minister Anil Vij claimed on Monday that he had endeavoured from Day 1 to keep the state’s borders sealed to contain the coronavirus spread, but pressure had been mounted on him from various quarters to change his decision. He also hinted that the Centre’s opening of all sectors has escalated the rise in cases. “I refused to budge despite pressure and enormous number of phone calls because I had the responsibility to protect the people of the state. The central government itself decided to open all sectors in Unlock 1.0, which ultimately led to a spike in the state,” claimed Vij. The minister, said he is closely monitoring the situation and may seal the borders again. Haryana has witnessed a massive surge in the Covid-19 cases in the state in the past two weeks, from around 1,305 on May 26 to more than 4,800 on Monday. Even the numbers of deaths have reached from 17 to 39 with a surge of 22 deaths during this period. Vij said Delhi, which shares boundaries with Haryana, is totally in the grip of the virus and there are chances that people of Delhi can be carriers of Covid-19 in the state. He said it was because of people frequently travelling to bordering states, especially Delhi, that the state has witnessed a sudden spike. Referring to the Covid-19 data of the state, Vij said it is evident from the figures that 47% of the total Covid-19 cases in Haryana have been recorded from Gurgaon. He pointed out that the other districts with a high number of corona cases are also those bordering Delhi. The minister also blamed the rise of Covid-19 cases in Haryana on movement of people in the state from other parts of the country and due to opening of domestic flight operations. “Since all the sectors have been opened now, one can only prevent Covid through self-motivation by following the social distancing norms because the government cannot deploy its employees everywhere to enforce the rules,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delhi-travel-unlock-1-0-fuelled-hry-spike-vij/articleshow/76272124.cms||Ajay Sura
June 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Central team tells administration to cut mortality rate||PUNE: The central team, led by joint secretary of the ministry of housing and urban affairs Kunal Kumar, has directed the Pune district administration to work towards reducing its Covid-19 mortality rate, which has hit 4.35%. The team also directed the administration to come up with better community outreach programme, with faster tracing and detection of co-morbid patients. The three-member team visited several areas in Pune city and discussed with the administration to focus on reducing mortality by taking help from private hospitals, detection through pulse oxymeters and even relaying positive messages by cured Covid-19 patients giving hope to society. The team is expected to submit a detailed report to the centre. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar briefed the team about the special dashboard created to check bed availability at all the private hospitals. The commissioner told TOI that private hospitals were directed to update the dashboard regularly to avoid any inconvenience to the citizens. He said while 80% beds were reserved for Covid-19 patients, the cost factor was on per with government rates. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram had earlier reviewed the situation at Wagholi gram panchayat. With cases reduced to four, he said there were three containment zones in the area and strict monitoring was in place. He said community outreach was the focus and hoped to form teams to alert administration of any movement of outsiders. “We have to increase information education and communication activity to ensure surveillance of co-morbid patients,” he said.The central team also directed the Pune administration to come up with better community outreach programme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-team-tells-administration-to-cut-mortality-rate/articleshow/76272118.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Indian stranded in Pak dies as govt dithers on evacuation||Nagpur: Sixty eight year old Ashok Virumal Bajaj from Pune was longing to visit his birthplace in Pakistan and meet his brothers and other kin. He crossed the border to reach Kashmore town of Sindh in February, never to come back. Stranded due to the lockdown, Ashok, a patient of Parkinson’s disease, died last week. His son, Deepak, who reached Pakistan on March 5 to bring him back is now held up there. Ashok had medicines to last a month and half which got exhausted as the lookdown continued. He did not respond well to the drugs purchased from the stores in Pakistan and eventually lost his life, said the son. For Deepak, even if his father died at the place where he belonged, this was not the end they had expected. Ashok could not even meet his daughter who lives in Karachi after marriage during his last days. The lockdown had stopped internal travel in Pakistan too. Deepak, a MBA faculty, is among the many Indian citizens stranded in Pakistan after they had gone there on visit visas. Mainly Hindus from Sindh, they had taken up Indian citizenship much after the partition. Keen to come back, they have made repeated requests at the Indian embassy to get them evacuated. Special evacuation flights under Vande Bharat scheme are operating from other countries. There are no Vande Bharat flights from Pakistan, said an official in Indian Embassy at Islamabad. “Even if the Pakistani authorities allow us to leave, the borders are closed from Indian side. Each time I call up the Indian embassy I am told no decision has been taken yet,” Deepak said. “I have left behind my wife and daughter in Pune and am struggling to go back,” he added. To add to their pain, Pakistani government has begun evacuating its citizens including Hindus stranded in India. So far, more than 300 including a batch of 49 from Nagpur have returned to Pakistan. “I am here since three months. I had come here for marriage and have left my entire family behind in Amravati,” said Sanjay Batra. “Pakistan has brought back all its citizens stranded in India and when we call up the embassy here, they ask us to wait for some more days,” said an anxious Batra stranded in Shikarpur city of Sindh. Four others from Amravati are also stuck in Pakistan, he said. “If Pakistan can takes its citizens back, why not India,” asked Papun Samtani from Pune. Samtani got Indian citizenship in 1995 and had come to Karachi with his wife. His daughter and mother are in Pune. “There are number of Indian nationals now stranded in Paksitan. They are from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and other states,” he said. Rajesh Jhambia, who heads the Sindh-Hindi Panchayat in Nagpur, said there are some people from Vidarbha too. “We have been requesting the government to at least evacuate those who are now Indian nationals, if not those who were living in India on long-term visas (LTVs) and had gone to visit Pakistan. At present, two types of individuals are stranded in Pakistan. One, who have now become Indian citizens and others hoping to get citizenship and living on LTVs. Those on LTVs had gone on visit on no-objection return to India (NORI) visas and are now stranded. If the stay continues beyond three months, they may not qualify for CAA too. There are those who have left their minor children in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indian-stranded-in-pak-dies-as-govt-dithers-on-evacuation/articleshow/76272123.cms||Shishir Arya
June 9, 2020||Goa||Taleigao land filling: Farmers demand documents||PANAJI: Nearly 10 days after protesting instances of the “trespassing” into their fields, the farmers and villagers of Taleigao who were arrested on May 30, are demanding the papers and permissions from the local panchayat pertaining to the alleged land filling in their fields. “The Taleigao panchayat is killing agriculture in the village panchayat area and our livelihoods are getting destroyed,” Pundalik Raikar, a lawyer and an active member of the gram sabha said. Farmers alleged that the panchayat illegally and fraudulently attempted to take their land over a decade ago. The first information reached the farmers in 2005 and they ran from pillar to post to ensure that the acquisition proceedings were stopped. The farmers made an appeal to the then MLA of Taleigao not to proceed with the acquisition in 2007. Farmers said that they received an assurance from Atanasio Monserrate that their land will not be acquired, and an assurance letter dated February 2, 2007 was given. “However, it now appears that the land acquisition proceeding was continued behind our back and the farmers were not intimated of any proceedings,” farmers alleged. The farmers further alleged that signatures were forged, and documents were created without their knowledge. “People who have appeared for different hearings during the alleged proceedings of land acquisition are not the same cited at the outset of the issue,” Raikar said. “Resolution of the gram sabha taken on three different occasions have resolved not to allow constructions in paddy fields. The last resolution dated May 2018 is binding on the panchayat. The panchayat is in contempt of the gram sabha,” farmers said. The farmers have filed a criminal complaint with the Panaji police, against the present sarpanch, the then sarpanch and other people connected with the case. They have appealed to the state government to take cognisance of the case and immediately stop the illegal land filling. They are also requesting a CBI inquiry into the affairs of the land dealings in Taleigao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taleigao-land-filling-farmers-demand-documents/articleshow/76272742.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Rajkot||Somnath, Dwarka temples open cautiously||RAJKOT/VADDOARA: Abode of the Gods in Saurashtra, including Somnath and Dwarkadish temples, opened their doors to public after 80 days on Monday. Devotees were strictly instructed to wear masks, gloves and follow social distancing while getting a darshan. Also, limited number of people were allowed to enter the temples and were ushered out immediately after praying. The devotees are neither allowed aarti nor prostrating on the floor for benediction. All temples are scanning devotees outside the entry gate with temperature guns as well as sanitizing hands. However, two major pilgrimage sites near Vadodara, including the Mahakali Temple at Pavagadh and Kuber Bhandari temple at Karnali, have decided against opening their temples on Monday, a decision taken in view of devotees’ safety and other reasons. One of the 12 Jyotirlingas, the Somnath temple opened with only a handful of devotees on the first day as those above 65 years and less then 10 years of age aren’t permitted. The temple has also revised its timings to 7:30am to 11:30am and 12:30 pm to 6:30pm slots now. Devotees coming from other districts are told to book online appointments after June 12. The Khodaldham temple at Kagvad near Rajkot also opened for devotees. In wake of the ongoing development work on the Pavagadh mountain and other development works, the authorities at the Mahakali Temple decided against opening the temple. Trustee and secretary of Shri Kalika Mataji Mandir Trust, Raju Bhatt, appealed devotees to worship at their residences itself till June 20. The trust at Kuber Bhandari on the banks of Narmada river has also decided to wait till June 22 to open their doors. This was done for devotees’ safety as the premises of the temple is small, said manager of the trust Rajni Pandya. He said that this was to prevent spreading infection in the rural areas. The Havelis of Vaishnav sect will, however, remain closed till June 21 in Rajkot. Mosques too opened with caution. Javed Dhupelwala, a minority leader in Vadodara, said that most mosques had opened on Monday following strict social distancing norms. “Elderly and small children below 10 years of age have been asked to stay away. People also wore masks while offering namaz in the mosques. Announcements regarding precautionary measures are also being made,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/somnath-dwarka-temples-open-cautiously/articleshow/76269705.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Wadarwadi now has highest deaths among Shivajinagar’s slum pockets||Pune: The Wadarwadi slum in Shivajinagar, which registered its first case on May 18, has since reported 151 new infections and 14 deaths.The slum now has the highest number of Covid-19 deaths among similar low-income residential pockets of Shivajinagar. The Patil Estate slum, which in late April had 75% of the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward's 175 Covid-19 cases, recorded only four deaths. The area was declared infection-free after registering no fresh cases in 21 consecutive days. Officials said the virus spread quickly in Wadarwadi — an estimated population of 18,000 — after the first case on May 18. Most of the dead are the elderly or those with underlying conditions. “Many hid their illness for days. They didn’t seek treatment on time,” said PMC ward medical officer Mrunalini Kolte.Experts, however, said surveillance, provision of mobile toilets and curbs on movement are starting to have an impact. “On Monday, Wadarwadi reported just nine positive cases. A week ago, it had 20 to 30 daily cases,” said Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole. Health workers have started surveys to identify patients with comorbidities, increased testing and deployed mobile toilets in the area. Among Shivajinagar's slums, Patil Estate shed the ‘containment tag’ with no fresh cases since May 13. “After that, a resident of Patil Estate who was in hospital for cancer treatment tested positive during hospital stay. The infection source was not the slum,” Shirole saidSimilarly, the Kamgarputla-Rajiv Gandhi slum has also shed the containment tag. “The area hasn’t had a case in a month,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wadarwadi-now-has-highest-deaths-among-shivajinagars-slum-pockets/articleshow/76272128.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase Covid testing, don’t dodge orders: Telangana HC to KCR government||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday pulled up the Telangana government on its handling of the Covid-19 crisis by raising a number of issues. It also threatened to issue contempt notices to the state health department if its previous orders on increased testing were not implemented immediately. The court wondered why the state government had not conducted random Covid-19 tests to find out the spread of the virus in the community despite its orders on May 26 asking the state to do so. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also directed the state government to give more details of patients, including their age and gender, in its daily bulletin, after petitioners alleged that the state was hiding the real number of infected patients. During a hearing on a batch of PILs filed by Professor P L Visweswara Rao, Varun Sankineni and others questioning Telangana’s testing strategy, state public health director Dr G Srinivas Rao told the court that they had placed an order for 25,000 kits. These kits can conduct reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to know community spread of the virus. “That means you have not yet commenced them despite our order,” the Chief Justice said. The director said that ICMR had only recently suggested where to procure kits and that the tests would start soon. “We asked you to conduct more tests. We asked you to conduct tests on dead bodies going out of hospitals. You are not implementing them,” an upset Justice Chauhan said. When advocate general B S Prasad said that the state had approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court order, the chief justice asked if the apex court had stayed the order. When the AG replied in the negative, he directed the state to start implementing all orders. “ICMR too has said that the cause of the death should be ascertained by doctors,” he added. The Chief Justice also had doubts about the quality of protective gear being given to doctors and medical support staff and said: “As many as 72 doctors are affected by coronavirus and 400 medical staff have been quarantined. There are reports that nurses are made to wear PPE used by doctors. We may have to issue contempt notices to the health department principal secretary and the director if they continue to dodge (orders) this way.” Referring to the horror stories he was hearing about Gandhi Hospital and the conditions prevailing there, the Chief Justice said, “We will send an advocate commissioner to study the situation in Gandhi.” Dr Srinivas Rao explained that they are doing more tests now and are finding very little time to concentrate on media bulletins. “Doctors contracting virus is on account of some of the doctors staying in hostels. One of them went out and turned positive and he spread it to others in the hostel,” he said. It did not happen in the hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-covid-testing-dont-dodge-orders-hc-to-kcr-govt/articleshow/76272756.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||3 new Covid-19 cases, one death in Sec’bad Cantt, hotspots rise to six||Secunderabad: With three Covid-19 positive cases, Lalbazar has turned into the latest Covid-19 hotspot in Secunderabad Cantonment. The cantonment also recorded its first coronavirus related death when a 70-year-old died in Bolarum on Sunday night. With Lalbazar, the number of hotspots in cantonments have risen to six. Patients from Secunderabad areas such as Bolarum, Picket, Bowenpally, Mahendra Hills and Kharkhana are undergoing treatment. Some recovered and subsequently discharged. As several army residential quarters and defence assets are adjacent to Lalbazar, officials are concerned about the situation. The district medical and health staff conducted door-to-door survey at Lalbazar, which is one of the largest commercial area in the cantonment. “We have advised the residents to wear masks, maintain social distance and follow preventive measures,” said in-charge medical officer, Dr Punna Sushma. The deceased, a 70-year-old cancer patient was undergoing treatment at MNJ Institute of Oncology & Regional Cancer Centre, Red Hills, for the past one month. Tests revealed that he had contracted coronavirus as well. “Daughter of the deceased is a resident of Om Sai Colony at Bolarum and used to visit the patient regularly. After we came to know that her father was infected, she was tested and quarantined. A door-to-door survey was also conducted at Om Sai Colony but no Covid-19 cases were identified,” said a medical officer. The three infected persons in Lalbazar are from Airlines Colony, Srinagar Colony and Lalamiya Basthi. According to officials a new Covid-19 case has also been identified at Picket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-secbad-cantt-hotspots-rise-to-six/articleshow/76272138.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Unlock 1.0: Footfalls a trickle at Hyderabad malls, temples||HYDERABAD: Malls in the city witnessed low footfall on Monday when it reopened after a hiatus of 77 days as consumers decided to avoid stepping out due to the increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the last one week. Though most of the apparel, footwear and accessory shops were open in at malls, only a handful of shoppers visited on Monday. “We opened the shop at 11 am but the response was poor. Those who entered the shop indulged in window shopping and did not make any purchases,” said Syed Salam, manager of an apparel store in City Centre Mall in Banjara Hills. He added that it may take a few more days for customers to visit malls to shop. At Forum Sujana Mall, the management issued e-passes for customers to visit the mall. “As we will be operating one third of our total footfall capacity, customers can visit forummalls.in website and fix a time slot for visiting the mall wherein he/she will be given an e-pass with QR code which needs to be scanned while entering the mall and while exiting the mall,” read a media brief issued by Forum Sujana Mall in Kukatpally. Most customers visited stores that were available exclusively in malls. “Ever since the lockdown was imposed, I had to get my phone repaired which was under warranty. The service centre, located in a mall, was shut for the last two months. Now that the mall reopened, I decided to get it fixed,” said Syed Saaduddin, a student who came all the way from Old City to a mall in Banjara Hills. From thermal screening and hourly disinfection of surfaces to downloading of Aarogya Setu apps, the managements ensured public safety and hygiene. Despite government guidelines allowing dine in with physical distancing, food courts remained shut in most malls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unlock-1-0-footfalls-a-trickle-at-malls-temples/articleshow/76270948.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||VCs see red over Aug 15 reopening date||Kolkata: The Centre’s decision to resume academic activities in schools and universities will not have any bearing on the decisions already taken by the Bengal government. On Monday, education minister Partha Chatterjee clearly stated that the academic activities will remain suspended till June 30, after which a decision will be taken by chief minister Mamata Banerjee regarding resumption of academic activities in schools and of classes in the universities. While the Union human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ has suggested that schools should be reopened after August 15, a similar decision for colleges and universities, however, will be “disastrous”, feel the vice-chancellors and college heads. “If there is another advice to resume academic activities even in the universities after August 15, we will be only beginning classes from November, after Durga Puja. In such a scenario, the academic session will be hampered, further,” said the VC of a state-run university in the city. Another VC added that while some of the universities have agreed to hold terminal examinations for both UG and PG students online and through distant-mode, several others are planning to take written tests only after the local train services resume. “After resuming academic activities, the universities will have to hold terminal exams and other tests before proceeding to begin the first-year admissions process. So, by the time the first year UG students begin classes, it will be way later than October. While the international universities are resuming classes in the Fall semester, we will face a massive delay, if we keep academic activities suspended till November,” said the VC. The education minister assured that a decision will be taken only after putting all the precautions in place. “The administrative works in colleges and universities are going on,” he said. “Beginning the session from October after completing the admission formalities would have meant curtailing the syllabus. Now, if the academic year is pushed back further, we have to make several tweakings in the syllabus. Till now, there is no clarity on the subject of reducing the load of UG syllabus as the University Grants Commission is yet to make any suggestion,” said a source. He added, “We will also have to rework on the academic calendar of 2020-2021 session. Holding the semester examinations as per the previous schedule won’t be possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vcs-see-red-over-aug-15-reopening-date/articleshow/76270939.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||With 25 fresh Covid-19 cases, rural Ahmedabad crosses 400 mark||AHMEDABAD: Rural Ahmedabad, that is the district excluding the municipal area, crossed the 400 Covid-19 cases mark, with 25 fresh cases on Monday taking the tally to 410 cases. Two deaths were also reported, from Dholka and Sanand. The death toll in rural Ahmedabad was 26 on Monday. On Monday, a 34-year-old male, a resident of Agam Bungalows in Sanand died on Monday. He tested positive on Sunday itself. A 54-year-old man from Dholka died Monday, after testing positive on Saturday. Of the 25 fresh cases, 10 are younger than 30 years, two are between 31 and 40, four are between 41 and 50, and nine are older than 50 years. Officials said that more than 40% of the fresh patients were younger than 30 and this was probably because these youths were going to Ahmedabad city or other places. Of the 25 cases, 19 cases were in Dholka, Dhandhuka and Daskroi talukas. Taluka-wise, of the 410 cases in rural Ahmedabad, 121 are from Dholka, 109 from Daskroi, 66 from Sanand, 29 from Viramgam, 49 from Bavla, 22 from Dhandhuka, nine from Detroj, four from Mandal, and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-25-fresh-cases-rural-ahmedabad-crosses-400-mark/articleshow/76272127.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||No statement to media without permission: IIT-Kharagpur to faculty||Mumbai: In what is being seen as a gag order, the faculty of IIT-Kharagpur has been asked to not make any statement that can embarrass the college or affect the relationship with the state or central government. In a notification issued on Friday, the Kharagpur authorities stated that no employee shall write to the press, issue any letter, even anonymously, or participate in any radio broadcast without permission from the college administration. Only scientific articles can be published in journals. However, if faculty or researchers wish to mention their designation and their affiliation with the institute, prior approval is essential. It also says “no employee shall in any radio broadcast or in any document published anonymously in his own name or in the name of any other person or in any communication to the press or in public utterance, make any statement of fact or opinion which has the effect of any adverse criticism of any current policy or action of the institute”. “Such articles must strictly be confined to purely scientific subjects and should not touch administrative matter and they shall be free from political tinge,” the notice reads. The notification states no employee shall, except with the previous sanction of “the competent authority”, participate in a radio broadcast or contribute any article or write any letter either anonymously or in his or her name or in the name of any other person to any newspaper or periodical. Criticizing the institute is also not permitted. No staffer is allowed to opine or make a statement of fact “which is capable of embarrassing the relations between the institute and the central government or any state government or any other institute or organisation or members of the public”. Comments on social media are also not permitted. “Many a times institute employees are offering their views / publishing information in the print/ social media….. A few cases are reported in the media which have the effect of an adverse criticism of the policies or action of the institute or which is causing embarrassment in the relations between the institute and the central/ state governments.” Registrar BN Singh said that IIT faculty, like central government employees, has to adhere to the code of conduct as laid down by the government in 1961. “This is not a new circular, but excerpts from a government circular. We issue this from time to time for new people who are freshly hired.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-statement-to-media-without-permission-iit-kharagpur-to-faculty/articleshow/76272139.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Rural and ayush medical officers to be trained to test||CHANDIGARH: To bring daily Covid-19 sample collection at par with the capacity of its testing laboratories, the Punjab government has decided to press ayush medical officers and rural medical officers into duty for collecting swabs for testing. Punjab’s testing rate has steadily increased since the outbreak of the virus, but it has not been able to fully utilise the overall testing capacity of its laboratories, largely due to shortage of trained human resource. According to the official figures, cumulative samples collected and tested have gone up by a daily average rate of 4.9% and 4.8%, respectively, in the last one week. Punjab’s testing rate per million population stands at 3,819 against the national average of 3,359. There are four government-run institutes -- GMCH, Patiala (2,000), GMC, Amritsar (2,000), GGMCH, Faridkot (2,000) and PGIMER, Chandigarh (60) – and two private laboratories – DMC, Ludhiana (150), and Core Labs (500) — having a daily collective capacity of 6,810 tests. According to data compiled by the health department from June 1 to June 6, only 32,701 tests were conducted against the overall collective capacity of 40,860 tests.  To overcome the shortage of medical staff required for collection of samples, the health department has roped in ayush medical officers and rural medical officers for collection and packing of swabs for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) Covid-19 testing. In a communication to all civil surgeons, the department has issued directions for imparting training for collection and packing of swabs for Covid-19 testing to all ayush medical officers and rural medical officers. Around 750 doctors of rural department are working under civil surgeons of their respective districts while about 450 ayurveda doctors are also at the disposal of the health department. The department has proposed a three-day training of RMO and AMO under the supervision of medical officer\microbiologist at flu corners and at least two individuals per batch be trained. The training is to be completed within 10 days and civil surgeons have been directed to submit compliance reports. The department has already started training community health officer’s pharmacists and staff nurses for collection and packing of Covid-19 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rural-and-ayush-med-officers-to-be-trained-to-test/articleshow/76276113.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Rural and ayush medical officers to be trained to test||CHANDIGARH: To bring daily Covid-19 sample collection at par with the capacity of its testing laboratories, the Punjab government has decided to press ayush medical officers and rural medical officers into duty for collecting swabs for testing. Punjab’s testing rate has steadily increased since the outbreak of the virus, but it has not been able to fully utilise the overall testing capacity of its laboratories, largely due to shortage of trained human resource. According to the official figures, cumulative samples collected and tested have gone up by a daily average rate of 4.9% and 4.8%, respectively, in the last one week. Punjab’s testing rate per million population stands at 3,819 against the national average of 3,359. There are four government-run institutes -- GMCH, Patiala (2,000), GMC, Amritsar (2,000), GGMCH, Faridkot (2,000) and PGIMER, Chandigarh (60) – and two private laboratories – DMC, Ludhiana (150), and Core Labs (500) — having a daily collective capacity of 6,810 tests. According to data compiled by the health department from June 1 to June 6, only 32,701 tests were conducted against the overall collective capacity of 40,860 tests.  To overcome the shortage of medical staff required for collection of samples, the health department has roped in ayush medical officers and rural medical officers for collection and packing of swabs for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) Covid-19 testing. In a communication to all civil surgeons, the department has issued directions for imparting training for collection and packing of swabs for Covid-19 testing to all ayush medical officers and rural medical officers. Around 750 doctors of rural department are working under civil surgeons of their respective districts while about 450 ayurveda doctors are also at the disposal of the health department. The department has proposed a three-day training of RMO and AMO under the supervision of medical officer\microbiologist at flu corners and at least two individuals per batch be trained. The training is to be completed within 10 days and civil surgeons have been directed to submit compliance reports. The department has already started training community health officer’s pharmacists and staff nurses for collection and packing of Covid-19 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rural-and-ayush-med-officers-to-be-trained-to-test/articleshow/76276109.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Parents protest at DEO office over school fee hike||VADODARA: The office of the Vadodara district education officer (DEO) on Monday witnessed protests by agitated parents and Congress leaders. A group of parents of city-based Billabong High International School approached DEO U N Rathod demanding action against the school administration which they said are mentally harassing the kids. The DEO has already submitted a report to the fee regulatory committee (FRC), Vadodara on the fee hike issue based on a site inspection conducted by education inspector, show cause notice issued to the school and school’s reply to the notice. “The school administration is providing books to only those parents who have paid fees as demanded by them while those who are ready to pay fees as per FRC order are not being given books,” said Congress leader Rutvij Joshi. “My child is under trauma and had to be hospitalised because of such behaviour. As the online classes have started, kids are being asked to raise their hands and check whether they have got the books,” said an agitated parent. Rathod assured the agitators that representatives of the office will personally remain present at the school on Tuesday morning to ensure that parents get the books required for the studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/parents-protest-at-deo-office-over-school-fee-hike/articleshow/76270885.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||No rush at city’s hotels as cautious diners stay away||Hyderabad: Restaurants and eateries wore a deserted look on Monday as they reopened after more than two months. There was no rush at the eateries as most customers preferred to ‘take away’ than dine-in. Jagan G went to a restaurant in Panjagutta after driving from Erragadda to meet his friend. He was stopped at the entrance by the watchman, who screened his temperature. “This is the new normal. I have never seen hotels so empty,” he said. Hotel owners suspect the footfall may remain low as people are still scared of dinning out because of the increase in Covid-19 cases. “We have reopened our three centres - Santhanagar, Kukatpally and Kondapur centre. The footfall was extremely low, less than 100 customers in all centres. People are scared to eat out and most prefer to take food to their homes,” said Mohammed Abdul Majid, owner of Pista House. Several hotels served food to their customers on disposable crockeries. “There will be no change in hospitality but keeping in view the safety of the customers, we are using disposable plates, spoons and glasses to serve food. Customers will be allowed inside only if they are wearing a mask. The customers have to sanitize their hands at the entrance. We are taking all precautions,” said manager of Dwaraka restaurant in Lakdikapul area. All the staff members in the hotel have been asked to wear gloves, mask and head covers while serving customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-rush-at-citys-hotels-as-cautious-diners-stay-away/articleshow/76270954.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 9, 2020||Pune||Ban on visit to several dams in rains||Pune: The district administration has temporarily banned monsoon tourism to dams including Bhushi, Mulshi, Bhatghar and Khadakwasla in the heavy-rain pockets of Maval, Mulshi, Haveli, Ambegaon, Junnar, Bhor and Velhe in Pune district. District collector Naval Kishore Ram took the decision recently owing to safety concerns after a surge in Covid-19 cases and the beginning of the monsoon. Ram said INS Shivaji, an Indian naval station in Lonavla, had also requested the district administration to introduce a temporary ban on tourists to these areas for safety reasons. The government has not approved visits to tourist spots in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. People are discouraged to step out as the risk of infection spread is still high. Safety concerns have cropped up due to heavy rain-related mishaps at such dam sites, Ram said. “Monsoon, at times, starts off with heavy rain. Therefore, to prevent any mishap, a temporary ban on tourism to such spots is in place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ban-on-visit-to-several-dams-in-rains/articleshow/76272144.cms||Neha Madaan
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Education dept meeting on precautions for schools||Kolkata: The state school education department held a meeting with the officials of HRD ministry on Monday about the precautions and preventions to be taken by the individual states before reopening the education institutes. While a standard operating procedure will be devised by the Centre, each state was asked to put forward their suggestions in the meeting. “There is no clarity on the matter yet. Moreover, a date will have to be fixed by the state government about bringing back students to the school. The boards like CBSE and CISCE have already informed us that the schools in respective states will abide by the local government’s decision. The HRD will only fix safety measures guideline,” said a source in the school education department. At the education secretariat in Bikash Bhavan, another meeting was convened by the education minister Partha Chatterjee. The meeting was attended by the secretary Manish Jain along with heads of both the West Bengal Higher Secondary Council and West Bengal Board of Secondary Education to formulate an SOP for holding examinations. “Though the HS Council has already notified about the precautions to be carried out before beginning the remaining papers of Class-XII board examinations, the school education department will also issue another set of guidelines,” said Chatterjee. “I have instructed the HS Council to keep sanitizers and masks ready at the exam centres. Students will have to wear masks compulsorily and maintain social distancing. Each exam centres will carry out extensive sanitization before allowing the students to enter. Even the invigilators will be given adequate safeguards,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/education-dept-meeting-on-precautions-for-schools/articleshow/76270945.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 9, 2020||Goa||‘New footbridge at Galgibaga could affect current flow’||PANAJI: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has asked government authorities to reconsider a proposal to construct a new footbridge between Galgibaga and Mashem in the CRZ area in Canacona. Erecting spans for a new structure can affect the flow of currents, it has said. Further, it has suggested that the state considers the possibility of reinforcing the existing metal footbridge which was put up as part of national highway expansion work. A GCZMA committee had carried out an inspection at the site of the proposed new footbridge on May 4. The authority, after discussing the inspection report at its recent meeting, said that a fresh environment impact assessment (EIA) would be required as construction of a footbridge would mean use of cement, fresh piling and building of several pillars. The expert members compared the new proposed footbridge plan to an already existing metal bridge which is in a dilapidated condition. This metal bridge was built to facilitate construction of the Galgibaga and Mashem bridges. They said that if the proposed footbridge is compared to this existing metal bridge, it can be seen that the new pedestrian bridge would also require erection of spans close to each other. “When such spans are constructed it would impact both, the bathymetry and the flow of currents. The authority thus deemed it fit to call upon the project proponent to prepare a rapid EIA or alternatively to reframe the proposal to the extent of seeking approval for reinforcement of the existing metal footbridge,” the GCZMA has said. The members also inspected another site along the Galgibaga river, where the water resources department (WRD) has sought permission for construction of a flood protection wall at Kattemorod. This wall, they say, is to prevent agricultural fields from getting flooded with saline water at high tide during the monsoon. “It is recommended that the project proponent must use locally available laterite stones, mud and any material which has traditionally been used. During the construction phase, care should be taken not to harm the river ecology and its normal flow. Use of cement must be minimised. Instead, use mud and geo-textile as cohesive and binding material,” the GCZMA said. GCZMA has, however, suggested that repair/reconstruction be done on the same plinth area of the old bund, without further extensions. “The authority further decided that whilst carrying out the works, the stability test and profile study of the area should be undertaken by the project proponent,” the GCZMA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-footbridge-at-galgibaga-could-affect-current-flow/articleshow/76272760.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Rural and ayush medical officers to be trained to test||CHANDIGARH: To bring daily Covid-19 sample collection at par with the capacity of its testing laboratories, the Punjab government has decided to press ayush medical officers and rural medical officers into duty for collecting swabs for testing. Punjab’s testing rate has steadily increased since the outbreak of the virus, but it has not been able to fully utilise the overall testing capacity of its laboratories, largely due to shortage of trained human resource. According to the official figures, cumulative samples collected and tested have gone up by a daily average rate of 4.9% and 4.8%, respectively, in the last one week. Punjab’s testing rate per million population stands at 3,819 against the national average of 3,359. There are four government-run institutes -- GMCH, Patiala (2,000), GMC, Amritsar (2,000), GGMCH, Faridkot (2,000) and PGIMER, Chandigarh (60) – and two private laboratories – DMC, Ludhiana (150), and Core Labs (500) — having a daily collective capacity of 6,810 tests. According to data compiled by the health department from June 1 to June 6, only 32,701 tests were conducted against the overall collective capacity of 40,860 tests.  To overcome the shortage of medical staff required for collection of samples, the health department has roped in ayush medical officers and rural medical officers for collection and packing of swabs for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) Covid-19 testing. In a communication to all civil surgeons, the department has issued directions for imparting training for collection and packing of swabs for Covid-19 testing to all ayush medical officers and rural medical officers. Around 750 doctors of rural department are working under civil surgeons of their respective districts while about 450 ayurveda doctors are also at the disposal of the health department. The department has proposed a three-day training of RMO and AMO under the supervision of medical officer\microbiologist at flu corners and at least two individuals per batch be trained. The training is to be completed within 10 days and civil surgeons have been directed to submit compliance reports. The department has already started training community health officer’s pharmacists and staff nurses for collection and packing of Covid-19 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rural-and-ayush-med-officers-to-be-trained-to-test/articleshow/76272145.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 9, 2020||Pune||Monsoon to arrive in Pune around June 12, says IMD||PUNE: Near normal onset of monsoon appears to be on the cards in Pune and Mumbai, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting monsoon arrival in the two cities around June 12 and June 13, respectively. Monsoon usually arrives in Pune around June 11 and in Mumbai on June 12. The met department has forecast revival of monsoon soon. Rough estimates by the IMD indicate that monsoon could cover the entire state by June 14-15. The revival would be the result of a low pressure area likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal. Under the influence of this low pressure area and convergence of lower level westerlies along the west coast, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall, accompanied by isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall, is expected over some parts, including south Konkan, Goa, coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe during June 10-12. Isolated heavy rainfall is expected over north Madhya Maharshtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha during June 11-13, which will consequently bring monsoon to Pune, Mumbai and other cities in the state. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, told TOI, "Though conditions in southern parts of Maharashtra (along west coast) already seem favourable for monsoon advent, areas of interior Karnataka, Rayalseema and Tamil Nadu have not been recording any rains. Hence, for reasons of spatial continuity of monsoon, these parts will have to receive rains before onset declaration for Maharashtra. Rains in areas of interior Karnataka, Rayalseema and northern parts of Tamil Nadu are expected around June 10, after which monsoon is likely to make its way to Pune and Mumbai."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monsoon-to-arrive-in-pune-around-june-12-says-imd/articleshow/76272141.cms||Neha Madaan
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Teachers’ appointment is a scam like Vyapam: Priyanka Gandhi||LUCKNOW: Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday drew a parallel with alleged anomalies in appointment of 69,000 basic education teachers in UP, with the multi-crore Vyapam scam that rocked Madhya Pradesh six years ago. She also said, Congress would launch an agitation against the state government if it fails to provide justice to deserving candidates. “The anomalies hint towards involvement of scamsters. Facts like names of students in diaries, money transaction and anomalies at examination centres show the rot runs deep,” she said in a series of tweets. The Allahabad high court on Wednesday stayed appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in the state, holding there has been an ‘error' in the evaluation of question papers. The recruitment examination was held on January 6, 2019, and result was declared on May 12 this year. The UP government has challenged the high court order. The Vyapam scam cited by Priyanka refers to irregularities in exams held by the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board for admission in professional courses and state services. “Injustice should not be done to hard-working youths. If the government cannot give them justice then the answer will be served by a movement," she said in a subsequent tweet. Congress MLC Deepak Singh also addressed reporters in connection with teacher’s appointment row. “The scam is just one example of an organised network running the show in the education department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priyanka-teachers-appointment-is-a-scam-like-vyapam/articleshow/76272766.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: SSC exams cancelled, all students to be promoted||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has decided to promote over five lakh Class 10 students without conducting the school-leaving Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. This was decided at a high-level meeting convened by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao with the education minister and other officials at Pragati Bhavan on Monday. “Based on students’ performance in internal assessment exams they would be promoted to higher classes as it would not be possible to conduct exams in the present situation of rising Covid-19 cases,” the CM announced. Decision on degree and post-graduate examinations would be taken later after assessing the situation. Earlier on Friday, the Telangana high court had said that SSC exams cannot be held in Greater Hyderabad area as there were many hotspots in Hyderabad, Secunderabad, and Rangareddy districts while allowing it in rest of the state by taking preventive measures. After the court instructed the state to decide by Saturday afternoon, the government initially deferred the exam for the second time in three months and, on Monday, finally cancelled it. Of 11 papers (six subjects), the government had conducted three papers for 5.34 lakh students across the state in March this year. After Covid-19 cases started rising in the state, the government had to defer it for the first time after the high court intervened. The SSC examinations were later supposed to begin on June 8, but the government had to defer them after the high court directed the state not to conduct them in GHMC limits due spurt in Covid-19 cases. According to the chief minister’s office (CMO), the government examined what other states have done on holding SSC exams. Taking views from education department officials and other states’ decisions on exams, the chief minister decided to promote all the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ssc-exams-cancelled-all-students-to-be-promoted/articleshow/76272762.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Solapur’s beedi, textile workers hit hard by outbreak; death rate at 9%||PUNE: The coronavirus has severely impacted beedi and textile mill workers across Solapur district. Officials said health ailments among the workers make up one of the key reasons why the district has had a mortality rate of nearly 9%: 115 deaths from 1,295 cases so far. It’s highest death rate in the entire Pune division. Thirty-two people employed in the textile units and 12 beedi workers are among the 115 dead. Nearly 69% of these patients had comorbidity issues. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said talks are on to provide the workers some financial assistance. The administration is also mulling moving people with health problems out of the two sectors. Mhaisekar said: “Byssinosis, an occupational lung disease (often due to exposure to cotton dust), is common among textile workers. Non-smoking beedi workers often have limited lung function. The administration is set to reach out to the most vulnerable. They will be moved out of these sectors with some remuneration from the Solapur Municipal Corporation.” Most of the workers live inside containment zones. Mhaisekar said screenings will now be carried out to determine lung capabilities via peak flow meters (devices that assess how well a person expels air). The workers will also have to take a pulmonary function test. “We are readying a map of the workforce, which is nearly 50,000 in number,” Mhaisekar said. Health experts said health vulnerabilities need to be assessed to reduce mortality. “The main thrust is to reduce the mortality rate. Early testing and detection is the answer,” said public health expert, R Jotkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/solapurs-beedi-textile-workers-hit-hard-by-outbreak-death-rate-at-9/articleshow/76272148.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||No entry for citizens at SCB HQ from today||Secunderabad: Citizens will not be allowed to enter Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) headquarters at Secunderabad from Tuesday in view of the Covid-19 situation. However, they can meet officials in the portico (verandah) of the SCB office between 12 noon and 1 pm on all working days. On Monday, a high-level meeting was convened at the SCB office with all heads of departments (HODs) and officials decided to restrict entry of visitors at the headquarters. “The decision has taken based on the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and also in the wake of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the Cantonment,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender told TOI. Security has also been increased on the SCB office premises and Covid norms, including thermal screening and frequent sanitisation, have been put in place. Citizens who want to meet officials have to wait at the verandah and the officials will meet them between 12 noon and 1 pm, he said. On an average, 30 to 50 people land at the SCB headquarters daily for various works or to meet officials concerned for applying and obtaining birth and death certificates, submitting documents, property-tax related issues, pension-related issues, health and sanitation-related issues and grievances/petitions and paying property tax and water bills at the cash counter. “The restrictions will continue till MHA takes a call on allowing visitors,” the SCB official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-entry-for-citizens-at-scb-hq-from-today/articleshow/76272159.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Citizens want more tests, quicker e-permits: Survey||Pune: Residents of areas within the jurisdiction of the Pune police commissionerate have called for increased testing and better communication from officials to improve the city’s Covid-19 response. Their suggestions were part of the 'Public Pulse Survey', of over 22,000 residents, carried out between May 19 and May 24. The survey report was released by state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday. Among the top 10 suggestions for police and the civic body were calls for action against people stepping out without masks; better communication to ensure social distancing; easy e-pass access; migrant welfare; and efficient distribution of sanitizers and masks. According to the survey report, 83% of the respondents said they were happy with the police's handling of the lockdown. Under the section titled 'what attitude/action of the Pune police did people like the most', respondents said they appreciated the commitment shown by the force in ensuring law and order prevailed during the lockdown. Speaking on implementation of the suggestions received from the general public, deputy commissioner of police (EOW) Sambhaji Kadam said most of the suggestions received from the public are indeed implementable. "We are working to incorporate the ideas in our functioning. For example, people have sought quicker processing of e-passes. We will reinforce the e-pass cell so that people can avail permits instantly. Many have stated that action needs to be taken against those moving around without masks. In line with this, we will stringently enforce use of masks. We also received several suggestions for the civic administration, like increasing the testing rate of Covid-19. Those suggestions will be passed on to officials,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-want-more-tests-quicker-e-permits-survey/articleshow/76272155.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Shoppers’ sense of purpose gives us hope||It is great to be back in business. Right from the morning, the response has been better than expected, particularly at our stores in South City, Acropolis, Mani Square and City Centre I. Of the 11 stores that we have, 10 are in malls and one in New Market. Other than the store in Forum that has decided to open later, all our stores are now operational and by 2pm on Monday, we clocked 75% of revenues that we used to clock in the fisrt half of the day prior to lockdown. What’s different from before is the distinct change in customer attitude and behaviour. They entered the store with a sense of purpose, got what they wanted, made the payment and left. They weren’t interested in hanging around and checking out a few things that were not on the list. There was urgency in the manner in which they conducted themselves. The average customer time spent in the store was less but revenue per customer was higher. Since we are in kids’ wear business, there is a lot of pent-up demand. Children outgrow clothes. So last summer tee or shorts don’t fit any more. Ditto with young couples who’ve had a child. There are things that have to be bought: toiletries, feeding bottle, cot, pram. Children are also bored at home and need board games and toys. We expect customers to continue walking in through the month to make these pending purchases. Overall, I am delighted with the way we’ve resumed business. Since malls have an elaborate SOP, they offer a sense of comfort and security to both customers and retailers. The challenge though will be to remain vigilant. Being consistent will be the name of the game. (Daswani, partner of Little Shop, spoke to Subhro Niyogi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shoppers-sense-of-purpose-gives-us-hope/articleshow/76270950.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||In a first, Hyderabad temples refrain from distributing theertham, prasadam||HYDERABAD: Temples in the city witnessed moderate rush on Monday. For the first time, theertham and prasadam was not distributed in temples. Temples took safety measures like screening of people, sanitisation, marking circles to ensure social distancing and banning the entry of children below 10 years of age as also senior citizens. Devotees said that post lockdown the experience of visiting temples (almost after 80 days) has completely changed. “The onus of containing the spread of virus at temples lies with devotees too. People should corporate with temple management and utilise the relaxation given. The experience is a bit different as there is no prasadam and rituals like archana are not allowed,” said Battula Ravie Kumar, a civil engineering consultant at Tirumala Tirupati Devasthnams (TTD), Road number 92 Jubliee Hills. Members of the temple committee said that safety of devotees is being given utmost priority. “At the entry point, fever screening is being done and hands are being sanitised. Once visitors step inside, there is a provision to wash and sanitise hands. Devotees are not allowed to offer coconuts too,” said a member from Hare Krishna Golden Temple (Road 12, Banjara Hills). Similar precautions were taken by most of the temples in the city. At Tirumals Tirupati Devasthnams (TTD) and TTD ( Himyatnagar) tokens were distributed to keep count of devotees. Chants of ‘Govinda Govinda’ and ‘Namo Venkateshaya’ were heard near the temples at the break of dawn on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-first-city-temples-refrain-from-distributing-theertham-prasadam/articleshow/76270963.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man bludgeons uncle to death||RAJKOT: A man allegedly bludgeoned his uncle to death after he got him arrested twice in Majivana village of Porbandar taluka. The accused was arrested on Monday. Police said the accused, identified as Bhavesh Odedara (25), allegedly bludgeoned Lakha Odedara (55) to death while the latter was asleep on a cot on Saturday night. “Bhavesh and Lakha had a long-pending dispute over the demarcation between their farms. Four days ago when Bhavesh threatened Lakha, the latter got him arrested. After his release on bail, Bhavesh again threatened Lakha, this time in an inebriated state, following which Lakha had him arrested under Prohibition Act,” said M N Dave, inspector with Porbandar crime branch. After he was out on bail, Bhavesh decided to kill Lakha. Bhavesh was arrested from the outskirts of Fatana village of Porbandar taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-bludgeons-uncle-to-death/articleshow/76269733.cms||---
June 9, 2020||India||Babri case: LK Advani, Uma Bharti will have to be in court||LUCKNOW: The special CBI court in Lucknow said on Monday that senior BJP members LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, who are accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, will have to appear in person to record their statements under Section 313 of CrPC when asked by the court. Special judge Surendra Kumar Yadav said in his order that “while granting exemption to the accused, Advani, Joshi and Bharti, from personal appearance till further order, it was clarified they would have to appear as and when their presence was needed. Since recording of statements of the accused is underway, the trio is directed to be present on the date to be fixed by the court”. The three accused had last appeared before the special CBI court on May 26, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/babri-case-lk-advani-uma-bharti-will-have-to-be-in-court/articleshow/76273213.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 9, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in overbridge slab collapse in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A portion of the concrete slab supporting the 12-year-old overbridge at Aji Dam Chowkdi in Rajkot collapsed, crushing to death two persons on separate two-wheelers on Monday afternoon. The deceased Bhupat Miyatra (26) and Vijay Virada (25) were riding on the service road near the overbridge approach towards Aji dam and Bhavnagar Road. Following the accident, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) that built the bridge in 2008, has decided to form a team of experts from Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) in Surat to probe the matter. The chief minister Vijay Rupani too has taken a serious note of the incident and ordered an inquiry by the Rajkot district collector. “The CCTV footage of the incident shows that after a truck passes by on the service road, the concrete support slab came off the overbridge and fell on the victims trailing behind the truck,” said an official from Aji Dam police station. As the office of the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), east zone, is located near by the accident spot, the cops from there rushed to the site. “We alerted Rajkot fire brigade and 108 EMRI ambulance services. We also arranged a JCB to remove the debris of the slab and extricated the victims who had been killed on the spot,” added the official. ACP H L Rathod said that the overbridge was closed for traffic. “As it is feared that more such support slabs of the bridge may collapse, we have closed the traffic on the bridge,” said Rathod. The overbridge connects Rajkot with Bhavnagar Road and Ahmedabad-Gondal Bypass. Of the victims, Miyatra worked on contractual basis with Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), while Virada owned an automobile spare parts factory in Aji GIDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-overbridge-slab-collapse-in-rajkot/articleshow/76269778.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Business lean at most shops in Hyd||Hyderabad: Business at malls in the city remained lean on Monday despite adopting contactless shopping and social distancing to prevent spread of Covid-19. At majority malls, only 50 per cent shops were open as managements decided to take a call on reopening stores based on the footfall. “The footfall was not too impressive. Apparel stores like ours are facing issues as consumers are wary of trying out clothes. Despite ensuing all safety measures, there is an apprehension among consumers which we hope will dissipate over the next few days,” said Rammohan Babu, staff member of an apparel store in a mall at Punjagutta, adding that clothes used for trial were being steam-ironed and disinfected on an hourly basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/business-lean-at-most-shops-in-hyd/articleshow/76270971.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 9, 2020||Pune||PMC plans repairs, no water on Thursday||Pune: Most parts of the city will not receive water supply on Thursday as the civic administration will carry out maintenance and repair work at various water pumping stations, including Parvati, Pune Cantonment, SNDT and Wadgaon. The supply is expected to resume on Friday morning at low pressure. Normalcy will be restored by afternoon. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s water supply department said that essential work pertaining to maintenance of water pumping, civil work and maintenance of electric supply-related systems at the pumping stations will be carried out. Areas under Parvati water works, such as Padmavati, Indiranagar pumping stations, all peth areas, Deccan Gymkhana, Shivajinagar, Swargate, Satara Road, entire Kothrud area, Karvenagar, Law College Road and Kondhwa will not receive water supply, officials said. Areas depended on Wadgaon water works, including Hinge, Sinhagad Road, Katraj and Ambegaon will not receive water supply. Supply will remain hampered in areas under SNDT-Warje and Cantonment water works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-repairs-no-water-on-thursday/articleshow/76272158.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||New normals spur craze for webinars||PUNE: Restrictions on in-person meetings and travel caused by the Covid-19 pandemic have made webinars extremely popular. The communication tool is being increasingly used not just by businesses to engage with customers, but also by individuals, organisations and professionals to exchange notes and interact with community members. “With social distancing in place, webinars have caught the fancy of businesses and individuals alike,” said management expert and author Debashish Sengupta. Last year, 6.27 lakh webinars were organised worldwide as per the State of Webinars 2020 report. Digital marketing experts estimate that the number of webinars organised this year would be much higher. “This year we are seeing many webinars, since offline events are on hold,” said Pradeep Chopra of Digital Vaidya. In the present scenario, webinars are a win-win for organisers/companies as well as individuals, said Ray Titus, professor of marketing and dean, Alliance School of Business, Bengaluru. Currently, most webinars are free. “Free webinars attract more traffic compared to paid webinars,” said Sengupta, professor, Royal University for Women, Bahrain. Though the sheer number of those attending webinars seem to suggest they are popular, Titus said the real test would be the enrolment numbers once people get back to their routines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-normals-spur-craze-for-webinars/articleshow/76272163.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Thin attendance at mosques across city||Hyderabad: With the government allowing religious activities to commence at places of worship from Monday, mosques across Hyderabad were thrown open for public with strict adherence to social distancing norms. Many devotees attend pre-dawn prayers, but attendance at many mosques across the city was limited. Managing committees of mosques were seen appealing to devotees to visit mosques for prayers, performing ablution at their respective homes and bring their own prayer mats as the carpets in the masjid were removed. The washrooms at the mosque were also closed down. “It was a very good feeling to offer namaz at masjid, it shall be the moral responsibility of every devotee to adhere to the suggestions of medical experts when they come for prayers,” said Syed Azizuddin, a devotee of Nawab Sahab Kunta. The famous Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia too allowed the Muslims to offer prayers with social distancing norms and advised to abide by the suggestions of health experts. Authorities at Mecca Masjid near Charminar and the Royal Mosque (Shahi Masjid at Bagh-e-Aam) in Public Gardens have decided not to open to public, but to carry on with the prayers with fifty limited persons including the staff. Despite relaxation of lockdown rules, a few mosques did not open for the public for prayers and continued with the pre-lockdown norms and State Wakf Board orders allowing only five persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thin-attendance-at-mosques-across-city/articleshow/76270974.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC head office 4th floor contained||Hyderabad: A GHMC staffer tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The staffer’s work station is located in GHMC head office (fourth floor). On Monday afternoon, the floor was contained and the staffers have been asked to vacate the premises. Around 100 staffers from GHMC’ s electricity, health and solid waste management work on the fourth floor. “We asked the workers to work from home for five days, after which a decision will be taken,” said a GHMC official. The floor was sanitised and common areas of GHMC head office were sanitised too. A source in GHMC said that the staffer was not reporting to work since June 4 due to fever and tested positive on June 7. According to a source in the GHMC, the staffer’s wife works as a nurse. “We are identifying the primary contacts, it has not been confirmed that the staffer contracted the virus from his wife,” said a GHMC official. Even some officials and staffers working On third floor left after the news spread. A source in GHMC said that after extensive sanitisation was taken up in GHMC head office, head of departments(HODs) were flooded with request for leaves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-head-office-4th-floor-contained/articleshow/76270984.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||13 tourists visit Sariska, R’bore tiger reserves on Monday||Jaipur: Two months after the tiger reserves opened in the Rajasthan on Monday, a total of 13 tourists visited Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) and Ranthambore National Park (RNP). Out of the total number of tourists on the first day, 10 booked safaris in RNP and three in STR. A forest department official informed TOI, “In the morning safari at RNP, one tourist went after hiring a gypsy. Similarly, three tourists in one vehicle from Tehla Gate went for safari in Sariska. While nine tourists visited the jungle in the evening in RNP. No tourist turned up for evening safari in STR.” The gates of tiger reserves were opened for the safari, with a slew of measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. According to the state forest department, parks were re-opened in compliance with the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines. A senior official at RNP said, “Vehicles’ tyres were washed with appropriate disinfectant at the entry points. Social distancing and seating arrangement was also ensured.” At both the tiger reserves, guards were also deployed to ensure tourists do not use lavatory facility at the entry and exit points. Though the tourist turnout was less, the stakeholders are optimistic that tourists will visit over the weekend. Dinesh Durani, who is from tourism industry said, “On Monday, usually crowd is not excepted even without the lockdown. As restrictions are eased, wildlife enthusiasts will visit the park on weekends, before they are once again closed for monsoon season.” These parks were closed during the peak season in March to curb the spread of coronavirus. The industry people believe they would get some financial support during the next 22 days as many passionate wildlife lovers will definitely visit during this time. Little earning during this difficult time would be of some help to meet out many expenses such as vehicle instalment and other expenditures, which were difficult to meet despite the peak season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-tourists-visit-sariska-rbore-tiger-reserves-on-monday-edited-320/articleshow/76272183.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||ASI temples open, only a few turn up||Hyderabad: Five temples under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) control in Telangana were opened to the public on Monday. These include Thousand Pillar temple in Warangal, Ramappa temple in Mulugu and three Alampur temples in Jogulamba Gadwal district. While the rituals were being taken care of by the endowments department, thermal screening and other arrangements were being done jointly by the ASI and district administration. Their maintenance is done by the ASI. “As it was the first day of the reopening, there were only a few who turned out. We asked for police assistance to be on the safer side,” said sources. There were about 500 people who visited the Warangal temple and less than 100 turned out at Ramappa temple. As per the Centre’s guidelines, devout were told to leave their slippers in their vehicles. Touching the idols was strictly not permitted. At the Bhadrakali temple in Warangal, drones were used by authorities to sanitise the premises. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asi-temples-open-only-a-few-turn-up/articleshow/76270979.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||63% of 2008 flood victims’ grievances not addressed until Nov 2019: Study||Thiruvananthapuram: At least 63% of 2018 flood-hit people were waiting for the state government to address their grievances at least until November 2019, claimed a report on ‘community participation and rebuilding’ prepared by Unicef with the support of Kudumbasree mission. While 10% of households reported that their grievances have been addressed fully, 25% confided that their issues were addressed partially by the government. However, 63% of households said their grievances have not been addressed at all by the authorities. “It’s a matter of concern that 83% of households in Kottayam district, 70% in Ernakulam, 63% in Idukki and 60% from Pathanathitta and Thrissur districts have reported that their grievances have not been addressed,” said a section in the report that dwelt deep into the grievance redressal of flood victims. The report was prepared based on the studies carried out during the August-November 2019 period. Discussions with focus groups comprising of SC/ST, elderly, adolescent children, labourers, fish workers etc proved that the focus groups wanted the government to set up grievance redress mechanisms at the level of panchayat and urban local body and wanted a single-window system for the purpose. Another finding in the study is that only a few households (9%) at the state level have taken bank loans (other than Resurgent Kerala loan scheme) in order to recover from the impacts of the 2018 disaster. “A total of 91% of households reported that they have not availed any loan from banks. While only 6% of households resorted to bank loans in Wayanad, 13 % of households have taken bank loans in Ernakulam,” the study said. The report revealed that 12% each of SC/ST and agriculture labourers/small farmers availed bank loans, followed by 11% of fisher folk/daily-wage earners, only 3% of guest workers have taken loans to recover from disaster impacts. Among the 53% of total households who have school/college-going children at home, 45% of the households informed that the children at their homes could not attend to school/colleges temporarily during and immediately after floods. “But 2% households informed that the children at their homes have stopped going to school/college after the floods,” the report said. Regarding the post-disaster trauma among children, the report said a majority of children did not show much symptoms across districts. But 3% of households in Alappuzha, 5% in Ernakulam, 11% in Idukki, 4% in Kottayam, 3% in Pathanamthitta, 2% in Thrissur and 4% in Wayanad reported that their children have undergone post- disaster traumatic stress repeatedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/63-of-2008-flood-victims-grievances-not-addressed-until-nov-2019-study/articleshow/76262212.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Some eateries open, but it’s an extended lockdown for many||HYDERABAD: It could be a while before you can enjoy a meal at your favourite restaurant in town. While it’s all clear from the government, many eateries may keep their shutters down for another few months — some as late as Dasara. Limited seating, night-time restrictions, apprehensive patrons coupled with extremely high lease rates has made it impossible for many to resume operations. On an average, the lease rate in the Banjara Hills-Jubilee Hills-Hi-Tec City belt — city’s hub for restaurants and clubs — ranges between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 7 lakh a month. For smaller outlets, either in a commercial block or mall, it is anywhere upwards of Rs 2 lakh. To add to that are running costs, salaries of staff and now the extra expenditure on sanitisation. “We haven’t set an opening date yet, but in all probability it’ll be around Dasara in October,” said Rashi Agarwal, managing director, master franchise owner of Pita Pit Restaurants, which has two outlets — in Sarath City Mall and Jubilee Hills Road No 36. “With all the overheads and limited footfall, it doesn’t make any economic sense,” she said. Agarwal is now trying to negotiate a revenue sharing model — in the 75:25 ratio — with the property owner to sustain the business. Up to 40% restaurants likely to shut down in HyderabadSo are several others in the industry who are worried that they might have to otherwise shut shop. Industry insiders that TOI spoke to said that at least 40% of the city’s restaurants are likely to close down for good due to lockdown losses. “It’s a tough time for the hospitality sector. Though we are not planning to shut, we are also not sure when we will open. With Covid-19 cases increasing everyday, it’s going to be very long before business returns to usual for us,” said Ketan Agarwal, co-founder of Chubby Cho in Jubilee Hills that also runs Fat Pigeon (the bar). He was willing to wait at least another month before taking a call on pulling his shutters up. Mohammed Shaji Chand too is willing to wait — weeks or even months — till he is allowed late-night operations. That’s because regulars at his popular 6,000 square feet eatery in Gachibowli, Arabian Corner, prefer to step in only post 10pm. “We don’t serve alcohol, but as my place is partly open air, people like coming here only in the evening. My lunch window is only for two hours... that’s not enough to make profits. Opening now means suffering further losses,” the owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/some-eateries-open-but-its-an-extended-lockdown-for-many/articleshow/76272773.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Many recovered patients in Telangana refuse to donate plasma||HYDERABAD: Even as health authorities and a few plasma donors in the state are trying to convince patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma, they frequently find potential donors unresponsive. At least 15 potential donors who previously showed interest have blocked the phone numbers of counsellors who tried to reach them. The first donor in the state who together with two Indian origin US citizens started a Facebook page to find and connect potential donors, admits taking ‘no’ for an answer 90 percent of the time. “Right from getting excuses like I feel weak, I am scared and my parents do not agree, I have even heard excuses like I never got corona,” said Akhil Enamsetty, a lawyer by profession and the first donor in the state. While at the isolation ward in the hospital, he had convinced fellow patients to donate. Akhil along with Rajnipriya Pabbathi and Shankarnarayan started the initiative after the duo contacted him over Facebook. So far, the group has been able to connect 30 donors across the country. Akhil also expressed interest in donating for a second time, hoping to motivate people. “Donating plasma is a very simple process and does not affect one’s health at all. Plasma is replaced within a week by the body. There is absolutely no risk, otherwise why would I be willing to donate for the second time,” he said. Meanwhile, the first patient to have received plasma therapy and has completely recovered said that the therapy is a life saver. “I was on my deathbbed and constantly thinking of my family. I was unable to walk even three steps and was constantly gasping. It took just two days to show improvement and within seven days, I had recovered almost completely,” said Vamsi Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-recovered-patients-refuse-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/76270991.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC refutes rumour about city hospital||Hyderabad: After a hospital located in Kacheguda was closed for two weeks, rumours were aplenty that the hospital was sealed after all doctors and staff tested positive for Covid-19. Verification revealed that a person who was treated by a doctor from Sri Ramakrishna hospital, Kachiguda ested positive following which the hospital was closed. “The hospital volunteered to remain closed for two weeks, it was not sealed,” said a GHMC official. The hospital started its operations again on Monday. “Some people are circulating rumours on WhatsApp groups, please don't believe these rumours. Claims of doctors and staff testing positive are false news,” said Dr Hanumanth Rao, a doctor from that hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-refutes-rumour-about-city-hospital/articleshow/76270987.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||50% of Class X students have collected hall ticket for boards||Trichy: Class X state board students collected their hall tickets for the state board examination from their respective schools on Monday.S Sargunan, headmaster, government high school at Unaiyur held a small discussion with parents and students on their preparations when they came to collect hall tickets. He asked the parents not to pay heed to the speculations on possible cancellation of exams. It will adversely affect the preparations which may reflect in their results. Another teacher from Manachanallur said that Class X board examinations cannot be undermined for it decides the subject they choose in Class XII which will eventually impact their career prospects.With no revision classes were allowed so far and unlikely to be allowed in coming days considering the increasing cases of Covid-19, teachers completely rely on parents for the board exam preparation of their students. Some teachers say that only a few students call them or communicate through WhatsApp for doubts and the rest of them don't appear to be serious.Parents too have limitations in pushing their children beyond a limit especially when they are at home which would not give a school like atmosphere for learning, they say.Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said a total 35,758 students will appear for Class X board examination this year in Trichy district and about 50% of them have collected their hall tickets. The process of hall tickets distribution will be carried for three days till Wednesday starting from Monday. Students can even collect their hall tickets on the day of the examination as they will be appearing for the exam in their respective schools. The move is to see if all students have returned to their place following Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/50-of-class-x-students-have-collected-hall-ticket-for-boards/articleshow/76272192.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Eating out was different, but reassuring||I was missing my meals at restaurants and was equally curious to see how they roll out the safety precautions. So, I visited a Mughlai chain in Salt Lake with my family and was pleasantly surprised to see everything was quite professionally managed. They had an elaborate but convenient sanitization process in place. Every table had a sanitizer bottle so one didn’t have to ask for one. Even our shoes were fumigated. I had called the restaurant on Sunday to check out on their menu. Some of the dishes were not available. It left my family disappointed but the quality of food remains the same, which was reassuring. The service was prompt and quick, despite the new norms. Every staffers wore masks and gloves and maintained a distance from the guests. They offered the option of ordering food from the table by calling a number, which I did. It proved easy and ensured safety. The cutlery and the crockeries were disposable, something which you rarely find at fine-dining restaurants. At the end of the meal, the bill was WhatsApp-ed to me, which was another first. Overall, it was a nice and different experience though I would rather go back to the good old days when you call the waiter and get your dish customized. (Roy, an IT professional, spoke to Prithvijit Mitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eating-out-was-different-but-reassuring/articleshow/76270992.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: SSC results to be out today||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board will publish the results of its Class X board exam on its website on Tuesday. This comes after the board published its HSC science results. According to officials, the results will be declared at 8am on Tuesday. A total of 10.83 lakh students had taken the examination. The marksheets will be sent to schools in a fortnight. Officials said that the board has also decided that they will give average mark to 258 students whose answer sheets went missing. Four bundles of answersheets were later found on the Gondal highway near Virpur. The government admitted in the state assembly that 258 answer sheets of the science exam of class X were missing. The government said that 142 were recovered from the bag of 400 answer sheets and were in good condition. Officials said the result was delayed by a fortnight as the board had begun paper checking during the lockdown but this was stopped later, for fear of spreading the virus. The process resumes on April 26 and about 15,000 teachers were involved in it. Officials said that the passing percentage fo Class X in 2019 was 66.97%, about 0.53 percentage points lower than in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ssc-results-to-be-out-today/articleshow/76271007.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Rajkot||Panchayat secretary gets three years jail for bribery in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A special court in Una sentenced Thoradi village panchayat secretary to three years imprisonment in a bribery case on Monday. The accused, identified as Yunus Savat, was caught red handed while accepting Rs 2,000 bribe in 2017 in Thoradi village of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district. Savat had demanded bribe from the complainant for signing papers in a land deal. The court also issued notices to the two witnesses who had turned hostile in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/panchayat-secretary-gets-three-years-jail-for-bribery/articleshow/76269825.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram, Noida eateries stay closed||GURUGRAM: There were hardly any visitors in Gurugram’s Cyberhub on Monday. The scene was similar at the Sector 29 market and Galleria. Most restaurants stayed shut due to concerns over financial viability. In Noida, only two malls opened their doors. Staffers in both were seen busy with deep cleaning and sanitation work. Just a few stores opened in these malls. All 400 restaurants in Noida may remain shut for now over rent negotiations At Cyberhub, one of the city’s most popular hangout places, there were plenty of boards on Monday morning telling patrons ‘Welcome back, we have missed you’. In times of a global pandemic, the precautions were there too — posters advised social distancing, floor markers were placed at every six feet, sanitisers were kept handy and thermal scanning was in place at the entry points. However, barring some maintenance staff, there was hardly any human presence at the F&B hub. Despite the government allowing them to open with 50% capacity, most restaurants in Gurugram decided to stay shut due to concerns over financial viability. When TOI visited Cyberhub on Monday afternoon, only three eateries were open — only for delivery and takeaway. Restaurateurs said they expect more losses if they open up because with the riders imposed by the state and central governments over timings and seating capacity, apart from the fact that they cannot serve liquor in their premises, they would struggle to achieve even 15%-20% of their pre-lockdown business. “We are very keen to open but the conditions are not conducive for business. Take for instance the requirement to close at 8 pm. About 35% of our business comes from lunch and 65% from dinner. If we close at that hour, our earnings are gone. Add to this the closure of bars within restaurants, and it will come down to around 15-20% for most,” said Inderjit Banga, owner of Pra Prak Prank and Prankster and head of the Gurugram chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI). In Sector 29, all restaurants and pubs, barring those providing quick service such as McDonalds, Domino’s and Bikanerwala, remained closed too. The market, which is usually bustling with people, had no visitors. Signs of ‘To-Let’ hung from the façades of two pubs. Galleria, the city’s oldest hangout zone, did see a higher footfall, owing more to shopping than to food. There was also a lack of clarity among store managers about the orders. “We are open for takeaway and delivery but not for dine-in because the state government hasn’t allowed these services in Gurugram and Faridabad yet,” said Kailash Aiswal, store manager of the Tossin Pizza outlet in Galleria. Restaurants inside malls were unclear too if they could open. Rental anxietyMost of the owners who have been forced to keep their restaurants shut since the last 70 days have not paid rentals for the lockdown period, during which their business dried up. Now though, they are worried that as soon as they reopen, their landlords could come knocking on their doors asking for rent. “Force majeure is in effect for us with regards to the rents. If we open, we will have to pay the rent even though there will be no business because people are scared to come out of their homes,” said Gagan Vashisht, owner of Chinese Panda and Dhaba 29 in Sector 29. The average monthly rent for a 5,000 sq ft restaurant in Sector 29 is between Rs 8 lakh and Rs 9 lakh, NRAI’s Banga said, adding that at Cyberhub, the rent would be around Rs 15 lakh, exclusive of the common area maintenance charges. “The rentals are extremely high for us to survive with such low levels of revenue. We are trying to negotiate a lower amount with the landlords. They simply cannot expect the pre-Covid rentals,” a restaurant owner at Cyberhub said, not wishing to be named. Among other concerns, eateries face a shortage of manpower as most of the employees have returned home. Moreover, sanitisation of premises is also likely to take some time. “While we have received the permissions, we need to make arrangements in order to follow the SOPs and that will take eight to 10 days,” a manager of Cafeteria & Co in Cyberhub said. Several people working in the sector indicated that notwithstanding the permit to resume operations, it will be a while before Gurugram’s hospitality industry can find its feet, and its party buzz, back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/despite-permit-to-open-eateries-keep-locks-on/articleshow/76272210.cms||Shubhra Pant
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Unlock 1.0: Malls open, but focus on restoring people’s confidence||JAIPUR: After the state government’s nod on Saturday, malls and restaurants in the state reopened for business on Monday but customers kept away from these establishments on the first day. About 40-50% of outlets in malls resumed operations, while others were busy cleaning and rearranging their stock. The movement of people in malls mostly consisted of management staff who were checking if the SOPs were in place and customers followed norms. Business was the last thought on the first day of reopening. “We know it will take time before outlets start receiving customers. Our focus now is to create confidence among visitors and the whole exercise is geared to achieve that,” said Anup Bartariya of World Trade Park (WTP) pointing to thermal checking by a PPE-clad man, entry of cellphone numbers of customers, and disinfecting systems practices. Similar SOPs and protocols could be seen in other malls also. Owners said that they expect most of the outlets to open in the next few days as they need to stock products and rearrange things. “The closing was chaotic as we had to shut our doors in an emergency. So, we need time to rearrange everything,” said an outlet manager. At Gaurav Tower, the hustle and bustle of people moving in and out could be seen, indicating early signs of a normalcy. Gaurav Baradiya, owner of the mall said, “We will be back to normalcy if the Covid situation in the city does not deteriorate. Around 50% of the outlets in the mall reopened today and we expect all of them to do so very soon.” The chat walas, juice bars and other snacks stalls in front of malls also saw very few customers. “By this time (1pm), we would have served 40 people. But, so far, I have not received a single customer,” said a juice bar owner in front of a mall. But keeping malls operational without adequate business imposes a financial burden. Bartariya said they cannot avoid the running costs and they have to live with the situation. “We will try to reduce expenses from other heads like marketing and publicity. We will focus more on social media that is less costly,” explained Bartariya. But Baradiya said that while it is a difficult situation, they expect the businesses will return to near normalcy within a month. Many said right now the priority is to ensure there are no cases positive cases in malls which will dampen the mood. “We have to take utmost case to ensure that even if there is a Covid case, it does not spread,” said the manager of another mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unlock-1-0-malls-open-but-focus-on-restoring-peoples-confidence/articleshow/76272194.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Greens object, yet MPCB conducts digital public hearing on sand ghats’ auction||Nagpur: Despite strong objection from environmentalists, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) continues to hold public hearing regarding auctioning of sand ghats in the region on digital platform. On Monday, the hearing of sand ghats in Nagpur district was chaired by additional district magistrate Ravindra Khajanchi. During the meeting, many participants reportedly raised objection that complete information like public hearing notice, district survey report and environmental management plan were not available on the MPCB or district collector websites. “The only document available was the executive summary having no mention of rivers on which the sand mining will take place. In absence of proper information, it became impossible to discuss technical issues,” stated a press release issued by the Vidarbha Environmental Action Group (VEAG). Devendra Wankhede, Vidarbha convener of the Aam Aadmi Party, questioned the validity of conducting public hearing during lockdown period when it is not possible for important stakeholders to attend. Citing other alternatives like crushed stone sand and fly ash sand, Swapnil Wanjari from VNIT stated there was no need for river sand mining as it was detrimental for the environment. Environmentalists have also opposed clubbing together a large number of sand ghats in one hearing. Sudhir Paliwal, convener of VEAG, stated, “Most ghats are on Pench and Kanhan rivers that are lifeline of Nagpur district. Water supply to Nagpur also comes from these two rivers. They are used as corridor by wild animals including tigers. These rivers are also habitat of crocodiles and many rare species of fishes. Sand mining in such area will lead to poaching on large scale.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-object-yet-mpcb-conducts-digital-public-hearing-on-sand-ghats-auction/articleshow/76272198.cms||Manka Behl
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Antibody test likely for frontline workers in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In view of increasing spread of Covid- 19, the state government may undertake antibody testing for all frontline workers including medical staff, police, municipal and mediapersons. The government may undertake tests for people with cancer, diabetes, hypertension as also aged persons. Recently, the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) conducted random tests in Hyderabad, Kamareddy, Janagoan and Nalgonda districts. The results will be declared in a few days. These tests are meant to know if there is community spread among the population. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has written to all state governments to conduct sero surveillance. ICMR recommended IGG antibody tests for people. In this method, serum will be conducted to tests to see if antibodies are produced to combat the virus. The presence of anti-bodies indicate infection in the body. The IGG method reveals the presence of virus two weeks back. . Meanwhile, Centre conducted review meeting with officials of districts including those from Telangana on Monday to discuss measures to be taken to curb the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/antibody-test-likely-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/76271004.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More funds for police modernisation||Thiruvananthapuram: The Centre and the Kerala government have granted Rs 63.17 crore to state police for purchasing vehicles, technical upgradation and improving training facilities. But in an unusual move, the state government has kept conditions while releasing the funds, in the wake of the bitter experience last year after the audit by the comptroller and auditor general (CAG). While the Centre has sanctioned Rs 37.90 crore, the state has cleared a matching share of Rs 25.27 crore as incentive fund under the scheme for modernisation of police force (MoPF). The funds from the Centre and matching share are to be cleared by the state government, for which the government has kept forward some conditions. In the order issued by the home department on May 29, accessed by TOI, the then additional chief secretary, who is present chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, has said all purchases should be done only on the basis of regulations of stores purchase department, electronics and IT department and PWD. “State police chief shall ensure that the sanctioned amount is utilised in accordance with the existing rules and regulations. Deviation, if any, on the approved item, shall be done only with the prior approval of the government,” the order said. With regards to the technical specifications during the purchase of equipment, computers and software, higher technical specification or higher platform should be purchased only within the specified budgetary provisions. The government has also made it mandatory for police to undertake the constructions and maintenance only after preparing a detailed estimate in PRICE software (project information and cost estimation software of the government), and accredited agencies should be selected for the implementation of the projects. The agency should be selected well in advance, the order said. The government has also made it mandatory that the award of work should be through a tender either directly by police department or through an accredited agency. Police have been sanctioned the funds for purchasing operational vehicles, including troop-carrier buses, operational vehicles for left-wing extremism-affected areas, police station vehicles, motorcycles, automatic number plate-reading cameras for nine border districts, enhancement of training infrastructure, construction activities and setting up of district forensic science laboratories. The CAG’s audit report of the functioning of police was highly critical that had unleashed a string of controversies regarding the improper utilisation of funds. The CAG had been highly critical about the purchases that did not adhere to the stores purchase rules and central vigilance commission guidelines and had also pointed out utilisation of funds that was not in accordance with the purpose for which the funds were sanctioned. The CAG had made specific remarks about the vehicles being purchased by police, saying the action of the police department in procuring luxury vehicles for use of its officers instead of the permissible vehicles was in violation of the MoPF scheme guidelines. “The government had then stood by police department and had found justification in all the purchases and action, helping save the face of the police. But this time, the government is taking an extremely cautious approach so that such instances do not occur again,” a top government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-funds-for-police-modernisation/articleshow/76262274.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Low pressure troughs may usher in monsoon by Friday||KOLKATA: The city was lashed by a sharp shower on Monday afternoon even as a cyclonic circulation brewed over east-central Bay of Bengal. It could intensify into a low-pressure area on Tuesday and subsequently, a depression that could pave the way for monsoon’s arrival in parts of south Bengal by June 12, said Met officials. The rain on Monday, however, was triggered by another low-pressure trough across Bangladesh and Odisha. Kolkata received 24.9mm rain till 5.30pm on Monday. “The rain on Monday was a not a typical pre-monsoon or nor’wester shower. Rather, it was similar to monsoon rain, caused by clouds that floated into the region from the sea. Pre-monsoon showers are caused by clouds that travel from the north-west. This is a definite indication that the cloud movement pattern has now changed and conditions are turning favourable for the onset of monsoon,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. The cyclonic circulation over east-central Bay of Bengal is set to intensify into a low-pressure on Tuesday. “It could further develop into a depression and lead to the arrival of monsoon in parts of south Bengal, including Kolkata, by June 11-12. Some parts of north Bengal and Sikkim, too, could receive the rains simultaneously. We expect more showers in the course of the week,” added Das. The showers will now be more steady and consistent with low wind speed, said meteorologists. “Once monsoon clouds arrive, rain will be more consistent. Wind will now be blowing in from the south-east or the sea. So far, we have had clouds floating in from the Jharkhand-Bihar region with high wind-speed. This has already changed,” said Das. Despite the afternoon shower, Kolkata remained warm and humid on Monday. Maximum temperature touched 36.3°C while maximum relative humidity touched 95%. “Moisture kept entering the region due to the presence of two circulations. This will continue since the Bay of Bengal system will intensify. But rains should help in pulling the mercury down over the next few days,” said a weather scientist. A heavy shower had drenched Kolkata on Sunday evening at the end of a hot, humid day, during which maximum temperature shot up to 36.6°C. Local clouds triggered the rain that lasted two hours from 4pm and left several arterial roads waterlogged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-pressure-troughs-may-usher-in-monsoon-by-fri/articleshow/76271020.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie hotels to be closed for another 10 days||MUSSOORIE: Mussoorie hoteliers have decided not to open their establishments for another 10 days, keeping in mind the government guidelines regarding quarantining tourists, the risk posed by rising Covid-19 cases across the country and the non-availability of hotel staff. In a meeting held on Monday, Mussoorie Hotels Association (MHA), the body representing the town’s hoteliers, issued an advisory to all its members, advising them not to open their hotels till June 18. “After June 18, we will review the situation and accordingly take a decision (on whether to reopen the establishments),” said RN Mathur, president of MHA. Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of MHA, added, “All tourists would have to be quarantined, so in any event, much tourist activity is unlikely. The decision was also taken to ensure the safety of hotel staff and residents.” The hoteliers’ decision was also influenced by the fact that most of their staff members had returned to their native villages, creating a shortage in manpower at hotels. Also, the hoteliers felt they needed time to fulfill the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as advised by the central and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-hotels-to-be-closed-for-another-10-days/articleshow/76269833.cms||Anmol Jain
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Labour engagement under MGNREGA crosses 50 lakh in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The labour engagement under MGNREGA in Rajasthan crossed 50 lakh on Monday, an increase of 49.58 lakh workers within a span of 52 days, as many migrant workers are still demanding for work under the scheme. Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said, in terms of labour engagement and planning, Rajasthan ranks first in the country. Around 13 lakh migrant workers were employed under the scheme, he said. Rajasthan has recorded 17% of the country’s employment generation under the scheme, with the total labour engagement being 2.9 crore. “Due to lockdown, only 62,000 workers were employed on April 17. Labour planning and coordinated efforts of the department have increased it to 50.20 lakh on June 8,” he said. If a family in Rajasthan has five members, the job guarantee scheme is providing livelihood to 2.5 crore people in the state. In labour engagement, Rajasthan is followed by Uttar Pradesh (41.41 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (26.57 lakh), West Bengal (23.23 lakh) and Madhya Pradesh (22.02 lakh). Bhilwara district has registered highest with 4.11 lakh. “During this crisis situation (Covid-19 pandemic), people are getting financial support in rural areas because of employment under MGNREGA,” he added. Other than this Sachin Pilot said the use of ‘e-panchayat software’ in the gram panchayats has given impetus to the implementation of development works under various schemes of rural development and panchayati raj department during the lockdown period and ensured uninterrupted flow of work. He said, so far, 4.70 lakh works have been registered through e-panchayat software and 12.44 lakh administrative, technical and financial approvals have been done. Payment of Rs 2,626 crore has been made by the gram panchayats through the software and about Rs 3,017 crore has been paid to the beneficiaries who built toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin), said Pilot. “Through this software, transfer of funds from state to gram panchayats, finalising annual plan, administrative, technical and financial approvals; payment to vendors; utilization and completion certificates (UC / CC) of the amount spent and bank tallying works are being done online,” said Pilot. “Online entry, monitoring and reporting of various information related to village master plan is also being done through e-panchayat software,” he added. He said, monitoring and reporting of various camps like Mahatma Gandhi Gramotthan camp will be executed through the software. “The software has been implemented to make the functioning of panchayati raj institutions transparent and to provide easy information to the public about the development works. Effective monitoring is also being done. Financial irregularities and corruption will also be curbed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labour-engagement-under-mgnrega-crosses-50l-in-state/articleshow/76272193.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||12,900 people get kabasura kudineer in Trichy every day||Trichy: Identifying the vulnerable areas in Trichy city, Trichy Corporation distributes kabasura kudineer to at least 12,900 people per day. The former containments zones of the city such as Alwarthope, Bhima Nagar, Woraiyur and existing two containment zones in Kottapattu and Cantonment were covered under the immunity-boosting drive. At least 2,100 people per day in the vulnerable zones are provided with the kabasura kudineer while Amma canteens in 11 locations cater the health drink to 3,300 people per day. Siddha hospital in Bhima Nagar witness at least 2,100 people per day collecting the drink with their own vessels. And 18 UPHCs cater to 5,400 people every day. “Our health workers visiting the vulnerable areas are sensitizing the senior citizens not to venture out. People with comorbidities are also insisted to be careful,” M Yazhini, city health officer, Trichy Corporation said. The civic body officials added that houses in the vulnerable zones were also given multivitamin tablets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/12900-people-get-kabasura-kudineer-in-trichy-every-day/articleshow/76272201.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro will run upto Badi Chaupar||Jaipur: The Jaipur Metro, underground corridor inside the Walled City area, will open soon after Covid-19 restrictions are eased as the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) has accorded the mandatory approval for starting passenger operations. Once the metro is re-opened, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) will run a train on the entire stretch from Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar. JMRC chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Samit Sharma said, “We are ready to start the operation. It will soon start after the Centre gives nod to run all the metros.” The underground corridor, which is an expansion of Phase-I is constructed between Chandpole and Badi Chaupar. The length of the entire Metro Phase 1A and 1B is 12.07km. After BJP came to power, then chief minister Vasundhara Raje inaugurated the Jaipur Metro Rail Project (Phase 1A) in June 2015. This corridor was made operational in 2015 after spending Rs 2,023 crore. “The project cost of underground Phase-IB project is Rs 1,126 crore. Out of which Rs 969 crore has been provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB),” said a senior official. Sources at JMRC said the Metro Phase 1B missed its June 2018 deadline due to various reasons, including Supreme Court ban on sand mining, shifting of seven temples and design change of two underground stations. The JMRC officials believe there will be an increase in ridership after the Phase 1B is operational. In absence of Phase 1B, the performance of Phase 1A of Jaipur Metro was ‘poor’ as the average ridership dipped. “At present, an average 20,000 passengers commute through Metro daily, as against the projected figure of one lakh. But Phase-II is expected to boost the numbers,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-metro-will-run-upto-badi-chaupar/articleshow/76272188.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Six from Vidarbha recommended for HC judgeship||NAGPUR: In some good news for Vidarbha’s legal fraternity, four lawyers and two district judges have found their names in the list sent to Supreme Court collegium for their elevation as high court judges. From among lawyers, names of Makrand Agnihotri, Abhay Sambre, Ranjit Bhuibhar and Gauri Venkatraman are included in the list. From among district judges, name of Sanjay Mehare, principal district judge in city, and RN Laddha, a judge from Yavatmal, have been recommended for the elevation. All four lawyers are members of High Court Bar Association here with Venkatraman occupying the post of president. The Bombay high court has sanctioned strength of 94 judges of which 25 posts are vacant. All names would be placed before the SC collegium comprising three seniormost judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-from-vidarbha-recommended-for-hc-judgeship/articleshow/76272177.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Delhi||A portion of Sadar Bazar to be turned into ‘buffer zone’||New Delhi: Delhi government on Tuesday decided to convert a portion of Sadar Bazar into a ‘buffer zone’, thereby simplifying the process for opening of shops in the area. A government official said that the places where active cases were reported in recent past have been mapped. “They have been divided into small pockets and made as micro-containment zones, while the remaining area of Sadar Bazar has been declared as buffer zone as has been done by many other cities in India,” said the official. “The exercise was carried after District Disaster Management Authority and District Medical Group found that it is imperative to redraw boundaries of Sadar Bazar containment zone to reduce hardship of residents and to facilitate effective implementation of disinfection drive as well as strict perimeter control,” said the official. In the containment zone, only essential activities will be allowed while there will be no restriction in the buffer zone. “There will be strict control in the containment area to ensure there is no movement of people,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-portion-of-sadar-bazar-to-be-turned-into-buffer-zone/articleshow/76292150.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Medical stores in Uttarakhand asked not to sell medicines for cough, cold, headache or fever without doctor’s prescriptions||DEHRADUN: The food safety and drug administration (FSDA) has asked the medical stores and pharmaceutical shop owners to not sell medicines for cough, cold, headache or fever without a doctor’s prescription. The stores have also been asked to maintain a record of address and phone numbers of all those buying flu and fever medicines even if the buyers have a doctor’s prescription. FSDA commissioner Dr Pankaj Pandey, who issued the letter, said, "Medical store owners have been directed to paste these guidelines outside their shops and ensure that they are strictly maintaining the records." A senior health department official said that not just medical stores, but private clinics and hospitals have also been directed to provide details of people coming to them with symptoms of fever, cold and cough to the health department. "The orders were issued after we received information that due to social stigma and misinformation regarding Covid-19 and its treatment, people suffering from novel coronavirus-like symptoms, which include fever, headache and cold, are buying over the counter medicines from pharmaceutical stores," the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/medical-stores-in-ukhand-asked-not-to-sell-medicines-for-cough-cold-headache-or-fever-without-doctors-prescriptions/articleshow/76269845.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Alcoholic kills mother to stop her nagging||RAJKOT: Tired of her constant nagging at his idling away time at home, an alcoholic killed his mother by allegedly bludgeoning her to death in Ghanteshwer locality of Rajkot on Sunday night. Police detained accused Prakash Rathod (32) on Monday and said he hit his mother, Shethani Rathod (56), four times on the head. Another son, Arvind, took Shethani to the Rajkot Civil Hospital with grievous injuries where doctors declared her brought dead. “We have rounded up Prakash from Ghanteshwer. We will be formally arresting him, once his report for Covid-19 test comes in,” said H M Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot crime branch. “Prakash used to drive an autorickshaw earlier, but had moved to his mother’s house after his divorce. However, here he started drinking heavily and idling time which irritated his mother and she would often reprimand him for his wayward behaviour. On the fateful night, they had another quarrel after which he killed her in a fit of drunken rage,” said Gadhvi. After committing the crime, Prakash left home and bumped into his brother, Arvind, outside their house. He told Arvind what he had done asking him to take their mother to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alcoholic-kills-mother-to-stop-her-nagging/articleshow/76269847.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai registers 75% fewer deaths during lockdown||CHENNAI: Keeping with the national trend, the overall number of deaths registered in Chennai has reduced by about 75% between May 1 and 20, as compared to the same period last year. While a sharp decline in accidents due to reduced traffic is cited as one of the reasons, reports of death registry not being updated could not be verified. Only 434 death certificates were issued by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) during the period. It covers every type of death – natural, medico-legal, road accidents – reveal official data. Public health expert K Kolandaisamy said, “Though it is too early to come to a conclusion, we can safely assume that the overall death rate has come down due to three important factors: drop in accidents on roads and construction sites, shift in change of place of death registrations and lesser number of stress-related deaths like heart attacks and strokes.” TN road safety commissioner Tenkasi S Jawahar said the number of road accidents reduced by 86% in April this year compared to the same month last year. The trend continued in May. Only 548 road accident deaths were reported across TN in May. It was almost double in May last year. As for the lesser number of deaths in hospitals in Chennai, Kolandaisamy said that due to travel restrictions during lockdown, a lesser number of people might have been referred to Chennai hospitals at the last minute and therefore deaths could have been reported at nearby hospitals in other districts instead of Chennai. AB Gopalmurugan, senior interventional cardiologist at Kauvery Hospital, said that heart-related ailments were always a major contributor to overall deaths (roughly 22%). “This has come down,” he said. “The most common causes of such deaths is stress due to long working hours and sleep deprivation, unhealthy eating, smoking, drinking and excessive travel. These habits are on the wane during lockdown.” On the crime front, there has been a 66% drop in incidents within the city. Only 12 murders were reported in May and they too were cases of sudden provocation, said a senior police officer. City corporation deputy commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy was unavailable to comment on reports that the death registry may not be getting updated regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-registers-75-fewer-deaths-during-lockdown/articleshow/76271068.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Corona swings to western UP; 412 new Covid cases||LUCKNOW: Another leap of 412 new cases pushed UP’s Covid tally beyond the 11,000-mark on Monday. The state bulletin indicated the dominance of western UP districts and urban centres in the high number of Covid load in the state. While the top three districts Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr accounted for 128 of the 412 cases, 50% of the overall burden came from 10 districts, including Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Agra, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur and Firozabad. Principal Secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “As on date, 4,320 active Covid-19 cases were under treatment in the state, while 6,344 patients, including 159 in 24 hours, have recovered and discharged.” The state also recorded eight deaths taking the total of Covid casualties to 283. “Of the eight deaths, two were reported from Agra and one each from Kanpur Nagar, Siddharthnagar, Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Auraiya,” a health department bulletin said. Prasad said 13,236 tests were done on Sunday, which is, so far, the highest in a day. However if one adds the number of pool tests undertaken, the number would cross 20,000 mark. “We are close to achieving the 15,000 tests mark – the target set up by CM,” he said. On an overall scale, the number of samples tested by UP crossed 3.80 lakh mark. The bulletin revealed that the number of migrant cases were on the decline. On Monday, the total number of migrant Covid positive cases reached 2,982 -- an increase of 59 which is less than the rise recorded on previous days. Of the remaining new cases Kanpur recorded 25, Lucknow 16, Rae Bareli 14, Gorakhpur 11, Jalaun 11, Bijnore 8, Ambedkarnagar 8, Hardoi 8, Kannauj 7 among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-swings-to-western-up-412-new-cases/articleshow/76272802.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Man hangs self in Jaipur, probe on||JAIPUR: A 28-year-old man committed suicide in Jyoti Nagar police station area in Jaipur on Monday morning, just a day after returning from Alwar, his hometown. The body of the victim, identified as Rajeev Meena, was found hanging from the fan in his rented accommodation in the city. Sudhir Upadhyay, SHO, Jyoti Nagar police station said, “The deceased had just returned from Alwar and his body was found hanging at his residence on Monday. The reason behind his death remains unknown as of now, as he has not left behind any suicide note that we could find.” According to preliminary investigation, Meena had recently got selected for the post of second-grade teacher and police are unable to decipher the reason for his suicide. “There are various aspects in this case which we will investigate including the fact that he recently came from home and if there was any dispute or issue which he faced there. We will also look into personal relationships and financial issues which might have been troubling him,” added the official. The body was handed over to his family after post-mortem. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-hangs-self-in-city-probe-on/articleshow/76272207.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Bizman robbed & attacked with knife, succumbs to injuries||Jaipur: A businessman who was robbed and attacked with a knife on Sunday night in Karni Vihar police station area sucuumbed to his injuries on Monday night after being in critical condition throughout the day . The police suspect that chilli powder was thrown into his eyes. According to police, he was probably poisoned as well. He was not able to give details about how much money was taken from him. The victim was identified as Naresh Choudhary (52) who hails from Jhunjhunu and was travelling from Delhi to Jaipur in his personal vehicle. He died before he could give any details about his unidentified attackers. Panna Lal, SHO, Karni Vihar police station said, “The victim was found unconscious in his car on the highway around 9pm on Sunday. He was stabbed with a knife and we found chilli powder in the car as well which might have been thrown at him. His injuries proved to be fatal.” According to officials, a case against unidentified accused was registered, though the victim could not give many details due to his physical condition. “The victim claimed that he was robbed but was unable to tell the amount that was taken from him. It appears that he was poisoned as well as he is showed symptoms of the same,” said the SHO. Cops have started a search for the accused and are checking CCTV camera footage near the spot where Choudhary was found. According to sources, it seems that a person known to the victim could be the mastermind of the alleged robbery. The cop said, “We had been hoping that Choudhary would be able to give us more details but at present we will have to follow other leads. It appears to be a planned robbery as someone probably knew that he would be travelling alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bizman-robbed-attacked-with-knife-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/76272199.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||ASI to wait for TN govt’s decision to reopen shrines||Trichy: The four major monuments under Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), in the central region, with places of worship -- Arulmigu Brihadeswara temple in Thanjavur, Arulmigu Airavateswara temple in Dharasuram, Thanjavur, Arulmigu Brihadeswara temple in Gaingaikondacholapuram, Ariyalur and Arulmigu Valeeswarar temple in Valikandapuram, Perambalur-- did not open for the public on Monday. Although the Union government granted its nod to reopen the centrally-protected monuments in various parts of the country including Tamil Nadu, the ASI-managed temples did not open. The ASI officials said that they have to avail permissions from the state government and local district administrations to reopen the monuments. “Since Covid-19 spread in Tamil Nadu is still active, we did not reopen the monuments on Monday. State government’s consent is awaited to proceed further,” an official source in ASI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/asi-to-wait-for-tn-govts-decision-to-reopen-shrines/articleshow/76272216.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 awareness campaign from June 21 to 30: CM||JAIPUR: A special campaign will be launched in the state from June 21 to 30 to spread awareness about Covid-19. In this ten-day special campaign, people will be made aware of the dangers of Covid-19 through various means. A decision was taken in the review meeting held through video conference from the chief minister’s residence on Monday. The objective behind the campaign is to make sure people remain alert and follow all health-related protocols, particularly after the restart of various commercial activities in the state. The campaign will be conducted with the help of anganwadi sahayika, ANM, asha sahyogini, gram sevak, patwari and local public representatives. The awareness material on corona, including banners and pamphlets, will be distributed door-to-door. The risk of an increase in seasonal and infectious diseases in the monsoon season was discussed in the meeting and the chief minister said people should take special caution against Covid-19 during this time. “In the next few months, special care will have to be taken regarding Covid-19. Any kind of negligence will increase the chances of infection,” Gehlot said. The chief minister said according to the World Health Organization and many experts, the condition of corona might become worse in the coming times, in which people have to be fully alert and vigilant. Additional chief secretary, Health, Rohit Kumar Singh said the recovery rate in Rajasthan is 73.24%, which is higher than the average for the whole country. So far, 241 people have died due to corona infection in the state, out of which 70% patients were having comorbidities. At present, the number of active cases in the state is 2,641. Principal of SMS Medical College, Dr Sudhir Bhandari said the institute currently has a capacity to treat 3,500 patients per day. It was informed in the meeting that the deaths from Covid-19 in Rajasthan are being analysed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-awareness-campaign-from-june-21-to-30-cm/articleshow/76272223.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Day 1 of reopening, house not full||AHMEDABAD: Shopping malls, places of worship, and hotels and restaurants reopened on Monday after remaining shut for nearly 75 days. In line with Unlock 1.0 guidelines of the Centre and the state, arrangements had been made for customers and worshippers. However, public apprehension about Covid was evident in the bare minimum footfalls. Malls: Quick, need-based shopping While malls reopened, all geared up with hygiene protocols, few turned up to shop. Some malls clocked about 10% footfalls, others recorded up to only 30%. For instance, Ahmedabad One Mall, which normally draws 15,000 people in a single day, barely saw 1,700 customers. “After 2pm, there was hardly any footfall due to the heavy rainfall in Ahmedabad,” said Jayen Naik, senior vice-president, operations, Ahmedabad One Mall. Several stores had not completely opened in malls as they were being sanitized. Stores that opened hardly registered any business. “We got very few customers,” said the manager of a cosmetics store at a city-based mall. “Customers seem to be scared and most visited with a specific purpose.” the manager said. “The shopping was need-based. People came in, picked up what they wanted, and quickly left.” Restaurants, eateries: Slow startEateries remained open between 8am and 7pm and restaurants operated with the strictest social distancing and hygiene protocols at 50% capacity. “Three or four tables at our restaurant were served while the rest were empty throughout the day,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA). “Even though we are fully geared up, people are still apprehensive about eating out and it will take time for the business to recover,” Somani said. “Moreover, since restaurants are supposed to shut by 7pm, we don’t expect much business. As for dine-in, 80% business came in the evening.” Several restaurants have introduced QR-code based digital menus to minimize human contact. In fact, to save costs, restaurants, particularly those located in branded hotels, have discontinued buffet services. Hotels: Precautions check-inHotels have been allowed to operate round the clock and at full strength. However, entry and exit from the premises will not be allowed during the curfew hours from 9pm to 5am. Hotels hardly registered any guest bookings or walk-ins and instead, saw a handful of customers at their restaurants. Sonika Chaturvedi, general manager, Courtyard By Marriott, Ahmedabad, said, “We are following the strictest protocols to ensure hygiene and cleanliness.” Chaturvedi went on to say: “While footfalls were limited on the first day at our in-house restaurants, we hope things will look up in the days to come. At our hotel, we are encouraging mobile check-ins through our app and are ensuring that rooms are not re-allocated for at least 48 hours.” QR-code based menus are available for in-room dining as well as restaurants. Chaturvedi said that the hotel has discontinued valet parking services for the time being and is encouraging the customers to park their cars, in the interest of their own safety. Religious places: No crowds yetSeveral temples, mosques, gurdwaras and churches reopened on Monday after sanitization. Dwarkadhish temple in Devbhumi Dwarka, Somnath temple in Veraval, Shamlaji temple in Aravalli, Iskcon temple in Ahmedabad, Ambika temple in Surat, Balaji temple in Rajkot and other temples in major places were opened for the public in Gujarat. However, the presence of people was limited. Major temples in city remain closed While most of the large temples across Gujarat opened on Monday after more than two months of lockdown, major temples situated in the city remained shut. They are likely to open after a week because they are situated in the containment area as marked by the authorities during Lockdown 5.0. The Isckon temple on the SG Road was opened and access was given to devotees following all social distancing norms. A prayer was held to get rid of the coronavirus. The numbers were not high in temples that opened from Monday also because elderly people are still not allowed in religious places according to lockdown relaxation norms. Priest of Jagannath Temple at Jamalpur, Mahant Dilipdasji said that they had instructions to not open the temple to devotees because it is situated in containment zone. He hoped that the temple could be opened after June 15. “But the decision will be taken after considering the situation prevailing then,” he said.  Similarly, the Bhadrakali temple, Camp Hanuman, BAPS Swaminarayan Temple and Gayatri Shaktipith at Shahibaug and Harekrishna Temple at Bhadaj remained closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/day-1-of-reopening-house-not-full/articleshow/76271205.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Committee on unlocking religious places to submit report by June 25||Jaipur: The state home department on Monday constituted committees in all districts under the collectors to decide on the modalities of unlocking the places of worship in the state. The central government allowed opening of places of worship from June 8 with due precaution, but the state government has decided to go slow on this matter. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, at a meeting of religious leaders convened on June 6 to deliberate on the opening of religious places, had decided to constitute committees under respective district collectors. The district-level committees would suggest modalities of allowing devotees at religious places according to local conditions. The order of the state home department said a committee headed by the district collectors will consist of district police superintendent, MLAs from the district, CMHO, additional district collectors, religious leaders, chairmen of trustees of important places of worship. They will have to submit their reports by June 25. The committee has been asked to suggest activities to be allowed at various religious places of different religions taking into consideration their respective religious practices and traditions and the precautions to be followed based on the detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on June 4. The committee was asked to prepare separate list of places of worship where only local devotees come or places of worship where devotees from other districts or other states also converge. The committee had to suggest a system of management of the place of worship and fix accountability of the management, both inside place of worship by the trustees and outside by the local administration and the police. The outside management should consider the entire activities outside the place of worship including shops and business establishments, parking etc. The state government will take a decision based on the reports received from the districts, said the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/committee-on-unlocking-religious-places-to-submit-report-by-june-25/articleshow/76272239.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Old City residents worried as 3 of family lose Covid-19 battle||HYDERABAD: Residents of Old City have expressed concern over the surging Covid-19 cases after three people of the same family died of the disease in Shah Gunj. According to locals, the testing rates remain low among those returning from other states. “People coming from Karnataka and Maharashtra to the Old City are not being tested. We believe the authorities should be more alert and check everybody who crosses the border. They must also have information regarding the returnees,” said Khasim, a resident of Shahgunj. He added that people are scared of getting out of their houses as adequate sanitation measures are also not being taken. Mohammed Shamin, a resident from Khurshid Jah Dewdi, told TOI that the locals had requested officials to restrict public movement where the infection was detected, but to no avail. “People are concerned about the surging Covid-19 cases and deaths reported in the locality. We are not satisfied with steps taken by the authorities and there is no one to check the public movement.” “There is no check on eateries and markets where physical distancing is being violated. At this time, where government should stop people from venturing out, everyone is allowed to visit all places,” Younous, another resident of Old City, complained.  Residents have demanded from state and GHMC to ensure proper sanitation and educating people about the virus. They also urged health department to conduct medical camps and distribute masks and sanitisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-city-residents-worried-as-3-of-family-lose-covid-19-battle/articleshow/76272226.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||At least 1,000 Rajasthanis to arrive from various countries||JAIPUR: At least 1,000 Rajasthanis including medical students stranded in various countries will start returning to the state from June 15 by availing ‘Vande Bharat’ facility. All of them will return to Jaipur from the seven different flights proposed to arrive in Jaipur in the second phase of Vande Bharat for Jaipur. Airports Authority of India (AAI), Jaipur on Monday confirmed that seven flights from different countries are proposed to arrive in Jaipur. “We will have seven flights to Jaipur which include flights from Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Abu Dhabi, Ukraine and Tajikistan. These flights will start arriving in Jaipur from June 15,” said a senior officer of AAI while sharing the schedule of the flights. In the first phase of Vande Bharat at least 3,000 Rajasthani people stuck in various countries including United Kingdom were brought to Jaipur. Also, as per guidelines these passengers after arrival would be sent to the quarantine centres as per their choice and they would be paying for the quarantine facility. Also, the operators like Air India have opened booking from United States of America (USA) and Cananda to Delhi. “After our continuous efforts and requests to civil aviation minister these flights are opening. Many people in the USA and Canada wish to go back to India. There are people whose parents had gone to visit their families in the USA in December and got stuck due to lockdown. These flights would also be utilized by people of Rajasthan as after arriving in Delhi they have connectivity of domestic flights to some cities like Jaipur and train connectivity,” said Prem Bhandari, USA chairman of Jaipur Foot. Many Rajasthanis have also applied for the flights up to Delhi which are also starting from June 15. Also, with the relaxation of OCI card holder norms, more Rajasthani Indians are likely to return and avail the facility. OCI card gives Indians working and living in various countries to have visa-free travel to India which was stopped during the first three lockdowns, but the facility is now open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-least-1000-rajasthanis-to-arrive-from-various-countries/articleshow/76272221.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 9, 2020||Rajkot||Pre-monsoon showers drench Gujarat; farmers rejoice||RAJKOT: A 28-year-old man was swept away while this three cousin brothers were rescued after the stepped into Gondali River, which was in spate, following torrential rainfall in Gondal district.Gondal fire brigade officials said the Mitesh Dabhi who had gone inside the the river near a check dam in Kantolia village drowned while his cousins - Vijay Dabhi (23), Umesh Solanki (32) and Mehul Dabhi (20) were rescued. Gondal was pounded by nearly 80 mm rainfall within few hours post noon even as most parts of Saurashtra and Kutch continued to get significant pre-monsoon showers on Monday. Within no time, two underbridges in Gondal town got heavily waterlogged. An SUV also get stuck beneath the Lalpur underpass. According to the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA) data, all 33 districts of Gujarat received moderate to light rainfall with Bhavnagar, Vallabhipur, Savarkundla and Umrala getting the highest — up to three inches from 6am to 4pm on Monday. Rains also drenched different villages and talukas of Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Amreli and Junagadh district. The rivers, streams and ponds at these places were inundated. In Mota Agariya village of Rajula taluka in Amreli district, a house collapsed after it could not withstand the onslaught of the heavy rains. Five members of a family received minor injuries in the incident. However, no casualty was reported. Amreli, Bagasara, Savarkundala and Dhari towns, also received significant rainfall that left check dams on different rivers overflowing and streams and ponds flooded. The showers brought delight to farmers as there was enough water to start the sowing. Bhupendra Khuman, sarpanch of Jaba village of Savarkundala taluka said: "showers are like blessing for us. These are most conducive for sowing.” Meanwhile, the weather remained cloudy and light showers continued throughout the day in Surat city on Monday. Surat received 5 mm rainfall. However, no significant rains were reported in any zone of the city. No districts in South Gujarat received rainfall on Monday though the weather was wet and cloudy. Heavy rain forecast todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin stated that the upper air cyclonic circulation over north Gujarat and south Rajasthan has now shifted over Gujarat region and neighbourhood. On Tuesday, thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with winds gusting up to 40kmph are very likely at many places in all districts of Saurashtra and in Diu, at a few places in Gujarat region and in Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli and isolated places in Kutch district. “Heavy to very heavy rains are very likely in isolated places of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Kheda as well as Surendranagar, Morbi, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Rajkot, Botad, Jamnagar and Kutch district,” the bulletin stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pre-monsoon-showers-drench-gujarat-farmers-rejoice/articleshow/76269916.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Aircraft crash kills trainee pilot, trainer in Dhenkanal||Angul: A two-seater training aircraft crashed at the airstrip of the Government Aviation Training Institute (GATI) at Birasala in Dhenkanal district on Monday morning, killing a woman trainee pilot and her trainer, and prompting the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to begin a probe. “The aircraft — Cessna FA-152 VT-ENF — crash-landed from a height of 100 feet at 6.30 am,” SP (Dhenkanal) Anupama James said. A DGCA team arrived at Kamakhyanagar to inquire into the incident. The deceased have been identified as Aanish Fatima (20) from Tamil Nadu and Sanjay Kumar Jha from Bihar. Both were critically injured after the crash and were taken to Kamakhyanagar hospital where doctors declared them ‘brought dead’. Although the cause of the crash is yet to be ascertained, sources in GATI suspect a technical snag. “The aircraft successfully flew for two rounds before crashing. It had developed a snag recently but was repaired successfully,” the sources said. IGP (North Central Range) Narasingha Bhol said, “We suspect a technical snag led to the crash. The aircraft toppled after take-off and came crashing down on the airstrip itself.” “The two bodies have been kept at Kamakhyanagar hospital. Postmortem has been conducted,” the SP said, adding that the families of the two had been informed. The GATI, which was established in May 2019, is spread over 50 acre and has the capacity to train 90 trainees per batch. The institute was shut during the lockdown and had reopened only on June 1 after relaxations were announced. It is run on a public-private partnership mode and its office is located in Bhubaneswar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/aircraft-crash-kills-trainee-pilot-trainer-in-dhenkanal/articleshow/76269902.cms||Jagadananda Pradhan
June 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Now, MJPJAY cover for patients sans ration card||Aurangabad: Covid-19 patients who do not have ration cards will now be covered under the integrated Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) scheme. “The state government has extended benefit for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals too till July 31,” said GMCH dean Kananbala Yelikar on Monday while pointing to a government resolution extending the cover to all citizens across the state. “The state health authorities have issued a circular to this effect to all district collectors and urged them to direct the tehsildars concerned so that such people can avail of treatment at private hospitals,” she said. Yelikar said people will have to get the tashildhar’s letter in a given format, which the health authorities have provided to collectors to be forwarded to tehsildars. “The beneficiaries also have to submit a self-declaration, specified in the format, that they don’t have any ration cards, to get enrolled under scheme.” Yelikar referred to a letter written by the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana authorities, dated June 5, which also specifies that all the people in the state could get treatment for Covid 19 at private hospitals under MJPJAY, where the scheme is being implemented. Arvind Gaikwad, officer on special duty at the government cancer hospital and nodal officer for media during the coronavirus pandemic, told TOI that this would benefit many people who could not access treatment at the private hospitals with MJPJAY scheme. Meanwhile, 45 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Aurangabad district on Monday, taking to total count of people infected so far to 2,065. However, 1,224 patients have recovered from the illness while 104 died. An official said the new 45 patient include 18 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-mjpjay-cover-for-patients-sans-ration-card/articleshow/76268736.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||MC claims 70% survival of saplings planted last year||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation (MC) of Ludhiana is claiming that it has been successful in maintaining 70%survival rate of saplings planted last year. The team is able to monitor the progress as it had geo-tagged the saplings last year. However, for this year, the team is still planning and it is yet to be decided how many saplings will be planted this year. One of the resaons is that the horticulture branch of MC is facing acute shortage of staff. Against sanctioned posts of 640 gardeners and beldars, only 175 are working out of which 96 are permanent while others are on daily wages. There is no landscaping officer in the branch for a long time and executive engineer charge is with officer from bridges and road department. The horticulture branch is tasked with the responsibility of maintaining 264 public parks, including big parks of the city, and 76km-long central verge. Despite the shortcomings, last year it had also of the targeted 36,000 saplings, planted 28,000 with geo tagging. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that they have done hard work in maintaining the growth of plants in the past few months and results are visible now. He claimed that plantation was done at the sides of Buddha Nullah and the saplings have grown in flowering plants. He said this year too they will make sure plants survive the onslought of weather and pests. Meanwhile, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Brar appreciated the efforts of the branch officials, who had put extra efforts to maintain the saplings. “The results are very good and now in this year we will try to make city more beautiful with plants,” she added. As for shortage of staff, she said she had obtained approval for hiring 30 workers on daily wages at finance and contracts committee meeting. However, activists and green warriors are doubtful of these claims of the civic body. Amandeep Bains from RBS Roots said, “This is an exaggerated claim because at many places the saplings are totally destroyed for one or other reason. They did not even took action when big trees are chopped, who cares about saplings.” He further said no effort is being made in the city area to plant trees, where people removed trees for their advertisement boards. He demanded that the civic body should put the list of places where they planted saplings last year in public domain, so people can help in maintaining these saplings. He also said the civic body should involve residents in making city green.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-claims-70-survival-of-saplings-planted-last-year/articleshow/76272245.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Two turncoats facing disqualification continue to enjoy privileges of Council||LUCKNOW: It is not so that turncoats, facing disqualification from the state assembly for indulging in anti-party activities, are drawing salaries and perks in the Lower House, two MLCs, who have deserted their parent parties for political gains, are also enjoying privileges offered to them for being member of the Upper House. Dinesh Singh of the Congress, who had defied the party and challenged party’s national president Sonia Gandhi in the 2019 general elections in her Rae Bareli constituency, is one of them. The other is Naseemuddin Siddiqui, who remains BSP MLC despite the fact that he had contested Lok Sabhaelections last year on the Congress ticket. Council chairman Ramesh Yadav has yet to take decision in both the cases. Dinesh Singh, a ‘bahubali’ candidtate (powerful) from Rae Bareli, was sent to the Legislative Council on Sonia Gandhi’s recommendations three years back. Senior Congress leaders as well as members of the Rae Bareli district unit of the party had requested Sonia to elevate Dinesh Singh to the Council as he was a committed party worker. At that time too a small section of local leaders were opposed to his candidature as they felt thatDinesh Singh would desert the party. Their fear turned true and the Congress finally suspended the primary memebrship of Dinesh Singh for indulging in anti-party activities. In 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Dinesh Singh, without resigning from the Congress, had challenged Sonia at the hustings. Though he had to face defeat he did not resign from the Congress. Today,Dinesh Singh not only draws salary and perks for being the Congress MLC, but also enjoys the security of black cat commandoes which has been given to him by the state government. The Congress has moved a petition before Legislative Council chairman Ramesh Yadav againstDinesh Singh seeking his disqualification from the Council. But Yadav has yet to decide his case for obvious reasons. Similar is the case of Naseemuddin Siddiqui, who is also enjoying same privileges and perks despite having challenged his parent party BSP. Siddiqui had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on the Congress ticket from Nagina parliamentary constituency and lost badly. Although Siddiqui has been spewing venom on party chief Mayawati publicly, levelling all sorts of charges against her, but the fact is that for pay and perks he needs BSP’s protection and for furthering his political ambitions he needs Congress’s blessings. A senior officer of the Legislative Council said that though these are open and shut cases nobody is interested in settling the issue. Both Dinesh and Naseemuddin are likely to retire form the Council in January 2021 and so will be its chairman Ramesh Yadav. It will be interesting to watch whether their cases will be disposed of before their retirement or they will be allowed to complete their term making mockery of constitutional provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-turncoats-facing-disqualification-continue-to-enjoy-privileges-of-council/articleshow/76272807.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Footfall in trains low as people avoid travel||Japur: Despite the fact that the number of passengers is increasing day-by-day in buses and airplanes, it appears that passengers are still avoiding the rail journey. On a normal day, getting reservation in train is difficult even one month prior to journey, but these days such is the occupancy that one can even reserve tickets in 10 trains run by the NWR 24 hours prior to the journey. Majority of the trains run by the NWR are getting a footfall of 20 to 30% as only those passengers whose journey is inevitable are taking up the journey. The Jaipur-Mumbai superfast is the most crowded on a usual day, but this train is presently showing availability for coming days. “I reserved the ticket on Friday and got confirmed berth. Though I was expecting that I may not get a reserved ticket, but it was there,” said Alok Singh, a passenger who was travelling to Mumbai from Jaipur on Monday. Similar is the case with other trains like Jodhpur-Howrah which passes through Jaipur. “For those travelling to Kolkata from Jodhpur and Jaipur are easily getting reservation as many passengers are avoiding long distance journey,” said an officer. However, Howrah-Jodhpur has started showing wait listing. “The train has wait listing till June 11, but probability of confirmation is very high,” said an officer. Also, stalls at railway stations by private contractors are yet to open fully. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footfall-in-trains-low-as-people-avoid-travel/articleshow/76272227.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra schools told not to hike fees, offer instalment payment||PUNE: Schools in the state, including private and semi-private, will not be allowed to hike their fees. Schools will have to offer parents monthly and quarterly options for fee payment for 2019-20 and 2020-21 academic years, and make provisions for online payment too. They will also have to discuss facilities that are not being used during this lockdown period and accordingly try and reduce fees charged for such facilities. These guidelines have been mentioned in a government resolution (GR) issued by chief secretary of education department Vandana Krushna. Parents across the state have been opposing fee hikes by schools and have also been demanding at least 50% fee concession because of the economic losses suffered during the lockdown. They have written to schools that they were heavily depending on online education. The GR said, “Parents in their complaints have stated that schools were forcing parents to pay fees even in the lockdown situation. The schools have been told not to force parents to pay fees of the current and previous academic years.” Parents said many schools in the city are already asking for fees and are not offering concessions. In fact, many schools have hiked their fees. Leena Mehta, a parent, said, “Schools are saying that the term has started and they are giving worksheets and sending videos or conducting online classes. They expect parents to teach their children these worksheets and are yet demanding full tuition fees.” Another parent, Jasmine Victor, said, “Our school has uploaded the fee bill on the school app and has incorporated charges for library, transportation and even laboratory fees. Schools can definitely waive off these heads since they are not functioning as in normal times. Their facilities are not being used, so there is no maintenance either.” One Rishabh Roy said, “We parents have come together and calculated the school fees considering all these concessions. We have given the school a proposal for reconsidering the fees.” Education activist and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Mukund Kirdat said, “Just like the schools, even parents are facing losses due to salary cuts and many have even lost jobs. Schools are saving on transportation and other expenses. They should offer concessions.” Manasi Marulkar, principal of Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh School, said, “We have not decided about school fees yet. We will take a call soon.” Nandkumar Kakirde, director and honorary secretary of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, said, “We have to pay our staff. Many parents have not paid last year’s fees too. While they have found new excuses, we are running the school and ensuring that every staff member is paid. We will have online classes, which will add to our expenses. Offering concessions is not possible; we can defer payments at best.” Dhananjay Pardeshi, deputy education officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s education board, said, “We expect parents to write to us on fee issues. We will see the nature of complaints and look into the matter. There has been no official complaint yet.” To register complaints regarding school fees, one may contact education officials Meena Shendkar (9890643222), Dhanaji Bute (9922458799), Jyoti Parihar (8888225364) or Dhananjay Pardeshi (9404609170).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-schools-told-not-to-hike-fees-offer-instalment-payment/articleshow/76272256.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Harassed BTech student kills herself in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old B.Tech student killed herself by consuming poison on Sunday night, allegedly after being harassed by a man in SR Nagar. Ashwini, a B.Tech fourth-year student from Srinivasnagar called her father from the penthouse of their house and said that she was resorting to this extreme act as she was unable to bear the harassment. “She called her father and complained about the harassment by a person called Naveen before killing herself,” said SR Nagar inspector, S Murali Krishna. “We are trying to trace the person she had named,” the officer said. A case was registered under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harassed-btech-student-kills-herself/articleshow/76272260.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer, accomplices attack 2 agri dept officials||Ludhiana: Two officials of agriculture department, including a woman, were assaulted by a farmer and his accomplices with a hoe in Bonkar Gujjran village of Koomkalan area on Monday. The accused also vandalised their vehicle. To save their lives, two officials also ran away from the spot. According to information, the officials had gone to the village to stop the farmer for transplanting paddy, as department has notified that paddy sowing must commence from June 10 in Punjab. The injured are Husandeep Singh Brar, agriculture development officer (ADO) Mattewara and Nidhi Chaudhary, ADO Khwajke. They are admitted in the civil hospital of Samrala. ADO Brar said a team of agriculture officials led by block agriculture officer Jatinderpal Singh had gone to stop farmer Gurpreet Singh Gill from transplanting paddy in his fields, following information. As soon as they reached his fields, the farmer and his accomplice, opened attack on them with a hoe. The accused also vandalised their car. The farmer had already transplanted paddy in two acres of his land. Block officer Jatinderpal Singh and agriculture sub-inspector Charanjit Singh ran away from the spot to avoid attack. Inspector Paramjit Singh, station house officer of Koomkalan police station, said the police are lodging FIR against the farmer Gurpreet Singh Gill and his accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-accomplices-attack-2-agri-dept-officials/articleshow/76272252.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tourism dept wants railways to restart Vizag-Araku services||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam-Araku single railway line passing through the Eastern Ghats and deep forest cover seems to be the lifeline of the tourism department in Visakhapatnam division. Tourists and the tourism department officials alike want the railways to reopen of the passenger train services between Vizag and Araku at the earliest. Though the tourism department reopened its hotels, restaurants and resorts from Monday (June 8) with standard operating procedures (SOPs) under the Covid-19 Unlock 1.0 protocol, the department insists it will take some time for tourism in the division to bounce back to what it was pre-lockdown. The reason: the Visakhapatnam-Araku train services on the Kottavalasa-Kirandul railway line by the railways have not resumed. Even though the railways wanted to resume the train movement, it may bode better for the railway line to open later as it is the monsoon season and the line is often blocked by boulders falling from the hills. “On Monday also, restoration works are going on to unblock the railway line between Chimidipalli and Borra Caves, where huge boulders fell and blocked the tracks on Saturday,” a senior railway official told TOI. Nearly 70 per cent of the revenue generated from by the tourism department’s Visakhapatnam division—which covers Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts—is from the tourism services at Araku and Borra Caves. The train journey through the dense forest and valleys to reach Araku is a major tourist attraction in itself. The tourism department’s Visakhapatnam divisional manager TG Prasada Reddy said that they have incurred a loss of nearly Rs 10 crore during the lockdown. “Nearly Rs 7 crore of the loss is from Araku and Borra Caves,” he saids. “The railway line for Araku is the tourism sector’s lifeline. We hope that the railway services will be restarted soon. Then we will be able to get some relief,” Reddy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourism-dept-wants-railways-to-restart-vizag-araku-services/articleshow/76269953.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Four doctors, eight nurses among 138 fresh cases in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR/BERHAMPUR: Four junior doctors and eight nurses of MKCG Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur were among the 138 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, according to the health department update on Monday. The fresh cases have taken the total number of infected persons in the state to 2,994. The doctors include three postgraduate students of anaesthesia and an intern. “The 12 persons have been moved to an isolation ward in the hospital,” Santosh Kumar Mishra, superintendent of the medical college, said. He added that the condition of all of them is good and that they are all asymptomatic. “The Covid-19 test of the medicos and the nurses was conducted as they had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive person,” the superintendent said. Infections among health professionals has emerged as a new cause of worry as two doctors from Rourkela and one each from Cuttack and Bhubaneswar had tested positive for the virus earlier. With 33 more cases detected in the worst-affected Ganjam, the total infection count of the district is now 631. Nine patients have recovered, taking the recovery count to 419. The district now has 208 active patients. The other positive cases were reported from 17 other districts including Cuttack (15), Khurda (13), Sundargarh (12), Bhadrak (11), 10 each from Keonjhar and Kandhamal, among others. Among the 138 new positive cases, 125 are among those in quarantine and 13 are local contacts. The health department said 99 more Covid patients recovered increasing the number of cured patients to 1,993. With this, the state’s recovery rate now stands at 66.56%. The newly cured patients are from Jajpur (16), Khurda (13), Kendrapara (11), Ganjam (9), Deogarh (8), seven each from Cuttack and Jagatsinghpur, six each from Balasore, Bargarh and Balangir, Keonjhar (4), Nayagarh (3) besides one each from Koraput, Sambalpur and Sundargarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/4-docs-8-nurses-among-138-fresh-cases-in-state/articleshow/76269941.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Cuttack||Four doctors, eight nurses among 138 fresh cases in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR/BERHAMPUR: Four junior doctors and eight nurses of MKCG Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur were among the 138 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, according to the health department update on Monday. The fresh cases have taken the total number of infected persons in the state to 2,994. The doctors include three postgraduate students of anaesthesia and an intern. “The 12 persons have been moved to an isolation ward in the hospital,” Santosh Kumar Mishra, superintendent of the medical college, said. He added that the condition of all of them is good and that they are all asymptomatic. “The Covid-19 test of the medicos and the nurses was conducted as they had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive person,” the superintendent said. Infections among health professionals has emerged as a new cause of worry as two doctors from Rourkela and one each from Cuttack and Bhubaneswar had tested positive for the virus earlier. With 33 more cases detected in the worst-affected Ganjam, the total infection count of the district is now 631. Nine patients have recovered, taking the recovery count to 419. The district now has 208 active patients. The other positive cases were reported from 17 other districts including Cuttack (15), Khurda (13), Sundargarh (12), Bhadrak (11), 10 each from Keonjhar and Kandhamal, among others. Among the 138 new positive cases, 125 are among those in quarantine and 13 are local contacts. The health department said 99 more Covid patients recovered increasing the number of cured patients to 1,993. With this, the state’s recovery rate now stands at 66.56%. The newly cured patients are from Jajpur (16), Khurda (13), Kendrapara (11), Ganjam (9), Deogarh (8), seven each from Cuttack and Jagatsinghpur, six each from Balasore, Bargarh and Balangir, Keonjhar (4), Nayagarh (3) besides one each from Koraput, Sambalpur and Sundargarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/4-docs-8-nurses-among-138-fresh-cases-in-state/articleshow/76279897.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Hotels want flexibility in night curfew to restart restaurants||JAIPUR: Following the state government order, some hotels in the city opened on Monday after about two-and-a-half months, while many restaurants are weighing the feasibility to do so in the absence of demand of dining out. But clarity on quarantine, flexibility on 9pm-7am night curfew, and allowing liquor in restaurants are expected to be the main drivers of the decision to reopen. Most hotels are now banking on corporate travel, which is expected to pick up first before travel for tourism picks up. “We opened our hotel as we had some corporate bookings. When rail, air and road traffic has been allowed, people will travel for business purposes if not for tourism initially. We expect the corporate providing the first push to the hospitality business,” said Rajesh Rajpurohit, general manager of a hotel. He said the momentum will further increase when more flexibility is allowed for night curfew timings. Currently, people are not allowed to move between 9pm and 5am. Besides night curfew, the restaurants are not allowed to serve beer or wine. That is another reason why many restaurants are reluctant to open. “If the closing time is 9pm, then the last order has to be 8pm. Indians are not comfortable with this kind of time. This will keep people away,” said a restaurant owner. The fear of getting quarantined is also holding back many people from travelling. Hoteliers said the government needs to bring in more clarity so that the comfort level for travel improves. Pankaj Gupta, a general manager in a city hotel said, “Despite all, we have received guests on the first day and we expect the bookings to improve further in coming weeks and months.” But some hotels and restaurant owners said that they will wait till July first week to assess the situation and take a call according to the situation then. Siddharth Tordi, who runs a heritage hotel about 100km away from the city said, “We don’t have employees right now. Also, there is the fear factor due to rising Covid cases. We will wait for some time before we decide to reopen.” Tordi’s concerns is a confirmation that leisure travel will take some time more to pick up. Since many restaurants are already offering takeaway services, they are expected to open only when there is demand. “Many restaurants operate on limited budgets and cannot burn cash. So they will try to time the market,” said an industry veteran. In the absence of travelers, currently some hotels are operating as quarantine centres for people who are coming back from foreign countries under the Vande Bharat Mission. “There are no visitors now. So, we are accepting people for quarantine who are coming from abroad,” said an official in a star hotel in Jaipur. Some are already playing home to resident doctors of SMS Hospital as they don’t go home after Covid duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotels-want-flexibility-in-night-curfew-to-restart-restaurants-478/articleshow/76272263.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 9, 2020||Vijayawada||CID probe into doc’s harassment||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the CID to probe allegations of harassment of a Dalit medical officer in Chittoor district. Dr Anita Rani, working at Penumur primary health centre in Gangadhara Nellore, alleged last week that some local ruling party functionaries were harassing her. In a letter to TDP women wing president Vangalapudi Anitha, who also filed a PIL in the high court in Dr Sudhakar’s case, she claimed she was targeted after she exposed irregularities at the PHC. “I was detained in my hostel room on March 22. The PHC staff involved in the irregularities called some local political leaders who threatened and humiliated me. I lodged a complaint with the local police with video evidence but no action has been taken against the culprits. I was made to wait at the police station for 12 hours to file the complaint,” she alleged. The chief minister has asked CID additional DGP Sunil Kumar to depute special teams to probe the incident and take appropriate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cid-probe-into-docs-harassment/articleshow/76269962.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||EOW begins probe in BikeBot ponzi scheme||Lucknow: The economic offences wing of UP Police began probe into the multi-crore BikeBot ponzi scheme scam on Monday and recovered 178 bikes from districts in west UP with stickers of Garvit Promoters. EOW officials said 72 bikes were recovered from Ghaziabad, 50 bikes from Muzaffarnagar, 22 from Hapur, 21 from Meerut and 13 from Baghpat. Sanjay Bhati, the owner of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL), had cheated people under the garb of a multi-level marketing scheme by launching ‘BikeBot’, a bike taxi service, and promised investors to double their amount within a year. Bhati is a former BSP leader. In February, police commissioner of Noida had asked the DGP headquarters to initiate an EOW probe in the BikeBot ponzi scheme which had allegedly duped over 2 lakh people. EOW sleuths had started probe in March and had also carried out searches in connection with the scam but had to stop investigation due to lockdown. Director general of EOW Rajendra Pal Singh said, “A team comprising five inspectors under ASP Meerut has been working on the case since March.” “All the 57 FIRs lodged in connection with the scam are being probed by EOW now,” he said. BikeBot promoters duped innocent people in Rajasthan, West Bengal, Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana by giving them franchise and luring them with the promise to double their money in a year. EOW will carry out criminal investigation against the accused while the Enforcement Directorate is probing the money laundering aspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eow-begins-probe-in-bikebot-ponzi-scheme/articleshow/76272813.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC opens its 18 routes with 84 trips||Jaipur: With enhanced passenger capacity, which was above 70%, the RSRTC started buses on 86 new routes from Monday. This includes buses on Udaipur and Chittorgarh routes. Also, this week RSRTC is likely to start buses to select cities in Uttar Pradesh. There is also a possibility to start its buses to Delhi soon. According to the RSRTC authorities, the passenger load is gradually picking up at various routes. “We have been getting demands to open our other routes too. Thus, we have started 84 trips of our buses to 18 routes across the state on Monday. We have also opened the online booking facility on these routes through our website. Those who will book online can also avail cash back of 5%,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC. At least 50% passengers are availing the facility of online ticket while others prefer to get the ticket onboard from the bus conductors. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-opens-its-18-routes-with-84-trips/articleshow/76272251.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Kin of guard who committed suicide insist on top-level inquiry||LUDHIANA: The family of deceased security guard Amrish Kumar of Pavittar Nagar, who was found hanging in the vegetable market on Hambran Road, have alleged involvement of the owner of the vegetable market in the suicide. They have also given a written application to commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agarwal on Monday, insisting that a senior police personnel be deputed for inquiry. On May 29, Amirsh Kumar, 38, a security guard at vegetable market, was found hanging outside a vend in the market. Before taking the extreme step, the man has also written a suicide note in which he has named five vendors for forcing him to commit suicide. On the basis of the suicide note, Haibowal police have registered a case against Pannu, Kannu, Sonu, Karan, Pawan and two more unidentified persons under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC. Anand Kumar, brother of the deceased said, “We are suspecting the involvement of the owner of vegetable market too. But he is a rich man, therefore the police are not taking action against him. I have given a compliant to CP asking him to get inquiry done by a senior cop.” Anand Kumar added that so far the police have arrested one accused Sonu. “We want justice for my brother. He is survived by his wife and two children. Commissioner has asked us to come tomorrow. We want a fair probe in this case,” said the brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kin-of-guard-who-committed-suicide-insist-on-top-level-inquiry/articleshow/76272266.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||PAU organises webinar on locusts||Ludhiana: A three-hour webinar, the second in the series, on ‘desert locust in Indian context: retrospect, current status and threat imminence’ was organised by entomology department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in Ludhiana. The objective of the webinar is to equip the various stakeholders with latest technical know-how for successful management of locust swarms. The webinar was attended by deputy directors, chief agriculture officers and agriculture officers from the state department of agriculture; PAU faculty from its outstations (research stations, KVKs and farm advisory service centres), entomology and other faculty from the campus, and scientists from the ICAR and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu). Key speaker J P Singh, joint director (extension) Government of India, presented an update on the locusts, including the genesis of the menace, present situation at the global level, threat perception, and the pre-preparedness in the pest control, according to the FAO guidelines, to tackle the pest in scheduled desert and cropped areas. He also explained the contingent plan of the Locust Warning Organization (LWO) of India at the national level, stressing on the safety measures undertaken while managing the pest chemically. Dr Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, joint director of locust control and plant protection in Punjab, talked about the the preparedness of Punjab to successfully tackle locust swarms of any magnitude. He said mock drills are being arranged in all districts. He also said awareness is created among farmers to cooperate in supplementing the infrastructure in the advent of any swarm attack with their spray equipment and water reservoirs. G R Matoria, deputy director, agriculture (extension), Rajasthan, dwelt on his field experiences in the use of various tactics and their feasibility for successful control of locust control. Rajinder Singh Verma from Central Integrated Pest Management Centre, Fazilka, stressed on curbing the rumours of locust attack due to wrong identification of grasshoppers as locust. P K Chhuneja, head of entomology department, PAU, talked about the various activities and efforts of the PAU in spreading awareness among various stakeholders for efficient management of locust incursions and swarms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pau-organises-webinar-on-locusts/articleshow/76272258.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||1.2 lakh Mumbai schoolkids displaced by exodus||MUMBAI: As Covid-19’s grip over the city tightened, pani-puri seller Shiv Gaud fled along with 12 family members for their hometown near Azamgarh in UP aboard a tempo. Among the passengers was his son, Shivam, a class X student at a civic school. Gaud is unlikely to return soon, and this could impact Shivam’s education in a year critical to his academic future. Poor connectivity has already prevented the teen from accessing two of the three online sessions his school scheduled. The migrant exodus engulfed nearly 1.15 lakh or 21% of all students enrolled in civic and private primary schools in Mumbai, according to BMC data. Over 68,000 of them are from civic schools. BMC teachers were able to reconnect with over two-thirds of their students in an effort aimed at continuing lessons on a mobile platform. But up to 31% of their students are still out of reach. “A student of mine has returned to Assam. I had six contact numbers but we haven’t been able to connect with them for the past two weeks,” said a teacher. The BMC education department which runs over 1,100 schools and oversees the functioning of 1,074 private aided and unaided state board schools up to class IV gathered data on children who have left the city along with their migrant families through its network of teachers. “We asked the teachers to reach out to students and connect with them as we plan for the upcoming academic year. We wouldn’t know if the children will return before schools reopen. We count student strength on September 30 each year. Until then, these students will continue to be part of the system and be provided with e-learning content through Diksha app and other social messaging platforms,” said Mahesh Palkar, BMC education officer. Data reveals that nearly 60% of all students surveyed have access to a smart phone and 72% are not likely to return to a physical classroom on June 15 when schools resume, which makes the learning modules on the phone vital to their growth. Teachers from some civic schools said they were engaging with migrant families to prevent disruption in academics, but the road ahead looked uncertain. “We decided to send home activity lessons to the children throughout the vacation as well. We have been in touch with most of our parents. However, there are some who can no longer afford to recharge their phone’s internet pack to allow the child to study. When we ask them if the child will return to the city to rejoin school, they tell us that even their next meal is uncertain,” said a head teacher from the western suburbs. When BMC staff scheduled a parents meeting last week, many called back to say they would not be able to login, either because connectivity in the villages was poor or the cyclone had led to a prolonged power cut. Also, the prevalence of Android phones in this section is limited and parents are not always available to handhold young children through their lessons. Experts feel the hurdles may impact not only children’s learning but also mental well-being. “Among the migrants we have tracked, some said they weren’t planning to return to the city and would enrol their children in government schools in their hometowns. Others said they would come back once trains are functional and jobs are back. However, the children have seen a lot of financial hardships over the past few months. A further strain on finances could result in girls having to drop out of education. On the positive side, government schools could see an increase in enrolment as many budget private schools might not survive the lockdown and related losses,” said Farida Lambe, co-founder of NGO Pratham. Shiv Gaud, who left for Azamgarh, expressed doubts about his prospects for the next four months. “I don’t think we can come back to work until the monsoon is over,” he said. “The season brings with it ailments other than Covid-19 and we would be at risk. We are hoping physical classes will resume only after the threat is gone.” The BMC has now lined up a three-day workshop for teachers to prepare them for the challenges ahead. “They have been trained to use Google classroom and to connect to the children through the internet and SMS. While we might not be able to reach all children virtually, we wish to try our best to ensure continuity,” said Palkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-2l-city-schoolkids-displaced-by-exodus/articleshow/76272267.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
June 9, 2020||Amaravati||Ensure transparency in land survey project: Andhra Pradesh CM||AMARAVATI: Comprehensive land survey can resolve all land disputes, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy said on Monday, and directed officials to expedite the project work to bring in transparency in all land deals in the state. “Carry it out in three phases on a priority basis. Digitalization and encryption of land data should be part of the survey,” he told officials, during a reviewing meeting on land survey project at his camp office. Ajeya Kallam, principal advisor to the CM, and revenue department principal secretary V Usha Rani presented the progress report on the project at the meeting. They said the project would be taken up right from the village secretariat level to cleanse all revenue records, while auto-mutation of land registrations would end duplication of registrations which often lead to unnecessary litigations. As part of the project, mobile courts headed by the local sub-collector or revenue divisional officer would be set up to address land disputes. “Entire data of the survey would be digitalised and saved with different level of officials. It would be difficult to tamper the encrypted data as it would be stored at different levels,” Usha Rani said. The CM also reviewed the government’s Covid-19 measures in the evening. He asked officials to immediately issue notification for recruitment of doctors and health staff in the hospitals to handle the situation, which is likely to get worse in the coming days. He also directed officials to take measures to ease traffic congestion at the inter-state borders. “Screening and registration of those coming from other states should be completed fast. People should not be made to wait for long hours. It is the time for multitasking. Increase staff and beds in the hospitals, go for setting up of village and ward clinics, create awareness among people. Everything should go simultaneously,” Jagan said. He said easing of lockdown norms might lead to a spike in positive cases but there is no reason to press the panic button. “People should be encouraged to get themselves tested for Covid-19 on their own,” he said. The officials told the CM that 15,614 beds are available in 71 centres, while 4,659 positive cases were registered in the state from the screening of 4,54,030 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ensure-transparency-in-land-survey-project-cm/articleshow/76269967.cms||Samdani MN
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||In three days, 28 die of Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Six people died while 277 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state bringing the tally to 10,876 in the state on Monday. The toll stands at 241 in the state. In the past three days, 28 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state. Three deaths in Jaipur took city’s fatality to 115. Two persons died in Jodhpur bringing its toll to 23 and Bharatpur reported its eighth fatality. Districts which reported cases are Alwar (67), Bharatpur (60), Jodhpur (36), Jaipur (34), Kota (12), Pali (11), Sirohi (10), Sikar (7), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (6), Sawai Madhopur (4), Chittorgarh (3), Banswara (3), Ajmer (3), Jhalawar (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Bikaner (2), Bundi (2), Sriganganagar (1), Jalore (1), Baran (1) and four from other states. As many as 363 people recovered taking the tally of those being cured of Covid-19 to 8,117. Since May 1, around 3,125 migrants tested positive for the virus. Till date, Jaipur has reported highest number of Covid-19 cases at 2,260, followed by Jodhpur (1,879) and Bharatpur (732). The recovery rate in the state is 73%, which means that out of each 100 Covid-19 cases, 73 have been cured. The cases are doubling in the state in 21 days. In Jaipur, six persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandpole, five in Ramganj, four in Sodala, three in district jail, two each in Gandhi Nagar, Jyoti Nagar and Tonk Road, while one person each has been found infected with the virus in Adarsh Nagar, Jalupura, Jhotwara, Mahesh Nagar, Bajaj Nagar, Chaura Rasta, Sanganer, Shastri Nagar, Sikar Road and Vidhyadhar Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-3-days-28-die-of-covid-19-in-state/articleshow/76272290.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Governor advises Telangana to conduct more tests||HYDERABAD: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the state government should conduct more Covid-19 tests and make some changes in its policies to combat coronavirus. Speaking to reporters after visiting NIMS on Monday, she said though the government is following the ICMR guidelines, there is a need to increase the Covid tests. She expressed the hope that the government would do more coronavirus tests to check its spread and find the source. “There is no need to panic. The government is with the people,” she hastened to add. The governor said she had to come visit NIMS to express solidarity with doctors who are doing their best to serve the patients. She interacted with the medial teams and officials in the hospital on the Covid treatment provided to the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-advises-t-to-conduct-more-tests/articleshow/76272270.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: No easing of social distancing norms, violators to face action||PUNE/PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The state government’s phased implementation of “Mission Begin Again” may have unlocked a slew a restrictions during Lockdown 5.0 from June 1 to 30, but citizens can barely afford to ignore maintaining social distancing norms. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic and police administrations say they are prepared to enforce various social distancing norms relating to plying of vehicles (two-wheelers, four-wheelers and autorickshaws), operation of shops, maintenance of hygiene on the streets and public places and strict adherence to the 9pm-5am curfew provision. The Pune police have already resumed action against traffic violators since June 3 and, along with their Pimpri Chinchwad counterparts, started cracking down on people flouting social distancing norms. Those spitting on roads or throwing garbage, littering or defacing public spaces and properties will be fined Rs 500 per case. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI, “We have told our 15 ward offices to take photographs of social distancing violators and file complaints against them. Various authorities have different powers regarding filing complaints against violators under the Epidemics Act.” The PMC started Phase-III of “Mission Begin Again” from Monday. The use of masks is mandatory. apply for commuting in two- and four-wheelers. Bikes and scooters cannot have a pillion rider. Even four-wheelers cannot be occupied fully, only the driver and two passengers will be allowed. Autorickshaws and cabs can operate only for essential and unavoidable reasons. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve told TOI, “We have started taking action against errant motorists and will intensify our drive from Tuesday. Action will be both on field and through CCTV monitoring of traffic violations. People must carry valid documents with them. In the containment areas, people will not be permitted to use their vehicles. People from other parts of the city will not be allowed to enter containment areas.” Additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde told TOI, “Since June 3, traffic rules are being enforced for vehicles in non-containment zones as traffic has increased substantially following the lockdown relaxations. Traffic signals have also been started. As part of action over violation of social distancing by motorists, we are filing cases of disobedience under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).” Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police in-charge of crime and administration, cited provisions under the IPC, National Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Disease Act and the Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules, which were being invoked as per the case regarding social distancing violation. “We are acting against shops and hotels illegally running business. We are monitoring activities in containment zones where shops are allowed to sell only essential commodities.” Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Akkanoru Prasad P said, ”We are making use of technology, such as CCTV cameras and issuing challans, and manpower to take action against traffic violators.” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi said, “We have been constantly taking action against people not wearing masks or going on two-wheelers with pillion riders or more than three persons travelling in a car. The action is primarily under section 188 (disobedience) of the IPC. Everything has started opening up in Pimpri Chinchwad. People should follow social distancing norms on their own. Establishments such as banks, factories and even shops should tell their customers to follow social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-easing-of-social-distancing-norms-violators-to-face-action/articleshow/76272273.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Tea shop set on fire, suspect hangs self||LUDHIANA: A LPG cylinder blast was witnessed at a tea shop in Sunet village on Monday morning. When police reached there, they found a labourer hanging on a ceiling fan in his accommodation near the spot. The man was also a suspect in the cylinder blast case. According to the police, the man and the owner of the tea shop had a verbal spat, against which a police compliant was also lodged on Saturday. Deceased is identified as Shyam Dubey, 34, of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. He was living in a rented accommodation in Sunet. Days ago, he had a spat with Rajani Verma, owner of the tea shop. On Monday, at around 4am, the residents of Suent woke up to an explosion in the tea shop. Thereafter, the police were called. The owner named Shyam as suspect to the police, upon which the police reached Dubey’s house to question him. But they found him hanging on the ceiling fan. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, west) Sameer Verma said prima facie, it looked as if the man had hung himself after setting the shop on fire. “But we are also not ruling out foul play by the tea shop owner. We are probing the case from all angles,” added the ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tea-shop-set-on-fire-suspect-hangs-self/articleshow/76272279.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Low on cash, rations & hope, desolate workers from Nepal long to get home||Panaji: Gobinda Bardewa first arrived in Goa from Nepal more than 20 years ago, and, in recent years, has been working in the hotel sector at Arambol. But, since the lockdown was declared in March, Bardewa said he has experienced his worst period in the sunshine state. He said that like him, there are 500-600 workers from Nepal spread across Goa, most of them in the North Goa beach belt, who are struggling to make ends meet. “Many workers have their families with them. Most of the hotels in this belt have shut down and have not paid our salaries since the lockdown. The landlord is asking us for rent everyday and abuses us when we are not able to pay up. We want to return to Nepal somehow, where we may not have work or land to till, but at least no one will ask us for rent and abuse us,” Bardewa, who is a native of Dhading in Nepal, said. He said that like all other workers, those from Nepal also registered with the local panchayats in Goa during the initial days of the lockdown.  But as migrant workers from Indian states have been leaving by the thousands over the past few weeks by Shramik Special trains, Nepal citizens have realised that being from another country, they are unlikely to see a solution to their pleas anytime soon. “At first, some voluntary organisations provided us with rations. But as weeks went by, they too stopped coming. Government officials came here just once and gave some meagre supplies and that was it. We never saw them again. Some two packets of instant noodles, around 5kg of rice and 1kg of dal was distributed to 10 of us. Is that enough?” said Bardewa, worried as his money is fast running out. Ram Kumar Tamang was working in a bakery in North Goa, which too shut abruptly. He is afraid of taking a train to North India in his quest to reach Nepal, as he worries that he and his friends too may face a nightmare aboard the Shramik Specials. His worries are possibly based on what he heard from other workers. “Five of us stay together. We have pooled in whatever money we had to purchase rations. We do not want to go by train as it is going to be a long and tedious journey. With no work, we are trying to ration supplies. And we sit indoors and wait for things to normalise. What else can we do?” said Tamang. “We are only getting calls and enquiries since providing our phone numbers while registering with the panchayat. No one is saying anything about arrangements for our travel back to Nepal,” a frustrated Bardewa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/low-on-cash-rations-hope-desolate-workers-from-nepal-long-to-get-home/articleshow/76272281.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||IAS Ranveer Singh Chauhan becomes new MDDA VC||DEHRADUN: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle, IAS officer Ranveer Singh Chauhan was given the charge of Vice-Chancellor of MussoorieDehradun Development Authority on Monday. He will also hold the additional charge of CEO Smart City Dehradun. Earlier, Dehradun’s district magistrate (DM) Ashish Kumar Srivastava was holding these two positions. He will continue to hold the charge of DM Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ias-ranveer-singh-chauhan-becomes-new-mdda-vc/articleshow/76269976.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 9, 2020||Ajmer||In three days, 28 die of Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Six people died while 277 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state bringing the tally to 10,876 in the state on Monday. The toll stands at 241 in the state. In the past three days, 28 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state. Three deaths in Jaipur took city’s fatality to 115. Two persons died in Jodhpur bringing its toll to 23 and Bharatpur reported its eighth fatality. Districts which reported cases are Alwar (67), Bharatpur (60), Jodhpur (36), Jaipur (34), Kota (12), Pali (11), Sirohi (10), Sikar (7), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (6), Sawai Madhopur (4), Chittorgarh (3), Banswara (3), Ajmer (3), Jhalawar (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Bikaner (2), Bundi (2), Sriganganagar (1), Jalore (1), Baran (1) and four from other states. As many as 363 people recovered taking the tally of those being cured of Covid-19 to 8,117. Since May 1, around 3,125 migrants tested positive for the virus. Till date, Jaipur has reported highest number of Covid-19 cases at 2,260, followed by Jodhpur (1,879) and Bharatpur (732). The recovery rate in the state is 73%, which means that out of each 100 Covid-19 cases, 73 have been cured. The cases are doubling in the state in 21 days. In Jaipur, six persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandpole, five in Ramganj, four in Sodala, three in district jail, two each in Gandhi Nagar, Jyoti Nagar and Tonk Road, while one person each has been found infected with the virus in Adarsh Nagar, Jalupura, Jhotwara, Mahesh Nagar, Bajaj Nagar, Chaura Rasta, Sanganer, Shastri Nagar, Sikar Road and Vidhyadhar Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-3-days-28-die-of-covid-19-in-state/articleshow/76281627.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Collectors told to prepare for Covid-19 peak in July||BHOPAL: The Covid-19 peak is expected around July and it continues to spread to newer areas, a state government report has said. Newer clinical manifestations like thrombosis, as reported by TOI in May, have been cited in the report. Incidentally, active cases started increasing again in last 15 days, the report states adding that positivity rate has also increased in the last three weeks — with 12 districts having 5% or above overall positivity rate. “Daily cases and tests done, and three-day moving average are issues to watch out for. Daily positive cases increased towards end of May whereas the daily tests, on three-day moving average, declined,” said a health department consultant. With geographical spread of the virus widened, Madhya Pradesh has seen an increase in daily caseload and spread of infection in last three weeks. According to the report presented to district collectors, among districts that have more than 10 cases, fatality rate for nine of them stood at more than 5%. While, fatality rate has started witnessing a decrease, growth rate of deaths has been increasing in last 10 days. Since the pandemic began, MP has reported more than 9,600 Covid-19 cases. Surge in new cases daily since May 1 indicates number of new cases daily increasing proportionately with daily tests conducted. However, the number of tests conducted daily declined. In the third week of May, average daily cases were 222 (at a positivity rate of 4.8%). Thereafter, the average number of positive cases per day declined to 213 per day; however, it was at a higher positivity rate of 5.5%. Between May 20 and May 27, positive cases and number of tests done, have shown similar trends. However, cases have increased even with reduced testing in the last week. The report has called for improved contact tracing and surveillance along with prepping up hospital infrastructure across Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/collectors-told-to-prepare-for-covid-19-peak-in-july/articleshow/76272288.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 9, 2020||Goa||Special bus for varsity staffers||Panaji: Goa University (GU) has employed a special bus exclusively to transport its staff from the Panaji KTC bus stand to the campus and back, until regular buses ply on the route. The university has said that the bus will ply via the Goa Medical College route at 9.20am and 5pm. On March 30, GU had issued a circular stating that its offices will remain shut upto April 14. Thereafter, the university opened with 33% staff and later, the same month, all of its staff began reporting to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-bus-for-varsity-staffers/articleshow/76272293.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank probe: ED conducts searches at Cox and Kings in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted searches on five premises of tours and travels company Cox & Kings, its promoter Peter Kerkar and former senior executives, in Mumbai as part of its probe into money laundering by Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor. ED said its investigation found irregularities in sanctioning of Rs 3,642 crore loan to Cox & Kings group, which created multiple layers of on-shore and off-shore subsidiaries across the globe to swindle the money. It is alleged that the group availed loans using forged documents. The UK’s National Crime Agency is probing one of the forged documents. Sources said that the search was continuing at the time of going to the press. ED will summon Peter Kerkar, directors Pesi Patel and Abhishek Goenka, former chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain for their statements. It is alleged that Cox & Kings and its group companies availed loan after submitting forged documents and laundered the money through companies in India and abroad. During the search, the ED recovered digital documents, which would be probed further. Cox and Kings Ltd (CKL) had an outstanding loan of Rs 563 crore and its firms like Ezeego One Travel & Tours Ltd India (EOTTL) had an outstanding of Rs 1,012 crore, Cox and Kings Financial Services Ltd Rs 422 crore, Prometheon Enterprise Ltd, UK Rs 1,152 crore and Malvern Travel Ltd, UK Rs 493 crore. According to an ED press note, UK-based Malvern Travel had Rs 493 crore outstanding and it submitted forged bank statements along with forged certificates of UK-based statuary auditor to avail the loan from Yes Bank. A criminal complaint related with forgery is filed at National Crime Agency in UK. ED is investigating a money laundering case against Rana Kapoor, who had allegedly sanctioned loan from Yes Bank when he was leading it, to various entities after misusing his position and in exchange received kickback of around Rs 5,000 crore. Around Rs 20,000 crore of such loans turned into non-performing assets (NPAs) and ED is probing the companies that availed the loans, including ADAG Group, DHFL, Essel Group, Cox & Kings, Radius Developer, Sahana Developers, Omkar Group, Avanta Group, Sumer Group and others. Officials stated that Cox & Kings group company sold its subsidiary companies in UK, Holiday Break Education, for Rs 4,387 crore and instead of discharging the liability of the bank, siphoned off majority of the money. It included transfer of US $ 15.34 million to Kuber Investment Mauritius Pvt Ltd which was controlled by Peter Kerker. From Ezeego, Rs 150 crores was diverted to Redkite Capital Private Limited, which was promoted by Anil Khandelwal and its internal auditor Naresh Jain. This fund was diverted to Redkite and it was used to buy controlling stake in Tourism Finance Corporation Of India Ltd, a listed NBFC. Lenders of Cox & Kings Group (including Yes Bank) appointed PwC to conduct forensic audit of the companies after it turned NPA. The audit confirmed falsification of accounts, overstating of sales figures, understating debt figures and fictitious transactions. The audit reported that from 2015 to 2019, sales of Rs 3,908 crore were made to 15 fictitious customers. Another 147 sets of customers were also suspicious. As per the report, Anil Khandelwal, CFO of CKL, diverted Rs 1,100 crore to Alok Industries without any approval of the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/yes-bk-probe-ed-conducts-searches-at-cox-kings/articleshow/76272294.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Shivpal hints at ‘new political alternative’, writes to Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSPL) chief Shivpal Yadav, the estranged uncle of SP president Akhilesh Yadav, has written an emotional letter to his nephew thanking him for withdrawing anti-defection petition earlier moved before the Speaker to seek his dismissal from the assembly as SP legislator. Shivpal, who heaped praises on Akhilesh in the letter, also indicated that he is now ready to accept his nephew’s leadership. Terming Akhilesh’s decision to withdraw the petition as a sign of ‘snehpoorna vishwas’ (affectionate trust), Shivpal thanked the SP chief and said it was not a routine political development. He said the clarity with which such a “meaningful and positive” move was initiated, Akhilesh’s leadership would give birth to a new political alternative in the days to come. The letter comes days after Shivpal himself called up Akhilesh to thank him personally for withdrawing the petition which sought his sacking as MLA after he floated PSP-L, his own political outfit. In its anti-defection petition, the Samajwadi Party described Shivpal’s move as an “anti-party activity”. A day after Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit allowed Samajwadi Party to withdraw the petition, Akhilesh went on to declare that his party would not field a candidate against his uncle from Jaswantnagar assembly seat in the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections. On the possibility of Shivpal joining the SP, Akhilesh had said that since ‘Chacha ji’ was heading a party himself, any comment on the issue was irrelevant. Shivpal had claimed that he was ready to accept Akhilesh as the next chief minister when SP comes to power after elections. It was the battle for supremacy that saw Shivpal Yadav, a sitting SP MLA from Jaswantnagar, to distance himself from Akhilesh and float a new party in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. After the polls, SP moved an anti-defection petition seeking his dismissal. However, SP not only withdrew the petition but Akhilesh also announced that he would make “adjustments” with Shivpal’s party in the next assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shivpal-hints-at-new-political-alternative/articleshow/76272821.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
June 9, 2020||Goa||Govt denies Fatorda shelter ever shut, 400 migrants still stranded||Panaji: The shelter home at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, Fatorda has over 400 stranded migrants, including women and children, who are waiting to be repatriated to their states. The shelter home which was earlier run from the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim tried to send the migrants away with the justification that the last Shramik special trains have departed and that economic activity in the state has restarted. South Goa collector Ajit Roy while denying that the shelter home was ever shut, stated that around 1,600 passengers are required for a Shramik Special train to run. “We have 422 migrants who have registered at the shelter. It’s the duty of the state to provide shelter for anyone in distress. We have been doing it for more than two months. We appeal to employers not to dump workers on the streets. However, the administration is always ready to help those in need,” Roy said. Activist Albertina Almeida, however, blamed the administration for the low turnout for the Shramik Specials, and said the numbers would have been more if there was better coordination from the administration. “Either the workers don’t know about the trains, haven’t got SMSes in time or are waiting to receive their wages from their employers before they leave the state. There is a failure in the system in terms of dealing with migrant workers. The interstate migrant workmen act hasn’t been implemented. If it was the state would had right statistics of migrants,” Almeida said. Police tried to disburse the migrants who waited outside the stadium before they were let in again following intervention from civil society and the legal services authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-denies-fatorda-shelter-ever-shut-400-migrants-still-stranded/articleshow/76272305.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Congress MLA joins INLD, Abhay Singh Chautala says many more coming||CHANDIGARH: Naresh Sharma, a former MLA from Congress, joined Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) at party’s Chandigarh office on Monday. Talking to mediapersons, senior Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala said a large number of senior leaders from BJP, Congress and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) are in touch with him and would join INLD soon. Naresh Sharma, a two-time MLA from Badli, said his father and grandfather had followed the policies of Chaudhary Devi Lal and his father had served as the president of farmers’ cell along with Devi Lal. Sharma said he decided to join INLD after he visited various sections of society and realised that only Abhay Chautala could raise the voice of farmers and labour class. Abhay appointed Sharma as party’s state spokesperson and assured him of giving full respect in the party. Meanwhile, former BSP state president Prakash Bharti also met Abhay Chautala along with his colleagues in Chandigarh and expressed faith in the policies of INLD. Sources in INLD claimed that Bharti may join INLD in the next few days. Abhay Chautala also criticised the state government for ignoring the vital issues related to the farmers in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-cong-mla-joins-inld-abhay-says-many-more-coming/articleshow/76271226.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bhopal||237 fresh infections take MP corona count to 9638||Bhopal: With 237 fresh infections, the Covid count of state reached 9,638 on Monday. Two deaths — one from Indore, one from Sagar — were also reported in Madhya Pradesh, taking the corona death toll to 414. New infections were reported from 24 of the 51 corona-hit districts of Madhya Pradesh. Double-digit cases were reported from Bhopal (50), Indore (36), Burhanpur (28), Neemuch (24), Bhind (14), Gwalior (13) and Ujjain (12). Meanwhile, 205 persons recovered from the disease and were discharged on Monday — taking the recovery count of the state to 6,536. As of now, 67.8% of the total people who have tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is double than the number of active patients in the state as on June 8. There are only 2688 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/237-fresh-infections-take-mp-corona-count-to-9638/articleshow/76272303.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Visakhapatnam would be developed into tourism hub: M Srinivasa Rao||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao completed a year in office on Monday. On the occasion he spoke about the new tourism policy and measures that would be taken to develop Visakhapatnam into a tourism hub. Speaking to TOI, Rao said the new tourism policy would be introduced soon after discussions with chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The tourism policy expired in February and the government was in the process of coming up with the new policy but was delayed due to the lockdown. “It would be ready as soon as we resolve a few issues after discussions with the chief minister,” he said. He also revealed that an AP tourism app is being worked upon that should be ready in a month. The app will provide details about tourist spots, routes, available facilities and packages. Speaking about the development of the Port City, the minister said, Visakhapatnam is an important city, which has been generating revenue on par with other major cities in southern India. “It is like Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai where 40% of the revenue of each state is being generated from these cities. To create more facilities for the public and tourists, we have been planning to provide required water, electricity, sanitation, and other facilities to the public keeping the next 10 years’ requirements in mind,” he said. The government also plans to built metro rail, tram and other facilities to develop the Visakhapatnam into one of the main cities of the country, he said. Given its beautiful beaches, the minister said, “There are plans to concentrate on people’s needs and choices while respecting our culture. There are discussions to categorise one or two beaches exclusively for the youth and others for families. We will discuss and implement the plan if it is found viable.’ There are plans to develop amusement and theme parks on PPP mode. “The government would develop the ecosystem and provide hassle-free permissions to investors. We need to explore river, eco- and temple tourism. These would help generate employment and revenue,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizag-would-be-developed-into-tourism-hub-avanthi/articleshow/76270003.cms||Siva G
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Corpn officials seek support from other departments||Trichy: The resumption of dine-in service by the eateries in Trichy city is likely to keep the health officials with Trichy Corporation on their toes. The civic body employees, who are overburdened with overseeing social distancing in public places, sought for interdepartmental coordination to ensure whether eateries stick to the rules that are made mandatory for the dine-in service.“We find it difficult to track the returnees from hotspots, carry out disinfection drive simultaneously along with penalisation drive for not wearing facemasks. Perhaps, the labour department and food safety department can help us to monitor,” a corporation official said. The civic body in the past a week has collected only Rs 11,000 as penalty from people venturing out without facemasks and commercial outlets that failed to maintain social distancing. “We can even seal the shops that fail to ensure social distancing but checking all the shops is practically impossible. Since social distancing will be the new normal, we need interdepartmental support,” another official with Trichy Corporation added. Around 37 field workers with the urban local body come handy for the sanitary supervisors, sanitary inspectors and sanitary officers to identify the erring shops for levying penalties. But, still, covering all the restaurants to ensure safe dine-in is an uphill task. As only the outlets in bus stands and railway stations that have floating population could be focussed predominantly, the civic body officials highlighted the need to engage the other departments to ensure social distancing at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-officials-seek-support-from-other-departments/articleshow/76272302.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 9, 2020||Goa||Clarify on authorisation to dump waste at Campal: HC||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has issued notices to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), Goa State Pollution Control Board and other authorities over the dumping of garbage at Parade Ground, Campal, here. It has asked the CCP and the board to submit authorisation to dump garbage on the ground on Tuesday. With Covid-19 cases on the rise in Goa, the medical infrastructure cannot be burdened by situations like this, the court noted. “Particularly at this stage, the state and its residents can hardly afford the necessity to combat such a situation. As it is, the medical apparatus in the state is making attempts to cope up with the rising Covid-19 cases and, therefore, any further strain on the medical infrastructure available in the state will obviously be contrary to public interest,” the division bench comprising justices Mahesh Sonak and M S Jawalkar stated. The court has been monitoring compliances of its orders with regard to solid waste management, including the unauthorised dumping of garbage and other solid waste at Parade Ground, Campal. “On most occasions, this court was informed that the dumped garbage would be cleared. This obviously, implied not merely compliance with the assurance of clearing the dumped garbage but further refraining from dumping any further garbage on the Parade Ground at Campal,” the court stated. It took cognisance of a news report on dumping of garbage at the ground and of various authorities passing on the buck but doing precious little to remove the garbage “which is likely to prove a source for ailments like dengue and malaria”. The court will hear the matter only pertaining to the dumping of waste at Parade Ground at Campal on Tuesday. Notices have also been issued to the Goa State Urban Development Authority , the chief town planner, directorate of health services, Goa State Waste Management Corporation and the director of urban development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clarify-on-authorisation-to-dump-waste-at-campal-hc/articleshow/76272300.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||As life inches back to normalcy, more people opt for public buses||Trichy: A week after TNSTC resumed services in districts which are not Covid-19 hotspots, Trichy, Madurai and Coimbatore have witnessed a significant rise in passenger footfall. Trichy region has witnessed a two-fold increase in passenger footfall, while patronage for buses in Coimbatore division was such that the strength of fleets plying has increased by 15% in a week. However, ensuring social distancing has become an uphill task for TNSTC crew in the three cities. TNSTC Trichy operates 180 city buses and 150 mofussil buses covering seven central districts. For the districts in other TNSTC zones, the buses are operated till the borders of Trichy district with Karur, Namakkal, Madurai and Dindigul districts. As labourers from central districts heading to textile units in Tiruppur and Karur are gradually increasing, TNSTC said that Trichy-Karur buses operated till Pettaivaithalai has witnessed a drastic surge in footfall. Buses on other routes such as Trichy-Thanjavur have also seen increased patronage due to office goers. “From 10-15 passengers per bus from the origin point of the service, the number has increased to 25 per bus within a week. Police support was sought whenever we need to control unruly passengers,” a senior official with TNSTC Trichy said. Meanwhile, Coimbatore TNSTC last week had operated only 798 buses. But, on Monday, the number of buses plying was increased to 921. “Perhaps, if more number of buses are operated, we could prevent crowding and can ensure social distancing,” a crew member with Coimbatore TNSTC said. In Madurai TNSTC, the precautionary measures issued by the state government were followed only for the first few days. The patronage in Madurai was such that passengers cling on to the footboard of buses operated on Madurai-Azhagarkoil route. Crew members of mofussil TNSTC fleets in Trichy said that passengers are bringing exact change for tickets, an unusual practice prior to the lockdown. “Passengers tender the exact change as they don’t want the cash or coins in our possession since the money would have come from many hands,” a conductor on Trichy-Pettaivaithalai bus added. As there is a surge in patronage so is the difficulty in maintaining social distancing. Though the buses at the station of origin manage to ensure social distancing, it becomes difficult at intermediate bus stops with many passengers waiting. Such difficulties are not witnessed by point to point buses. “Though all the passengers wear facemasks, they confront us if we insist them not to sit too close,” another TNSTC crew member added.  As commercial establishments including textile showrooms have opened, demand exists during peak hours between 8-9am and 6-7pm, TNSTC Trichy official added. With inputs from Nivedha Selvam and Devanathan Veerappan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-life-inches-back-to-normalcy-more-people-opt-for-public-buses/articleshow/76272308.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Data of 2.9 crore Indians for sale on Dark Net, say cops||Nagpur: Maharashtra police’s cyber intelligence and analytical cell has revealed that data of 2.9 crore Indians was on sale in the dark Net. The findings have also been shared with the Ministry of Home Affairs and state Home Department. Special IG Yashasvi Yadav of Maharashtra cyber security cell, who had released a video clip on the subject, stated that dark net constituted around 99.4% of internet and can be accessed through Tor browser. If state cyber experts claim a bulk of this data was stolen from the job sites where the traffic has surged during the lockdown period marked by lay-offs and shutting down of businesses. The massive data theft, now under the scrutiny of the state cyber cell, is also a cause for concern of the security and intelligence cell as it contains information like Aadhaar number, PAN, email IDs, bank and credit card details which was being sold to unknown persons across the globe. The citizens’ social media accounts and their contents like chats, likes, dislikes, images, videos and so on too have got compromised. IG Yadav told TOI that most of the data was stolen from job or placement sites and phishing attacks and also through a popular app used for identification of callers. He warned the data can be used for siphoning off substantial amounts from people’s banks and credit cards. “Such theft is both punishable under IT Act and also under provisions of IPC,” he said. “We are now probing how these data thefts were done and from where. At this moment, we are trying to alert citizens stating that data should be shared at only credible websites,” said Yadav. Cyber expert Mahendra Limaye, also a laywer dealing in IT Act, said the cyber crooks used some loopholes in the websites to gain access to data. “At this juncture, it is very important for the government to pass the proposed Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. It makes the government too liable for data theft and hence would have to shell out compensations to the claimants,” said Limaye. “As of now, IT Act makes only private persons liable for either being sued for data theft and for paying compensation equivalent to loss under Section 43A of the enactment. Under Section 66, data theft is punishable with three years’ imprisonment or fine upto Rs 5 lakh or both,” said Limaye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/data-of-2-9-crore-indians-for-sale-on-dark-net-say-cops/articleshow/76271926.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown, summer & cumulative billing, a hat trick of power woes||Hyderabad: Non-telescopic electricity tariff, three-month cumulative billing and increased power consumption due to the summer heat are the three reasons behind the hefty power bills, pinching pockets of shocked electricity consumers. However, power distribution companies cannot be absolved as erroneous billing and faulty meter reading has resulted in many consumers receiving huge electricity bills. If not redressed, some customers are mulling to drag officials to court. Enquiries by TOI revealed that non-telescopic tariff slabs and three-month cumulative bill were the main culprits for the bill amounts going up. Also, power consumption was 40-50% more during summer compared to other months. Due to the lockdown, people staying indoors while also working and studying from home resulted in more power being consumed in the months of March, April and May, the bills for which were served in June first week. The state has been using a non-telescopic tariff plan, approved by Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC), for the past few years. As TSSPDCLgenerated cumulative bill for three months, the total number of units consumed was divided by three (for March, April and May). Generally, consumers of LT category 1-B1 who used to pay Rs 3.30 per unit in March and April due to consumption of below 100 units, found themselves being billed at Rs 4.30 per unit due to increased power consumption in May. For example, their March and April consumption would e about 90 units and 98 units respectively. However, May power consumption jumped to 150 units. Due to cumulative billing, total consumed units were 338 and billed at Rs 4.30 per unit as per non-telescopic method and not Rs 3.30 per unit up to 100 units and Rs 4.30 for remaining units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-summer-cumulative-billing-a-hat-trick-of-power-woes/articleshow/76271102.cms||Roushan Ali
June 9, 2020||Delhi||How quake-ready is capital, asks HC||New Delhi: In the backdrop of a series of minor earthquakes jolting the capital in the recent past, Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the AAP government, the three corporations and other agencies how prepared they were to deal with a major quake. A division bench of justices, Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar, directed the Delhi chief secretary, all the corporation commissioners, the NDMC chairman, Delhi Cantonment Board and the DDA’s vice-chairman to file affidavits outlining steps taken or in the works to ensure safety of people in case of a big tremor. The bench gave the government and the civic authorities one week to file their affidavits and listed the matter for hearing on June 15 while underlining the need for the authorities to be prepared and also make the public aware about the action plan in place, if any. Its order came on an application filed by advocate Arpit Bhargava citing the recent tremors, urging the court to intervene to ensure authorities implement earlier court orders to make buildings safer to withstand an earthquake. The latest plea was filed in Bhargava’s main petition filed in 2015 claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi remained poor and in case of a major earthquake, there could be large number of casualties. His application pointed out that more than 11 earthquakes have struck Delhi since April 12 and according to experts, a major quake appears imminent, but the authorities are not prepared. The petitioner said there is constant seismic activity occurring in the national capital region yet builders and architects have compromised on strict adherence to norms relating to earthquakes. “The Covid-19 pandemic may not affect human lives as much as the impending danger of a major earthquake,” he added. “The destruction of millions of human lives due to a major earthquake cannot be undermined since there are about 1,700 unauthorised colonies in Delhi wherein more than 50 lakh people reside. Even the court in an earlier order noted that only about 10 to 15% of Delhi buildings complied with the building code and regulations specified for the seismic zone,” the plea submitted, seeking urgent directions to create awareness among the public at large about the dos and don’ts in case of an earthquake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-quake-ready-is-capital-asks-hc/articleshow/76292210.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||A website gets farm goods moving across India||NAGPUR: At a time farmers are worried about selling their produce due to global pandemic and nationwide lockdown, ‘MeraMobileMeraMarketing’, an initiative by a retired government officer has come to their rescue. Through her website www.marketmirchi.com, Pragati Gokhale, an adviser at Maharashtra government’s Rajiv Gandhi Science and Technology Commission, came up with an innovative concept of a totally free online digital marketing platform, not only for farmers, but also for rural/agro entrepreneurs and self-help groups. Built on the lines of popular apps like OLX and Quikr, the free platform helps both buyers and sellers to market and purchase various products related to agriculture sector. “We started this website even before the central government had decided to end the dependency of farmers on Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC). Our objective is to make farmers financially strong and end their dependency by allowing them to market their products through digital platform,” says Gokhale, who’s the brain behind the concept. Started with the help of Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL) about four years back, the initiative helped poor farmers find online customers for their produce and establish direct linkages. Recognizing her hard work, the Government of India’s Department of Science and Technology (DST) has included the ‘MeraMobileMeraMarketing’ in post Covid reforms recommendations on Monday. “We’ve started getting overwhelming responses from farmers and others ever since the lockdown began in March. They came from entire India, including remote areas of Uttarakhand, Kerala and other states. A couple of queries were also received from countries like Sri Lanka and Nepal. Till date, over 8,000 sellers have advertised their products and nearly 5,000 buyers also put up their demand,” said Gokhale, who retired as deputy director from Wardha-based Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Rural Industrialization (MGIRI). The concept was liked by Rajiv Gandhi Science & Technology Commission director Anil Kakodkar and MKCL director Vivek Sawant, who extended all help to develop and maintain the free portal without charging anything. “We’ve a long list of successful transactions. Unlike other apps, we don’t charge a penny from sellers and buyers to advertise their agriculture products. We’ve made it our mission to reach maximum farmers so that they can sell their produce across the country and get a good price for it. This portal is totally mobile friendly and doesn’t need downloading like other apps,” said Gokhale, who is the daughter of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar’s elder brother. She adds that they had also started job openings on the portal. A farmer, Santosh Sharma, who left his teaching job and started farming figs at Dongargaon, near Butibori, says he was worried initially whether his produce will be sold, as very few dare to enter fig cultivation. “After advertising my products on website, I’ve received orders from Kerala and Udaipur in the first few days. Biggest advantage is that its totally free and available on your mobile,” he said. What www.marketmirchi.com offers * Built on lines of apps like OLX & Quikr, but for agro products only * Farmers, SHGs, rural & agro entrepreneurs can advertise products * Buyers in agro industry from entire India can access & purchase products * Unlike other apps or websites, portal offers all services free of cost * For any queries & help, farmers & citizens can contact 9822719618||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-website-gets-farm-goods-moving-across-india/articleshow/76271946.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal malls reopen to few footfalls and Covid-care instructions||BHOPAL: Even as there were only a few visitors at the malls on Monday ( the first day when shopping malls reopened after 75 days) , one thing was clear- shopping experience here won't be the same as pre-lockdown days, at least till the coronavirus scare persists. Shoppers never expected a security personnel in a mall to ask them not to touch anything or women with sanitisers in their hands waiting for them to leave a table in the food court so that they could immediately sanitise it. Staffers also asked people not to put their hands on the railing of the escalator. All this was done in good faith and in a very polite manner, but shopping in a mall is not the same as before, said those who visited these places on day one. However, one thing that appeared to be missing even though the malls were largely empty was -social distancing of six feet. There were marks on the floor, at the entrance, on the elevator and in the lift, but except for a few patches, the distance was not of six feet as the district administration has been insisting. Moreover, the marking was not uniform. For example, in the food court at DB Mall in MP Nagar, some tables were as far away as 10 feet from each other and for some others, particularly the ones on the fringe, the distance was not even three feet. On one or two floors, there were markings, suggesting where the shoppers should stand, but on the third floor or in food court, there were no such markings. People, too, seemed to be casual about observing social distancing and once the crowd swells in the malls, ensuring social distancing would definitely be a problem. " It is not that people are casual; they are not used to it. The crowd today is that of youngsters mostly, which also makes a difference, they are definitely less scared," said Ravi Awasthi, a middle-aged man, who on his own was asking people not to crowd the escalator. There were very few cars and the fact that a couple of youngsters made an entry in the parking lot at a speed , which they won't have dared on even a deserted road, could give an indication of the empty parking lot. But, in the parking lot, care was taken to allow parking of vehicles at a safe distance with markings at 6 feet distance. While entering the mall, even before shoppers could press the button of the machine for parking ticket, a girl standing nearby rushed in saying 'Don’t touch the machine. I will help you'. There was censor-driven sanitising machine at the entry, provision of thermal scanning and an enquiry whether shoppers had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app, and those who said no, were politely requested to do it. On the elevators, marks were there for the purpose of social distancing but they were erratic. "I was told to stand on these yellow marks put on the elevators steps. However, I noticed that on one side, they were at far more distance than the other. I don't think they were at 6 ft distance from one another," said Ashok Sikarwar, who came for shopping along with his wife. Big Bazaar was the most crowded place in the mallHere also social distancing was found missing. Even though the employees kept telling visitors to follow the safety norms. Inside the grocery market, several floor markings were found trying to keep a distance of 6 ft. Realising that number of visitors was very less, only a few payment counters were opened. One noticeable thing here was that staff and security personnel were both wearing face covers and masks as well. There was another round of thermal scanning and sanitising of hands before shoppers were allowed inside. Few shop owners have put requests at the entrance of the shops and guidelines to follow. At one shop it was mentioned that 'all garments steamed post trial and rooms sanitised after every use'. Several retail shops were shut. At the food court also, several shops were found closed.An employee at food joint said, "We were expecting poor presence of visitors as it was the first day of reopening. May be people would turn up in the evening.” In the lift, only two people were allowed to enter at a time. At Aura Mall, too, parking had markings for vehicles at a distance of 6 feet. The person giving the parking ticket was noting down the registration number of vehicles. Several racks at Big Bazaar outlet here were empty and there were a few shoppers inside. Body temperature which was taken at the entrance was checked again before entering Big Bazaar and sanitised Food court, at the mall, was completely empty. There were markings on the floor but nowhere the distance of 6 feet was seen between those markings. Here, four people were allowed in the lift at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-malls-reopen-to-few-footfalls-and-covid-care-instructions/articleshow/76272332.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 9, 2020||Bareilly||Basic education officer, three govt teachers among 5 booked for intimidating Dalit activist||Pilibhit: Five people have been booked for allegedly holding a Dalit RTI (right to information) activist captive and giving him dire threats of his killing. The accused include a basic education officer (BEO) of Barkhera, which is the block headquarter, and three teachers of the primary education department. The activist, Jagdish Prasad of village Jasoli under Bisalpur tehsil, had requisitioned certain information from the Barkhera BEO regarding the functioning of three government teachers, under RTI. The FIR was lodged in the evening on June 3 at Barkhera police station, following orders of the Bareilly additional director general of police (ADGP), but local police, in collusion with the accused, had kept the information under wraps. In his complaint filed to the ADGP, Prasad stated in his RTI query, he had sought information on primary teachers Dharmendra Singh, Mahendra Pal and Ram Gulam, posted at government primary school in Lakhnau Gautia, Barkhera and Purainia respectively. He alleged that the three teachers, under protection of the BEO, were involved in financial scams and misappropriation of government funds allocated to their respective primary schools. In response, BEO Shri Ram Saxena had called him to the latter’s office, where four people, including the three teachers in question, were present. He added that as soon as he reached BEO’s office, Saxena and the three teachers started abusing him invoking his caste, before taking him captive and threatening to murder him by mowing him down under a vehicle. He alleged he was released by the accused with a warning that he should keep mum in the matter and unconditionally withdraw his query. Barkhera SHO Umesh Kumar Solanki said all five people named in the complaint — the BEO, the three primary teachers and the unidentified man who was present in the BEO’s office — were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 342 (wrongful confinement), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and Section 3(2)(va) of the SC/ST Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/basic-education-officer-three-govt-teachers-among-5-booked-for-intimidating-dalit-activist/articleshow/76266823.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Malls, restaurants witness thin footfall on first day||VADODARA: It was after nearly two-and-half months that malls and restaurants in the city opened for the customers on Monday. Shoppers were expected to flock the shopping malls on the first day but most Barodians preferred to be cautious and wait for a few days instead making a beeline at their favourite stores. Most of the malls witnessed a thin crowd throughout the day, though by evening the footfall increased a bit. “It depended on the stores as there were good number of customers at a groceries retail in our mall while some also visited apparel shops. The crowd was less probably because it was a weekday and awareness is still less among people. We are expecting the footfall to increase soon,” said Shahzad Nizam, general manager, of a city mall. The usually buzzing gaming zones in many malls were also isolated as they haven’t been opened by the management for safety purpose. “I had to buy apparels for my family at a branded store in a mall but I decided to wait for a few days. I stayed away as I thought there would be sudden rush at malls on the first day,” said Pritesh Shah, a businessman. Most of the restaurants, especially in western parts of the city, opened by 11 am but there were hardly any customers. “People are already scared to eat outside and then we have to shut down restaurants early. So there won’t be much crowd at the eateries for few days,” said Nitin Nanavaty, restaurateur and president of Vadodara Food Entrepreneurs. Though people didn’t dine out much on the first day, many eateries were abuzz with orders for takeaway food. “It is good that the shopping malls finally opened. We can now buy everything from one place. Of course, I wore face mask and ensured social distancing when inside the mall,’’ said Vaishnavi Vyas resident of OP Road. “People don’t want to sit close to each other and have food. So they are preferring takeaway food,” said owner of an eatery in Alkapuri. A similar view was echoed by Oniel Daniel, a restaurant owner. “Customers didn’t turn up much at our restaurant on the first day but we got many orders for takeaway food. We are hoping that Barodians will soon start dining out and our business will pick up,’’ added Oniel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/malls-restaurants-witness-thin-footfall-on-first-day/articleshow/76270901.cms||Tushar Tere
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Locals protest shifting of vegetable market||DEHRADUN: Residents of Dehradun’s Asthal village on Monday protested against shifting of vegetable market to Maldevta saying that the risk of Covid-19 transmission among area locals will increase significantly if outsiders are allowed into the locality for procuring supplies. The villagers and residents of adjoining areas gathered at a vegetable collection centre at Maldevta to oppose the move. Arti Khanna, gram pradhan of Asthal village, told TOI, “We will not allow outsiders to enter the area as it will put us all at risk. We do not have any issue with shifting of the vegetable market to Maldevta as such but we cannot allow this during Covid-19 crisis. Once this pandemic threat subsides, the Mandi Council can shift the vegetable market here.” Taking cognisance of the opposition by locals, the Mandi Council has now decided that they will put the shifting of the vegetable market on hold. Vijay Thapliyal, secretary of mandi council, told TOI, “We have postponed the proposed shifting. For the time being, Nanur Khera will be used as an alternative spot for procuring vegetables and supplying it across 100 wards of Dehradun.” Meanwhile, the official added that a meeting will be conducted on June 11 to decide on the opening of Niranjanpur Mandi, Dehradun’s main wholesale vegetable market. Notably, the market was shut after several traders were found infected with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-protest-shifting-of-vegetable-market/articleshow/76270024.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
June 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Rajya Sabha polls: Why Deve Gowda emerged consensus candidate||BENGALURU: Former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda is all set to enter Rajya Sabha for the second time in his nearly six-decade-long political career. The patriarch decided to file his nomination papers on Tuesday after he informally emerged the consensus candidate of all three major parties — BJP, Congress and JD(S). Sources said the 87-year-old was reluctant to contest as he was apprehensive about BJP fielding a third candidate to humiliate him. But the party chose to field only two nominees, probably to send out a message to the dominant Vokkaliga community — which Gowda belongs to — and consolidate its support base and make further inroads in the Congress and JD(S) bastion. BJP had forayed into the Vokkaliga heartland during last year’s Lok Sabha elections and bypolls. “It is a win-win situation for all three parties. By supporting Gowda’s candidature indirectly, BJP has managed to neutralise Congress’ effort to gain advantage by backing Gowda,” said a senior BJP leader. Congress has had its share of achievement as well. KPCC president DK Shivakumar, who’s looking to emerge out of shadows of the Gowdas — who are seen as champions of the Vokkaliga community — openly offered to support Gowda by transferring the party’s surplus votes apparently to woo back the community, which had deserted Congress under the previous regime of Dinesh Gundu Rao. This despite resistance from the Siddaramaiah camp. The biggest beneficiary of Gowda’s candidature is JD(S). Not only has the party managed to reclaim its voice nationally but has also been forced to join hands to get Gowda elected and save itself from the peril of getting extinct. JD(S) has been facing the danger of being disintegrated due to severe discontentment against the party leadership: Sources said several sitting MLAs were planning to defect en masse to Congress and BJP. If the party had fielded any candidate other than Gowda, sources said there were chances of MLAs cross-voting just to humiliate the leadership. An elated former chief minister and JD(S) floor leader HD Kumaraswamy took to Twitter to express his joy. He said Gowda’s candidature is crucial to boost the morale of party workers. “His presence in Parliament is needed in the present political situation prevailing in the country,” he added. Finally, @H_D_Devegowda respondend to everyone's hope and ambition. He will be the state's top representative in the Rajya Sabha.— H D Kumaraswamy (@hd_kumaraswamy) 1591596953000Gowda was RS member for two years when he was prime minister in 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rs-polls-why-deve-gowda-emerged-consensus-candidate/articleshow/76270483.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 9, 2020||Goa||Panaji, Porvorim malls open to lukewarm response||PANAJI: The two malls in Panaji and Porvorim wore a dreary look on the first day of reopening. Only a few stores were open for business and the otherwise bustling crowd usually associated with malls was missing. Ensuring precautions like body temperature checks with the help of hand-held thermal scanning devices, positioning santisers are various points inside the premises and mandating the wearing of masks, Goa’s two malls — the Caculo Mall and Mall de Goa — is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the safety of visitors is prioritised. Even the temperature inside the building is regulated to between 25 to 30 degrees to ensure that there is no over-cooling. At Mall de Goa, several shops are yet to open due to shortage of staff since many workers are said to have returned to their respective native places in Maharashtra. “These are people from Sawantwadi, Kankavli and Sindhudurg. They shop owners have been told to employ locals to cope with staff shortage,” said Madhur Boyar, who is part of the management team at Mall de Goa. The management has also changed the mall’s entry point to the parking lot access while the main entrance is being treated as the exit. At the Caculo mall, only 13 stores were open while the rest had to be non-operational due to delay from the brands’ side. “We have an average of 30 stores in the mall of which one is Timezone (the games arena) which has not been opened in keeping with MHA guidelines,” mall director, Shamik Caculo said. The sales staffers of the stores in the malls are ensuring that only a few people are allowed inside at a time. However, the lukewarm response from visitors on Monday put the staff through little to no stress. Day one of the reopening saw only those customers that had to make necessary purchases and was devoid of window shoppers and leisure visitors. Valad Bogmolo, a native of Russia staying in Palolem for the past 14 years, was one of them. “I had been waiting to buy new clothes,” he said. (Inputs from Rajtilak Naik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-porvorim-malls-open-to-lukewarm-response/articleshow/76272315.cms||Nida Sayed
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Jagtial man booked for offensive post on Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Cybercrime sleuths of Hyderabad registered a suo motu case against a Telangana man working in Dubai for putting up an offensive post against CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Facebook. Cybercrime ACP KVM Prasad said a case was registered against Panyala Raju under sections of Epidemic Diseases Act r/w 188 of IPC, 505(1)(b) and 469 of the IPC and 54 of the National Disaster Management Act. “We came to know about the false and offensive FB post on the CM on Monday morning. After a verification, we booked the case,” he said. During a preliminary probe, cops have found out that the offender is a native of Jagtial and working in Dubai. Police wrote to Facebook and got the post removed. TRS youth activists approached the cybercrime sleuths saying that they want to lodge a complaint against Raju for putting up the post on KCR and Covid-19. However, cops told them that they have already registered a case. Another group of youngsters from Cantonment area also lodged a complaint against the post. “Bowenpally police contacted us about a similar complaint and we informed them that a case has already been registered by us,” the ACP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagtial-man-booked-for-offensive-post-on-kcr/articleshow/76271220.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||T sees 92 new cases as another five succumb||Hyderabad: The state reported five deaths and 92 new coronavirus cases on Monday as health authorities sent 310 patients with mild or no symptoms to home quarantine. It will now begin a massive exercise to make space in government hospitals, anticipating a possible surge in cases. Health authorities said patients have been shifted after monitoring their health status for nearly two weeks. Taking the latest numbers, the total count of Covid-19 positive cases in the state rose to 3742 while the total death toll stands at 142. With the government opening malls, restaurants, hotels and religious places, health officials said they are staring at a spike in coronavirus cases in the coming days. “We are shifting patients who are below 50 years of age and have a provision for a separate room in their homes to home quarantine. Today (Monday), 310 patients who have no symptoms like fever, cough and cold have been shifted while 83 were shifted to Nature Cure hospital in Ameerpet,” said Dr M Rajarao, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. Two employees, including an employee in the finance department at the temporary secretariat in BRKR Bhavan tested positive for coronavirus. They have been sent to home quarantine. All officers and staff of the finance department on the seventh and eighth floor of the BRKR Bhavan were given the option to work from home. Samples of another two employees of other departments in the Secretariat, who had Covid-19 symptoms were sent for testing. Their results are awaited. However, the Secretariat in the BRKR Bhavan was not closed but was sanitized with officials and other staff continuing to work. (Additional reporting by Roushan Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-92-new-cases-as-another-five-succumb/articleshow/76271199.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Two more test positive for Covid-19||Coimbatore: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, including a 19-year-old nursing student in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and a 70-year-old retired government employee. Both have been admitted in ESI Hospital. Besides this, one more person who returned from Chennai via road, also tested positive. The 19-year-old second year student, who returned to the city from Moolanur in Tirupur on Friday, rejoined her nursing college in CMCH and was asked for her samples on June 6, along with 80 other students. On Sunday, she was told that she had tested positive and that she had to move from her quarantine room to ESI Hospital. Four others with a travel history have also tested positive for the virus.The student had gone to Moolanur for 10 days to spend time with her aged grandparents. “In Moolanur, we live in a secluded farm, and except some farm hands and people supplying groceries, we did not meet anyone or go anywhere, so I am still surprised,” she said. “Once I tested positive, officials said my source of infection is likely to be in Tirupur, so now I am just praying my grandparents are not infected,” she adds. Besides her, another positive case was a 37-year-old man working in Mylapore, Chennai, who returned via Coimbatore and was headed to Ooty before deciding to take a break at his in-laws’ place in NGGO Colony. When he developed a light fever, he got tested and was found positive on Monday. Another retired government employee who took a train from Mumbai to Trivandrum, and from Trivandrum to Coimbatore by car, tested positive at Walayar check-post. He was later contacted the next day and was brought to ESI Hospital.This apart, a 31-year-old mother and her four-year-old son who flew into the city on Sunday from Chennai, tested positive for the virus. They both are admitted in a private hospital.A family of five covid-19 patients, from Kallakurichi, are also getting treated at PSG Hospitals, besides Coimbatore arrivals. The health department has also begun testing railway arrivals and tested 140 people who returned from Katpadi by train on Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76272824.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Jackal dies after country bomb covered in animal fat explodes in its mouth||Trichy: In an incident reminiscent of the recent death of an elephant in Kerala which ate a cracker-filled coconut, a jackal in Trichy district died after a country bomb -- covered in animal fat -- exploded in its mouth.The Trichy police on Monday arrested 12 men for killing the jackal country bomb as a bait. The bomb exploded in the mouth of the jackal killing it on the spot. The jackal is a Schedule - I animal protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The arrested are identified as K Ramaraj, 21, I Saravanan, 25, R Yesudas, 34, R Sarath Kumar, 28, S Devadass, 41, R Pandian, 31, S Vijay Kumar, 38, A Sathyamurthy, 36, V Sarath Kumar, 26, P Raju, 45, M Pattampillai, 78 and P Rajamanickam, 70.Jeeyapuram deputy superintendent of police C Kokila told TOI that a police constable saw the 12 men at a tea shop near Mekkudi village with the carcass of the jackal in the afternoon. He nabbed all the accused and brought them to the police station. Kokila said the accused had set the bomb in the Jeeyapuram forest as a bait for the jackal. As soon as the jackal bit the bait assuming it to be a prey, the bomb exploded, killing it on the spot.All the arrested have been handed over to the Trichy forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/jackal-dies-after-country-bomb-covered-in-animal-fat-explodes-in-its-mouth/articleshow/76272313.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 9, 2020||Goa||Industry looks at tapping skilled Goan returnees||Panaji: As hundreds of Goans employed across the country and abroad return, Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) has asked its members to explore if the returning Goans can be hired to fill the rising number of vacancies in local manufacturing facilities. Local industrial units, though operational, face a shortage of manpower as many workers remain stranded in neighbouring states. With a skilled pool of workers returning to Goa due to the Covid-19 pandemic, local units may tap into this pool. “We have asked our members to try and recruit Goans who are coming back with skills. At the same time, we need to encourage those who are returning, especially from the hinterlands, to register themselves on the labour department’s live register on the Goa Online portal,” said GSIA president Damodar Kochkar. Colvale-based home appliance firm Crompton Greaves has been unable to restart production as 70 employees are from Sidhadurg and unable to come to work on a daily basis. Similarly, firms with confirmed orders are looking to increase their workforce and, with the migrant workforce gone, are willing to hire locally, Kochkar said. On June 4, chief minister Pramod Sawant said nearly 5,000 residents from Sindhadurg and Karwar districts have sought daily entry passes to come to work in Goa, which the state has yet to grant. Sawant urged local manufacturing facilities to hire locals, offering bus services for all shifts as an incentive. GSIA met with the transport department to work out the modalities for the bus service and as an initial step, has begun collecting data on the number of employees who travel from across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industry-looks-at-tapping-skilled-goan-returnees/articleshow/76272311.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable tests +ve for Covid-19||Hyderabad: With a 27-year-old e-cops constable from a police station in West Zone testing positive for coronavirus, samples of other police personnel from the station have been collected and sent for testing. Meanwhile, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths — who had visited the police station as a part of a probe and arrested a sub-inspector, were told to monitor their health for a week. The constable who tested positive had developed fever and cough three days before the results came out. “For two days, he was asked not to report for work and his samples were sent for testing. On Saturday night, his result returned as positive for Covid-19. The police station has already been sanitised,” said a senior official from the station. E-cops constables handle work related to electronic data at the police station which include uploading FIR details, recording e-statements, tracking movement of patrol vehicles and geo-tagging while also closing Dial-100 reports. An official in this line with writers, other constables and the on-duty SI. “After the constable tested positive, we collected samples of 10 cops working at the station and sent them for testing on Sunday night. Results are awaited,” said a police official. Five family members of the constable from Jawaharnagar have also been placed under isolation. Meanwhile, ACB officials who had visited Banjara Hills police station as part of their investigation into bribery case involving a Banjara Hills SI, have also taken precautions. “Those who visited the police station have been asked to monitor their health closely and consult a doctor if they notice any symptoms,” said an ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76271157.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||It’s dull business in Ooty, Coonoor||Udhagamandalam: There were not many takers for the restaurants that reopened in Ooty and Coonoor on Monday.Most of the restaurants attached to hotels were not functioning. Some were operated with minimum staff and catered to the customers from the villages located around the towns and attenders of patients in hospitals.Hotels are yet to gain confidence of town people, secretary of the Nilgiri Hoteliers’ and Restaurants’ Association N Chandrasekar said. “Business is dull on the first day of resuming operations. It is not even 30% of what it used to be. The situation is likely to prevail till the district sees an inflow of tourists. We cannot expect normal business at this time. It is a matter of gaining confidence,” he told TOI. “Restaurants in the town are maintaining hygiene and following the standard operative procedure. Staff work in shifts.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/its-dull-business-in-ooty-coonoor/articleshow/76272826.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Age doesn’t matter if one is committed: Mallikarjun Kharge||BENGALURU: Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge, 77, is all set to enter Rajya Sabha for the first time. The former Union minister filed his nomination papers on Monday as the party’s candidate from Karnataka for the June 19 polls. Popularly known as Solillada Saradara (the chieftain without defeat), Kharge hadn’t lost in direct elections till last year’s Lok Sabha polls. In an interview with TOI, he said backdoor entry gained by defeated leaders through the Upper House would do no harm to the country. Excerpts: This is your first foray into Rajya Sabha. How do you feel?After 47 years of serving people through direct elections, I was defeated. Naturally, I was hurt on being voted out by the people of Kalaburagi despite having done so much for development of Kalayana Karnataka region. However, I can’t blame them as they were mesmerised by the hype created about Modiji by the RSS and BJP. It would have been good if I was in the Lok Sabha but thanks to the party high command, I have been given an opportunity to serve in RS. Mine be a backdoor entry but I am happy I have a chance to serve. You sound like you are still keen on LS entry?I did not enter politics for a position or post. From a student leader to what I am today, it was the attitude of serving people that kept me going. However, in democracy, unless you get some position or an instrument to serve, you can’t do it. This (RS nomination) is not the end. I will use it to fight for the people and strengthen the party. After being opposition leader in LS, how do you foresee working under other senior leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad?Everybody in the party is a senior leader. But no one should forget it is a political party and I will abide by whatever the high command says. I have the greatest respect for Azad as he has worked in various posts. He, in fact, is one of the few to have travelled the length and breadth of the country as AICC secretary. You cannot unnecessarily compare one senior leader with another. RS has played a pivotal role in the country’s democracy and has a rich legacy. How do you look to play your new role?Very few people gave me a chance when I won LS elections for the first time. People questioned Madam (Sonia) Gandhi’s choice of a “madrasi” (south Indian) and then I became the opposition leader. I proved my worth and will learn my way into RS as well. Nothing is impossible. Congress and JD(S) have preferred elderly candidates from Karnataka unlike BJP. Do you think age matters?Age is no bar if you are fit and committed. The Congress has always chosen a mix of youth and experience. Former finance minister P Chidambaram and KC Venugopal are prime examples of this mix. The party has also weighed my candidature and what I bring to the table.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/age-doesnt-matter-if-one-is-committed-kharge/articleshow/76270512.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
June 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Gang war in Vijayawada: 11 more people held||VIJAYAWADA: In another breakthrough in the sensational gang war case, Vijayawada police arrested 11 more people involved in the clashes on Monday. Addressing a press conference, Harshavardhan Raja, deputy commissioner of police, said all the arrested belonged to Sandeep Thota’s gang. The accused were identified as Thota Jagadish (23), younger brother of Sandeep, Mekathoti Kiran Kumar (29), Akuradhi Venkata Shiva Raghunath (29) - both rowdysheeters from Mangalagiri, Pandi Vijay Prasad (32), a painter, Yerramsetti Ramu (21), Kandhela Shiva Ramakrishna (25), an MBA graduate who is presently unemployed, Goda Shiva (27), Kanna Sunil (30), a welder by profession, Chinta Sambasiva Rao (30), works at a lorry body workshop, Chanda Ram Nithin (24), a real estate broker and Jakka Ratna Sai, sales executive at a private truck manufacturing company. Cops said the accused were identified in the CCTV footage as well as the mobile footage of the clashes and ascertained that they were with Thota Sandeep who died during the clashes. Including these 11 youths, cops have so far arrested 24 persons on the charge of rioting. The DCP said all of them were seen fighting with the opposite party in the video footage and hurling big stones at them. These 11 accused were identified by Pandu’s gang members who were shown the video footage. When asked about the political angle to the case, Harshavardhan said: “So far we have found no political angle.” The two groups headed by Thota Sandeep and Manikanta alias Pandu who used to be on friendly terms went different ways over political affiliations and a dispute over a seven-cent land worth around Rs 2 crore in Yanamalakuduru. Pandu, who happens to be a small-time local TikTok star, was booked for murdering Sandeep and is currently receiving treatment at a private hospital with police security. The police said that there were more persons involved and more arrests were likely but clarified that the major players have been nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gang-war-in-vij-11-more-people-held/articleshow/76270028.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Hoteliers uncertain over regular business||Trichy: Resuming the dine-in business in the city on Monday, restaurants owners say that they are skeptical of getting good business in Trichy. As many as 50% of the restaurants started dine-in business as the city is limping back to near normalcy in the last one week. The restaurants witnessed customers coming in to done, though not in large numbers. President of Trichy District Hotel Association Guru Renganathan said that the association had around 150 restaurants registered in the city. “Around 50% of the restaurants opened the dine-in business on Monday. We were prepared to run the facility as per the guidelines of the government. The patronage of the customers can be ascertained only after one week of business,” Renganathan told ToI this morning. Apart from the registered restaurants, the city had nearly 500 food business operators including mess and road-side eateries. Yet, half of them were yet to resume their business, while some of them run the show with limited customers. Take-away service was functional in the restaurants but they limited their menu to five to ten items. “The take-away business also contributed very minimum to the turnover. The closure had also led to the interiors getting damaged due to rodenticides,” said Renganathan. Labourers of many restaurants returned to work looking for food and a minimum wage. Labourers in Sivagangai and Ramanathapuram also managed to reach Trichy by hitch-hiking to join work. Several restaurants assigned them duty on shift-basis. Food safety and drug administration department in Trichy was planning to inspect the restaurants. “Several restaurants are yet to open the business. We will soon inspect whether they follow the social distancing norms and hygiene,” designated officer Dr R Chithra told ToI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hoteliers-uncertain-over-regular-business/articleshow/76272325.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Vasco vehicles have to wait for HSRP||Panaji: Installation of the high security registration plates (HSRP) for Vasco-based vehicles will have to wait for a while. The bookings counter at the Vasco regional transport office (RTO) has been shut since last Tuesday after reports of Covid-19 infection emerged from the port town. “In this situation, everyone in Vasco is worried,” said director of transport Rajan Satardekar. Officially transport authorities have left it to the head of the RTO – the assistant director of transport – to discontinue the services, he said. Currently, appointments are only being given to vehicles in other jurisdictions. Dates for vehicles from the port town are being pushed to a further date. “We are in the process of sending out messages to Vasco-based vehicle owners that they will be informed of new fitting dates when operations resume,” said Kate Kayani, in-charge of HSRP installations all over Goa. Since most of the transport services have been given an extension till the end of July, other services at the Vasco RTO are also not likely to be affected, transport officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-vehicles-have-to-wait-for-hsrp/articleshow/76272326.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Velumani flays Stalin||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani hit back at DMK president M K Stalin after DMK decided to stage a series of protests against him.In a statement issued on Sunday, Velumani said that Stalin was levelling false charges against him as well as the AIADMK government. “Stalin is instigating his party workers to protest against me and has started instigating people also. But people of Tamil Nadu will teach him a lesson,” he said.Velumani’s statement comes in the wake of Stalin holding a video conference with party workers in Coimbatore on Sunday, where it was decided to stage protests against him. The video conference was held after scores of DMK men were arrested for staging a protest against Velumani on Friday, accusing him of muzzling criticism. The minister refuted the charges and said that Stalin could not digest the good work done by AIADMK and hence is levelling false accusations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/velumani-flays-stalin/articleshow/76272832.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Bungling of funds: Haryana State Vigilance Bureau raids BDPO’s office in Murthal||CHANDIGARH: Two months after suicide by a gram sachiv Surjit Kumar, a team of Haryana State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) on Monday raided the office of the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) of Murthal in Sonipat district. The sleuths took away records related to funds, which were allegedly bungled with the connivance of panchayati raj contractors and officials in the name of development works in a few villages across the state. Preliminary investigations had hinted at bungling worth Rs 5 crore. Surjeet Kumar, a gram sachiv of Murthal block had committed suicide by hanging in the office of his friend in the first week of April. In a suicide note, Surjeet had blamed the then BDPO Manish Malik for driving him to suicide. Surjeet had alleged that Munish had forced him to sign certain documents related to development works and purchases which had been done in violation of rules and a lot of money had been withdrawn from banks in connivance with bank officials. Acting on the complaint of Surjeet’s brother, a case of abetment to commit suicide had been registered. At the same time, the case regarding funds was referred to the vigilance wing of panchyati raj department as well as the Vigilance Bureau. Sources said panchayats which have now come under the scanner included Dhatoori, Sanpeda, Hasanpur, Kaami, Pipli Khera, Tikola and Malikpur. Except for Malikpur, gram sachivs of rest of the panchayats have already been placed under suspension and the panchayat representatives too are facing probe. They have also deposited Rs 2 crore in panchayat funds after they were indicted for embezzlement during the preliminary probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/bungling-of-funds-vb-raids-bdpos-office-in-murthal/articleshow/76271246.cms||Manvir Saini
June 9, 2020||Mysuru||New library with 49k books opens in Madikeri||MADKERI: District minister V Somanna on Friday inaugurated the new government library having a collection of 49,000 books. A digital library equipped with four computers, which give readers access to 1.50 lakh books online, was also inaugurated on the occasion. The new facility, located at Industrial Estate here, was necessitated following the closure of the old library located in the fort premises in response to a request by the archaeological department. District librarian Leelavathi said that they awaiting some more books to the collection. Public library director Satishkumar Hosamani said that anyone can become a member of www.karnatakadigitalpibliclibrary. General books, educational ones, including study material for CBSE, IAS and IPS, can be read free of cost. Digital libraries have come in 272 public libraries in different taluks and districts, he explained. “Readers can download E-Sarvajanika Granthalaya app on their smartphone and get access to over 1.5 lakh ebooks of various genres. The app is accessible only in Karnataka, and there are over 1 lakh subscribers in the state, including 1,359 in Kodagu alone. The government has collaborated with Mintbook (private company) for the purpose,” said Aashish, project manager of Mintbook. MP Prathap Simha. MLA Appachu Ranjan, MLC Sunil Subramani, Veena Achaiah and DC Annies K Joy were present. Madikeri Green City Forum planted seedlings in the library premises on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/new-library-with-49k-books-opens-in-madikeri/articleshow/76248960.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Metal Amman idol unearthed near Thanjavur district||Thanjavur: A 0.75-foot Amman idol, made up of metal, was unearthed near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Monday. According to the revenue officials, workers who were engaged in the construction of a bridge across Arasalaru to connect Krishnapuram-Sembiyavarambal villages found an idol while digging the earth. On information, village administration officer Sivakumar informed Thiruvidaimaruthur tahsildar and handed over the idol to the tahsildar office. Only after examining of the idol, the exact period of the idol and the material it is made of can be determine,the officer said. Natchiyarkoil police registered a case and an inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/metal-amman-idol-unearthed-near-thanjavur-district/articleshow/76272319.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Restaurants get lukewarm response||Coimbatore: Restaurants that resumed dine-in service after more than two months of crippling lockdown witnessed low footfall on Monday.The low footfall was anticipated, said Jagan Damodarasamy, executive director of Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar Hotels Private Limited. “We are hopeful that the business will gain pace in the coming days. The entire day’s business was just 30% of what we used to get before the lockdown.”Restaurants functioned with 40 to 50% of the workforce, Damodarasamy said. “We are planning to bring in workers from other districts in a phased manner. We hope that guest workers will return by July,” he said.Some of the main reasons for the low footfall is the financial condition of people and health concerns, said M Sivakumar, secretary of the Coimbatore District Hoteliers Association. “The business will revive only when the economy revives. The government should intervene to revive it. It might take up to a year to attain normalcy.” “The business loss will have a cascading effect on society. We will not be able to procure vegetables and fruits without making revenue, which will affect farmers. We will not be able to pay rent for buildings. We will not be able to pay our staff. The situation will lead to job losses,” Sivakumar said.The government had allowed restaurants to resume service with 50% occupancy and issued a set of guidelines. The guidelines include measures like maintaining social distancing, cleanliness, thermal screening and recording details of customers.Saibaba Colony resident Muthu Kumar was relieved that restaurants were open. “We were allowed to enter only after cleaning hands with sanitiser and recording body temperature. They showed us how they are handling products that come from outside. So, we feel safe to dine at restaurants,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/restaurants-get-lukewarm-response/articleshow/76272831.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Man, son arrested for attacking cop||Coimbatore: Police arrested a father-son duo for attacking a constable at Karumathampatti on Sunday night.They were identified as K Sakthivel, 47, a truck driver and his son S Praveenkumar, 24, of Umanath Colony at Karumathampatti. “Sakthivel’s younger brother K Arumugam is staying with his family on Elachipalayam Road in Karumathampatti. He has been taking care of his parents. There was previous enmity between Sakthivel and Arumugam over a family property. On Sunday around 7pm, Sakthivel and Praveenkumar, who were under the influence of alcohol, visited Arumugam and fought with him. The duo damaged a glass window before returning. Arumugam’s wife lodged a complaint at the Karumathampatti police station,” a police officer said.“Sakthivel and Praveenkumar abused constable Panneerselvam who arrived at their home to investigate the incident. They also attacked him and threatened him with dire consequences,” he said.Sub-inspector Aravindhkumar arrested Sakthivel and Praveenkumar and booked them under sections 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and section 4 (1) (j) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, 1937.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-son-arrested-for-attacking-cop/articleshow/76272829.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Restaurants resume service, but many patrons wary of dining in||PANAJI: Reopening of restaurants after two and a half months has not been easy. With citizens a bit wary of dining out in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, many restauranteurs kept their premises closed except in the main centres of the state. Not surprisingly, the ones that opened on Monday only received a trickle of entries instead of the regular full house. One of the most popular breakfast places in the city, Café Tato saw approximately 15 sit-downs on Monday morning. Pranav Dhuri who manages the café said that about 300-400 people on an average would be otherwise walking in between 8 and 11am in the pre-lockdown era. “The rise in cases in the past week may have instilled fear in people and they probably don’t want to risk going out,” he said. Some of the outlets of Hotel Sheetal, known for its vegetarian food, are ready to let people sit and eat but customers themselves have been insisting of collecting parcels instead. Café Real started with 50 seating capacity and saw some office-goers grab a quick bite before work. “We have received good response from our guests due to the trust and patronage they repose in us,” the proprietor said. While some of them opened their doors for dining-in, others are still skeptical and are continuing with takeaways. Gastronut – a popular joint frequented by the youth kept its restaurant area sealed but allowed buyers to enter the premises to purchase gelato. “We are still givin takeaways. We don’t want to take a risk. Even if we start, we will open only the ground floor for seating,” said Shahrukh Harjee, the restaurant owner. President of Goa Hotel and Restaurant Association, Gaurish Dhond said that less than 25% restaurants opened. People who had staff managed to open the restaurant for public while those who didn't have enough manpower had to continue to function with only the kitchens open. Owing to lockdown restrictions, the deadline has been set at 9pm. “We haven’t opened our restaurants as we are short of manpower. We had a mix of Uttarakhand, UP, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and Karnataka staff,” manager of Sher-e-Punjab said. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that restaurants that istend to reopen soon and require sanitisation can contact the CCP. CCP inspectors will visit restaurants across the city on Tuesday, he added. Almost all hoteliers in Quepem and Sanguem town declined entry to customers and continued with the usual takeaway system. “We will take the decision when to open our hotels in consultation with all the owners. We are united and will fight to keep away the virus from Quepem,” said a hotel owner. Hotel owners in Sanguem saidt it is better to continue with the takeaway system since one positive case has been detected in Mugolli. In Mapusa as well, despite most restaurants opening on Monday, owners said the response was lukewarm. They said that people who visited their restaurants preferred to take parcels rather than dining in. (With inputs from Denver D’Souza and Johnny M)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restaurants-resume-service-but-many-patrons-wary-of-dining-in/articleshow/76272320.cms||Nida Sayed
June 9, 2020||Noida||It’s time to recognise team work keeping societies safe||Tough times like these bring people together. Since March, when all of us have been trying to adjust to the uncertainties cast on us by the onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have sought to find ways to keep ourselves safe, individually and collectively. And remain as cheerfully occupied as possible. The cities we live in draw their identities from the many societies and condominiums that are home to working women and corporate professionals, teachers and doctors, tech entrepreneurs and social workers, the young and old. And since the beginning of the lockdown, residents across Noida and Ghaziabad have endeavoured to do their bit to look out for each other, acting as a community to safety protocols are followed by everyone. Balconies have transformed into concert stages even as conscientious citizens have kept the Roti Bank rolling in service of those less fortunate. And millions of people have stayed united by staying at home, keeping up social distancing and wearing masks to keep each other safe. Team efforts like this are inspiring and need to be celebrated. This is what #MySocietyPride, a TOI initiative, intends to do. Tell us about the welfare measures your society has implemented during the lockdown, and we will feature the best ones in the Times of India. Scan the QR code or visit www.toi.in/mysocietypride to share details. And while we would all be thrilled to welcome back the Noida and Ghaziabad we know, it looks as if we’ll have to treat this journey as a Test match, rather than a Twenty20 game. Still, societies can draw on the lessons of these last three months and prepare for a future that can be as happily eventful as our past. May the team spirit prevail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/its-time-to-recognise-team-work-keeping-societies-safe/articleshow/76272574.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 50,000 Covid-19 cases, records most deaths in a day (64)||MUMBAI: On a day the city started limping back to normalcy with BEST buses resuming services, Mumbai crossed 50,000 Covid-19 cases. With the addition of 1,311 fresh cases on Monday, Mumbai’s case tally reached 50,085, three months after the virus arrived here. The city also recorded its highest deaths in a day, 64, taking its overall toll to 1,702. Maharashtra logged 2,553 cases and 109 deaths. The city now contributes nearly 57% of the state’s caseload. If Mumbai were a country, it would be occupying the 22nd spot in the global Covid-19 chart today. Countries like South Africa and Sweden have fewer cases than Mumbai, which since May 31, has added over 10,000 new cases to its tally. In fact, nearly a quarter of the state’s 88,528 cases have come in the first eight days of June. Maharashtra added 2,553 new cases on Monday, surpassing China with a margin of 5,000 cases at least. In the past eight days, the state has added 20,876 cases to its tally. Maharashtra added 109 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 3,169. Of the deaths, according to the public health department, 32 are from the last two days while the other 77 are from the period May 3 to June 5. Seventy deaths or 64% are from the Mumbai region. Of the 50,085 cases in Mumbai, 263,45 are currently active. Of the 88,528 cases in the state, 44,374 are currently under treatment. The city took 33 days to jump from 10,000 to 50,000 cases. Rising deaths in the city have emerged as a cause for concern, though. The city has seen 423 deaths in the first eight days of June. One of the deans said deaths have started reducing at the tertiary hospitals. “There are still delays in patients reaching hospital. But largely deaths are on a slide in Nair and KEM hospitals,” he said. The previous single-day highest deaths seen in the city was 61 on Sunday. The case fatality rate for Mumbai and Maharashtra continues to be under 4%, though numbers for June have seen a jump. Civic officials said they are anticipating a spurt in cases over the next 8-10 days since several offices and shops have opened from Monday. It said that for better bed management, the job of allocation has been decentralised and assigned to ward war rooms. “For effective and faster bed allotment, 24 ward war rooms have been activated,” it said in a statement. Those who do not have symptoms or are mildly symptomatic and are under home isolation will also be monitored by the ward teams for the next 15 days. Allotment of ambulances too will be managed at ward levels. Every ward level war room will have extra telephone lines, which will be managed in three shifts by doctors, supporting staff, teachers and students. A team of 10-12 people will be working in the war rooms. Meanwhile, rate of recovery of the state is seeing a steady rise, with 1,611 people discharged on Monday. The total number of people discharged crossed the 40,000 mark, reaching 40,975.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-crosses-50k-cases-records-most-deaths-in-a-day-64/articleshow/76272328.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 9, 2020||Goa||Keri locals impose 4-day lockdown||Pic: Afaq Khan (Keri-Lockdown-Afaq in NG 3) 190 words Valpoi: Alarmed over reports of two coronavirus cases in Sattari taluka, Keri residents have voluntarily imposed a four-day lockdown in the villege from Monday. Keri sarpanch Govind Gawas said the villagers have decided to self-isolate and not move out from their homes, even going to the extent of closing shops in order to curb the transmission of Covid-19. In view of the lockdown, villagers have stocked up on essential supplies. “As Covid positive cases have been detected in neighbouring Morle and Guleli villages, Keri locals as well as the panchayat have unanimously decided for a lockdown,” Gawas said. Panchayat member Laxman Gawas told TOI that the villagers have decided not to allow vehicles passing along the Goa-Karnataka highway to halt in Keri. Devendra Gawas, a resident, said that government staff working in the health and police departments will continue with their duties. However, those employed in the private sector have decided not to attend till Thursday, he said. “Only banks and medical stores are functioning in the village. Depending on the prevailing situation, the villagers may extend the lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keri-locals-impose-4-day-lockdown/articleshow/76272334.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Farmer electrocuted in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: A 47-year-old farmer was electrocuted after coming in contact with a snapped high tension live wire in Thanjavur on Monday. The wire was found lying on his agriculture land. According to police, the victim has been identified as R Arumugam, a native of Manikiran Street near Thaligai Viduthi in Thiruvonam in the district. He was on the way to his agriculture land to carry out preparatory works for kuruvai cultivation on Monday morning when the incident took place. He died on the spot and on information, victim's family members and relatives rushed to the spot and informed Thiruvonam police. Police conducted an inquiry and sent the body to the government hospital in Orathanadu. Arumugam is survived by his wife A Sumathi and a son and daughter, police said. Police registered a case and further inquiries are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-electrocuted-in-thanjavur/articleshow/76272340.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Kin seeks help to bring body from Scotland||Trichy: Relatives of a 33-year-old software engineer who died in Scotland two weeks ago have appealed the Ministry of External Affairs to do the needful to bring his body to their native in Ariyalur district, as the deceased's wife and 2-year-old daughter have been struggling alone there as there no rescue flight has been operated to airlift them to India. In a letter forwarded to the Prime Minister of India by R Karthikeyan, elder brother of deceased R Vinoth, a native of Udayanatham village in Udayarpalayam taluk in the district, he stated that his brother Vinoth died of cardiac arrest on May 23 in Edinburgh in Scotland. The family members in Udayanatham were running pillar to post since his death to bring his body and family to their native for performing last rites and cremation. When contacted, R Karthikeyan told TOI that the authorities from both external affairs in India and from Indian embassy in Scotland had informed that they have taken efforts to do the needful to airlift the body and his wife Revathi and daughter Kavinaya by Air India Express scheduled to arrive in Bangalore on June 18. Meanwhile, authorities from the company where Vinoth had been working for more than 12 years stated they were taking every effort to airlift the body via Qatar within a few days. “As of now one of my brother’s friends is taking care of the deceased family, as per our request. So, the government should take steps to bring them India as soon as possible,” said Karthikeyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kin-seeks-help-to-bring-body-from-scotland/articleshow/76272333.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 9, 2020||Bareilly||PTR officials rush to protect tigress as farmers try to kill it||Pilibhit: Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) officials had to scramble on Monday morning to protect an adolescent tigress that has strayed out of Mala range from the wrath of Richhaula village farmers. The farmers armed with swords and other weapons had gathered around a maize field intent on killing it. The tigress had on Sunday afternoon attacked and injured two farmers of the village, merely 800 meters from the core forest area.“The divisional forest officer, forest and wildlife division, Sanjeev Kumar, who reached the spot, somehow managed to convince the farmers to leave, promising that forest authorities will not budge till the tigress is either caged or tranquilized and translocated to another part of the forest," said H. Rajamohan, field director of PTR.A police force was also called for protecting the tigress and forest personnel present at the spot, he said.A team from Kanpur zoo has arrived in Pilibhit to assist in the operation. Chief conservator of forest, of Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma said, “The rescue team may tranquilize the two-and-half-year-old big cat on the spot if the need arises for which emergency permission from the chief wildlife warden of UP will be obtained.”Rajamohan said a cage had been placed in the field with a live bait on Sunday night but the tigress could not be trapped. The tigress, said the foresters, is trying to mark a part of rural stretch adjoining the core forest area as its territory and, therefore, keeps returning there. This has led to a man-tiger conflict zone, they added.Last year on July 23, an adult tigress was poisoned and brutally beaten to death in PTR's Deoria forest range by villagers of Mateina village, under Puranpur police station, for killing a buffalo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-officials-rush-to-protect-tigress-as-farmers-try-to-kill-it/articleshow/76266874.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Keri locals impose 4-day lockdown||Pic: Afaq Khan (Keri-Lockdown-Afaq in NG 3) 190 words Valpoi: Alarmed over reports of two coronavirus cases in Sattari taluka, Keri residents have voluntarily imposed a four-day lockdown in the villege from Monday. Keri sarpanch Govind Gawas said the villagers have decided to self-isolate and not move out from their homes, even going to the extent of closing shops in order to curb the transmission of Covid-19. In view of the lockdown, villagers have stocked up on essential supplies. “As Covid positive cases have been detected in neighbouring Morle and Guleli villages, Keri locals as well as the panchayat have unanimously decided for a lockdown,” Gawas said. Panchayat member Laxman Gawas told TOI that the villagers have decided not to allow vehicles passing along the Goa-Karnataka highway to halt in Keri. Devendra Gawas, a resident, said that government staff working in the health and police departments will continue with their duties. However, those employed in the private sector have decided not to attend till Thursday, he said. “Only banks and medical stores are functioning in the village. Depending on the prevailing situation, the villagers may extend the lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keri-locals-impose-4-day-lockdown/articleshow/76272339.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Noida||Before you enter a temple in Noida, read notice board||NOIDA: On the very first day of places of worship opening up after lockdown, many of the major temples across Noida opened their doors for devotees on Monday. Most of the masjids and churches remained closed. Many of these temples have started the option of online donation, while some that are yet to open are preparing to provide the option of offerings via Paytm and through net banking. Baba Balak Nath Temple in Sector 62, Sanatan Dharm Mandir in Sector 19 and Parsvnath Digambar Jain Temple in Sector 50 opened their doors for devotees on Monday, but others like the Sai Mandir in Sector 61 kept shut for lack of preparations. Many temple management said they are preparing notice boards to explain guidelines, including removal of shoes inside vehicles and no offerings of prasad. “Around 40 people visited the temple on the first day. We have placed a sanitiser at the entrance and all the bells of the temple have been tied so that no one can touch them. We have also put a pandit and two devotees on duty for ensuring that all those coming to the temple have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app,” Acharya Rohit of the Baba Balak Nath Temple Trust told TOI. “We have kept both options of offering open for devotees. They can either put offerings in the donation box and if someone wants to give offerings online, they can deposit money in the bank account of the Baba Balak Nath Sidh Peeth Foundation Trust,” he added. RK Sharma, trustee of the Shirdi Sai Global Foundation, said, “We will place an instructions board outside. We have also decided to start offerings via Paytm or through netbanking in the bank account.” The temple will open on Wednesday. Meanwhile, most of the masjids remained shut as they fell in the containment zones of sectors 8,9, 30, 78 and 45. The churches too remained shut as most of the chief priests have ordered that they would not hold congregations till June 30. The Sector 18 gurudwara opened on Monday, and as many as 100 devotees visited the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/before-you-enter-a-temple-in-city-read-notice-board/articleshow/76272410.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 9, 2020||Goa||Only final exam for BEd students: Goa University||PANAJI: The Goa University has decided not to hold semester-end assessment for first-year regular students of the BEd programme in affiliated colleges for the academic year 2019-20. The students will be graded based on the marks scored by them in the internal assessment during the academic year, GU registrar Y V Reddy has said in a circular. The final year BEd exam and repeat/supplementary exam will be conducted from July 1, the circular states. No student should be detained from moving to the next semester and they should be later given more opportunities to improve their grades, the GU has said. Similarly, in another circular issued on Monday, Reddy has said that semester-end examinations for second semester students of the BPEd programme offered at Don Bosco College, Panaji, will not be held for the current academic year 2019-20. “The students shall be graded based on the marks scored by them in the intra semester assessment (ISA). The practical examination component shall be held by viva voce examinations. There is no ISA for BPEd semester II students in practical,” GU has said.For these students too, the final examination and repeat examination of lower semester will be conducted from July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-final-exam-for-bed-students-goa-university/articleshow/76272370.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Doon DM sent notice over Covid-19 outbreak in Niranjanpur Mandi||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Human Rights Commission has issued a notice to Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava seeking a report on the alleged negligence in the handling of the Covid-19 outbreak at the Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi. The move comes after the body received a complaint in this regard by a social activist on June 2. DM Srivastava has been asked to submit his response on the issue before September 14. Bhupinder Kumar, the activist who filed the complaint, has alleged that the mandi chairperson didn’t make any effort to get the sellers tested for Covid-19 after the first positive case surfaced in the market on May 21. “Even after the mandi secretary's direction on May 26 asking officials to get every trader tested, no action was taken. As a consequence, we are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases across Dehradun. Additionally, vegetables have been sold to city residents by these infected vegetable sellers putting the entire population at risk,” added Kumar. The mandi, which has reported 32 Covid-19 cases so far, has been sealed till June 11. Meanwhile, Vijay Thapliyal, secretary of mandi council, told TOI that there is a very high probability that sellers got infected from truck drivers coming from states like Punjab, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-sent-notice-over-covid-19-outbreak-in-niranjanpur-mandi/articleshow/76270079.cms||Shivani Azad
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Rescue flight from Ethiopia capital likely||TRICHY: Ethiopian Airlines has proposed to operate a rescue flight from Addis Ababa to airlift Indian nationals including Tamils who are stranded in Congo following the Covid-19 outbreak. The rescue flight would airlift people mostly from Tamil Nadu who are stranded in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi in Congo. The flight is likely to depart from Addis Ababa on June 10 and reach Trichy International Airport at 9.55am on June 11, sources said. The Indian Embassy in Kinshasa has taken the initiative and working on getting necessary permissions from the governments of Congo and India. The Ethiopian airline will also operate one more rescue flight to Delhi the same day. Several Tamils are working in in various fields, particularly in teaching and also in the accounts department. Many are working as labourers too, a functionary from a travel federation said. Meanwhile, Air India Express will operate outbound services from Trichy airport to various destinations including Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. As per a decision taken by Air India Express, citizens of the destination country with a green card, Indian nationals who are holding visa of that country with minimum residual validity of the three months can apply. An Indian national with a confirmed offer of employment or internship or admission in an educational institution can be allowed with visa of that country. The carrier will operate five services to Singapore from the Trichy International Airport on June 12, 14, 15 (two services) and June 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ethiopian-air-to-operate-rescue-flight/articleshow/76272359.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Keri goes silent as locals impose 14-day lockdown||VALPOI/KERI: Alarmed over reports of Covid-19 cases in Sattari taluka, Keri residents have voluntarily imposed a 14-day lockdown in the village beginning from Monday. In Shiroli-Keri where Covid-19 cases have been detected, villagers have decided to observe a 14-day lockdown. Some cases have been found in Morle, too. Keri sarpanch Govind Gawas said the villagers have decided to self-isolate, even going to the extent of closing shops. In view of the lockdown, villagers have stocked up on essential supplies. “As Covid positive cases have been detected in neighbouring Morle and Guleli villages, Keri locals as well as the panchayat have unanimously decided for a lockdown,” Gawas said. Panchayat member Laxman Gawas told TOI that the villagers have decided not to allow vehicles passing along the Goa-Karnataka highway to halt in Keri. Devendra Gawas, a resident, said that government staff working in the health and police departments will continue with their duties. However, those employed in the private sector have decided not to attend till Thursday, he said. “Only banks and medical stores are functioning in the village,” he said. Health officials visited Keri and Morle on Monday and took necessary precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keri-goes-silent-as-locals-impose-14-day-lockdown/articleshow/76272346.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 9, 2020||Bhopal||Delhiite’s frantic trip to Bhopal for coronavirus treatment is too late||BHOPAL: Turned away by five hospitals, a Delhiite made a desperate 800km train trip to Bhopal on Saturday to save his life, but it was far too late. He got admission immediately, but died early Sunday morning, sending authorities scrambling to track down his co-passengers on the train and his contacts here. Authorities in Bhopal wonder how a man with fullblown Covid infection and 103-degree fever got past screening in Delhi and Bhopal. His 18-year-old son, who is in Bhopal, preparing for competitive exams, said his mother had a severe asthmatic attack and collapsed at their Mayur Vihar home in Delhi on Sunday on learning of the death. His 15-year-old sister had a nightmare getting her admitted while struggling to cope with the loss of their father. After being turned away by one hospital, she was taken in by a private hospital in Noida’s Sector 11. The 42-year-old was cremated in Bhopal on Sunday. “I sent tweets and e-mails to the Delhi CM and health minister and even the PMO, but in the end we lost,” said the boy. According to the son, his father began showing Covid infection symptoms on May 29. “He was quite aware of the disease and went to a local health centre where he was given paracetamol and sent home. Then, he went to GTB Hospital and requested for Corona test but the hospital refused,” said the boy, who lives in a hostel in Bhopal. The family has several close relatives here. Father turned away from 5 hospitalsOver the next week, his father went to five hospitals, only to be turned away by each of them, the teenager told TOI. No one heeded his pleas to be tested. By then, his family was getting desperate. “I made more than 50 calls and several emails to hospitals to have him at least tested. My father’s health started deteriorating. As a last resort, I asked him to come to Bhopal. He arrived at 6.30am on Saturday by Bhopal Express. I took him directly to JP Hospital from where he was referred to Hamidia Hospital,” he said. Within two hours of admission, the patient was diagnosed with Covid-19. He died the next day. The daughter tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and has been advised home quarantine. Her mother is negative. On Monday, the health department and railways initiated a massive contact tracing exercise. Around 50 possible close contacts have been identified, said an official, wondering how the patient passed Covid screening. “He had visible symptoms of distress, yet it did not raise alarm bells at Delhi or Bhopal railway stations,” said an official. His family says he took Covid-19 precautions and followed social distancing during his journey. “Even here, instead of getting into his brother’s car, he went to hospital by auto. He didn’t even hug his son who he was meeting after a year,” said a family member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/delhiites-frantic-trip-to-bhopal-for-corona-treatment-is-too-late/articleshow/76272350.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Convalescence kits given to recovered Covid-19 patients||TRICHY: The department of Indian medicine and homeopathy department, in Trichy on Monday, provided a convalescence kit comprising siddha medicines and taught few yoga exercises to the recently-recovered Covid-19 patients to help them gain physical and mental strength. Dean of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), Dr K Vanitha gave away the kit containing a pack of 100 Amukkara tablets and a 250g pack of Nellikai Legiyam, to 14 patients, who were discharged from the hospital after their recovery from Covid-19 on Monday. Adults can take two tablets of Amukkara two times a day with milk after food, while around 5-10g of legiyam can be taken twice a day after food. The kit was a part of the Arokiyam scheme launched by Tamil Nadu government to fight Covid-19 outbreak. Though the scheme had been announced already, the kit arrived only now. The hospital has already discharged 86 recovered Covid-19 patients so far, without the kits. District siddha medical officer (DSMO), Trichy Dr S Kamaraj said that Amukkara tablet will improve stamina while nellikai legiyam is rich in Vitamin C and will act as an immunity booster. Assistant siddha medical officer Dr M Vathsala, who was also part of the government siddha practitioners' team for the programme spoke on the importance of recovered patients keeping immunized post discharge. “The recovered patients may be under the impression that they may not require medication. Despite recovery, they should self-quarantine at their houses, using separate food plate, rest room etc, besides taking the Amukkara and nellikai legiyam and the doctor-prescribed medicines for at least one month,” Vathsala told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/convalescence-kits-given-to-recovered-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76272349.cms||Gokul R
June 9, 2020||Goa||‘High-risk patients won’t be shifted out of Covid hosp’||Panaji: Asymptomatic Covid patients who fall in the high-risk category will not be transferred from the Covid hospital in Margao to the Covid care centre at Shiroda. Children, pregnant women and senior citizens with comorbidities will not be shifted out of the Covid hospital in Margao, deputy director health services, Dr Ira Almeida said. The 220-bedded Covid hospital has a dedicated paediatric ward with a specialised team of paediatricians and obstetricians as well as its own ICU. Once detected positive, the asymptomatic patients are taken directly to the 60 bedded-Covid care centre at Shiroda, while the symptomatic are taken to the Covid hospital. “In case of any doubt, the asymptomatic patients will be taken to the Covid hospital and assessed by a physician before a decision is taken,” Almeida said. While the first family brought in from Mangor Hill were symptomatic, the others who tested positive from the area after them were largely asymptomatic. “It is because the family was symptomatic that they came to the hospital and were detected. Had they been asymptomatic, they wouldn’t have been detected,” an official said. Health secretary Nila Mohanan on Sunday had said that asymptomatic Covid persons were being shifted to the Shiroda primary health centre (PHC) which has been now designated as a Covid care centre, while the symptomatic ones who required medical attention would continue to be accommodated at the covid hospital in Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-risk-patients-wont-be-shifted-out-of-covid-hosp/articleshow/76272373.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: No notice to 67 sugar mills that owe Rs 1,162 crore to farmers||KOLHAPUR: Despite the cane crushing season coming to an end in Maharashtra, half of the sugar factories in the state have not paid farmers as per the fair remunerative price (FRP) and are yet to clear outstanding dues to the tune of Rs 1,162 crore. Data released by the sugar commissioner’s office shows that of the 142 sugar mills which had been granted licences for cane crushing in the discal 2019-20 and owed farmers a total of Rs 10,733 crore, 75 factories have expended Rs 9,577.38 crore to pay farmers as per the FRP. Officials in the sugar commissioner’s office said that 67 sugar factories have made partial payment to the farmers. While 24 of the 67 factories have cleared upto 80-99% of the payments, 28 factories have released 59% of the total bill payment. However, the state government has not served notice to a single factory even after the crushing season. During the last crushing season, the government had served notices to almost 100 sugar factories for violating the Sugarcane Control Act, which mandates that farmers be paid within 15 days after the cane is taken to the factories for crushing. Sources in the sugar industry said that the government had not taken any action this year in view of the nationwide lockdown, which has affected every industry. Several factories had finished crushing before the lockdown came into effect. The sugar industry is a little relieved as the current dispensation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi at the state is favourably disposed towards the sector. Sugar factories in the state had crushed 501 lakh metric tonne of cane during the crushing season in 2019-20. Maharashtra manufactures around 558.49 lakh quintal of sugar every year. Over 940.60 lakh metric tonne of cane had been crushed by the end of 2018-19 fiscal. Factories had to shell out Rs 21,934 crore to pay farmers as per the FRP. Sources in the sugar industry point out that the sector had been badly affected considering the total cane crushed and the FRP generated. Half of industry was badly hit due to drought in Marathwada and excess rainfall in western Maharashtra last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-notice-to-67-sugar-mills-that-owe-rs-1162cr-to-farmers/articleshow/76268922.cms||Satyajit Joshi
June 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt to run ‘surrendered’ liquor shops from today||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government will on Tuesday take over liquor shops, whose licences were surrendered by contractors in the ongoing standoff, and run them until the process of re-tendering is over. On Monday night, excise commissioner Rajeev Chandra Dube issued directives to district collectors to “start the process of running the shops”. The excise department wants home guards to assist in this. More than 70% contractors have surrendered their licence, said Rahul Jaiswal, spokesman of the association of liquor contractors of MP. Most licences in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur Dewas, Khandwa, Mandsaur, Burhanpur, Balaghat, Chhindwara and Betul, and about 50% in Seoni, Narsinghpur, Tikamgarh, Rewa, Satna, Dindori, Morena, Bhind and Shivpuri have been given up, say liquor traders. “These districts generate over 70% of the total excise revenue of Rs 10,600 crore,” said Jaiswal. “We will not allow revenue loss to the government. This is an old practice. We were already running a liquor shop in Khargone,” said the excise commissioner on Monday. “It will take 15-30 days to complete the process of retendering. Till then, the excise department will run the shops,” said Dube. The standoff started in early May when the government ordered liquor shops to be opened but contractors refused. The traders demand that the government slash excise duty by about 25%. They say liquor shops that opened after the government’s order on May 5 saw almost 60% drop in sales because of reasons related to Coronavirus. As the government insisted on opening shops in Bhopal and Indore, 30 contractors moved high court. In interim orders earlier this week, the court restrained the government from taking coercive action against the contractors. It also asked contractors who want to operate the shops to intimate the government by June 8. The next hearing is on June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-govt-to-run-surrendered-liquor-shops-from-today/articleshow/76272375.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Cong threatens stir, wants Vasco sealed to fight virus||Panaji: Issuing an ultimatum to the state government, Congress on Sunday threatened to hold a ‘rasta roko’ protest if the BJP-led state government did not impose a complete lockdown in Vasco to rein in the Covid-19 cases. In a letter to the chief secretary Parimal Rai and health secretary Nila Mohanan, the party said it would hold protests right from Canacona to Pernem. The party has not specified a date for the protests, with a senior party functionary saying that it would not be done in the coming days. “Goa Pradesh Congress Committee demands complete lockdown in Vasco town where more than 200 cases of Covid-19 have been reported till date, and if the government continues to ignore the situation then the cases will increase and the situation may be worse,” said the party’s youth president Varad Mardolkar. The party has suggested that all the borders should be sealed and only essential commodities should be allowed in. “The borders must be equipped with all the facilities like thermal gun, OPD centres and all other medical amenities. All the vehicles carrying essential commodities, the drivers of those vehicles should strictly be checked and permitted to carry and distribute commodities,” said party spokesperson Agnel Fernandes. Similarly, airports and railway stations should be equipped with medical facilities and ambulances. The government also needs to order 500 ventilators, said Congress. The party has also demanded that trucks carrying iron ore, manganese and other mineral resources should be stopped till the situation improves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-threatens-stir-wants-vasco-sealed-to-fight-virus/articleshow/76272378.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Agra||Aligarh Muslims upset with mosque guidelines||AGRA: Muslims in Aligarh have expressed disappointment on the state government guidelines allowing entry of only five persons in mosque premises. Shahar Mufti (city cleric) Khalid Hameed said, “It’s very disheartening to know that there has been no change for us even after restrictions of entry to religious places have been lifted. We were under the impression that we would be allowed to gather at the mosque to offer prayers as usual.” These guidelines do not suit us as offering namaz is like a community event, he added. Dr Mufti Zahid Ali Khan from the department of Sunni Theology at AMU said, “When 50 persons can be allowed for a wedding ceremony, why is there a restriction of only five persons at a time in a mosque.” Khan said that the state government should reconsider their decision and modify it accordingly. The government can enforce strictness on maintaining social distance inside the mosque and direct the city clerics to ask the community members to bring their own mats to the mosque for offering prayers. “Five persons were offering namaz at mosques during lockdown too. Hence, nothing has changed for us,” Khan said. He added that the aim should be to follow the social distancing protocol in view of the Covi-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, all mosques across the city were sanitised on Sunday for offering namaz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-muslims-upset-with-mosque-guidelines/articleshow/76268927.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Residents remove GK-II roadblocks after corpn warning||New Delhi: A day after TOI reported that some residents of Greater Kailash-II were illegally erecting a gate on the arterial road adjoining Don Bosco School, two iron girders installed to block Uday Shankar Marg were removed on Tuesday. An official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said the residents of S Block were given 24 hours to remove the structures. “We visited the site on Monday and gave them a notice as no permission was obtained from any government agency to install the gate. Our staff were told on Tuesday afternoon that the structures had been removed,” the official said. Nitin Wadhera, a resident of S Block, also confirmed it to TOI. “But many neighbouring colonies have installed such gates without obtaining permission in most cases,” Wadhera alleged. “We will pursue the matter in court now,” he added. The PWD road is among the key stretches connecting Outer Ring Road to several residential colonies of south Delhi, including Alaknanada, GK-II, Chittranjan Park and DDA Flats Kalkaji, and is used daily by thousands of commuters. The S Block residents also planned to block another road that runs parallel to Uday Shankar Marg and goes past the M Block market besides the W Block park road. A PWD official also confirmed that no permission was taken. “After receiving complaints from locals, our officials along with corporation staff went to the place and spoke to residents,” he said. Vikas Bhardwaj, a resident of the nearby Aravali Apartment, said the action was required to stop unlawful activities. “But it can’t be done by troubling hundreds of people. These stretches take all traffic from Outer Ring Road till Alaknanda,” he said. A GK-II resident alleged colonies had even installed gates on internal roads belonging to the corporation and didn’t open them even in day time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-remove-gk-ii-roadblocks-after-corpn-warning/articleshow/76292246.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Agra||Rumours of another round of lockdown trigger panic buying||Agra: Rumours of another round of lockdown amid increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Agra has triggered panic buying. According to wholesalers, panic buying is taking place as residents see the possibility of yet another lockdown in Agra. Banking on the previous lockdown experience when they ran out of groceries and other required items, residents don’t want to face a similar situation again, and thus, they are indulging in panic buying, the wholesalers added. Ashok Kumar, Motiganj market-based grocery retailer, said, “Most of my regular customers are buying groceries for up to three months as they are worried that another round of lockdown can be enforced. For a past couple of days we have been witnessing the trend of panic buying among our customers.” Bodla-based daily need store owner Vinod Agarwal said, “Orders placed by costumers have surprisingly increased in the past two-three days. People are stocking food and daily need items after rumours of another round of lockdown. To avoid gathering at the store, we are taking orders over the phone and asking the customers to pick up their order at a specific time.” The items which are in high demand include flour, rice, pulses, spices, packed food, hosiery, cosmetics and hardware products. Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “Since June 3, markets and shops have been operating across Agra district, except in Covid containment zones. To avoid gathering, shops are required to operate on alternate days. A schedule has been fixed at the level of police stations.” “As of now, there is no plan to enforce lockdown. Thus, people need not to panic over rumours. Sufficient stocks are available in the market. Besides, we are keeping a tab on social media platforms, and action will be taken against those who are found spreading the lockdown rumours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rumours-of-another-round-of-lockdown-trigger-panic-buying/articleshow/76268945.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Ground reality of TN’s sporting comeback||Chennai: Mujibur Mondal’s 25-km walk to MGR Central Railway Station from Thoraipakkam along with his family of four proved futile when the guest worker realised the Shramik Special train to Howrah was cancelled. It was at the nearby Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium — nerve-centre of Olympic sport in Chennai — that the family took refuge. Mondal is among the 1,200 workers who found shelter at the stadium while waiting to return home.The ongoing crisis of workers from other states and Chennai showing no signs of flattening the coronavirus curve are the major challenges for the state sports ministry and the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) as plans are afoot to resume sporting activities and athletes are set to start individual outdoor training at the stadium from this week. The Nehru Stadium, home to most of the sporting disciplines like athletics, football, boxing, volleyball and basketball, has to begin with thorough sanitisation of its premises, while the adjacent indoor stadium, which has facilities for kabaddi, table tennis, badminton, have to start with dusting off the cobwebs and checks of equipment, locked away for more than two months. While sporting complexes and stadia might often remain idle between events, work on the ground never stops. Pruning of grass, operation of equipment and cleaning of premises are some of the basic everyday activities needed to keep facilities running. But the Covid-19 crisis has meant that no maintenance was possible. Many of the grounds might need an overhaul to get them back in shape.While the MA Chidambaram stadium — venue for all major cricketing activities in the city — and the cricket grounds in Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Dindigul and Salem are well-maintained, the other facilities wear an abandoned look. The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) club cricket grounds are in a bad shape. A huge overgrowth of weeds occupies the IIT-Chemplast ground and the MRF-Pachaiyappa’s college ground is unrecognisable as a cricket pitch with grass cover coming off in large patches. TNCA has now set up a team of four to five people who will inspect the grounds across the city and prepare a status report. "Most club grounds are inside colleges and schools. With institutions closed, we couldn’t water the grounds. But we want to complete the remaining 89 league matches across divisions to conclude the season," said TNCA secretary R S Ramaswamy.Clumps of grass at Coimbatore’s Nehru Stadium looks like an obstacle course. The ground that is the home of Chennai City football club, will take at least three weeks to be prepared, said an official. Cutting the overgrowth, mowing the grass, aeration of the soil to harden the ground and regular watering are what groundsmen have to begin with. Facilities with turfs, such as the Nungambakkam tennis stadium and Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium for hockey, have their own set of problems. International tennis players will begin their fitness training on Tuesday but the containment zone behind the stadium has been a major issue and a huge task force was employed to fumigate the stadium. The TNTA asked players to follow SDAT’s standard operating procedure, which does not allow full resumption of all activities."We have seven courts and can have 14 players playing singles at one point. The players have also been asked not to exchange their balls and wear gloves while training," a top TNTA official said.At Nehru Stadium, a top SDAT official informed that only elite athletes who got permission from the body’s member-secretary Ramesh Chand Meena will be allowed to train on the synthetic track without equipment. They will also need to follow the SOP and social distancing protocols. The SDAT plans to check the athletes’ temperature regularly and won’t allow anyone inside the stadium without masks, which can come off only during training. The athletes need to use hand sanitisers, their shoes and other accessories have to be sanitised too. "We are starting in phases. Elite athletes will get to start this week. We will then open it for international and national players and later for others," said the official.Chennai-based 110-m hurdler Surendhar Jayakumar feels it would be difficult to train under so many restrictions. "I have been training at home. So when I would go for outdoor training, I expect to train with all my equipment. Practising without a hurdle will not work. But you have to accept it because a lot of lives are at stake. I will just be glad if they allow me to train outside," said Surendhar.Among the few stadiums which can function immediately is Ooty’s HADP stadium. With no new cases registered for a while, the groundsmen were able to maintain the stadium, and on May 28, a state-of-the-art synthetic ground was inaugurated to attract top athletes to train at high altitudes. For the rest of the state getting back to the field is still a long way off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ground-reality-of-tns-sporting-comeback/articleshow/76271264.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Agra||PPE-wearing cop at temple faints, 5 others on duty remove safety kit due to heat||AGRA: A policeman screening devotees at the Sri Krishna Janamsthan in Mathura collapsed and had to be taken to the hospital on Monday after two hours of wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) in searing heat. Soon after, five more cops on duty also took off their PPE kits as they claimed discomfort. The temple, which opened its doors on Monday for the first time after the lockdown, recorded a footfall of 500 as opposed to up to 30,000 devotees it used to witness before March. On day one, half a dozen policemen deployed there to check temperatures of passengers were in PPE kits. But as the day’s maximum temperature touched 41 degrees Celsius, the cops started complaining of discomfort and sweating. Sushil Kumar, 24, who was taking temperature of devotees at the temple gate collapsed and was taken to a nearby hospital. “I remember feeling uncomfortable and out of breath. When I gained consciousness, I was at the hospital. The doctors told me that I had fallen unconscious due to the heat and I was administered glucose,” Kumar told TOI. He is recuperating in the hospital. Other cops on duty told TOI that the heat made it unbearable to wear PPE over their uniform. “PPEs may be suitable for those working in an air-conditioned environment, but not for us. We took them off after our colleague collapsed,” said one of the policemen. SP(city) AK Meena said that the PPE kits were meant for safety of policemen but added that alternatives would be looked into after this incident. “We will provide them with masks, gloves and face shields,” he said. Meanwhile, the temple's secretary, Kapil Sharma, said all arrangements for ‘darshan’ have been made according to state government guidelines. “Prasad distribution and bhandara (feast) have been postponed till further orders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ppe-wearing-cop-screening-devotees-at-temple-faints-5-others-on-duty-remove-safety-kit-due-to-heat/articleshow/76268941.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Criminal’s car rally leaves cops red-faced||VADODARA: He recently got bail in a murder case that was registered against him in February this year. But notorious criminal, Suraj Kahar alias Sui is in trouble again after the crime branch (DCB) filed a complaint against him and nine others on Monday for taking out a rally and flouting police notification under Section 144. Kahar, along with all the others, are on the run and believed to have fled from the city a couple of days ago. According to the police, Kahar was released on bail by a local court on June 4. His friends arrived at the jail in a luxurious red car to take him home. Kahar boarded the car and stood through the sunroof while heading towards his home on Warasia Road. His friends drove two-wheelers around the car and honked incessantly, as if celebrating his release from jail.  “We booked him for flouting police notification and taking out rally without any police permission. ,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Kahar was arrested by the Panigate police for murder in February this year after he and his friends thrashed Keval Jadav, who was riding his bike, for overtaking his car on Waghodia Road. Kahar is a history-sheeter and has nearly a dozen cases registered against him including assault, criminal conspiracy and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/criminals-car-rally-leaves-cops-red-faced/articleshow/76270912.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Close Maha-Goa border: Rohan to PM||Panaji: Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for Goa’s borders with Maharashtra to be closed and for medical support to help Goa combat the rising number of novel coronavirus cases. Khaunte said the BJP-led government’s “languid and utterly callous” handling of the pandemic in Goa had prompted him to write and seek the Centre’s intervention. Among the requests made by Khaunte is a petition for a total lockdown in Goa and sealing of borders with Maharashtra. Even as Khaunte appealed for assistance from Modi, he also called on local citizens to protect themselves . While Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases, Goa has moved from a green zone to a state with over 200 active cases. “These figures are catastrophic for the smallest state of India with limited medical and related infrastructure,” Khaunte said, as he asked for an urgent supply of test kits, allocation of isolation coaches from the Indian Railways and a contingency of Army Medical Corps to assist Goa’s medical team. The former revenue minister has also demanded that central security forces should be deployed in Vasco to ensure total containment and also protect Goa International Airport and the naval air base. Mangor Hill, which abuts INS Hansa and Goa International Airport, has emerged as a hotspot, accounting for 201 of Goa’s 235 active cases as on Sunday. Khaunte said the allocation of isolation coaches from Indian Railways will help meet the multiplying requirement for hospital beds. In the letter, Khaunte also requested Modi to organise repatriation flights to bring back stranded Goans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/close-maha-goa-border-rohan-to-pm/articleshow/76272384.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Agra||AMU students from West Bengal raise own funds to return home||AGRA: Failing to get any help from university administration, as many as 50 students of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) from West Bengal managed to raise their own funds to arrange for a bus that will take them home. These students have been stranded in the campus ever since lockdown was declared and now the administration has announced closure of dining services in hostels from June 15. Alumnus of AMU, Mohammad Nizamuddin from Calcutta, who helped arrange for the bus which is scheduled to leave for North Bengal on Tuesday, said, “Half of the total cost of Rs 1.35 lakh was raised by the students, while I contributed the rest. Several requests were made to the university administration to make arrangements to send these students home but they failed to respond.” Mohammad Kaikubad Ali, a research scholar in AMU’s geography department, said, “We are desperate to go home as uncertainly prevails and our parents are worried. Now, the university administration has also announced closure of dining services and all remaining students have been asked to make their own travel arrangements. We have appealed to the authorities several times but they did not pay us any heed.” Earlier on May 21, the university administration with the help of the West Bengal government had arranged for a train for students of West Bengal. However, due to the non-availability of a sleeper coach, 70 out of 240 students could not board the train. When contacted, spokesperson of the university Shafey Kidwai said, “Bus is not a feasible option for travelling long distances. Hence, they were asked to go by train, which they did not agree to. Dining facility will be shut from June 15 due to vacations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-students-from-west-bengal-raise-own-funds-to-return-home/articleshow/76268933.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||‘Govt sought Rs 2.5cr from ships to dock’||Panaji: GFP on Monday alleged that the state government has demanded Rs 2.5 crore and more to permit cruise vessels to dock at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and allow seafarers to disembark. Citing ‘reliable information’, GFP president Vijai Sardesai called the move a scam and said that because of the demand, cruise liners are reluctant to bring their vessels to Goa. “We are now told that no ships are willing to come to MPT as the state government, unlike other states, is charging them a bomb,” Sardesai said in a tweet. Sardesai said that he had reliable information that over Rs 2.5 crore is being sought as bribes to permit the vessels to dock in Goa. “This is a big scam, quarantine-gate-scam, involving the government, MPT and agents of seafarers,” he said, adding that while the state is charging companies in crores for quarantine facilities, it is putting up crew members in unhygienic and hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-sought-rs-2-5cr-from-ships-to-dock/articleshow/76272382.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Manglaur police outpost shut, over 100 cops tested after constable found Covid-19 +ve||ROORKEE: The police outpost at Manglaur near Roorkee was shut after a constable deployed there tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. The other eight policemen at the outpost, including the in-charge, were put under institutional quarantine as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, the district administration examined nearly 100 other policemen through the rapid test method on Monday. Senior police officials have said no other cop was found infected. "We have tested more than 100 police personnel, including sub-inspectors, through rapid antibody test for coronavirus and so far, none of them have been found positive," SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI. The official added that the police outpost, where the infected constable was deployed, was sanitised on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manglaur-police-outpost-shut-over-100-cops-tested-after-constable-found-covid-19-ve/articleshow/76270105.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Rural development department ups ante over plaints of job denial to workers||Lucknow: While chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been stressing on employment generation, the rural development department has raised the ante over complaints of denial of employment to labourers, including migrants, under Centre’s flagship scheme Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). In a communique to rural development commissioner K Ravindra Naik, principal secretary (rural development) Manoj Singh said the state government was receiving complaints that at many places, programme officers were not engaging labourers despite the demand. On certain occasions, gram rozgar sewaks are seeking applications for only six days instead of guaranteed 100 days of employment, the letter said. TOI is in possession of the letter dated June 4.The letter says that MNREGS is a demand-driven scheme under which labourers can seek 100 days of employment as a “right”. However, the state government is receiving complaints that 100 days of employment was getting distributed among people of same family, which is not appropriate, the letter adds. Sources in the department said as against the current demand of over 70 lakh, only around 40 lakh are engaged under MNREGS. “The situation is not suitable in the present state of crisis when people are seeking employment after coronavirus-induced lockdown,” a senior official in rural development department said. In the communique, Singh said as per central guidelines labourers had the right to assemble in groups and push for steps required to improve the scheme. “Guidelines suggest that a transparent mechanism can be adopted through engagement of civil society organisations (CSOs) which can help the government in spreading awareness, collection of resources and help labourers seeking jobs,” he said. CSOs can help in establishing a synergy between labourers and the programme structure so that the rights of workers may be protected and they get their dues timely. CSOs will be selected by a committee comprising principal secretary (rural development), rural development commissioner, director (State Rural Livelihood Mission), director (panchayati raj), additional commissioner, MNREGS, and an officer nominated by the principal secretary (finance). In the first phase, the department has identified 50 districts including Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Kanpur, Sitapur, Hardoi, Unnao, Siddharthnagar, Gonda, Balrampur, Banda, Hamirpur, Etawah and Kannauj, where CSOs can be roped in. Each of the 50 district can be allotted a CSO which can be given incentives as per resources. “CSOs will inspect MNREGS sites in 8-10 gram panchayats every day and send photographs to the state headquarters. The CSO may also help in providing training to labourers engaged in MNREGS and spread awareness about social distancing which is mandatory as per the Central guidelines. The CSO may be engaged for one year which can be extended as per requirement,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rural-dev-dept-ups-ante-over-plaints-of-job-denial-to-workers/articleshow/76272835.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 9, 2020||Goa||Municipal mkt in Vasco shuts down||Vasco: The entire municipal market, including the vegetable and fruit markets, in Vasco were shut down on Monday, in support of the call by the chairperson of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), Nandadeep Raut, on Friday for a voluntary shutdown after Covid-19 cases were detected in other parts of Vasco town, besides the containment zone. The president of the municipal market, Manuel D’Souza, said, “Presently, we have decided to close down our business for two days. But, if need be, we are ready to keep our business shut for a week.” The president of Vasco Vegetable Market Committee, Prashant Naik, had said on Friday that they would close down from Sunday evening, and that “mobile vans will move around wards selling fruits and vegetables”. The MMC chairperson on Monday held a meeting with all 25 ward councillors to review the situation in in the port town regarding the voluntary lockdown. Raut said that all the councillors have accepted the decision for a self-imposed lockdown and the municipality will make announcements in each ward requesting the people to shut down their business. While the majority of fish vendors have supported the lockdown, few women were seen selling fish at the Vasco fish market. In the afternoon, some shops selling chicken were opened in the afternoon, and sweet marts and hardware stores in private building were doing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/municipal-mkt-in-vasco-shuts-down/articleshow/76272389.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Flyers bend rules to bypass quarantine||VISAKHAPATNAM: In gross violation of Covid-19 norms in Andhra Pradesh, a section of residents returning to the state from high-risk states such as Delhi and Maharashtra are reportedly coming in via Telangana (Hyderabad) and Karnataka (Bengaluru) to avoid institutional quarantine in the state. “The rule states that returnees coming from the six high-risk states, like Maharashtra and Delhi, should be in institutional quarantine for seven days. But we have received tip-offs from the airlines that many passengers from these states are coming via Hyderabad and Bengaluru and they are being sent to home quarantine. We have raised the concern with the district administration,” Pavan Kartheek, vice president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh told TOI. The district administration, however, has claimed that a proper monitoring plan is in place to track the travel history of returnees and to send them home or for institutional quarantine as per the state government norms. “I have not heard of such an allegation. I don’t think such things are happening as there is a proper mechanism in place. I will look into it,” joint collector (1) of Visakhapatnam district, M Venugopal Reddy told TOI. Officials and passengers at the airport told TOI that the latter are being screened by a medical team as soon as they come out of the aircraft and health officials stamp ‘home/institutional quarantine’ on their hands depending on the city they have returned from. This means, health officials are putting ‘home quarantine’ stamps on all passengers coming from Bengaluru or Hyderabad and ‘institutional quarantine’ stamps on passengers coming from Delhi. “Passengers coming from Maharashtra have no choice because airlines are providing them connectivity via Bengaluru. But several Delhi passengers are coming via Hyderabad or Bengaluru. Many of them are deliberately concealing information to avoid institutional quarantine,” said B Vijay Mohan, president of Andhra Pradesh Tours and Travels Associations. Another telling factor, airline officials said, is the low demand for direct flights from Delhi to the state as opposed to flights from Bengaluru and Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/passengers-from-high-risk-areas-coming-in-via-hyd/articleshow/76270133.cms||Arpit Basu
June 9, 2020||Dehradun||Temples open up across Uttarakhand but devotee footfall remains low||HARIDWAR/PITHORAGARH/NAINITAL: With strict Covid-19 precautionary measures like wearing of masks and social distancing norms put in place, several temples across Uttarakhand reopened on Monday after a gap of over two months. However, the devotee turnout remained low in most of these shrines. Tanmaya Vashishth, general secretary of Haridwar's Ganga Sabha, told TOI that the Har-ki-Pauri ghat, which used to witness thousands of devotees every day, recorded not more than 300 visitors till evening. Similarly, Mansa Devi Temple witnessed just about 50 devotees, informed Swami Ravindra Puri, shrine's management committee chief. The footfall at the city's Daksha Temple was comparatively better with nearly 700 devotees visiting the shrine. At several temples, devotees were asked to pass through a sanitisation tunnel before entering premises. At Mansa Devi Temple, the devotees were thermal scanned. Priests refrained from offering prasad or putting tilak to keep the virus at bay. "Social distancing and sanitisation norms were followed in the ropeways ferrying pilgrims to Mansa Devi and Chandi Devi Temples," said ropeway in-charge Manoj Dobhal. However in an exception, sanitisation norms were flouted at Daksha Temple and devotees just washed their hands in Ganga flowing by the shrine. "What can be a better cleanser than holy Ganga water. Sanitisers have alcohols and administration must not force devotees to enter temples with alcohol on their hands," said temple chief priest Mahant Vishwshwar Puri. In Champawat, Purnagiri Temple was reopened after 70 days. Temple priest Bhuwan Pande and SDM Tanakpur Dayanand Sarswati told TOI that distancing norms were strictly followed on the day. Temples in the Kumaon region also witnessed very low turnout. While Jageshwar Dham Temple didn’t open for pilgrims, Kainchi Dham recorded barely half-a-dozen devotees. The Jageshwar Dham Management Committee will take a decision on the opening of temples after consultation with locals and the district administration. Meanwhile, managements of Mahakali Mandir, Gangolihat's Haat Kalika Temple, and caves of Patal Bhuvaneshwar have decided to remain closed till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/temples-open-up-across-ukhand-but-devotee-footfall-remains-low/articleshow/76270147.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt seeks 200 Shramik Specials to send workers home||LUCKNOW: UP government has requested the Centre to operate 200 Shramik Special trains from the state in order to send back people from other states who have not been able to return home till now. A significant number of workers employed in brick kilns are also expected to return to their states, especially Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The home department officials held a meeting with brick kiln operators on Sunday and directed district magistrates and senior police officials in all districts to collect the data of such workers and ensure that before they return to their homes, all their dues by brick kiln owners are cleared. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said on Monday that about 12,000 brick kilns are functional in the state, but as the monsoon is approaching, these will now be closed and those employed in the kilns will be allowed to return to their states, if they so desire. “Brick kilns have been working during the lockdown but now that monsoon is approaching, they will shut down. A meeting has been held with the owners and all DMs have been asked to ensure that there are no dues left to be cleared before workers of these kilns are sent home,” he said. UP government has requested the Centre for 200 Shramik Special trains to send back kiln workers, along with anyone else who belongs to another state and would like to return. Awasthi said that till the time people from UP, who were stuck in other states and those in UP who belonged to other states and wanted to go back home, were not duly transported to their respective states, the government would continue to operate free train and bus services. The government has again appealed to anyone stuck outside UP to contact the nodal officer deputed for the particular state immediately so that arrangements can be made to bring them back. Around 30 lakh people have been brought back to UP so far, either in bus or in over 1,600 trains, with many also having travelled back on their own. On Monday, no Shramik Special train arrived in UP, indicating that almost everyone has been brought back. Chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed the Noida administration to focus on clearing the crowds at the Noida-Delhi border after Delhi started allowing free movement between the two states since Monday. He has asked the department concerned to put in place a proper mechanism for passes within the next couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-seeks-200-shramik-spls-to-send-workers-home/articleshow/76272840.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 9, 2020||Pune||Worried about spread of coronavirus, six dists averse to people travelling from Pune||Pune: Officials from Solapur, Amravati, Satara, Gadchiroli, Kolhapur and Bhandara are averse to people from Pune reaching the six districts due to the rising Covid-19 cases here. “Travel passes are mandatory for inter-district travel and officials in Solapur, Amravati, Satara, Gadchiroli, Kolhapur and Bhandara are taking time in issuing the conditional clearances to people travelling from Pune,” a senior Pune district administration official said. “Administrative officials from these six districts have got in touch with the Pune police, seeking information on the number of people will to travel to the six districts and the reasons,” Pune deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said. On the basis of this, the officer said, the priorities of the travel requests were being weighed. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said stopping people from travelling between districts was not the solution. “What is essential is to ensure strict adherence to the rules issued by the administration,” he told TOI. In the last week of May, several rural parts of Maharashtra had seen a spike in the Covid-19 cases and blamed the state’s decision to allow inter-district travel. With most of the new patients in these districts were those returned from cities like Pune, Mumbai, Thane, and Nagpur, the state government had continued to restrict the inter-district travel except, for emergency or medical reasons. DCP Singh, who is in charge of issuing e-passes in Pune, told TOI that the state’s order in paragraph 9 (2) for inter-district and inter-state movement continued to be regulated and, as a result, digital passes were a must to out of Pune to other districts. Those who have to travel from Pune to other districts have to apply on www.punepolice.com and the applications are scrutinized by the digital passes team. “Death and medical emergency cases are processed on a priority. For the six districts,the team emails non-priority requests to the district concerned for approval,” he said. The travel pospect depends on the district’s response. Some senior officials said many people were travelling between districts without the mandatory e-pass and this was a cause for concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worried-about-spread-of-coronavirus-six-dists-averse-to-people-travelling-from-pune/articleshow/76271279.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Charges filed over riots in Maujpur and Kardampuri||New Delhi: Three more chargesheets pertaining to major violence in Kardampuri and Maujpur during the riots in northeast Delhi on February 24 were filed by police on Tuesday. Police claimed that during investigation they identified conspirators, instigators and rioters who had hatched the plot to commit large-scale violence. “The conspirators caused disruption by spreading misinformation on Citizenship (Amendment) Act and carrying out chakka jam on arterial roads, which triggered communal riots,” police said. “While investigating the chronology of events since the enactment of CAA, it was found that the riots were not impromptu but conspired with intent to create communal strife and malign the image of the country under the garb of democratically opposing the Act,” police added. In the case of a man named Vinod being killed and dozens injured at Maujpur Chowk, police concluded that two communal groups had clashed there around 11am on February 24. While one group was supporting CAA and NRC, the other opposed it. “Initially, the protest was peaceful, but it soon became violent and led to stone pelting, brickbatting, arson, firing and sabotage from both sides. This led to injuries to several people and policemen creating an atmosphere of fear among the public,” said police. Five people, including Shahrukh Pathan, were arrested in this case. Pathan is the main accused in another case in which he was caught on camera shooting at a cop, Deepak Dahiya, in full public view. The second chargesheet on Kardampuri violence said that around 4.30pm that day, communal riots broke out at the pulia in the area. Mohammad Furkan and four others sustained gunshot injuries in the ensuing riot. Furkan later died of the injuries. Seventeencops were also injured in stone pelting by the mob. Kardampuri pulia had CCTV cameras, but most of them were damaged by the rioters on February 23 and 24. However, video footage recovered from nearby areas led to the arrest of the four accused now named in the chargesheet. The third case pertains to the violence that erupted near a dispensary in the area on February 25. One Deepak (32), an e-rickshaw driver, was lynched by the mob. Four accused were arrested and charged with the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/charges-filed-over-riots-in-maujpur-and-kardampuri/articleshow/76292270.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Heavy traffic on roads as more people out and about in Pune||PUNE: Heavy to moderate traffic persisted on many roads with the reopening of private offices in the city on Monday. “I got stuck near Jyoti Restaurant and then at the intersection of Kondhwa Road and Salunke Vihar Road for around 10 minutes. I couldn’t see any traffic wardens around though,” Kondhwa resident Ashwin Bhosale said. Areas like Swargate and Satara Road also witnessed heavy traffic movement. “Though the Swargate MSRTC bus stand is closed, heavy traffic movement was seen in the area on Monday. The traffic signals were up and running, but wrong-side driving was prevalent,” Nitin Hajare, a Swargate resident, said. On Tilak Road, haphazard parking and wrong-side driving were a common sight. “We are taking action and trying to ensure that people don’t violate traffic norms,” a traffic constable said, adding that police were also checking if people were wearing masks. Many office-goers felt the need to resume PMPML operations in Pune city. “I have suffered a major salary cut, due to which my usual modes of transport like autorickshaws and cabs are out of question,” Sanjiv Nagarkar said. For autorickshaw drivers, resuming operations after two months brought a much-needed relief. “I cannot explain what this means to me and my family. The time ahead is going to be extremely challenging though,” Surya Ghatgesaid. Cab driver Ajay said though he was happy, it was going to be a struggle as he was burdened with debts now. Nitin Pawar of Rickshaw Panchayat said around 20% autorickshaws were plying in the city. Anil Patil, senior police inspector (traffic) said almost all traffic signals were functional. “The traffic is returning to normal. The signals on almost all roads are functional and we have told our men to stay alert,” he said. State transport minister Anil Parab said the decision on resuming PMPML service in Pune municipal limits, besides starting inter-district MSRTC vehicles, would be taken on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-traffic-on-roads-as-more-people-out-about/articleshow/76271288.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 9, 2020||Pune||Offices try to woo staff with free rides, canteen in Pune||PUNE: Offices are offering various facilities in a bid to woo employees back to work on Day One of the relaxation for private office in Pune municipal limits on Monday. Despite offering free bus rides and several options on the canteen menu, most offices found themselves operating with less than 10% strength in non-containment zones. Many were faced with the challenge of bringing back employees stuck in their hometowns. In some firms, team leaders and project managers have been called in, in a bid to infuse some confidence. Other companies have given employees the option of working at home indefinitely. “Employees are reluctant — some have kids at home and others have elderly parents. The carrot may follow the stick, soon,” a team manager at a leading software company in Pune said. Even in software enterprises — among the biggest employers here — only those employees, whose clients are not OK with the work from home option, have been called in. For those who have reported to work, maintaining social distancing is strange and will take time to get used to. “Before the pandemic, employees would be picked up for work in cars, but now buses have been allotted, wherein where only one person is allowed to sit on one seat. Even in the cafeteria, only two people are allowed to sit at a table,” Sandeep Hajari, Wipro employee, said. He said social distancing was strictly being implemented, admitting that he missed the good old days. “We are not allowed on the bus or the floor without a mask. Sometimes, if someone slips their mask down for a breather, they are told to put them back up,” he added. “We have a coordinator on every floor to ensure social distancing and sanitization regulations are being followed. We have made a standard action plan and have taken points from Germany. There is also a lot of communication between employees and their supervisors, heads of department and upper management because we don’t want anyone to feel like they are going through this new normal alone. Implementation is key, as I say, you can come up with a brilliant recipe but if it is not followed properly, the preparation will not be good,” P L Muthusekkar, managing director (India and South Asia), NORD Drivesystems, said. Netsurf said it was taking all precautions to make the workplace safer. For Work-from-home and return to work:“WFH is working fairly well for all of us. While employees do miss working closely with their teams in office, they are happier to not having to face traffic. There are some challenges with regards to on boarding and brainstorming, but we will live with that if it means our employees stay safe and healthy. In the long term, however, we would want to get the best of both WFH and office and are planning for the same." -- Milind Borate, co-founder and CTO, Druva. Druva employs over 700 employees. "We have already announced we will work from home throughout this year. People are loving the flexibility, and many have gone back to their home towns if they have connectivity so they can spend time with their families and still be productive remotely. Generally people who are living alone or do not have a very conducive remote working environment, are excited about coming to work and we are allowing for exceptions if their department heads permit." -- Monish Darda, co-founder and CTO, Icertis. Icertis employs over 1000 employees. "At Sarvatra Technologies, currently, we are considering resuming with only a minimal team, strictly on an immediate need basis. As fintech providers, we have to work in a highly secure PCI-DSS environment, and thus all work is not possible at home. These teams will adhere to the safety and sanitation norms and the organisation has made provisions for the required social distancing measures." -- Mandar Agashe, founder and vice chairman, Sarvatra Technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/offices-try-to-woo-staff-with-free-rides-canteen/articleshow/76271281.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Malls and restaurants open doors to tepid response||Visakhapatnam/Vijayawada: Although half the restaurants in Vizag reopened for dine-in services on Monday after a gap of more than two months, the response from the public was far from encouraging. TOI visited some eateries and interacted with their owners and managers. Restaurants in and around Jagadamba Junction and Daba Gardens remained closed as they fell under a containment zone. While most restaurants were not expecting a full house, a few attributed the tepid response to fear of infection and lack of floating population. “Whether it is fear of contracting Covid-19 or affected spending power due to loss of income, the enthusiasm among customers to dine at restaurants is missing. Only a few people visited the restaurants for breakfast and a slightly larger number of people turned up for lunch,” said T Satyanarayana, former president Andhra Pradesh Hotels’ Association (APHA). Meanwhile, all eateries and restaurants set up their seating arrangement as per the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down by the government. All tables were allowed to seat half their capacity, customers were allowed inside only after they had sanitised their hands and undergone thermal screening at the entrance. In Vijayawada, shopping malls reopened on Monday, as per the directions of the state government. Managements of shopping malls in the city said they were strictly following norms on physical distancing. Trend Set Mall, PVP Mall, Ripple’s Mall, Datta’s Shopping Complex and other malls reopened on Monday. Consumers were thermally screened before being allowed to enter. Special teams of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) inspected measures taken by shopping malls. As per the directions of the government, trial rooms were not permitted at clothing stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/malls-and-restaurants-open-doors-to-tepid-response/articleshow/76270151.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 9, 2020||Delhi||‘Key conspirator’ held for 3rd time over Feb violence||New Delhi: Khalid Saifi, named as one of the key conspirators in the violence that took place at Chand Bagh during the northeast Delhi riots in February, has been arrested by Crime Branch. The chargesheet by Delhi Police claims that Saifi played a crucial role in introducing suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain to former JNU student Umar Khalid to plan a “big riot” during the visit of US President Donald Trump. Saifi was first arrested from Khureji in east Delhi after he and his supporters clashed with police during an anti-CAA march. He was also arrested by Special Cell under UAPA along with Hussain and former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan. The probe into the riots found that Saifi had facilitated a meeting between Khalid and Hussain at Shaheen Bagh on January 8. He had allegedly even arranged for a large sum of money that was deposited into Hussain’s accounts through different shell companies. His arrest in the Chand Bagh violence is being considered crucial because the SIT probe found that Saifi had arranged for funds through Popular Front of India to be used in the riots. The chargesheet against Hussain mentions that his phone location matched with Saifi’s before and during the violence at Chand Bagh on February 24. In his disclosure, Hussain had confirmed meeting Saifi several times. He also allegedly ran a “control room” to spread misinformation about CAA and incited rioters using their religious beliefs. Police claimed Saifi was also the co-founder of “United against Hate”, a group formed in 2017 along with Khalid and RJD youth wing member Meeran Haider. The role of this group during the riots came under the scanner during the probe into the Chand Bagh violence after police found out that the members had asked women protesters to carry arms when they had blocked the road near Jafrabad metro station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/key-conspirator-held-for-3rd-time-over-feb-violence/articleshow/76292280.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||1,142 people to be affected by rail line doubling: SIA study||Thiruvananthapuram: The final report of social impact assessment (SIA) study for land acquisition for Thiruvananthapuram–Nemom railway line doubling and construction of terminal has been published by the district administration. An area of 14.8067 hectares has been demarcated for this project. The land to be acquired is spread over 759 survey numbers in four villages in Thiruvananthapuram district – Thycaud, Thirumala, Nemom and Pallichal. The Centre for Management, which has been entrusted with the SIA study by the district administration in August, 2019, submitted the report recently. The study had identified a total of 1,142 people who will be affected due to land acquisition for the project. As per the study, the major social impact will be the displacement of families residing in the area. In the public hearing conducted as part of the SIA study in Thycaud, Thirumala, Nemom and Pallichal areas, people expressed their concerns regarding access to road and fair compensation. Many of the residents claimed that they will lose large parcels of land which will make remaining land not suitable even to build a house or any other work. They suggested that railways should take over their entire property and the government should give fair compensation. Some of the residents said that their house will be lost in the project and enquired about alternative arrangement. Traders expressed their concern on losing their source of income from the shops located in the area demarcated for the project. Some of the residents requested authorities to relocate them in the nearby area. Concerns regarding access through for service road beside the project area, job opportunities in the project, permit to construct house near railway property and compensation to families staying in purampoke land were raised in the public hearing. The study has proposed compensation for the landowners as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act and Resettlement and Rehabilitation package for land acquisition to mitigate the social impact of the proposed land acquisition. On the necessity of the project, the SIA study states that the presence of a double track is a prerequisite for introducing block signalling that can help to increase speed of trains and reduce transit time. The existing track capacity utilization of this line is over 100 percent and the existing single line is saturated, leading to congestion and slow movement of trains. The railway authorities had unveiled a detailed development plan for Nemom railway station. For realizing the future plans, doubling becomes necessary. Nemom and Kochuveli would be developed as two sub-stations of Thiruvananthapuram Central so that the congestion in Central station can be addressed. There had also been a proposal for launching a coaching terminal at Rs 118.5 crore, which was later put on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/1142-people-to-be-affected-by-rail-line-doubling-sia-study/articleshow/76270174.cms||Anasooya.S
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||As restrictions ease, rural Andhra Pradesh no longer unscathed by coronavirus||VIJAYAWADA: In a departure from the trend of urban areas reporting the majority of Covid-19 cases in the state, rural Andhra Pradesh has in the last few weeks seen a surge in number of infected persons. The spread to rural areas is partly attributed to easing of lockdown restrictions and the subsequent increased movement of people, as well as the influx of migrants from the third phase of the lockdown. Interior tribal pockets of Sileru and Rampachodavaram have also reported a number of cases. Positive cases are being reported from several mandals in East Godavari district that had not had any Covid-19 case till recently. These include Gollaprolu, Ainavaili, Anaparti, Rayavaram, Bikkavolu, Pedapudi, Ramachandrapuram, Kakinada rural and Gandepalli, Mummidivaram, Ambajipeta, Jaggampeta and Eleswaram mandals. In Guntur district, cases have surfaced in villages under Duggirala, Prathipadu, Vinukonda, Rompicharla, Machavaram, Repalle and Rajupalem mandals. In Visakhapatnam district, 23 cases have been reported in Anakapalle town while cases have also been reported in S Rayavaram, Atchutapuram, Nakkapalli, Kotauratla, and Sabbavaram mandals. Even though nearly 400 of 550 cases in Krishna district are from Vijayawada and its suburbs, rural Machilipatnam and Nuzvid have reported several Covid-19 cases. In Vizianagaram district, the virus has made inroads into Denkada, Cheepurpalli, Ramabhadrapuram, Dattirajeru and Garugubilli mandals, while West Godavari district is witnessing a wave of infections in mandals previously untouched by the disease. With the influx of foreign returnees and migrants, Srikakulam district crossed the 200 positive cases mark. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said that of the 206 cases reported so far in the district, only eight persons are locals. “As many as 75 Covid-19 patients were already declared cured and discharged from the hospitals. The district has been conducting a higher number of Covid-19 tests on a daily basis. We need to be more alert in the coming days,” said Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-restrictions-ease-rural-ap-no-longer-unscathed-by-virus/articleshow/76277044.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 9, 2020||Erode||Checking power misuse could save money, resources||By S Pushpavanam CHENNAI: The Centre as part of the economic stimulus recently raised the borrowing limit of states from 3% of gross state domestic product to 5% in 2020-21, which will make available an additional Rs4.28 lakh crore. But it comes with conditions, part of the increased borrowing limit would be linked to specific reforms in One Nation-One Ration card, ease of doing business, power distribution and urban local body revenue collection. In Tamil Nadu, power sector reforms are the most crucial among these. The state has 21.4 lakh unmetered agricultural power connections. Fixing metres and paying subsidy through Direct Benefit Transfer would let Tangedco assess how much power has been actually used. Farmers would pay the bill in full and get the subsidy portion reimbursed by the state it is being done in LPG. Farmers were quick to protest against the proposed reform in power distribution as they feared fixing metre would expose their misuse of power and the next step would be withdrawing free power. Tamil Nadu Government hastened to announce that free power would continue to appease them. The free power scheme (1984) was originally meant to help small farmers draw water with a 5HP motor. It was later extended to all farmers. The limitless, free and unmetered supply led to misuse. It began with apathy, with motors not being switched off, particularly at night, since there is no incentive to save money. As a result a lot of water and power go waste, say TNEB officials. Second, 10HP and 15HP motors began to be used, violating the norm to draw more water without the knowledge of the TNEB. With no monitoring, many farmers use motors that are 15 to 30 years old, which have become power guzzlers. Since the stakes are high, farmers resisted fixing of metres. "In 2000, when EB assessors went to fix metres in Vallanadu in Tuticorin and in Maniyachchi, among other places, they were assaulted with sickles and metre-fixing was stopped thereafter," says S Ilango, leader of Janata EB employees union. The other culprits are political parties, especially during elections, when they steal power from overhead wires for public meetings. The EB is also responsible, buckling under political pressure, authorities have ignored such misuse. Free power is also aiding desertification. The state Ground and Surface Data Centre, Erode shows in 2017 water levels had fallen nearly 7m in Erode in just a year. Tirunelveli and Dharmapuri rank next. According to the Central Ground Water Board,report in 2015, of the 137 blocks in Punjab (free power from 1998), 110 are under the over-exploited category. Such a map needs to be drawn for Tamil Nadu as well. The depletion of groundwater table has wide ramifications, including making farmers vulnerable to production risks and climate change. The availability of powerful machines to access water also led to exploitation of groundwater as well as of nearby rivulets and canals. Although a crime, some farmers began to sell water. If we are to get uninterrupted quality power, we must put an end to power misuse, uncontrolled waste of water and inefficiency in administration. Direct benefit transfer will help achieve that. If Tamil Nadu fails to do that fearing protest from its farmers, the state would not be doing justice to the rest of the power consumers and its natural resources. (The writer is secretary, Consumer Protection Council TN) Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi @timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/checking-power-misuse-could-save-money-resources/articleshow/76281550.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Vijayawada||As restrictions ease, rural Andhra Pradesh no longer unscathed by coronavirus||VIJAYAWADA: In a departure from the trend of urban areas reporting the majority of Covid-19 cases in the state, rural Andhra Pradesh has in the last few weeks seen a surge in number of infected persons. The spread to rural areas is partly attributed to easing of lockdown restrictions and the subsequent increased movement of people, as well as the influx of migrants from the third phase of the lockdown. Interior tribal pockets of Sileru and Rampachodavaram have also reported a number of cases. Positive cases are being reported from several mandals in East Godavari district that had not had any Covid-19 case till recently. These include Gollaprolu, Ainavaili, Anaparti, Rayavaram, Bikkavolu, Pedapudi, Ramachandrapuram, Kakinada rural and Gandepalli, Mummidivaram, Ambajipeta, Jaggampeta and Eleswaram mandals. In Guntur district, cases have surfaced in villages under Duggirala, Prathipadu, Vinukonda, Rompicharla, Machavaram, Repalle and Rajupalem mandals. In Visakhapatnam district, 23 cases have been reported in Anakapalle town while cases have also been reported in S Rayavaram, Atchutapuram, Nakkapalli, Kotauratla, and Sabbavaram mandals. Even though nearly 400 of 550 cases in Krishna district are from Vijayawada and its suburbs, rural Machilipatnam and Nuzvid have reported several Covid-19 cases. In Vizianagaram district, the virus has made inroads into Denkada, Cheepurpalli, Ramabhadrapuram, Dattirajeru and Garugubilli mandals, while West Godavari district is witnessing a wave of infections in mandals previously untouched by the disease. With the influx of foreign returnees and migrants, Srikakulam district crossed the 200 positive cases mark. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said that of the 206 cases reported so far in the district, only eight persons are locals. “As many as 75 Covid-19 patients were already declared cured and discharged from the hospitals. The district has been conducting a higher number of Covid-19 tests on a daily basis. We need to be more alert in the coming days,” said Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-restrictions-ease-rural-ap-no-longer-unscathed-by-virus/articleshow/76270161.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 9, 2020||Pune||Steady rise in footfall at other places for shopping||Pune: The removal of barricades and the opening of more roads have led to increased movement and greater footfalls in the markets of the city. Shopkeepers across the Pune Municipal Corporation limits said walk-ins have been rising steadily. Rahul Bora of the Laxmi Road Traders’ Association said, “I have been opening my store for the last 15 days. On Monday, we saw more people as the barricades installed at City Post junction were removed. Traffic movement was easier and we also saw more people step out for shopping.”Weddings slated between June and August are bringing people out for shopping, he added. “Nearly 70% of the wedding season has gone by, but some weddings are slated till August. Many that were cancelled during the lockdown will take place now. Families are the big shoppers at the moment,” he said.Other markets including Tulshibaug, Hong Kong lane, FC Road, JM Road and Baner Road too saw more people step out. “We had a good weekend even though the shop was open only for a day. More people were on the roads and we registered more sales. People are taking precautions when they step out but they are not letting fear deter them from coming out. It is good for business,” Shantanu Pansare, a member of FC Road Traders’ Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/steady-rise-in-footfall-at-other-places-for-shopping/articleshow/76271297.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shops on MG Road take on new challenges with hope||PUNE: Commercial shops on the MG Road and East Street in Pune Cantonment opened on Monday to a lukewarm response, after a gap of over two months of the lockdown restrictions. The traders and shopkeepers, however, sounded optimistic about a revival after a few days. They said the people were now apprehensive about going to the markets. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has allowed shops such as mobile stores, electronic, footwear, apparels, utensils stores to open between 9am and 8pm, while following the odd-even formula. Shops on each side of the roads were open on alternate days. “Only those turned up today who really wanted to buy items. Usually, customers also come to inquire and get estimates,” Rouhaan Khambata, shop owner of a hardware and tools store said. President of Pune Camp Merchants Association, Hormuz Pundole, said many were not yet aware about how the odd-even formula works and the timings. “Our members are informing their registered customers. It will take a few days before we get a normal public response,” he said. Another member Sunil Athwani said,“We are happy to reopen our shops after such a long gap.” MG Road apparels trader Husain Gazibo said footfall was unexpected and encouraging in the morning hours, but tapered down towards afternoon. Meanwhile, the PCB’s anti-encroachment team seized 10 handcarts. “Action will be taken on a regular basis to maintain the social distancing norms,” said Amit Kumar, PCB’s CEO said. An activist from Ghorapdi, Sanjay Kawade, said many shops in Ghorpadi market were crowded. Caution In Khadki, Dehu Road Cantonments All shops in the bazaar area of Khadki Cantonment Board were closed on Monday as it was a weekly holiday. Pramod Kumar Singh, the CEO of KCB, said, “We have granted permission to open shops from 9am to 5pm on the odd/even basis. If we record a surge in cases, we will immediately change the plan.” It was not crowded in the Dehu Road Cantonment Board-limits on Monday. “We have been allowing shops to open on alternate days in our limit for the last few days. Hence there was no crowd today,” said R Hartial, DCB’s CEO . So far, only six cases were found in the cantonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-on-mg-road-take-on-new-challenges-with-hope/articleshow/76271292.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Checking power misuse could save money, resources||By S Pushpavanam CHENNAI: The Centre as part of the economic stimulus recently raised the borrowing limit of states from 3% of gross state domestic product to 5% in 2020-21, which will make available an additional Rs4.28 lakh crore. But it comes with conditions, part of the increased borrowing limit would be linked to specific reforms in One Nation-One Ration card, ease of doing business, power distribution and urban local body revenue collection. In Tamil Nadu, power sector reforms are the most crucial among these. The state has 21.4 lakh unmetered agricultural power connections. Fixing metres and paying subsidy through Direct Benefit Transfer would let Tangedco assess how much power has been actually used. Farmers would pay the bill in full and get the subsidy portion reimbursed by the state it is being done in LPG. Farmers were quick to protest against the proposed reform in power distribution as they feared fixing metre would expose their misuse of power and the next step would be withdrawing free power. Tamil Nadu Government hastened to announce that free power would continue to appease them. The free power scheme (1984) was originally meant to help small farmers draw water with a 5HP motor. It was later extended to all farmers. The limitless, free and unmetered supply led to misuse. It began with apathy, with motors not being switched off, particularly at night, since there is no incentive to save money. As a result a lot of water and power go waste, say TNEB officials. Second, 10HP and 15HP motors began to be used, violating the norm to draw more water without the knowledge of the TNEB. With no monitoring, many farmers use motors that are 15 to 30 years old, which have become power guzzlers. Since the stakes are high, farmers resisted fixing of metres. "In 2000, when EB assessors went to fix metres in Vallanadu in Tuticorin and in Maniyachchi, among other places, they were assaulted with sickles and metre-fixing was stopped thereafter," says S Ilango, leader of Janata EB employees union. The other culprits are political parties, especially during elections, when they steal power from overhead wires for public meetings. The EB is also responsible, buckling under political pressure, authorities have ignored such misuse. Free power is also aiding desertification. The state Ground and Surface Data Centre, Erode shows in 2017 water levels had fallen nearly 7m in Erode in just a year. Tirunelveli and Dharmapuri rank next. According to the Central Ground Water Board,report in 2015, of the 137 blocks in Punjab (free power from 1998), 110 are under the over-exploited category. Such a map needs to be drawn for Tamil Nadu as well. The depletion of groundwater table has wide ramifications, including making farmers vulnerable to production risks and climate change. The availability of powerful machines to access water also led to exploitation of groundwater as well as of nearby rivulets and canals. Although a crime, some farmers began to sell water. If we are to get uninterrupted quality power, we must put an end to power misuse, uncontrolled waste of water and inefficiency in administration. Direct benefit transfer will help achieve that. If Tamil Nadu fails to do that fearing protest from its farmers, the state would not be doing justice to the rest of the power consumers and its natural resources. (The writer is secretary, Consumer Protection Council TN) Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi @timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/checking-power-misuse-could-save-money-resources/articleshow/76271283.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: As work resumes, chaos prevails at Shivajinagar court complex entrance||PUNE: Chaos and confusion prevailed at the entrance of the Shivajinagar district and sessions court complex for the better part of Monday morning, the first day of the resumption of court work after two-and-a-half months of lockdown restrictions. The Pune courts had last functioned on a regular basis on March 18. The Bombay high court had released Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the district and sessions courts across the state last week. As per the SOPs, the courts were allowed to resume work with 15% staff in two shifts of three hours each from June 8 (Monday). Pune’s principal district and sessions judge had since released a schedule of judges working in shifts as also instructions relating to physical distancing and hygiene norms in view of the Covid-19 situation. The court administration in association with the Pune Bar Association (PBA) made arrangements in this regard. Since only gate number 4 was open for entry to the court premises and gate number 3 for exit, there was a huge rush of vehicles and individuals at the entry gate, trying to move in. “There was a rush as many lawyers and litigants reached court out of curiosity. Many hoped that they can get some pending work done,” PBA president Satish Mulik told TOI. He said, “Many lawyers were unable to make an assessment of the situation on day 1 and rushed to the courts. Our office-bearers were at the gates appealing to members to return if they had no urgent work. Eventually, things settled down around 2pm. The high court has already directed the subordinate courts not to take any coercive action in the absence of lawyers or the party concerned.” PBA vice-president Sachin Hingnekar said many people seemed to be under the impression that the courts had resumed in a full-fledged manner. “Only the lawyers who had priority work were being allowed in. Similarly, only those litigants who had to file an affidavit or individuals wanting to furnish sureties in bail matters were being allowed in,” he said, adding those coming in were checked with temperature gun and makeshift wash basin with soap and water tank were placed at various points. Senior lawyer Milind Pawar said, “Today, only matters related to bail in criminal cases, injunction in civil cases, final hearing of cases where evidence has already been recorded and appeal and review matters were taken up as the high court SOPs.” Lawyer Sanjay Agarwal said, “Many of our colleagues are yet to settle down with the new norm of online work. With the bar rooms and library closed, many are finding problems in studying matters. There are also issues with books and software. Not all lawyers can afford to buy costly software.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-work-resumes-chaos-prevails-at-shivajinagar-court-complex-entrance/articleshow/76271300.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Online programme to give senior citizens information on IT services||AURANGABAD: The National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), Aurangabad, has introduced free online programme for empowering senior citizens. Director of the institute Sanjeev Gupta said on Monday that veterans could attend the online programme from the comfort of their homes using smart phones or computers with little help from family members. “The online programme is of around 10 days and has been designed to make senior citizens aware of commonly used IT services and make their lives better. The course also makes participants familiar with different welfare schemes and programmes of the government, along with legal remedies available for different issues,” said Gupta. The Google meet will be used as a meeting platform during the course, whose e-content involves several power point presentations, videos and other online literature. Citing national level studies, Gupta said around 39% senior citizens lived alone while close to 60% were facing domestic violence and other issues. “While the whole world around is becoming digital day by day, senior citizens should also get oriented with handling commonly used IT services so that they can become self-sufficient and living alone can be easier. Also, knowledge of government schemes and laws meant for them can improve the lives of the senior citizens,” he said. The online registration and further details of the course are available on the official website of NIELIT, Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/online-programme-to-give-sr-citizens-info-on-it-services/articleshow/76268988.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Donation drives boost blood stock||Pune: Efforts to increase the inventory of blood bags and donation drives have helped improve the supply, which had reduced during the lockdown. Currently, the available stock of blood can last for around a month. Nearly 25,000 units of blood are stocked at different blood banks across the city. According to the officials representing the district administration, the supply of blood had reduced during the lockdown period. However, as of now, across the 33 blood banks in the region there is adequate stock of blood available. “The blood banks in the city have enough stock now. Nearly 25,000 units of blood are available at these facilities located under the jurisdictions of Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and the district administration,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/donation-drives-boost-blood-stock/articleshow/76271307.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu seeks Rs 15,000 crore loan from Centre for Tangedco||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has sought Rs 15,000 crore soft loan from Rural Electricity Corporation (REC) and Power Finance Corporation (PFC) to clear the dues Tangedco owes to various power generation companies. The state’s claim works out to about 17% of the Rs 90,000 crore assistance — loans ranging from 3 years to 10 years at interest rate ranging from 8.75% to 9.5% — announced by the Centre for discoms across the country to tide over financial crisis. In two letters written to the Union power ministry, Tamil Nadu energy secretary has made the state’s stand clear that it is opposed to the REC and PFC paying the money directly to power generation companies, to clear the dues of Tangedco. There are 121 solar power generation firms and 2,521 wind power generation firms in the state. Direct payment by REC and PFC to all of them would be a complicated task, secretary A Karthik said.The secretary said Tamil Nadu government has cleared all subsidy and other dues it owes to Tangedco. This is one of the preconditions for availing the Central assistance. The state has once again reiterated its opposition to direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidies to farmers and other consumers. “As on March 31 this year, the total money outstanding to power companies is Rs 15,000. Of that, nearly 80% is overdue for more than one year. Tangedco owes payments to some wind power generation firms for more than two years,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom’s financial condition has worsened since imposition of the lockdown as bill collection has dropped by almost 80%. The Centre’s loan assistance scheme comes with a two-year moratorium on repayment. “The soft loan will help the discom save 3-9% on interest payments alone,” said the official. The Centre has laid down quite a few conditions for disbursal of the loan. The discom should not have any dues to be paid to Central agencies. There must be a liquidation plan for clearing dues, through three annual instalments, by the state governments towards unpaid bills from their departments, enterprises and local bodies and there should be a plan for settling the unpaid subsidy to the discom. The state government will have to endorse the plan, to be prepared by the discom in consultation with the Union power ministry, for bringing down the aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and the gap between average cost of supply and average revenue realisation (ARR) over three to four years. “We have paid all subsidies pending to Tangedco. Government departments owe the discom Rs 1,800 crore. But Tangedco owes a similar amount – the electricity tax collected by the discom — to the government,” energy secretary A Karthik said in the letter before he was shifted from the post. “Tangedco does not have any headroom for further borrowing within the working capital limits set in the UDAY scheme. We, therefore, want the Centre to relax the working capital limits and not to link sanction of financial assistance to the extent of receivables from the state government,” said Karthik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-seeks-rs-15000cr-loan-from-centre-for-tangedco/articleshow/76271301.cms||B Sivakumar
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Three more foreign returnees test positive in dist||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Three more people, who arrived from foreign countries, were tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Monday. A 56-year-old man who arrived from Abu Dhabi on June 3, a 44-year-old man who arrived from Dubai on May 29, and a 42-year-old man who arrived from Dubai on May 28 were tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A total of 742 people were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Monday. As many as 381 people completed observation period without showing any symptoms. A total of 47 people were admitted to hospitals in the district with disease symptoms on Monday. As many as 32 people have been discharged. A total of 208 people are currently under observation in hospitals in the district. As many as 100 samples were sent for testing on Monday. The results of 288 samples were negative. Eight people were tested negative on Monday. A total of 70 people are currently under treatment in the district. As many as 1,934 people are currently under institutional quarantine in the district in 52 Covid-care centres. A total of 1,608 vehicles were inspected on Monday. The number of persons under quarantine rose from 3,637 to 16,834 in the district in the past one month. Antibody testing was conducted for health staff employed in Covid hospitals in the district on Monday. The test will continue for staff employed in other hospitals on Tuesday. As per the advisory issued by department of health, the state is using antibody test kits to strengthen the community surveillance system which is expected to help in providing early warning signals and epidemiological information about the epidemic in the state. IgM/IgG lateral flow immuno assay based test will be used for surveillance using ICMR approved antibody tests. The main objective will be to identify the community transmission of Covid-19 and herd immunity in specific populations. The population to be tested have been categorized under different groups of which healthcare workers like doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who are involved in patient care in government or private in/out patient departments/casualty services are included under Group 1. This is further classified as Group 1 A ; healthcare workers involved in Covid patient care and 1 B, health care workers in non-covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-more-foreign-returnees-test-positive-in-dist/articleshow/76270193.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Business||STPI-Hyd units accounted for half of state’s IT exports||Hyderabad: STPI (Software Technology Parks of India) registered units based in Hyderabad have not only accounted for half of Telangana’s IT exports but also 15% of the total Rs 4,21,103 crore software exports clocked by STPI-registered units across the country during 2019-20, according to top STPI Hyderabad officials. Hyderabad-based STPI units accounted for software exports worth around Rs 64,400 crore for fiscal 2019-20 as against around Rs 57,700 crore in 2018-19, a jump of over 11%, STPI-Hyderabad director CVD Ram Prasad told TOI. STPI director general Omkar Rai released the national STPI software exports data recently. STPI is an autonomous society under the Union ministry of electronics & information technology (MeitY). Interestingly, software exports from STPI-Hyderabad units accounted for nearly half of the total software exports from the state in 2019-20 that stood at Rs 1,28,807 crore, as announced recently by the Telangana government. On May 20, 2020, the Telangana government had announced that the state logged an 18% jump in IT exports in FY20 at Rs 1,28,807 crore from Rs 1,09,219 crore in FY19. According to the STPI-Hyderabad director, software exports from Hyderabad were higher than the national average thanks to the city attracting some big names in the tech space like Amazon that have helped enhance business in STPI and SEZ areas. “Though expansion happened more in the SEZ areas than STPI as this is the last year for SEZ tax exemptions, STPI units, most of whom are small and midsized, managed to contribute nearly half to Hyderabad’s overall software exports,” he said. He said the software exports data for STPI-registered units for the year could be higher as the June end deadline for units to submit audited data had been extended to September 2020 due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stpi-hyd-units-accounted-for-half-of-states-it-exports/articleshow/76270201.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 9, 2020||Bareilly||Five, including two sons of BJP's town area chairman, booked for attempt to murder||Pilibhit: Police on Sunday night booked five persons – including two sons of BJP’s Jahanabad town area chairman – for attempting to kill a businessman in retaliation for a previous FIR lodged by the victim against the key accused on June 2, following which the chairman’s husband was arrested and sent to jail. Complainant Dhirendra Kumar Gupta is a businessman of Qazi Tola locality in Jahanabad town under Jahanabad police station. According to his written complaint, on Sunday he was on his way to the district government hospital in Pilibhit to see his son Prince – who was assaulted and injured by the accused on June 2. As he reached the Eidgah at the outskirts of Pilibhit city, five persons – including Shiva Gupta and Shagun Gupta of Jahanbad town and their three accomplices – intercepted him. The accused then knocked him down, hurled abuses at him and beat him up brutally. Shiva opened fire on him with a country-made pistol but, luckily, it missed. The brothers told him that he was being punished because their father Durga Charan alias Anna was sent to jail following an FIR lodged on his complaint on June 2. He was rescued by commuters who had gathered on the spot. The accused then fled the spot after threatening to kill him. Station house officer (SHO) Atar Singh said, “An FIR against the two named brothers and three unidentified persons had been registered under sections 307 (attempt to kill), 147, 149, 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) 341 (wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult, and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-including-two-sons-of-bjps-town-area-chairman-booked-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/76268021.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||SOP for reopening schools in Andhra Pradesh floated||VISAKHAPATNAM: Senior professor of education, former dean and faculty of Andhra University (AU) Nimma Venkata Rao has developed a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening and functioning of schools in the state amid the pandemic. The SOP, titled ‘A period of educational crisis: Alternative initiatives – a prophetic model with reference to Andhra Pradesh’, studies existing infrastructure at schools in the state, curriculum, teaching modalities, administration and various schemes implemented by the government before making its recommendations. The SOP suggests conducting classes only thrice a week. Students of classes I and II will attend school in the morning while other classes in the primary section will come to school in the afternoon. Similarly, students of classes VI and VII will come to school in the morning while other classes will attend afternoon sessions. Prof Venkata Rao said dry rations can be directly supplied to households of students instead of mid-day meals at schools till normalcy returns. “This will also prove effective as the students will spend only four hours in the schools under the suggestive SOP. Andhra Pradesh has several advantages when it comes to schooling due to various welfare and development schemes being implemented in the sphere by the present government.” Prof Rao added, “For example, schools are undergoing a facelift under Nadu-Nedu programme. The state government can also take advantage of the newly introduced village/ward secretariat system and provide these offices with digital learning equipment. It is better to consider mandal as a unit in the upcoming teacher transfers. With this, the teachers will stay in their own mandals and will be available to the students 24X7. They can offer digital education to students from the secretariats if physical presence of students is not possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sop-for-reopening-schools-floated/articleshow/76270187.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 9, 2020||Amaravati||SOP for reopening schools in Andhra Pradesh floated||VISAKHAPATNAM: Senior professor of education, former dean and faculty of Andhra University (AU) Nimma Venkata Rao has developed a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening and functioning of schools in the state amid the pandemic. The SOP, titled ‘A period of educational crisis: Alternative initiatives – a prophetic model with reference to Andhra Pradesh’, studies existing infrastructure at schools in the state, curriculum, teaching modalities, administration and various schemes implemented by the government before making its recommendations. The SOP suggests conducting classes only thrice a week. Students of classes I and II will attend school in the morning while other classes in the primary section will come to school in the afternoon. Similarly, students of classes VI and VII will come to school in the morning while other classes will attend afternoon sessions. Prof Venkata Rao said dry rations can be directly supplied to households of students instead of mid-day meals at schools till normalcy returns. “This will also prove effective as the students will spend only four hours in the schools under the suggestive SOP. Andhra Pradesh has several advantages when it comes to schooling due to various welfare and development schemes being implemented in the sphere by the present government.” Prof Rao added, “For example, schools are undergoing a facelift under Nadu-Nedu programme. The state government can also take advantage of the newly introduced village/ward secretariat system and provide these offices with digital learning equipment. It is better to consider mandal as a unit in the upcoming teacher transfers. With this, the teachers will stay in their own mandals and will be available to the students 24X7. They can offer digital education to students from the secretariats if physical presence of students is not possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/sop-for-reopening-schools-floated/articleshow/76274040.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops lend a helping hand to children||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A message sent to a WhatsApp group of Student Police Cadet members and officials at Kovalam seeking help to buy a television for a student who could not attend online classes soon turned into a mini people’s movement at the end of which as many as eight deserving students received LED televisions. On Friday, the Kovalam Janamaithri police officials visited the residence of each student along with the sponsors and handed over the TV sets. It all started when mother of a Class X student at Government High School, Vazhamuttom, approached his teacher seeking help. As the student was a former cadet of Student Police Cadets (SPC), the teacher informed the matter to SPC coordinator and drill inspector ASI T Biju. He in turn posted a message in WhatsApp group of SPC project of Government HS, Vazhamuttom. “The intention behind sharing the message in the group was to seek support of parents of other students and teachers. But more students secretly reached out to us revealing that they too were in need of help,” said ASI T Biju. Police received more than 15 requests. They conducted a background check and found out that as many as eight students were from really poor families and they were chosen as beneficiaries. When the number of beneficiaries rose, the matter was shared in the Janamaithri WhatsApp group in which local businessmen and residents were also members. The restaurant and hoteliers in the group took up the matter and agreed to sponsor the TVs, Biju said. Of the eight students, four are ex-SPC cadets of GHS, Vazhamuttom. They are currently in Class X. Two are Class IX students of GHS for Girls, Venganoor and the other two are a Class II student of SN LPS, Kovalam, and a higher secondary student of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Venganoor. Efforts are also on to identify such needy students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-lend-a-helping-hand-to-children/articleshow/76270211.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cabinet nod for Jal Jeevan mission||Thiruvananthapuram: The cabinet on Wednesday gave clearance to a project under which 52.85 lakh rural households will receive a pipe-water connection in the next five years. The chief minister said that the project titled Jal Jeevan Mission in collaboration with the Centre, will be completed in 2024. He said that the cabinet has decided to give administrative sanction for the project with a total project cost of Rs 22,720 crores. The cabinet also approved to initiate works worth Rs 880 crore, of which barring Rs 80 crore to be chipped in by local self-government bodies, the other part will be equally shared by the state and the centre, in the ongoing year for the project. The project will ensure that all households in the state will have a pipe-water connection. The project implementation will be the responsibility of the grama panchayats, and if there are more than one grama panchayats involved, coordination committees will be formed by including members from various grama panchayats, block panchayats and district panchayats for coordination. The cabinet also decided to impose trawling for 52 days in the sea within the state’s limits from June 9 to July 31. The cabinet has decided to go ahead with the construction of a sanitary landfill for the proper disposal of solid non-biodegradable waste, on KINFRA land. The permission will be subject to clearance from the environment department. The chief minister said that 25 acres that were purchased from FACT by KINFRA for setting up of petrochemical park in Ernakulam will be utilized for setting up the sanitary landfill. The cabinet also decided to strengthen the power supply in the medical colleges in the state in the wake of Covid-19. As part of this, 43 temporary posts of lineman will be created. The cabinet also reviewed the overall progress of the ongoing national highway expansion in the state. The chief minister said that the government has decided to agree with the Centre’s condition that 25% of the land acquisition cost should be borne by the state, taking into consideration the development of the state. The funds will be made available from KIIFB. Already Rs 358 crore has been released from KIIFB for the purpose, he said. He said that Rs 40,000 crore will be approximate expense for expanding the highway to a four-lane 45-metre wide highway, as estimated by the national highways authority of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cabinet-nod-for-jal-jeevan-mission/articleshow/76270200.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh fruits get direct shipping facility to UK||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a first, fresh fruits were exported directly from Visakhapatnam Port to the United Kingdom (UK) through container shipment. Two consignments carrying 19,000 kg of watermelon and 12,000 kg of mangoes produced by farmers from coastal Andhra Pradesh were packed and loaded in containers by a Vizag-based logistics company via Visakha Container Terminal Private Limited (VCTPL) for two ports in the UK. The move is expected to encourage production by local farmers by procuring from them in bulk, in a single consignment. Watermelon, pineapple and bananas will soon be shipped for consumers in other European countries. Speaking to TOI, Anil Narayanan, deputy chief operating officer (COO) of VCTPL said, “Vizag is a gateway port for containers and direct shipment is available from Vizag to European countries though fruits have never been shipped before. They used to be sent through trans-shipment in Colombo. This month, we sent the first consignment of fruits in refrigerated containers to UK on trial ships maintaining the ideal temperature so that the fruits remain fresh for the month-long journey. Depending on its success, more varieties of fruits can be directly shipped from Vizag to other European countries.” On their first fruit export shipment, director of Elite Logix Exim Agency (India) Pvt Ltd, A Ravi Shankar, said, “There is a demand for tropical fruits in UK and Europe. They had been importing from other Asian countries and from other Indian ports or through air cargo. Due to the pandemic, fruit cultivators of AP are also facing losses in their business. So we decided to purchase in bulk from local farmers (19 tonnes of watermelon from Vijayawada and 12 tonnes of mangoes from East Godavari), got them packed (three kg of mangoes per box) at Nuzvid.” “The mangoes are being shipped to London Gateway port while watermelons are being sent to Felixstowe Port and will be subsequently dispatched to supermarkets in London. We are planning to send 18 tonnes of pineapple from Tuni in East Godavari,” added Ravi Shankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-fruits-get-direct-shipping-facility-to-uk/articleshow/76270203.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||SARI patient tests Covid +ve after death in Amravati||Amravati: A 50-year-old woman, who was being treated for SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) at Covid Hospital here, tested positive after her death on Monday morning. Collector Shailesh Naval told TOI that the woman was shifted to Covid Hospital from Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Memorial Medical College (PDMC) and Hospital 4-5 days ago and her swab was taken. She breathed her last during treatment early on Monday morning while her swab report came positive later. With this, the Covid death count of the district has gone up to 17. Besides the death, the city also reported five positive cases to take the district’s patient count to 284. The two include a 36-year-old woman from Kishor Nagar who allegedly came in contact with a Getlife Hospital positive staffer. The other case is from Chawadi Chowk in Badnera where a 28-year-old youth tested positive. This is the second case from Chawadi Chowk after a 50-year-old woman, who had tested positive on Saturday last. The Covid Hospital today discharged six patients. This has taken the number of recovered patients to 191. Now, the hospital has 74 active cases, including two in Nagpur. ‘Home isolation not feasible’: Meanwhile, Naval told TOI that implementation of new guidelines regarding home isolation are not feasible at this stage in Amravati and he would continue with the prevalent practice given the fact that most of the patients are slum-dwellers with very inadequate housing facilities. “If the situation warrants in future, we will take a decision,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sari-patient-tests-covid-ve-after-death-in-amravati/articleshow/76271392.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Business||ED raids Cox & Kings brass in Yes Bank laundering case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate conducted searches at five places connected with the top management of travel company Cox & Kings on Monday. The company is accused of money laundering Rs 3,642 crore of funds taken from Yes Bank by bribing its promoter Rana Kapoor, who is presently in judicial custody.  "The ED conducted searches at five premises of promoter, directors, CFO and auditor of Cox & Kings group in Mumbai," the agency said. The searched premises belonged to Ajay Ajit Peter, Pesi Patel, Abhishek Goenka, Anil Khandelwal and Naresh Jain. The Cox & Kings has an outstanding loan of Rs 563 crore taken from Yes Bank. Among its other group companies, Ezeego One Travel & Tours has Rs 1,012 crore outstanding; Cox & Kings Financial Services Rs 422 crore; Prometheon Enterprise Ltd, UK has a loan of Rs 1,152 crore; and Malvern Travel, UK has Rs 493 crore outstanding.  Besides Cox & Kings, Rana Kapoor is an accused in the Rs 3,700-crore DHFL money laundering case. The PWC confirmed falsification of accounts by Cox & Kings, overstating the sales figures and understating the debt figures, fictitious transactions leading to laundering of over Rs 3,600 crore taken from Yes Bank. "FY 15 to FY 19, sales of Rs 3,908 crore were made to 15 non-existent customers," ED said. Anil Khandelwal, CFO of C&K diverted Rs 1,100 crore to Alok Industries Ltd without any approval of board, ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-raids-cox-kings-brass-in-yes-bank-laundering-case/articleshow/76273280.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ACB nabs official in Andhra Pradesh’s first trap case in two months||VISAKHAPATNAM: In the first case of graft in the state after a gap of over two months, officials of the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB), Visakhapatnam unit, laid a trap and apprehended a senior assistant of a primary health centre (PHC) in Minumuluru village under Paderu mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 19,000 on Monday. ACB officials arrested the senior assistant, Chetti Shobha Rani, for accepting the bribe from two multi-purpose health workers (MPHW) for carrying out an official favour. Shobha Rani demanded the bribe from MPHWs Konta Bhagyavati and Randi Pushpavathi, employed with Minumuluru PHC, for field travel allowances (FTA) for 2016, 2017 and 2018 that had already been processed and for processing FTA bills for 2019 and 2020. Both MPHWs decided not to give the bribe and instead lodged a complaint with the ACB’s Vizag unit. Upon verifying the facts, ACB officials led by DSP K Ranga Raju laid a trap and caught Shobha Rani while she was accepting the bribe at the PHC office on Monday. ACB officials said no trap case or disproportionate assets case was registered in the state from March 23 to June 7 due to shutdown of government offices. The bureau registered 19 trap cases and nine cases of disproportionate assets from January to March 20 at its various units in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/acb-nabs-official-in-aps-1st-trap-case-in-2-months/articleshow/76270215.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu plans ordinance for 10% NEET quota for govt students||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government school students who clear NEET may get 10% horizontal reservation in medical admission from this academic year, highly placed sources told TOI. The AIADMK government may soon promulgate an ordinance on this following recommendations made by Justice P Kalaiyarasan-led commission in its report filed on Monday. The panel was constituted by the state government last March to analyze the reason for government school students not being able to gain admission to medical colleges after it came under attack from opposition parties over the issue. Tamil Nadu had 3,350 MBBS seats last year. In 2016, before NEET-based admissions began for MBBS, 34 students from government schools joined medical colleges in the state. In the last three years, after NEET came into effect, only 14 government school students secured admission to medical courses. “The state government is likely to promulgate an ordinance giving effect to 10% horizontal reservation for students of government schools. It is like sportspersons, children of ex-servicemen and differently-abled getting a special reservation,” said a source. The horizontal reservation is well within the vertical reservation available to SC/ST/OBC/general categories in education. The committee consulted a wide range of stakeholders before submitting its recommendations to reserve seats for students who studied from ‘Class VI to Class XII’ in government schools. Sources said the commission comprising secretaries of school education, law, and health and family welfare departments, besides educationists, took note of the cognitive gap of the students. “In an in-depth empirical study, it was found that 85% of students come from families of daily-wagers. Many factors, including environment, parental education, income, location of schools in rural areas, psychological barriers, and non-availability of private coaching centers in rural areas were considered. The panel felt there are justifiable grounds to provide reasonable quota to these students,” said a source. It also took note of the fact that 66% of the candidates who got medical seats last year were repeaters who cracked exams after failing more than once. Data from the directorate of medical education, CBSE and ICSE were used to arrive at the conclusion. Responding to the news, G R Ravindranath, doctors’ association for social equality general secretary, said: “We welcome quota for government school students in medical admissions as it would protect government schools from shutting down besides helping the poor and downtrodden pursue medicine. The government should now focus on coaching since competitive examinations are going to determine the future of students,” he said. While the TN government unanimously passed two bills to exempt the state from NEET, the Union government withheld both bills after two years. A fresh petition was filed in January amid uproar in the state, challenging the amendments made to the Indian Medical Council Act and Dentists Act, making uniform entrance exam across the country mandatory. “After the introduction of NEET, the number of students of government schools getting admission in medical colleges has fallen. The government is determined not to allow such a situation in the coming years,” Palaniswami said while making a suo motu announcement to constitute the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-plans-ordinance-for-10-neet-quota-for-govt-students/articleshow/76271427.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 9, 2020||Goa||Monsoon likely to hit Goa in next two days||PANAJI: The conditions for the further advance of the southwest monsoon are becoming favourable. The India meteorological department (IMD) on Monday said that monsoon advancement to northward of Karwar, Karnataka, is likely in the next two days, covering Goa and some parts of the Konkan region. “Within 24 hours, a low pressure area will form over east central Bay of Bengal. With its westward movement, monsoon currents will get strengthened and rainfall over Goa too will increase from June 10 onwards,” said IMD scientist, Rahul M. According to IMD’s forecast from June 10 onwards, good rainfall activity is expected over Goa with heavy rainfall very likely over both districts. TOI had earlier reported that heavy rainfall is very likely at isolated places on June 10 and 11. Parts of Goa experienced very light to moderate rain and thundershowers at most places on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-likely-to-hit-state-in-next-two-days/articleshow/76272457.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Pune||Sealed Chinchwad slum residents go on rampage||Pune: Tension prevailed at the Anandnagar slums near the Chinchwad railway station — the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in Pimpri Chinchwad — on Monday afternoon when local residents demanding relaxation in the containment restrictions pelted stones, ransacked police booths and damaged vehicles of policemen on bandobast duty. A column of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) had to be summoned and the police resorted to a mild lathi charge to control the irate residents. “One of our policemen sustained minor injuries in the stone pelting. We are in the process of registering an offence. No one has been detained so far,” senior inspector Ravindra Jadhav of the Chinchwad police said. The police are checking CCTV footage to identify those involved in the rampage. “The situation is now under control,” said assistant commissioner of police R R Patil. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had declared Anandnagar as a containment area after close to 200 Covid-19 cases were detected within a short span of time more than a month ago. Around 3pm on Monday, a large number of residents gathered in the area and started demanding relaxation in the containment norms to allow them to go to work. Further, they argued that the government had already started relaxing the lockdown in the country. Jadhav said, “The civic administration has instructed us not to allow anyone to go out or enter the containment zone and we were following that. The municipal corporation has promised essentials at the doorstep of residents. On Monday, the residents gathered to demand ration and health facilities besides relaxation in norms.” Another police officer said, “The women protesters stood in front and the men, from behind them, started pelting stones at the police. Had the municipal adminstration fulfilled its promise, this situation would not have happened. People are sitting idle for the past one month and are facing problems on several fronts.” On May 20, the slum residents had gathered to demand that grocery shops be allowed to remain open in the area and that the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation should supply food and essentials. When contacted, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The demand of the local residents for relief to the containment zone cannot be fulfilled as the number of positive cases emerging from there is quite steady. Around 5,000 citizens from the locality are being fed regularly with the help of non-government organizations. Medicine and grocery shops are open too. We understand that there are strict prohibitions, but we cannot ease restrictions in view of the scenario there.” PCMC’s additional medical officer of health Pavan Salve said the number of Covid-19 cases from the Anandnagar slum pocket has now reached around 200 from the time the first case was reported three weeks ago. “Several measures are being taken, including having an outpatient department in the slum and regular surveying by the health department. The citizens might be feeling trapped, but the community transmission of the vius in the area needs to be stopped,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sealed-chinchwad-slum-residents-go-on-rampage/articleshow/76271436.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Narendra Modi government anniversary: BJP to organize virtual rally today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In what is touted as the first of its kind of virtual gathering of political activists in the state, BJP state unit is planning to hold virtual rallies on June 9 and 12. The online show of strength planned as part of the Narendra Modi government’s anniversary would see the participation of one lakh BJP workers in total, BJP state president K Surendran claimed. On June 5, BJP workers visited households and planted trees as June 5 was World Environment Day. The procedures for the political rallies on June 9 and 12 would be similar to that of conventional ones, but the only difference would be that participants would be attending the rally through online platforms. “Union ministers and national leaders would participate in the rallies. The party has decided to organise district level rallies similarly. Different feeder organisations have also decided to organise online rallies. various committees and feeder organisations would together organise around 300 virtual rallies,” Surendran said. The virtual rallies by BJP are considered as the curtain-raiser of the political activities the party plans given the upcoming local body elections.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/modi-govt-anniv-bjp-to-organize-virtual-rally-today/articleshow/76270233.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||State buckles, abandons compulsory Covid testing for those entering Goa||PANAJI: Goa on Monday tweaked its standard operating procedure, its seventh in two months, as it decided to do away with compulsory testing for persons arriving in the state and instead mandatorily put them in 14-day home quarantine if they clear thermal screening. The state’s latest SOP comes at a time when Covid-19 cases have seen a massive spike amid local transmission at Mangor Hill, forcing it to be made a containment zone, and cases across the state linked to it. Chief minister Pramod Sawant was at pains to justify his government’s decision to do away with compulsory testing, calling it a “well-thought out strategy” as increasing backlog of tests and rising number of people entering the state has put the healthcare infrastructure under strain. Sawant said the new SOP, which is expected to come into force from Wednesday, did not mean that the government had reduced Covid-19 testing and that 1,500-2,000 samples were expected to be tested every day. Putting the onus on society, Goans and the elected members of the civic bodies to ensure the people under home quarantine did not violate it, Sawant said: “We will inform the sarpanch, panch or the councillor of that particular ward to keep a watch on the person concerned and they will be held responsible.” The state government’s move comes at a time when states across the country have ramped up testing with the Telangana high court on Monday pulling up the government there and instructing it to not dodge testing. Goa has been the only state that tested each visitor, except those who had obtained Covid-19 negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab. Sawant said people still had the choice of getting tested by paying Rs 2,000 and staying in paid quarantine facility till their results are out or can even opt for a 14-day paid institutional quarantine. “The new SOP is aimed at reducing the backlog of test reports. With an increase in the number of people coming into Goa by road, and with air and rail services resuming, at least 2,500 test results are still awaited,” Sawant said. The chief minister said the new SOP will ensure that people arriving in the state do not come in contact with anyone. “Earlier, when the government compulsorily tested people coming into Goa, they were sent home soon after and most likely mingled with people in the locality. In case they were found to be positive, they were admitted to the Covid hospital,” he said. The focus of the “well-thought out strategy” is to ensure that the most vulnerable sections of society are given due attention. “Elders above 65 years of age, pregnant women, children below 5 years of age, people with comorbidities and those with symptoms will be our focus,” Sawant said. By testing each person entering the state, the government was stretching thin its resources and thereby diluting the focus from the vulnerable section, officials said. Like Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro’s comment about coronavirus as “little flu”, Sawant and his team of officials also tried to dismiss it as “nothing but a virus” and said, “the mortality rate in the country was around 2.5%, while Goa has not seen any deaths so far”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-buckles-abandons-compulsory-covid-testing-for-those-entering-goa/articleshow/76272444.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Thane||Mumbai: More shops open, but it’s the food stalls that are abuzz||MUMBAI: More shops opened across the city on Monday but it was clear that traders were resuming business on a small scale given the shortage of supplies and manpower. Umbrellas, raincoats, Covid-19 related items, plumbing and hardware goods were selling briskly, but the biggest queues were outside food stalls, particularly sweetmeat, farsan shops and those selling vada pav and bhaji. At play was Mumbaikars’ pent up misery at being restricted to home food over two months. Long queues were back outside Ladu Samrat in Lalbaug. “During the initial days, everybody was happy to eat home food since health and caution was paramount. But how many items can you cook at home? Over the weeks, their taste buds began craving vada pav, misal and sweets,” said owner Kamlakar Rakshe. Most traders in the city were careful to follow sanitation and social distancing norms on Monday. They placed markers on the pavement or road outside, and allowed only three or four customers inside at a time. With Covid-19 items moving fast, traders’ association president Viren Shah converted his Roopam garment outlet in Crawford Market into a multi-utility store, including a new section with masks, gloves, kits and sanitation equipment. Prashant Sakpal, owner of the popular sweetmeat store Prashant Corner at Panchpakhadi in Thane, welcomed a steady flow of customers for dry fruit-based sweets that flew off the shelves. “We are allowing limited customers in at a time within our shop, considering social distancing norms and are encouraging online orders,” he said. But street snacks online? At a nearby shop, a couple was digging into vada pav. “We have not had vada pav for the last two months and today, we are compensating wholeheartedly,” they said between bites. Across Bandra, Andheri, Lalbaug-Parel and Thane, farsan and mithai shops wished they had more men and material to keep up with the spurt in demand. MM Mithaiwala in Malad and Borivli is unable to cater to demand as workers have left for their villages. Bandra’s Jolly Farsan is closed every alternate day so that the owner can fetch wafers, chivda and snacks from distributors himself. “Monday was buzzing with demand. But there are no deliverymen, no halwais. So I fetched wafers and farsan myself. We are simply not making mithai until the situation improves,” said owner Atul Dakshini. In Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, Sweet Palace will reopen by the end of the week once the owner and workers arrive from their native Gujarat. Dadar’s mithai and farsan shops were closed for the weekly market holiday on Monday. (With inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/more-shops-open-but-its-the-food-stalls-that-are-abuzz/articleshow/76273404.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: More shops open, but it’s the food stalls that are abuzz||MUMBAI: More shops opened across the city on Monday but it was clear that traders were resuming business on a small scale given the shortage of supplies and manpower. Umbrellas, raincoats, Covid-19 related items, plumbing and hardware goods were selling briskly, but the biggest queues were outside food stalls, particularly sweetmeat, farsan shops and those selling vada pav and bhaji. At play was Mumbaikars’ pent up misery at being restricted to home food over two months. Long queues were back outside Ladu Samrat in Lalbaug. “During the initial days, everybody was happy to eat home food since health and caution was paramount. But how many items can you cook at home? Over the weeks, their taste buds began craving vada pav, misal and sweets,” said owner Kamlakar Rakshe. Most traders in the city were careful to follow sanitation and social distancing norms on Monday. They placed markers on the pavement or road outside, and allowed only three or four customers inside at a time. With Covid-19 items moving fast, traders’ association president Viren Shah converted his Roopam garment outlet in Crawford Market into a multi-utility store, including a new section with masks, gloves, kits and sanitation equipment. Prashant Sakpal, owner of the popular sweetmeat store Prashant Corner at Panchpakhadi in Thane, welcomed a steady flow of customers for dry fruit-based sweets that flew off the shelves. “We are allowing limited customers in at a time within our shop, considering social distancing norms and are encouraging online orders,” he said. But street snacks online? At a nearby shop, a couple was digging into vada pav. “We have not had vada pav for the last two months and today, we are compensating wholeheartedly,” they said between bites. Across Bandra, Andheri, Lalbaug-Parel and Thane, farsan and mithai shops wished they had more men and material to keep up with the spurt in demand. MM Mithaiwala in Malad and Borivli is unable to cater to demand as workers have left for their villages. Bandra’s Jolly Farsan is closed every alternate day so that the owner can fetch wafers, chivda and snacks from distributors himself. “Monday was buzzing with demand. But there are no deliverymen, no halwais. So I fetched wafers and farsan myself. We are simply not making mithai until the situation improves,” said owner Atul Dakshini. In Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, Sweet Palace will reopen by the end of the week once the owner and workers arrive from their native Gujarat. Dadar’s mithai and farsan shops were closed for the weekly market holiday on Monday. (With inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-shops-open-but-its-the-food-stalls-that-are-abuzz/articleshow/76272458.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Why no Rythu Bandhu sop now, HC asks govt||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from the government as to why it is not implementing the Rythu Bandhu scheme in the state now. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave the state government time till July 3 to reply. The bench was hearing a petition filed by Sampelli Pramod Kumar of Peddapur village in Bhupalapally district, who complained about non-release of funds under the scheme. In fact, the plea has first come before a single judge who, in turn, referred the matter to the CJ because the plea has larger elements of public interest. Kumar’s counsel Arcot Chandrasekhar told HC that the state government has not released the third and fourth instalments under the scheme though the season has already commenced. According to Chandrasekhar, the petitioner has 10 acres of land in his village and he makes a living by cultivating the farmland. He was given money under Rythu Bandhu in two spells in 2018. “But in 2019, though two seasons had passed away, he was not paid. The same is the case in 2020 also,” the counsel said. He further said, “We made several representations to the authorities. But, the authorities are making us run from pillar to post.” The bench posted the matter to July 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-no-rythu-bandhu-sop-now-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/76271455.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government moves to safeguard the vulnerable||CHENNAI: Pop the bubble – that’s the phrase used by epidemiologists, virologists and infectious diseases experts as Covid-19 cases surge. The state health department knows it has to focus on protecting the most vulnerable – people above the age of 60, pregnant women and those with diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, kidney failure and cancer. On Monday, the health department had prevention, management and treatment plans to be rolled out separately for people below and above the age of 40. “The handbook for doctors will be released in a day or two. This will ensure good standard of care,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “Although, only people above the age of 60 are vulnerable, we are considering people in their 40s at risk because a large number of people have died,” she said. Many people above 40 years have co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Similar to the registry of pregnant women, the state has set up registries for the elderly, people with diabetes, hypertension, heart, kidney and lung diseases. (See graphic)  The existing registry for pregnant women, people with HIV/AIDS, TB and cancer has details of their medical status and drugs consumed, said the National Health Mission’s TN project director, Senthil Raj. The Greater Chennai Corporation collected information through its door-to-door surveillance that began in April, said joint commissioner (health) Madhusudhan Reddy. The civic agency has decided that it would turn it into Chennai public health portal, where doctors have to update some non-communicable diseases as well, he said. The state had asked other corporations to get a line list of people at risk for 12 specialities. “It is almost done now,” said the health secretary. The medical experts committee had warned about the possibility of increasing incidence of infection. “When it does, we want to cocoon, to protect those at risk. At least 84% of people who succumbed to the virus had comorbid conditions,” she said. “Keeping diabetes and hypertension under control have improved recovery rates,” she added. Staying inside the bubble is like trying to stop a flood with a teaspoon, said senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil. “We see the infection everywhere. It’s not anyone’s fault. That is how this virus behaves. When there are relaxations, the virus will spread even faster. At that time it is important for everyone to wear masks, maintain hand and respiratory hygiene and maintain social distancing. It is even more important to ensure the vulnerable are safe,” he told the TOI recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-moves-to-safeguard-the-vulnerable/articleshow/76271441.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic impact: Political parties gear up for virtual rallies||BENGALURU: Political rallies as we know them are unlikely to return anytime soon, thanks to the pandemic. Union home minister Amit Shah’s virtual rally on Sunday ahead of assembly elections in Bihar will be the new norm, what with social distancing norms in place. Political parties say they have no choice, but to bank on digital platforms to reach out to the masses. Karnataka BJP and Congress are already pulling out all the stops to connect with people by changing all scheduled campaign events into virtual ones. BJP has planned a virtual rally titled ‘Samartha Nayakatva - Samartha Bharatha’ on June 14. The party’s national general secretary (organization) BL Santosh, chief minister BS Yediyurappa and state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel will jointly address the audience. “We want to ensure at least one crore participants,” said AH Anand, BJP spokesperson. “We have already roped in 58 lakh subscriptions. The idea is to reach out to netizens to highlight the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah and Yediyurappa, especially in times of Covid-19.” Congress is also gearing up to go digital. The party plans to livestream the swearing-in ceremony of new president DK Shivakumar on various digital platforms. The event, dubbed ‘Prathijna Dina’ will also be held on June 14. “The government has put in place rules to tackle the pandemic, so we plan to connect party workers and leaders from gram panchayats and urban wards through Zoom app. It will be much bigger than BJP’s Bihar rally,” said Shivakumar. “About 10 lakh people are expected to attend.” Deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan, who holds the information technology portfolio, said virtual political rallies cost next to nothing. “For A huge political rally, parties must spend huge money on hiring helicopters, chairs, flag makers, stage decorators, hotel stays, cars, buses and trucks, besides food, but for a virtual rally the party hardly needs to spend anything,” he said. Narayan said if the pandemic scare continues, the forthcoming gram panchayat elections will see a string of virtual rallies. However, experts say connectivity will play a key role and parties may struggle to reach out to voters in remote villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-impact-political-parties-gear-up-for-virtual-rallies/articleshow/76270245.cms||Manu Aiyappa
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Photos: Krishna water continues to flow into Chennai, turns canal a picnic spot||CHENNAI: An open canal from Poondi reservoir in Tiruvallur district to Chembarabakkam, swollen with Krishna water, has turned into the city’s favourite getaway for cooling off. The Poondi reservoir has been receiving Krishna river water from Kandaleru in Andhra Pradesh at the rate of 3,150 cusecs (cubic feet per second) over the past nine days and PWD authorities have been releasing it to Chembarabakkam at the rate of 300 cusecs. The Chembarambakkam reservoir now has a storage level of 2,111 mcft (million cubic feet) against the capacity of 3,645 mcft. Water from Poondi reservoir in Tiruvallur district reaches Chembarambakkam through a 25km-long open canal.The 25-km-long open canal, taking water to Chembarambakkam, has become a picnic spot for residents near Sriperumbudur. But, a Metrowater official has warned against bathing at the spot. “In some places along the stretch, the canal is deep. Those, especially boys who do not know swimming jumping into the waters will face problems,” he warned. At present, about 70 million litres of water is being drawn from Chembarambakkam. This along with 180 million litres of water from Veeranam lake is being supplied to many parts in the city. When the water levels dip in Veeranam lake, water drawal from Chembarambakkam will increase, he said. About 250 million litres of water a day is being supplied from Veeranam and Chembarambakkam to various parts of the city. “We cannot pinpoint the area to which the water from Chembarambakkam or Veeranam lake is being distributed,” he said. Residents in areas such as Valluvarkottam, Choolaimedu, Valasaravakkam, Ramapuram, Manappakkam, K K Nagar and suburbs including Alandur, Pallippattu near Taramani and few more parts in South Chennai will benefit, he said. The Andhra Pradesh government will release water for another 22 days until the complement of 0.6 tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) is reached. After retaining a small quantity, water at the rate of 300 cusecs will be released to Chembarambakkam. Earlier, the PWD authorities were releasing a small quantity to Red Hills reservoir which now has 2,700 mcft against its capacity of 3,300 mcft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/krishna-water-continues-to-flow-into-city-turns-canal-a-picnic-spot/articleshow/76271446.cms||P Oppili
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Volunteers invited! Corp to set up quick response force||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation is setting up a quick response disaster management force at ward levels as part of its efforts to deal with challenges arising out of natural disasters. A volunteer force is being constituted for this purpose and mayor K Sreekumar has appealed to volunteers to register for the mission. As per the scheme, each ward will have its own trained disaster management force comprising 5-10 members. The team will be directly monitored by councillors of respective wards and will report to the city corporation. Till now, the corporation used to seek help from fire force and police to deal with natural disasters. “Our idea is to equip the volunteers to confront any possible situation that could pose a potential threat to residents. They will be given training and in the initial period, they will be made to participate in mock drills organised by the disaster management cell in different wards,” said a project official. Volunteers for the task force will be recruited through a selection procedure. “The task force will comprise mostly young, robust people who will be selected by trained experts. Once the training is completed, they will be stationed at different places and their assistance can be sought whenever required,” the official added. Palayam Rajan, chairman, town planning standing committee, said the corporation had already identified people with special skills at the ward level. “When we went through the online portal of state government for registration of volunteers, we noticed that there were not many people from the city. We have launched an online campaign inviting volunteers, mainly youngsters from the city. A monitoring committee, including officials from health and engineering wing, has been constituted for the purpose,” said Palayam Rajan. Ward-level quick response team will act in accordance with the disaster management plan of city corporation. Local bodies in the state were directed to prepare disaster management plans in addition to annual plans in the wake of recurring natural calamities in the state. The local self government department has issued specific set of instructions for preparation of disaster management plan. Public buildings like halls, schools, hospitals and areas vulnerable to disasters will also be recorded in the template. An evacuation plan, basic life support team, voluntary group are other major components in the template. The plan will also give emphasis to lands that could be converted into temporary helipads and areas that can house cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/volunteers-invited-corp-to-set-up-quick-response-force/articleshow/76270268.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Foresters’ door-to-door campaign helping curb man-animal conflict||Nagpur: In a major initiative to curb the flared-up man-animal conflict, the Nagpur Circle has reached out to over 79,000 people under its four forest divisions in Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara and Gondia districts. The death of a 21-year-old youth in a tiger attack in Wardha division in November last triggered the drive. “A life was taken away prematurely and post this incident, we issued a circular in December directing foresters to reach door-to-door to make people aware about the dos and don’ts to avoid interface with wildlife,” says P Kalyan Kumar, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Nagpur. Apart from several awareness programmes, this is the first such consolidated drive to reach out to all forested villages. The number of households covered in each division includes Gondia (26,519), Nagpur (23,522), Wardha (15,175), and Bhandara (13,658). “Our field staff is handing over pamphlets to each household and is interacting with them on the issue. Our target was to reach over 1 lakh households in four months but due to Covid-19, the drive has been given a break. These households will be revisited after lockdown relaxations,” said Kumar. The senior forest officer said the basic idea is to bring permanent behavioural change in people by enforcing self regulations. Most of them are following the instructions and in many families, the young generation is pursuing the seniors not to venture into the forest. In Nagpur and Wardha divisions, the results have been encouraging with not a single human death in wild animal attack in the last five months. In Gondia and Bhandara, there were few cases in select pockets only. In Nagpur Circle, in 2017-18, 13 people died in wild animal attacks followed by 6 in 2018-19 and 9 in 2019-20. Overall, in the last three years, 28 people died in conflict and 541 were injured. The figure doesn’t include Chandrapur district where 14 people have died in conflict in the last 5 months. Another reason for reaching out to people is to find out their frequency regarding venturing into the forest to find out their dependence. The awareness also helped us during collecting of tendu leaves in the region with not a single incident. During the tendu season, despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the four districts created employment of 4 lakh man days, generating a wage earning of over Rs11 crore for tendu pluckers. “Here, too, awareness among people helped to contain conflict with wildlife,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/foresters-door-to-door-campaign-helping-curb-man-animal-conflict/articleshow/76271496.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 9, 2020||Chennai||17 more die; oxygen cylinders now must at out-patient clinics in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 17 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 286, and the state health department ordered oxygen pipes and cylinders to be placed in out-patient clinics to ensure “zero delay” in treating people coming with hypoxia (low levels of oxygen), one of the commonest complaints among younger infected patients. The state logged 1,562 new cases, 1,149 in Chennai, taking the case tally to 33,229. The new cases included 42 returnees to various parts of TN – including 22 from Maharashtra, nine from Qatar and three from Kuwait. Three of the 17 people reported dead on Monday had no co-morbidities. Health secretary Beela Rajesh said, “Death audits are showing us that many people could have been saved if they were brought to the hospital earlier.” Beela Rajesh said, “More than 88% of our patients are asymptomatic and develop no complications. But of the remaining, around 9% of them require high flow oxygen.” “Some patients, who look visibly alright, collapse even before they can be wheeled into the emergency room,” she said. On Monday, the state ordered medical college hospitals, peripheral hospitals and urban health centres to ensure availability of oxygen at the out-patient clinics, she said. Statistics show that nearly one fifth of the patients died within 24 hours – some within 10 minutes -- of admission. Senior doctors say people with severe acute respiratory infection usually develop septic shock and multi-organ failure. “In many patients we don’t see this progression. They arrest before we can do anything,” said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi. Doctors have also found that putting such patients early on ventilator does not help. “More than 90% of people who were put on invasive ventilators could not be revived. Instead, many do well with early non-invasive ventilation or just high flow oxygen,” said infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. “But we much agree that the profile of the disease is changing. We are now seeing more cases and complications among the elderly and vulnerable. We should ensure we protect them,” he said. As usual, Chennai’s neighbours had more cases than other districts – Chengalpet reported 134, Kancheepuram 18 and Tiruvallur 57. In addition, Vellore reported 33 cases, Tuticorin 26, Kallakuruchi 20, Tiruvannamalai 11 and Cuddalore 10. Nineteen other districts had a single-digit rise in cases . Of the 15,413 patients under isolation and treatment, 11,817 were in Chennai. While most government medical colleges in the city were near capacity, private hospitals such as two branches of Apollo Hospitals, Kauvery Hospital, MIOT Hospital, Dr Kamatchi Memorial and Noble Hospital did not have any vacant beds, according to the state website (https://covid.uhcitp.in/status/dashboard). At the Apollo Hospitals in Vanagaram and Greams Road, all 17 ventilators were in use. At the Sri Ramachandra Hospital, 258 of the 300 beds were occupied, all ten ICU beds were full and three out of six ventilators were in use. Many other hospitals had the ICU beds vacant and ventilators weren’t in use. At the end of the day, 528 people were discharged taking the total number of cured persons to 17,527.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/17-more-die-oxygen-cylinders-now-must-at-op-clinics-in-tn/articleshow/76271476.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 9, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: For 'Guruvu garu', charity begins and ends with service to needy||GUNTUR: Service to mankind, it is said, is service to God. For Swamy Gnana Prasanna Giri, fondly called ‘Guruvu garu’ by his followers, has been living up to the adage for the last three months. Guruvu garu has worked round-the-clock to provide food, water and ration to hungry migrant workers, the poor and the destitute during the pandemic. The district administration itself turned to his Amma Charitable Trust to serve food to people in quarantine homes upon learning that the trust was serving high quality food to the poor. “We have decided to continue the food service till the last person going by walk on the highways,” Prasanna Giri told TOI. Guruvu garu goes on his bike for around 200 kilometres daily to oversee his trust’s relief operations. “We were surprised to see Guruvu garu standing at the food counter for several hours braving scorching temperatures to personally serve the migrants. He has become a big inspiration for our young volunteers,” said SVS Lakshminarayana, core committee member of Red Cross, which handles the food stall for migrant workers at the toll plaza near Mangalagiri on the Chennai highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/for-guruvu-garu-charity-begins-and-ends-with-service-to-needy/articleshow/76270230.cms||Samdani MN
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Notices to Telangana, Osmania University vice-chancellor on varsity land||HYDERABAD: The high court on Monday issued notices to the state government, revenue secretary, chief commissioner of land revenue and the vice-chancellor of Osmania University asking them to respond to the allegations that they are allowing OU land to be encroached upon by private individuals. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a plea filed by OU research scholar Poladi Ramana Rao, who told the court that 8,000 square yards of precious land located within the sprawling campus is facing the threat of being encroached during the lockdown period. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the bench about a pending PIL on the same matter and requested the court to tag that plea with the current petition. The bench agreed to do so and issued notices to the government and the OU authorities to file their counters in the matter. He said some persons are trying to enter into sale transactions in a hurry on the same land and urged the court to stay any such transactions. The bench said that it cannot pass any restraint order without hearing the concerned posted the case to June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notices-to-t-ou-vc-on-varsity-land/articleshow/76271527.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Agra||54-year-old dies of Covid-19 in Agra||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: A 54-year-old man, who tested positive for Covid-19, died under treatment at SN Medical College in Agra on Monday. He was a resident of Agra's Shahganj locality and was suffering from disseminated coagulation and SARI. In Meerut, 12 cases were reported, taking the tally to 533 which include one found in Kanpur. Also, with three new deaths, the toll reached 37. So far, 51 deaths were reported in Agra district. At least 13 fresh cases also surfaced till Sunday evening, taking the tally to 980. Of these, two cases were related to people who came from Delhi in May while a child returned with her family from Ahmedabad. Four patients were discharged too, with 107 active ones. The positive cases in Meerut belong to Partapur, South Islamabad, Shivlokpuri, Mawana, Budhana Gate, Risolpur Dorli, Maliyana, Humayunpur and Shambhu Nagar. There were two new cases in Bareilly, with a total of 71, while 33 were active and 36 discharged. In Pilibhit, three people tested positive on Monday. Five more people were found positive in Bijnor district, taking the tally to 163. Of them, 83 are active. The patients belong to Dhampur, Kiratpur and Bijnor areas. Out of them, one is a mother of a district level official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/54-yr-old-dies-of-covid-19-in-agra/articleshow/76269121.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bareilly||With ‘no work at home’, jobless migrants now leave UP for Punjab||Shahjahanpur: After losing their factory jobs in Uttarakhand during the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown, poverty-stricken migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur – in desperate need of work to support their family – have now decided to travel to Khanna in Punjab to work on paddy farms. “There is no infection bigger than poverty for us," said one of them. At least 15 such workers had recently returned to their hometown in UP with the hope of getting some work. However, according to their families, getting work in Shahjahanpur remained a far-fetched dream for them. Moreover, they didn’t receive any support from the administration, they claimed. Arjun Singh Kushwaha, 22, a resident of Kataiya Usmanpur village in Nigohi block, had struggled his way back home from Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, along with several others during the lockdown. And now, he left for Punjab on June 6 along with 14 workers in a minibus. All of them have been hired on a monthly contract basis in Khanna. On Monday, Arjun’s elder brother Karan Singh told TOI, “We don’t have work here. So, my brother and 12 others went to Punjab for paddy cultivation work. All of them will be staying at a farm house in Khanna and would get Rs 3,500 per acre for sowing paddy seeds and some additional work. This means that each will get around Rs 300 per day along with meals and accommodation. I am looking after the family at the moment and would also shift to some other state since the work here is insufficient for survival.” Sanchit, whose uncle Suneel Singh has also migrated to Punjab, said, “There are many villagers who are ready to move out. My uncle Suneel along with Rohit Kumar, Damodar, Radhe Shyam, Harinandan Kushwaha, Vijay Kumar, Shyam Babu and some others have gone to Punjab for work. We don’t have any opportunities here." One of the villagers even alleged, “Gram pradhans are being biased while making MGNREGA job cards. People who were already living in the village have job cards and receive government support of Rs 1,000 to their account.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-no-work-at-home-jobless-migrants-now-leave-up-for-punjab/articleshow/76268101.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 9, 2020||Chennai||HC junks activist’s PIL against Jaya memorial at Poes Garden abode||Chennai: A public interest writ petition questioning the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to convert former chief minister Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence into a state memorial was dismissed as withdrawn by the Madras high court on Monday. A division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar dismissed the PIL of social activist Traffic Ramaswamy, granting him liberty to file a fresh plea challenging the May 22 Ordinance promulgated by Tamil Nadu government, taking ‘temporary possession’ of the 10-ground property. In his PIL, Ramaswamy called the residence — Vedha Nilayam — as a ‘scene of crime’ and said the Supreme Court had declared that a portion of the property was acquired by Jayalalithaa during the period of misappropriation (1991-96). The income tax department too had raided the property after the demise of Jayalalithaa and portions of it remained under the department’s attachment/ seal temporarily, the activist said, adding that the department was yet to pass final orders on the raid. Most importantly, a commission of inquiry by a former judge of the high court is probing the causes of death of the former chief minister. The commission is yet to complete its inquiry and pass a final order, he pointed out. State’s decision to convert the property into a memorial has received strong criticism from the residents of the area and over 108 of them have made representations to the state against the conversion during a public hearing conducted by the authorities, he said. The move would also amount to contempt of court, as a portion of it has been declared as proceeds of the crime by the apex court, the activist added. While the property is the subject matter of so many legal and quasi-legal proceedings, the government cannot proceed further and convert the residence into a memorial, that too by spending public money, Ramaswamy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-junks-activists-pil-against-jaya-memorial-at-poes-garden-abode/articleshow/76271534.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Forum asks governor to intervene, seeks prosecution of corrupt officials||Hyderabad: Is the Telangana government watering down corruption cases booked against officials? Are cases against top officials involved in corruption diluted, kept in cold storage and finally settled with a mere departmental enquiry? To these queries, the Forum for Good Governance (FGG) says the answer is yes. FGG said a majority of the corruption cases in revenue, irrigation and municipal administration departments, where officials had amassed disproportionate assets beyond their means are ending up in a departmental action. FGG representatives wrote to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday, seeking her immediate intervention to prosecute the corrupt officials. M Padmanabha Reddy of FGG said in cases of lesser-paid employees who cannot influence prosecution, permissions are given immediately. “Whereas, in cases where top babus are involved, files are kept in cold storage for several years and finally settled with a departmental enquiry or transfer to commissioner of inquiries or action is dropped.” Citing an instance, he said ACB had conducted searches on M Sarat Babu, motor vehicle inspector, in 2009 over corruption charges. “For the last 11 years, the case has been pending. The government did not agree with ACB’s contention and directed it to defer the prosecution. It has directed ACB to furnish a draft article of the charges. But, no action has been taken till now,” he explained. In another case with the tribal welfare department, assistant tribal welfare officer of Mahabubabad Ch Rama Murthy was found in possession of Rs 70 lakh disproportionate assets. “For the last six years, the report has been lying with the government,” Reddy said. He also recalled that a vigilance and enforcement report into irregularities in the irrigation department in 2015 and a CID report into the case have been kept aside and no action has been taken against the tainted officials. Reddy said no action was taken against then-Shamirpet tehsildar EB Nagaraj though he was trapped in an illegal assets case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forum-asks-governor-to-intervene-seeks-prosecution-of-corrupt-officials/articleshow/76271545.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||8 succumb to Covid-19 in Solapur city, death toll 115||Kolhapur: The number of Covid-19 cases as well as the patients succumbing to the viral infection is increasing sifgnificantly in Solapur city. While 33 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Solapur city on Monday, 28 people tested positive for the contagion on Sunday. As many as 55 patients were discharged on Monday. The tally of positive patients in Solapur district stands at 1,221, of which 412 are active cases. After six people died of Covid-19 in Solapur city on Sunday, as many as eight patients succumbed to the viral infection on Monday. An official communication from the district administration stated that six of the eight patients who died on Monday were above 70 years and had various health complications. The death toll in Solapur city has reached 115. Meanwhile, six janwans of the Railway Police Force (RPF), who had arrived from Mumbai to Kurduwadi junction in Solapur district, tested positive for Covid-19 late Sunday night. Officials from the Solapur district administration said that they have undertaken the contact tracing exercise as a batch of 10 RPF jawans had come to Solapur on June 2. As per official information, the RPF jawans were deputed at Kurduwadi junction when they showed symptoms of Covid-19. Previously, they were also posted at Pandharpur and Jeur railway stations in Solapur district. Officials had made separate arrangements for the RPF jawans as they had come from Mumbai. The RPF jawans were first taken to a railway hospital in Kurduwad when some of them started showing symptoms of Covid-19. They were immediately shifted to Solpaur civil hospital. The throat swab samples of the all the 10 jawans were collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis, of which six returned positive. So far, 1,303 positive cases have been identified in Solapur district. Of this, 494 are active patients taking treatment at various hospitals. The southern part of Solapur district has recorded 29 cases--the highest among the rural areas in the district. Karmala tehsil has not recorded a single positive case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/8-succumb-to-covid-19-in-solapur-city-death-toll-115/articleshow/76269132.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Five districts in Rajasthan under Centre’s radar for surge in Covid cases||JAIPUR: As the state breached the 10,000 mark in Covid-19 cases three days ago, five districts have been found to be witnessing a surge in virus cases. They are among the 38 districts from 10 states across the country that are reporting cases in increased numbers. Last month, Jodhpur and Jaipur had been identified among 20 districts reporting the maximum number of cases. All these five districts have witnessed widespread infection in densely populated urban areas, within places that shared public amenities as well as in rural areas from the return of migrants. The Centre has directed these districts to conduct house-to-house surveys, prompt testing, followed by prompt isolation and clinical management of cases and implement containment strategy to the full. “Pali, Jhalawar, Udaipur, Jodhpur and Nagaur are the five districts of the state identified by the Centre. These districts have been identified for the high number of cases in the past two weeks,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). So far, Jodhpur has reported 1,879 cases and 23 deaths, Pali 602 cases and seven deaths, Nagaur 503 cases and nine deaths, Udaipur 587 cases and one death, and Jhalawar 329 cases and no death. The spike in cases is also because of migrants who returned testing positive for the virus in these districts. Officials of all the five districts attended a high-level review meeting through video conferencing with Preeti Sudan, health secretary, and Rajesh Bhushan, OSD of ministry of health and family welfare, along with senior officers of the Union health ministry. District collectors, municipal commissioners, chief medical officers, superintendent of district hospitals and principal of medical colleges from 45 municipalities/municipal corporations across 38 districts in 10 states, including Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh, were also present. A health department official said that the Centre has also advised on measures to be taken in the containment zones for case management and surveillance activities in buffer zones. The districts have been asked to prevent movement of people from containment zones to other areas for reducing the chances of the spread. Also, there are some among the 38 districts, which have witnessed high case fatality rate (deaths per 100 positive cases). They have been told to reduce the fatality rate. The health department official said that the Centre has advised officials to identify high-risk groups and elderly people with comorbidities to prevent deaths. It has expressed the need for contact tracing, active surveillance measures and adequate testing for timely detection of cases. Timely shifting of patients should be ensured without escalating symptoms. Areas that need constant attention included active house-to-house survey for timely detection, augmentation of survey teams, efficient ambulance management, clinical management of the hospitalised cases through rotational 24x7 teams to ensure the reduction in fatality rates. They were also advised to ensure that test results were given by labs without delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-dists-in-state-under-centresradar-for-surge-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76272479.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With no break for three months, doctors say they’re cracking up||BENGALURU: Doctors, officials and other government healthcare workers on the frontline of the Covid-19 battle are complaining of a burnout citing multiple reasons: working without weekly offs for over three months, delivering under pressure, reporting to multiple committees and unending public scrutiny. On Monday, the Hassan branch of Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association shot off a letter to district in-charge minister K Gopalaiah, saying one of their colleagues suffered brain haemorrhage due to excessive workload. “Dr CS Shivakiran, 48, a paediatrician deputed at the general hospital in Alur suffered brain haemorrhage on June 3 and is battling for life in a private hospital in Hassan. It’s not just one doctor. Medical officers and all employees of the health department have been working without break, ignoring their health and well-being. We request you to work out a system where doctors and others get some respite in batches...,” said the association. In March, the health and family welfare department issued a circular instructing all employees to report to work on all Sundays and general holidays, given the Covid-19 situation. “It’s being followed even now. Leave is sanctioned only in case of medical emergencies, death of a family member or a wedding at home,” a district health officer told TOI. “The passion with which some of us joined the health department way back in the 1990s now seems like a punishment. We are under major stress. Things have been complicated by farcical distribution of workload and responsibilities,” said a doctor in the department. “Many nurses are facing depression, anxiety and acute stress. We have started online sessions for positive and productive empowerment; the first was held from June 3-7,” said Girijamba Devi, secretary, Trained Nurses Association, Karnataka. The association is conducting breathing and meditation exercises and happiness programmes for its Covid-19 warriors in association with the Art of Living. The nurses have christened their programme Positive Productive Empowerment (PPE), after the Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) which they don at work. Doctors and officials working in vulnerable areas, even outside hospital premises, and part of surveillance activities have also been advised to take hydroxychloroquine drug as a prophylaxis. “Though we’re not in the Covid-19 ward now, we are seeing all kinds of cases every day at the hospital’s emergency ward. I am on prophylaxis but coronavirus concerns remain. The minute I enter home, I isolate myself and do not mingle with my children. It has been tough on our families too,” said a doctor working in a general hospital. The government is yet to conduct stress-relief activities and counselling sessions for doctors and other healthcare staff. “Whenever we raise issues, bureaucrats cite one example: the situation in Karnataka is not as bad as that in Maharashtra and Delhi,” said a senior official. Another issue contributing to the stress is that officials have to report to multiple bureaucrats. “Priorities have not been set straight in handling of Covid-19. A DHO is not only burdened with overlooking all cases, preventive care, overseeing institutional quarantine facilities and surveillance activities, but also updating various apps. How is it humanly possible to deliver the best on all grounds?” a DHO told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-no-break-for-three-months-docs-say-theyre-cracking-up/articleshow/76270138.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai-based runners’ group organises virtual marathon to ease runners into post-Covid world||CHENNAI: Want to run a marathon as a team but keep a safe distance with Covid on your mind? Here’s a chance. Valasai Venghais, a city-based runners’ group, is organising a post-Covid international awareness run on June 13 to 14. A team of seven can come together to cover the 42.2km from different locations, time. The idea of the team marathon is to create awareness among people about a post-Covid world, where things are going to change. “People are used to group running but now things are bound to change. Life is not going to be as fast as before since some restrictions will remain. In this crucial juncture, we should know how to adapt. We are trying to tell people how we can live better as a team through this team marathon,” said C N Paul Pradeep, organiser of the event. Participants can run on a treadmill, inside rooms, terrace or the outdoors. Since this is a social distancing run, members should keep a minimum 4ft distance if they are running outdoors. Each runner of the team must run 6km (6×7=42km) finishing the marathon, for the team to be eligible to enter the leaderboard. Once the registration is done, each team will be asked to prepare an awareness video on the safety aspects adopted, including the importance of social distancing in the time of Covid-19. The team marathon will begin at 12.00am on June 13 and go on till the 12 noon on June 14. “We have given a total 36 hours for the teams so participants can run slow and steady, support each other as a team and work together to complete the race,” Pradeep said. Members can run at their own convenience during the given time span but must use a GPS-based workout tracking app. Participants must share the link after the run. An e-certificate with the importance of team-work during the time of Covid-19 will be issued to the winners. Log on to  forms.gle/67kb8Zsc621ESVnn6 for registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-group-organises-virtual-marathon-to-ease-runners-into-post-covid-world/articleshow/76271559.cms||M T Saju
June 9, 2020||Vadodara||Sawmill using illegally felled timber sealed||VADODARA: The forest department on Sunday raided a farm based on information that illegally chopped trees were being stocked their by its owner. After they established links to a sawmill in Chhota Udepur, officials raided the mill premises and sealed it too. The department had information about farm owner Raju Rathwa’s illegal activities, and so, a joint team of officials of Chhota Udepur and Godhra conducted a raid on Sunday. “We found 145 pieces of teakwood and around 250 quintals of wood of other trees such as neem, acacia among others,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. According to the officials, the trees were chopped from a piece of land at Panibar village in Pavi Jetpur taluka by a contractor named Prabhu Rathwa, who then sold off the illegal timber to the owner of the sawmill, Shailesh Patel in Bodeli. Since keeping the illegal timber in the open at the sawmill would raise suspicion, Patel kept the stock at Rathwa’s farm. The officer also added that further action will be taken against all the persons involved in the illegal act once the investigation is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sawmill-using-illegally-felled-timber-sealed/articleshow/76270930.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Opposition pans government, calls for wider testing in Goa||PANAJI: The all-party meeting called by chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday saw a united opposition come out with all guns blazing, slamming the government for its lack of efficiency, accountability and transparency. Led by leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, they demanded wider testing across the state. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte alleged that the virus had already spread widely, and called for wider testing immediately, so that remedial measures can be taken. “Nearly 10,000 tests should be done every day,” said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. He also ridiculed the government for not testing those who were found with symptoms during the state-wide Covid survey. “By not following up, the very purpose of the survey has been defeated,” the former deputy CM said. Legislators from non-BJP parties demanded to know why testing had been discontinued for two days in Mangor Hill, and why priority testing is being done in the containment zone. The government’s handling of the Mangor Hill situation came under severe criticism, with state NCP president Jose Philip D’Souza criticising its management of the virus in Vasco town. They also called for proper demarcation of containment and buffer zones around epicentre as per guidelines of the Centre and WHO. The opposition also attacked the government for allowing people into the state indiscriminately — some of them fraudulently — thereby risking the lives of local residents. The MLAs said that apart from Goans and Goan seafarers, nobody should be allowed to enter the state. Kamat said that all Goans, whether non-residents of seafarers, who are returning home because of the pandemic, should be treated with proper care and respect. The government should bear the cost of testing and quarantine, he said, and no paid quarantine should be imposed on them. “Wherever possible, they should be permitted home quarantine as far as possible.” Meanwhile, GFP president Vijai Sardesai alleged that government is pushing for herd immunity. “In the absence of a vaccine, this is one of the most dangerous things the government is planning, and it is very clear that it’s the aim of this government,” he said. “They told us at the meeting that their focus is on Covid-related mortality.” Sardesai said the government can’t shirk its responsibility and say that the focus would be on symptomatic persons. Suggesting the New Zealand model of Covid management, Sardesai asked Sawant, who was accompanied by bureaucrats, that when 85% of the cases are asymptomatic, how can the government not go in for wider testing? The opposition also took on the government for not prioritising Covid management, stating that from day one, more funds should have been spent on testing kits. MGP senior leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that the government has its priorities wrong, and that it isn’t ready with health facilities. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said that the state administration is respondible for the 300-odd cases in the state. The meeting was attended by independent MLAs and legislators from Congress, GFP, NCP, and MGP. The opposition attended the meeting under protest, after cabinet ministers earlier announced that the government has decided to come out with yet another standard operating procedure (SOP) for those entering the state. This was the first all-party meet on Covid since March. The MLAs demanded a white paper on the state’s Covid-19 situation, and also asked the government to immediately announce a substantial stimulus package for all those who have been economically affected by the pandemic. The package should be by way of direct cash transfers to the recipients, and should be implemented immediately so that affected Goans get immediate and adequate relief. They then submitted an 8-point memorandum to the chief minister. Meanwhile, addressing the apprehensions of residents, the opposition suggested that the government gives advance notice to the residents of any area where the government intends to set up Covid care centres or any such medical facilities for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-pans-govt-calls-for-wider-testing/articleshow/76272481.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Schools can call staff to work, but no clear picture for city||Nagpur: As per the amended order of state government on June 4, all schools in Vidarbha, except those within limits of Nagpur, Amravati and Akola municipal corporations, can call their staff to school from June 8. The teaching and non-teaching staff members can be deployed in administrative work or development of e-content for online classes. District collector Ravindra Thakare too said, “As per government’s order dated June 4, the staff can be called to work.”According to Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district), the order is flawed as in today’s scenario the physical divide between urban and rural schools is blurred. “Majority of schools, especially CBSE, are just outside city limits but 99% of their staff comes from city itself. So, if anyway you are taking a group of people and sending them to school, what is the logic of keeping the same closed within city?” said Mude.He has been demanding permission from state government to allow operation of schools based in city with minimum staff. “At least two staff members must be allowed for admissions process to happen,” said Mude.Abha Meghe, director of Meghe group of schools which is spread over different districts, said that so far they have kept their doors closed and will take decision based on further directives. “So far the education department has not issued any directives to us regarding opening up of schools for staff. I will be able to comment only after written instructions are sent to our schools,” said Meghe. In Gadchiroli district too, schools and colleges are awaiting local orders to come through before taking any step. Rajabhau Thakare, principal of Vidyabharti Junior College, said the state government’s orders can at best be a broader guideline. “Ultimately, lot of variations happen once the order is implemented at the local level. I would wait till our collector issues guidelines specific to Gadchiroli before opening up,” said Thakare. In Nagpur city, however, there are many schools that have started calling their staff for administrative work. One school principal said in Nagpur teachers and schools have to keep working due to board evaluations. “CBSE evaluations are currently going on, so obviously school building has to be open. Papers are being sent to homes of teachers and collected by our office staff that is reporting to school. When private offices can open, liquor home delivery can happen, then why a handful of staff cannot come to school. State government’s orders are many times devoid of logic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-can-call-staff-to-work-but-no-clear-picture-for-city/articleshow/76270269.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Employee at Covid +ve doc’s nursing home also infected||Kolhapur: A woman working in the nursing home run by a doctor, who had earlier contracted Covid-19, also tested positive for the infection on Monday. The doctor, who had also been providing his service at the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-run hospital and had come in contact with patients and staff there, had tested positive on Sunday.A containment zone has been marked around the Rankala Tower area and all the contacts are being traced. So far, 60 contacts have been traced. While 20 of the contacts are from the KMC-run hospital, 40 others are linked to the nursing home.A senior health official, requesting anonymity, said, “We are also tracing the patients the doctor had treated since he came in contact with his Solapur-returned maternal uncle, who had tested positive a few days ago. We had hired the doctor on an honorary basis to provide treatment to the patients admitted in our hospitals. He was also regularly attending to patients in his father’s.”The official said that a door-to-door survey has been initiated in the containment and buffer zones. The KMC has appealed to the residents to come forward and get themselves screened if they show Covid-19 symptoms. The doctor had got himself tested only after he started showing symptoms. “There may be many who have contracted the infection. However, they may not be showing symptoms. It is challenging for us to ensure that both low-risk and high-risk contacts are screened immediately,” said the official.The official said that swabs of only those showing symptoms will be sent for testing, while the rest of the contacts will either be put in home or institutional isolation for 14-days. These Covid-positive cases have been reported after one-and-half months in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/employee-at-covid-ve-docs-nursing-home-also-infected/articleshow/76269158.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Mangor continues to push tally up, has 28 of day’s 30 cases||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count shot up to 263 on Monday with the detection of 30 new cases, 28 of which are linked to the Mangor Hill containment zone. Also, two patients were cured and discharged from the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said that apart from the Mangor Hill cases, the two cases involved travellers, one of whom came from Gujarat by train, and the other from Maharashtra by road. She said that although most positive cases with links to Mangor Hill are between 20 and 40 years old, the health department’s concern is people in high-risk categories — persons over 65, children under 5, people with co-morbidities, and pregnant women. Mohanan said that around 200 persons from Mangor Hill visited the area’s out-patient department (OPD) on Monday, and swabs of 30 of them were collected for Covid tests, in accordance with criteria fixed by the health department. Of the 30 cases on Monday connected to Mangor Hill, one was a postman, and the other, the wife of a postman. “There are two positive cases from the tests conducted in relation to the Vasco post office,” said Chicalim sub-district hospital’s health officer, Dr Rajendra Borkar. In the latter case, the postman himself tested negative. In both cases, family members too were tested, and then home quarantined. An MMC councillor said that volunteers have been appointed in both wards to help the quarantined families get necessary provisions. Meanwhile, 13 health workers have so far tested positive for the novel coronavirus, Mohanan said. She also said that apart from one policeman linked to Mangor Hill, no other cop in the state has tested positive. All those who came in contact with the policeman have been tested, she said, as well as extensive testing of police personnel. While there are no “immediate plans” to start a Covid hospital, “in terms of strategising future plans, various options are being considered”, she said. Meanwhile, thirteen persons have so far been shifted to the Shiroda Covid care centre, and the staff posted there have been given an orientation by Dr Ira Almeida, deputy director of health services and part of the medical team at the Covid hospital. “We shifted eight patients on Sunday and five on Monday,” Mohanan said. Out of the 3,017 tests conducted on Monday, 2,026 returned negative, while 961 reports are awaited. Five suspects were placed under hospital isolation and 74 travelers were placed in facility quarantine. (With inputs from Ruvina Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-continues-to-push-tally-up-has-28-of-days-30-cases/articleshow/76272512.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Cops book 1,305 as traffic surges in city||Nagpur: City traffic police were faced with a 20-25% jump in vehicular traffic in city as ‘Mission Begin Again’ entered next phase on Monday. On the first day, there registered 1,305 cases of traffic violations.Though the concentration was more in industrial zones like MIDC, market areas like Dharampeth and Sadar too kept the traffic cops on their toes. With 300 traffic cops still engaged in corona containment zones, the remaining manpower was deployed around the city by traffic DCP Vikam Sali. “On average, we had been doing 1,000 cases per day for the last few weeks which would be stepped up further to streamline the flow,” he said.With relaxations, the congestion on the Bhandara Road turned into a nightmare for the traffic cops due to the bottleneck created at Pardi because ongoing road construction work. As the traffic signals are lying defunct, a bunch of traffic cops had to be deployed at the HB Town square for manual control of traffic.Senior traffic inspector Roshan Yadav, Indora division, said there was an increase in the traffic going towards Bhandara and also coming inside the city. “Like in the pre-lockdown days, traffic police had to ensure the enforcement of the ‘no-entry’ norms for the heavy vehicles between 6.30am and noon and again between 4 pm and 9 pm,” he said. “We also had to manage the traffic around Kalamna markets and factories at Chikhli,” said Yadav.Similar challenges were faced by senior traffic inspector Sanjay Jadhav of MIDC who had registered 223 cases and collected fine of about Rs 20,000. “Traffic cops had to be deployed at the entry and exit points like Dattawadi on Amravati road. Public were also more on the road as they tried to enjoy some relaxations but senior citizens and children were few,” he said. “Like protection against corona, one must also use helmet for protection against accidents as there are more congestions now,” he said.Senior traffic PI Shailesh Sankhe said there was an increase of 15-20% of vehicles on Central Avenue. “We had to increase manpower at Shaheed Chowk in Itwari market, Kotwali and also at key junctions,” he said. Sankhe’s team had registered 235 cases of traffic violations.Senior traffic PI Sandeep Bhosale said his manpower deployment was more at Shankar Nagar, Khamla, Chhatrapati and Coca Cola squares. Senior traffic PI Atul Sabnis said the opening of the courts and offices had increased the traffic at Sadar and surrounding areas. “Several youngsters had come on the road presuming it was the end of lockdown. We took action after checking their purposes,” he said.Senior traffic PI MK Chavan said his deployment was more at Medical square, Bhandeplot and Jagnade chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-book-1305-as-traffic-surges-in-city/articleshow/76270302.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: With no Shramik trains running, workers seek help to return home||HYDERABAD: Mamta Devi, a migrant worker from Bihar’s Danapur, had travelled from Nizamabad town to Secunderabad railway station with her three children in the hope of boarding a train to her hometown. And after being stuck for six days at the station, the 26-year-old cannot find a Shramik special train she intended to board. With resumption of regular trains, the Shramik special trains have been stopped. Mamta was working in a rice mill near Nizamabad and has decided to join her husband in a village near Danapur with all her means to stay here running out. “We walked for some distance and then travelled by auto trolleys and jeeps. We are not able to get a berth in any of the trains,” she said . Not just Mamta, 54 migrant workers along with their families are stranded and biding their time outside the Secunderabad station. “The railway authorities are not letting us enter the station to use the bathroom. There is one public washroom nearby, but we have to pay Rs 10 or Rs 20 every time we use it,” she says. Despite the high court directing the government to take care of the workers’ daily needs till they board the trains, the situation on the ground is far from satisfactory. Raju Kumar (22) from Saharsa said some donors are serving them food. “We were told the trains are not running now,” he said. SCR officials said the trains are being arranged as and when they get a request from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-shramik-trains-running-workers-seek-help-to-return-home/articleshow/76271593.cms||Moulika.KV
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Once a major hotspot, Karad now has a high recovery rate||Kolhapur: Many Covid-19 patients reported from Karad in Satara district, which was emerging as one of the major hotspots till a few days ago, are recovering quite well. The district administration was on high alert after Covid-19 patients were reported from as many as 30 villages in Karad tehsil and made up for more than one-fourth of the patients. As many as 197 patients were reported in a span of one month. As of now, 144 patients have been discharged from three hopsitals in Karad. The condition of the remaining patients is also said to be stable. Health department officials attribute the surge in the number of Covid -19 patients to reverse migration of the people, who came back frrom Pune, Pimpci-Chinchwad and Mumbai. They said that people returned to their native places after the situation in metros worsened. Meanwhile, as many as ten positive patients were identified in Satara district on Monday. 47 patients were discharged. A three-year-old boy from Panchgani was also discharged on Monday. Two people—one of them having a history of travelling from Mumbai—died of the infection on Monday. The number of active patients in Satara district is now 285 and 317 patients have been discharged so far. Satara has recorded 28 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/once-a-major-hotspot-karad-now-has-a-high-recovery-rate/articleshow/76269173.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Raj Covid testingcapacity rampedup to 25k/day||Jaipur: The number of Covid-19 testing facilities in the state has increased to 21 with the capacity to conduct more than 25,000 tests per day. In March, the state was dependent on the National Institute of Virology for these tests. It now ranks third after Tamil Nadu and Delhi in the country in conducting the tests. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that only Tamil Nadu and Delhi have done more Covid tests than Rajasthan. “Covid testing capacity in the state has increased to 25,150 per day, which was the target set by the chief minister Ashok Gehlot. We have achieved it,” said Sharma. The state has conducted more than five lakh tests, and Sawai Man Singh Medical College alone has done over 1.25 lakh tests, so far. In the state, there are 18 Covid labs in government sector hospitals and three in the private sector. The labs are situated in government medical colleges of Jaipur (SMS Hospital and Rajasthan University of Health Sciences), Udaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Jhalawar, Bhilwara, Barmer, Bharatpur, Pali, Churu, Sikar, Dungarpur, AIIMS Jodhpur, DMRC Jodhpur, DMHS Jhunjhunu and three private labs (two in private hospitals and one a private lab). When the first Covid case was detected in the state on March 3, the sample was tested at National Institute of Virology, Pune. There was no lab at that time in the state for Covid tests. But, over the past three months, the state government has set up 21 laboratories for testing. Health authorities claimed they are following all protocols and are testing all those who fit into the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) criteria. Also, they have done random sampling along with sampling of migrants, who reached here from different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-testingcapacity-rampedup-to-25k/day/articleshow/76272493.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Dining out back on menu but spice missing||Lucknow: Only half of the city hotels and restaurants resumed operations on Monday after remaining closed for over two months in view of lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak. The response of patrons was also lukewarm as eateries that used to remain jam-packed earlier had empty chairs. Youngsters were seen occupying most of the seats. At most of the places, owners had installed foot-operated sanitizer machines and used disposable plates and cutlery. A few establishments served drinking water with holding sticks. Attendants wore masks and gloves and only those wearing masks were allowed entry after thermal scanning. Tushar Khanna, who visited a restaurant in Mahanagar, said: “I had been craving for fried momos since the lockdown started. After more than two months, I finally got my favorite fast food.” According to Uttar Pradesh Hotel and Restaurant Association, out of around 250 restaurants and 100 hotels associated with it, only 50% resumed operations. As footfall was low, most owners said business was less than 50% as compared to pre-lockdown times. General secretary of the association Garish Oberoi said, “Only 50% of the hotels and restaurants resumed operations. It will take time for eateries and hotels to comply with guidelines issued by the district administration.” Hotels and hospitality sector also witnessed moderate response. Joyjit Chakravorty, general manager of a hotel in Vibhuti Khand, said: “We had only 20 bookings today as compared to 50 on normal days.” “ As social gatherings are currently not allowed, exhibitions, summits, expo, birthday and kitty parties, which are major contributors to our business, are not being organised. Our business will remain affected till further relaxations are made,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dining-out-back-on-menu-but-spice-missing/articleshow/76272524.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 9, 2020||Nashik||Oxygen supply in Malegaon may be hit||Nashik: The continued supply of oxygen to hospitals in Malegaon became a serious concern on Monday. The lone supplier said he facing difficulties in paying the manufacturer as the local civic administration has not paid him in one-and a half months.After hearing about the situation, Malegaon municipal commissioner Dipak Kasar said he has directed the officials concerned to process the bills of the supplier and make payments immediately.Bharat Mehta, the supplier, said he was unable to pay the oxygen gas manufacturer in Nashik as the Malegaon Municipal Corporation had not cleared dues amounting to Rs 5.44 lakh. MMC has been taking oxygen cylinders from Mehta for its Covid-19 hospitals since the second week of April. Although Mehta supplies oxygen both for medical and industrial use, over the past two months, the supply was mainly for Covid-19 centres set up by the civic body.“The Nashik firm said on Monday that unless we clear the dues of about Rs 5 lakh, we would not get the supply. We have not paid the firm since May,” Mehta said. He has been pursuing the matter with the civic administration for over a month. “Initially, the MMC officials were under the impression that the civic body has already made the payment in advance. The payment of Rs 10 lakh was for purchase of 100 empty oxygen cylinders. The current dues are for refills,” he said..Mehta has also written to Indian Medical Association cautioning it about the possibility of disruption of oxygen supply in the textile town.The civic administration promised that the dues would be cleared at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oxygen-supply-in-malegaon-may-be-hit/articleshow/76269196.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Spying for Pak: Two held in Jhunjhunu, Bikaner||JAIPUR: Two persons have been arrested from Bikaner and Jhunjhunu by the state intelligence bureau for espionage and allegedly passing on information to Pakistani intelligence. Both the accused are in their 20s. According to sources, officials had been keeping an eye on the two suspects for the last few days. The two arrested have been identified as Vikas Kumar (29), a civil defence employee at an Army ammunition depot near Sri Ganganagar, and Chiman Lal (22), a civil contractual employee of Army’s Mahajan Field Firing Range (MFFR), Bikaner. Speaking about the arrests on Monday, state ADG (intelligence) Umesh Mishra said, “We kept a watch on the suspects’ activities. After questioning them and as well as going through their mobile phones, we found that the two had been leaking confidential information to Pakistani agents, following which they were taken into custody.” According to sources, Vikas has been acquiring photos of a water distribution register at a water point/pump house in MFFR through contractual civil employee Chiman Lal and passing them on to Pakistani agents. While Vikas is the son of a retired Army personnel and hails from Jhunjhunu, the latter is a native of Bikaner. Sources claimed that Vikas met his Pakistani handler through a woman he met on social media. They allegedly revealed confidential information of military intelligence to Pakistani agents. While further interrogation is underway, officials stated that the two alleged spies had received money in exchange for information. “Preliminary questioning revealed that the accused received money in bank accounts of their relatives. We are questioning the relatives as well for more details. Multiple agencies were involved in their arrest," said Mishra. This is not the first time that people have been arrested from the border districts on charges of spying. Last year, in November, a jawan posted in Jaisalmer’s Pokhran was arrested for the same crime. Prior to that, an ISI agent was arrested from Delhi for allegedly honey-trapping jawans in Rajasthan for espionage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spying-for-pak-two-heldin-jhunjhunu-bikaner/articleshow/76272499.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||4 fresh cases in Kolhapur dist, active cases reduce to 204||Kolhapur: Only four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kolhapur district on Monday — lowest daily figure in the last one month. With addition of these cases, the total number of patients in the district has reached to 684, of which only 204 are active while eight have died. Of the four fresh cases, only one has been reported from Kolhapur city and was found via contact tracing. The remaining three cases are from the red zones in the rural areas and they were already under quarantine. In one week, the number of active cases have come down by half, while the number of Covid positive patients who have been cured and discharged have four times. A week ago, there were around 440 active cases which has come down to 204 by Monday. The number of people discharged was around 130 a week ago and it now stands at 472. “The number of active cases are expected to come down drastically with very few fresh cases emerging per day in coming week. However, the policy to test and quarantine both symptomatic and asymptomatic cases will be continued,” a health department official said. Sangli reports 6 cases Six members of a family, who recently returned from Mumbai and were put in a community quarantine centre since June 6, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The family lives in Palus, a town located along Karad-Tasgaon state highway. The throat swab samples of the workers working at the quarantine facility was also collected for testing. They all have tested negative for the contagion. The number of Covid positive cases in Sangli district has now reached to 178, of which 7 have died and 77 are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-fresh-cases-in-kolhapur-dist-active-cases-reduce-to-204/articleshow/76269190.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||1 dead, 6 hurt in bus-tipper collision||Hyderabad: A person died and six others were injured after a sand-laden tipper collided with an RTC bus at Kannepally village under Dandepally mandal of Mancherial district on Sunday evening. The deceased was identified as Ravi (35), the tipper driver, while the injured were identified as bus driver Tirupati and bus passengers Yashoda, Triveni, Shashi Kumar and Upender. However, one of the injured persons could not be identified. According to police, the tipper was going from Chennur in Mancherial district to Kamareddy town, while the RTC bus, with 17 persons on board, was moving in the opposite direction--from Hyderabad to Utnoor in Adilabad district. “The tipper driver fell asleep while driving and the vehicle slightly turned right and rammed into the bus coming from the opposite direction, following which both vehicles turned turtle” Dandepally SI Srikanth said. The tipper driver remained stuck in the mangled vehicle for a while and was pulled out by the police. “He succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mancherial. The bus driver and the passengers are out of danger,” the SI said.A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-dead-6-hurt-in-bus-tipper-collision/articleshow/76271603.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Heavy rush, parking woes as district court reopens in Nagpur||NAGPUR: The first day of court’s reopening post-Covid lockdown proved troublesome for the lawyer community. Many complained of serpentine queues at the entrance of district and sessions court building in Civil Lines. “We were made to wait for a long time in scorching heat, as they were checking everyone with thermal gun. Even the sitting arrangements were inadequate near the courtrooms, and we were made to stand outside till our case came up for hearing,” lawyers said. Many faced parking problems, as vehicles crowded the already crammed space in morning hours. “It was difficult to find space for parking. There were long queues not only at the entrance, but also in front of the lifts, which made matters difficult. We apprised the District Bar Association (DBA) members of this, who said they would talk to principal district judge,” lawyer Rafiq Akbai said. Countering the lawyers’ claims, DBA president Kamal Satuja said some lawyers may have faced problems as bar rooms weren’t allowed to open where lawyers usually sit till their cases come up for hearing in court. “We would be submitting a representation to the principal judge, requesting him to open the bar rooms. The lawyers need to sit there and study the cases for taking notes, as courts are now operating in two shifts,” he told TOI. The DBA chief added that ample parking space was made available to the lawyers and they had made provision for two thermal guns at the entrance, so that visitors do not have to stand in queues for a long time. As the district courts restarted from Monday, only urgent matters were taken up for hearing. The court is currently operating in two shifts — from 10am to 1.30pm, and from 2.30pm to 5.30pm. “About 10-11 courts worked and took up urgent matters. In the first session, cases of small causes and motor accident claims tribunal (MACT) were taken up. In the second session, junior and senior division judges, along with judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) worked,” Satuja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heavy-rush-parking-woes-as-dist-court-reopens/articleshow/76270312.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Why are you hiding Covid data from citizens, HC questions govt||Hyderabad: Pulling up health officials for hiding vital information from citizens with regard to Covid-19 spread and related issues, the Telangana high court on Monday directed the government to pack its media bulletins with more info on patients, including details like age, gender etc. The court also rejected the public health director’s report and sought a fresh report with details of tests, facilities and the state’s efforts. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a PIL filed by Amrita Aryendra, urging the court to direct the state to give more details to the public on the current Covid-19 situation in the state. After a barrage of questions, public health and family welfare director Dr G Srinivas Rao admitted that the health bulletin format was changed to make it simple. “We will issue a new format will all details from now onwards,” he assured the court. Qazi Salar Masood Aatif, the counsel for the petitioner, requested the court to direct the stated to include tests conducted on the asymptomatic too in the bulletin. The bench agreed and said the information was very important because it defines the path of the pandemic and alerts people to be cautious. It cannot be hidden from public view, the judges said. The bench turned critical towards the state and its health director for suppressing vital information. Reading out from a media bulletin issued by the director on June 2, the judges said as per the bulletin there were only seven Covid-19 positive cases in Rangareddy district. “But, your report (of June 2) furnished to us says that Pahadisharif area has 32 cases and Aziznagar 5 on the same day and these two areas fall under Rangareddy district. Since your bulletin says that there are only seven cases in Rangareddy district, people in that district and even from Pahadisharif would feel that coronavirus has weakened and would start ignoring the safety norms. This may lead to a spurt in the number of cases,” the bench said, driving home the importance of taking people into confidence at every stage. “By hiding this information from public view, we are only becoming accomplices in the spread,” they warned. “The details of the number of patients area wise, containment zones, test results etc., need to be disseminated to the people. All shops, establishements, malls have been opened from today. Except theatres, all are open. This is the time the state should ask people to be cautious. There should be an unlocking strategy too. Otherwise, we may have to revert to the lockdown stage again,” the bench said. The judges also verified the bed strength in hospitals, ventilators, etc. Dr Srinivas Rao assured the court that the state has indeed geared up its infrastructure in these areas and there was no need to worry. The state’s health minister has been regularly reviewing and he was also visiting Gandhi Hospital regularly. “We asked him to restrain his visits,” he said. To a query on when was the last time the minister visited Gandhi Hospital, the Covid nodal hospital, Dr Rao said it was three weeks ago. The bench rejected his report and directed him to furnish a fresh report with details of tests, facilities and results of the state’s efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-are-you-hiding-covid-data-from-citizens-hc-questions-govt/articleshow/76271606.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||CRly engine declared ‘dead’ after staffer tests positive||Nagpur: A Central Railway (CR) loco was seized and declared “brought dead” to Nagpur, after one of the engineers travelling in it tested positive for coronavirus.According to railway officials, the engineer had boarded the loco WAG-7 (27992) at Sindi railway station. The engine was heading to Parasia in Chhindwara district from Bhusawal via Nagpur.After reaching Nagpur on Friday night, the employee experienced breathlessness and other coronavirus symptoms like fever, sore throat and cough. He was admitted to Central Railway hospital where, upon examination, he tested positive for Covid-19.Two of his colleagues, both trackmen, have also tested positive. “We learnt about the employee on Saturday, by which time the engine had already reached Junnardeo and crew had changed hands in Nagpur and Amla. Hence, all the crew members and other staff who came in contact with each other — right from Bhusawal, Nagpur, Amla, Parasia and Junnardeo were alerted and asked to go for screening and quarantine themselves. “The engine was ordered to be sealed for 72 hours on Saturday afternoon at platform number 1 of Junnardeo railway station. It was disinfected completely and ordered to be ‘brought dead’ at Nagpur by attaching it to a rake,” they said.Due to lockdown, the Indian Railways had withdrawn operation of mail and express trains, but freight trains continued to operate. During the entire lockdown period, not one case was reported of any loco staff becoming vulnerable to coronavirus. This seems to be the first case where coronavirus travelled through the tracks to neighbouring Madhya Pradesh.A CR official said, “The issue has been blown out of proportion. We had completely sanitized the engine at Amla, and then again at Junnardeo. No symptoms have been found among the crew who travelled in the loco.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crly-engine-declared-dead-after-staffer-tests-positive/articleshow/76270326.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Landslide-prone areas mapped||KOZHIKODE: Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad along with Hume Centre for Ecology have called for arranging facilities for rehabilitation of people residing in vulnerable hill slopes which have an incline of over 22 degrees in Wayanad district in view of widespread landslips and landslides reported in the hill district in the last two years. The recommendation was made based on the landslide susceptibility study conducted by the two organizations over the last two years. It has categorized the district into three on the basis of landslide susceptibility risk and has also comes up with a landslide susceptibility map for the district. The study has also recommended formation of separate disaster management action plan for panchayats classified under the high, medium and low category for landslide susceptibility in the district. The study found that the hills slopes of the district have become instable following the constructions carried out on the slop by unscientifically levelling the slopes. Also, many areas have become landslide prone following digging of rainwater harvesting pits, changes in land use pattern like adoption of monocropping and deforestation which has been continuing for decades. According to the study, Meppadi, Muppainad, Vythiri, Pozhuthana, Vellamunda, Thondernad, Mananthavady, Thirunelly, Muttil and Kottathara are listed as places with high risk of landslide. It has also classified the local bodies of Panamaram, Pozhuthana, Vengapally, Kottathara Mananthavady, Nenmeni and Noolpuzha as flood prone panchayats. Hume Centre for Ecology executive director, C K Vishnudas said that there was a vital need for augmenting the rainfall monitoring mechanism in the district by deploying more rainfall monitoring stations and called for using the services of expert non-government organizations in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/landslide-prone-areas-mapped/articleshow/76270307.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||‘Goa’s image as a susegad place has to be changed’||Panaji: To mitigate the socio-economic imbalance caused due to the lockdown, a contest-cum-internship programme has taken it upon itself to change the way Goa is perceived. From being branded as a susegad destination, Goa can offer breakthroughs to address the community-level challenges that the post-covid world faces. GDP Foundation, which came up with the Parivartan Karo Na contest, aims to find sustainable solutions in five sectors and is offering seed funding, mentorship and government liasioning support. “Goa is projected so badly by films and other things that people think that we just lie down on the beach and have a beer,” said managing trustee Kishore Shah. The contest asked participants to ideate on medical combat readiness, socio-economic restoration, new forms of operations, smart disaster management systems, and revive-restore-reinvent Goa’s economy. Of the 126 teams that registered for the contest, 96 submitted project ideas that were screened, judged and categorised as high potential entries and developmental entries. The entries that qualified as high potential will get a cash prize or prototype funding or seed funding. Entries classified as developmental entries will get mentorship. President of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Manoj Caculo said that post Covid-19 certain jobs and products will become irrelevant while new opportunities will rise up. “These ideas have to be brought to the fore and I think that is exactly what GDP foundation is doing. The ideas that have come up are something that will be relevant to the home maker and the community and not only for big industrialists,” said Caculo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-image-as-a-susegad-place-has-to-be-changed/articleshow/76272517.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nashik||4% water sources in rural dist found contaminated||Nashik: A recent survey carried out by the sanitization department of the Nashik zilla parishad to check the quality of water sources across the rural district found that around 4% of the water samples collected by them had bacterial contamination.The pre-monsoon sanitation survey is conducted every year so that villages can be instructed to take up preventive measures to clean the area around their water source in order to prevent any kind of outbreak during the rainy season.Apart from checking the presence of chemicals in water, prevention of bacterial contamination of water sources is also important. Out of the 1,234 water samples that were collected during quality check survey, the officials found that 54 samples were contaminated. The gram panchayats were immediately informed about the issue and asked to get the problem resolved to ensure clean drinking water. Officials said that they re-collected samples from the sources concerned to be sure that there was no bacterial contamination.In a separate survey to check presence of chemicals in water, the water and sanitation department found presence of excessive fluoride in water from some sources in Niphad and Sinnar talukas. “The work of setting up defluoridation plants is underway at four water sources in Niphad and Sinnar, and the work would soon be completed. The presence of fluoride in water causes severe problems to the teeth and bones,” an official said.“On the instructions from CEO of Nashik zilla parishad, the work of cleaning the all the water tanks, hand pumps across the rural district has been taken up and would soon be completed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-water-sources-in-rural-dist-found-contaminated/articleshow/76269202.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Will Aarogyasri cover Covid, HC asks T||Hyderabad: The high court has asked Telangana government if it would bring the coronavirus cases under the ambit of Aarogyasri health insurance scheme. The court also set June 16 deadline for the government to inform it about the feasibility of providing Covid-19 treatment under Aarogyasri. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by advocate P Thirumala Rao, who urged HC to ensure that both Covid tests and treatment are made available to people for free. He explained that the Centre had brought Covid-19 under Ayushman Bharat in its latest circular. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the bench that government is yet to bring Covid-19 under Aarogyasri’s ambit. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-aarogyasri-cover-covid-hc-asks-t/articleshow/76271622.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Action group hails NMC move to ‘unlock’ Mominpura||Nagpur: Community action group formed to help city administration unlock Mominpura, which was completely sealed for over two months, hailed the decision to divide the containment zone in smaller groups.Mominpura residents and shopkeepers thanked Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Police for accepting their requests for opening unaffected areas.The blanket ban on movement had crippled livelihood of over 2 lakh people who were up in arms against the civic body for sealing almost all entry and exit points.Following two incidents of large crowds gathering on streets to protest the continued lockdown, social, religious organizations and activists had formed an action group to initiate a discussion with the administration.Residents and others too had joined the campaign to help unlock the area. Just like the action group, former state minister Anees Ahmed too had met state home minister Anil Deshmukh and top city bureaucrats to apprise them about the ground reality.Vidarbha Powerloom Weavers’ Association president and also a member of the action group Ayub Ansari said, “We thank civic chief Tukaram Mundhe, CP BK Upadhyay and district collector Ravindra Thakre. The civic chief was kind enough to give his time to listen to us. Junior officials had presented a wrong picture about entire Mominpura.”The association secretary Hifzur Rehman said, “Nearly 10,000 to 15000 weavers are directly and indirectly dependent on powerlooms here.”Another group member Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed said, “More than Covid-19, residents were worried about dying of starvation. Thankfully, the administration understood their problems.”Mominpura Traders’ Welfare Association secretary Javed Ansari said, “Shopkeepers and residents are left with no money to feed their families. It is a good decision to curtail the containment zone. The unlocking will help people earn a livelihood and head towards normalcy.”Ex-minister Ahmed said, “Better late than never. Now people can feed themselves. I had reminded our home minister and bureaucrats that the government had allowed powerlooms to run in Bhiwandi, Malegoan and Solapur and we too could have started on those lines.”Aslam Belawala, a garment wholesaler, said, “We will have to cooperate with the administration and learn to live with corona. I thank all those who worked for us, especially the NMC staff. If we have committed any mistake, we are sorry. We will start again and bring back the lost glory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/action-group-hails-nmc-move-to-unlock-mominpura/articleshow/76270335.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 9, 2020||Jaipur||Now, Rajgarh Congress MLA violates social distancing norm||JAIPUR: At a time when the whole nation is focused on social distancing, Johari Lal Meena, Congress MLA from Rajgarh in Alwar, has violated the norm by holding a public gathering in his constituency on Monday. This is the second such incident in which a Congress MLA has been involved in violating norms. Meena attended the inaugural ceremony of the Rajgarh Municipal Council building and addressed a gathering while sitting close to others. Many of them were not even wearing masks. Even the seating arrangement violated the norms of social distancing between two individuals. TOI repeatedly called the MLA for his comments but the lawmaker did not respond. Ironically, the programme was attended by SDM Keshav Kumar Meena, DSP Anjali Jorwal and chairman of the municipal council, Jyoti Saini. Defending the inicdent, the SDM said that the inaugural ceremony was a government programme and those who attended it had worn masks. “Every attendant’s hands were sanitised and we followed every protocol,” said Meena. On Saturday, Baran Congress MLA Atru Panachand Meghwal and 16 others were fined for not wearing masks while unveiling a statue of Maharana Pratap in the presence of a huge gathering at Pratap Chowk in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-rajgarhcongress-mlaviolates-socialdistancing-norm/articleshow/76272514.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Roads & markets get busy as Aurangabad resumes work||Aurangabad: A section of private offices restarted with lockdown restrictions getting eased further on Monday. The district administration has allowed reopening of establishments barring those in the 18 containment zones. As announced earlier, only 10% attendance was allowed. Commercial establishments such as shops have been allowed to open on alternate days from 9 am to 5 pm. Popular markets such as Gulmandi and Shahaganj saw crowds after almost two months. Vehicular movement on the city roads also increased significantly. The traffic lights, however, were still not made functional in many areas, causing minor snarls on busy sections such as the Jalna Road area. Subodh Jaiswal, a professional working in a plastic product supply firm, resumed work and said, “Collective safety measures such as wearing of masks, following coughing and sneezing etiquettes, maintaining social distancing and ensuring personal hygiene can keep the disease at bay.” Parag Soman, deputy commissioner (revenue) for Aurangabad division, said the government establishments have been asked to work with one-third staff. “All Class I and Class II officers are working from government offices, especially those associated with the revenue department. All government staffers have been asked to follow health protocol and download the Aarogya Setu mobile application,” he said. Several MSMEs in the city have resumed operations after automobile manufacturer Bajaj Auto started functioning with reduced production scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/roads-markets-get-busy-as-aurangabad-resumes-work/articleshow/76269207.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyd nurse tests Covid-19 positive in Bhadradri dist||Hyderabad: A nurse working at a private hospital in Hyderabad tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Tuesday. The nurse, who has been admitted to Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad for treatment, had travelled from Suryapet to Kothagudem on June 4 and officials are in the process of tracing her contacts. Officials have advised her co-passengers to self-quarantine. After the lockdown restrictions were eased, she took two RTC buses to reach Kothagudem. “First, she hired a cab to reach LB Nagar. From there, she took an RTC bus and arrived in Suryapet along with two other friends. While her friends got down at Suryapet, the nurse boarded another bus and reached Kothagudem by 3.30 pm. As she had some symptoms, the local medical authorities tested her and her test results came back positive,” said a district official. While the RTC bus driver has been quarantined, the rest of the passengers are yet to be traced. Nine passengers got down at Khammam, seven at Kothagudem, six in Palvancha and 10 in Bhadrachalam. Officials said details of the bus she took from LB Nagar to Suryapet are yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, the district administration declared Indrapriyadarshini Colony, where the nurse resides, as a containment zone. Collector MV Reddy constituted 16 teams to test residents for coronavirus in all the houses within one km radius of the nurse’s house. Eleven members of her family were sent to a quarantine facility and their swabs were sent to Warangal. A total of 38 people were sent to a quarantine facility as she had been in touch with them after her return. On Monday, 12 of them tested negative for the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-nurse-tests-covid-19-positive-in-bhadradri-dist/articleshow/76271617.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Panic after 3 more related to deceased doc found infected||Lucknow: Three more members of the Swaroop family tested Covid positive on Monday. Now, relatives, friends and others who had visited the house on Friday when prominent neurosurgeon Dr Shyam Swaroop died, are on an alert. Dr Swaroop’s sister, her husband and their driver, all residents of LDA Colony in Aishbagh where Dr Swaroop lived, have tested positive. Six others, including Dr Swaroop’s son Prof Suchit Swaroop, daughter-in-law and granddaughter have already tested positive. Health officials said the extended family members and friends who had visited the house on Friday are making frantic calls and approaching the health department for their testing. “Some family members said they had not been inside the room where the body lay but were hassled because they had consoled one of the women who is now positive. Others who visited the house to pay their condolences are also worried and approaching us, even if they did not touch anybody,” said additional CMO Dr Ajai Raja. Two of Dr Swaoop’s brothers had also visited the house that day and are now in the process of being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panic-after-3-more-related-to-deceased-doc-found-infected/articleshow/76272530.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Corporation’s Covid warriors lost in maze of forms and formalities||CHENNAI: In the city’s fight against Covid-19, officials seem split on the strategies to be adopted. With more nodal officials being brought in, ground-level workers including engineers and corporation employees are ending up filling forms, registers and papers rather than being involved in the actual implementation, say sources. With an IAS officer appointed in each zone as a nodal officer and with ministers also getting into the field, they spend at least half a day preparing for visits, distribution of masks and health drinks and the other half in preparing reports. “It is difficult to work in such conditions. There is fear of disease too as four of my close friends, who are engineers, have tested positive for Covid-19,” said an official. An engineer-supervisor for health workers who has to make 30 calls to ensure they visit homes is unable to do that now. And there are complaints that health workers don’t turn up for door-to-door survey. On several days, many contacts are not even traced and the close contacts are not tested as health workers are unable to visit that many residences in a day. Even top IAS officials are unable to work freely. “Every day at least three meetings are scheduled. While it is important to monitor and supervise but if it happens every day, it is difficult to work as we are now asked to report to several officials above us and each seeks a different data every day. But we are here to help people and we will do our best,” said an official. There are also instances where nodal officers have helped make the system smoother. One official said the health department and the engineering department are always at loggerheads. “It is after IAS officials were posted in zones that the working became smoother,” said an official. Certain streets in Royapuram and Tondiarpet are free of Covid-19 because instructions were followed. Public affairs experts say governments should improve communication strategies to ensure ground-level changes. Annapoorna Ravichander, executive director of Bengaluru-based Public Affairs Foundation, said bureaucrats should involve community in decision making and consult stakeholders. “They should identify what is the need at the bottom level and try to address the issues ... telling people to not go out is easy but if a person needs to use a public toilet he will go out. We need localized solutions...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpns-covid-warriors-lost-in-maze-of-forms-and-formalities/articleshow/76271618.cms||Komal Gautham
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||All dumpsites in Kerala to be phased out||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a move aimed at phased removal of dumpsites in local bodies across the state, the local self-government department has embarked on a mission to scientifically do away with all disposal areas. Suchitwa Mission has been tasked to undertake bioremediation (use of microorganisms to degrade contaminants) of historic dumpsites in the state. This shall be done by engaging private parties with expertise following request for proposals and tender procedures. As a preliminary step, Suchitwa Mission will do an audit of number of dumpsites in local bodies in the state. Unscientific management of landfills across the state has resulted in mountains of trash piles, flow of leachate to adjacent water bodies and environmental pollution. Local protests had also surfaced over such dumpsites, which has made difficult for the government to proceed with any waste-management scheme. In Thiruvananthapuram, steps have been underway to remove heaps of waste accumulated in two major dumpyards in the city: Palayam and Erumakuzhy through biomining and bioremediation. The corporation estimates that over 11,000 cubic metres of unsegregated waste have been piled up at Erumakuzhy and Palayam over the last few years. The dump yard at Palayam will be cleared through biomining as part of Smart City project. Biomining of legacy waste/un-processed municipal solid waste is done by excavation of the non-biodegradable waste by using suitable mechanical sieving machine or any other suitable equipment, by segregating and retrieving recoverable materials, by recycling and dumpsite land reclamation. It is roughly estimated that there could be roughly 9,684 cubic metres of legacy waste spread over 40 cents (0.4 Acre) at Palayam. The health wing of city corporation has recently undertaken a total station survey to assess the volume of waste that has to be biomined at Erumakuzhy. The survey results showed that 2,388 cubic metres of waste have accumulated at Erumakuzhy. The civic body is doing biomining of two dump yards as per rule 15 of solid waste management rules, 2016. As per the rule, the local body has to investigate and analyse all old open dumpsites and existing operational dumpsites for the potential of biomining and bioremediation and take necessary actions to biomine or bioremediate the sites. National green tribunal had raised alarm that the incremental growth of municipal solid-waste dumpsites has resulted in mountains of waste and NGT had directed central pollution control board (CPCB) to propose standard operating procedure (SOP) for biomining and bioremediation of legacy solid waste. As part of bioremediation and biomining, the dumpsite is excavated and waste is stabilized through bioremediation; exposure of all the waste to air along with use of composting biocultures. The stabilized waste will be screened to recover all valuable resources like plastic, brick, metals, clothes, rags followed by sustainable management through recycling, co-processing and road-making, according to SOP issued by CPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-dumpsites-in-state-to-be-phased-out/articleshow/76270357.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Home quarantine for Maharashtra returnees reduced to seven days||BENGALURU: People returning from Maharashtra will be sent to seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine, according to a revised SOP issued by the Karnataka government on Monday. Earlier, Maharashtra returnees had to go for 14 days of home quarantine after their institutional quarantine. Also, the government has empowered the deputy commissioners of the districts to assess the effective quarantine of interstate travellers and switch between home to institution as they deem fit. They need to keep the state surveillance unit in the loop. Business travellers coming from other states to Karnataka are required to produce a negative Covid-19 report if they are staying for 2-7 days in the state. Till the test result comes, they will be in institutional quarantine. “If the visitor is coming for a short duration of 48 hours (counted from the arrival time) then s/he is exempted from Covid-test and quarantine,” it reads. There will be no hand stamping for business travellers. Business travellers going from Karnataka to other states and returning within four days need not undergo testing or quarantine on return. The person has to report to Apthamitra helpline (14410) for 14 days and update health status for 14 days. For those returning after four days, quarantine norms will be applicable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/home-quarantine-for-maharashtra-returnees-reduced-to-seven-days/articleshow/76270033.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur admin seeks approval for community radio||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration has sought permission from the Central government to set up community radio service to disseminate information related to disaster management to the people in the flood-affected areas. Besides the community radio station, the administration is going to set up ham radio systems at around 50 offices of local government bodies in the district which will help officials and rescue teams to take necessary action in the face of an emergency. Prasad Sankpal, district disaster management officer said, “Many parts of the district got cut off due to the floods last year. In such times, people should get accurate information about river water levels, flood situation and the efforts by our teams. The radio station will be set up at the district collector’s office. We expect to get permission within a few weeks, after which the radio service will be activated.”This time, the communication systems will be placed at all the dams and centres near the flood-affected villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-admin-seeks-approval-for-community-radio/articleshow/76269220.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Moved by plight of Sunderbans, Nobel laureate sends help||KOLKATA: As Amphan ripped through the Sunderbans before heading towards Kolkata on the night of May 20, Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee remained glued to the screen, tracking the fierce cyclone from Boston. Distressed how life in the Sunderbans had completely been wrecked, he called up his friends and urged that something had to be done for the islanders for their immediate relief. “I have been watching videos and in some areas, devastation is total. In the short run, we need to figure out how to house and feed the people, but in the medium run, we need to think of how to help them to put back their lives together,” Banerjee replied to TOI on an email. “Their cow sheds or mango trees may be gone and they have no obvious way to get them back. There are programs, like Bandhan’s THP, that have been shown to help the destitute get back on their feet and we need to think of them for the medium run.” Banerjee’s efforts did not stop at that. Liver Foundation West Bengal (LFWB), with support from the Nobel laureate, has started community kitchens in the Sunderbans to feed thousands who have been rendered homeless, . “I got a call from Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee around 7 that evening, when we were in the thick of the cyclone. He asked if we were aware of what was happening in the Sunderbans,” said hepatologist Abhijit Chowdhury, general secretary at the Liver Foundation that has had a long association with Banerjee. “He sounded deeply disturbed and asked if LFWB could to something to alleviate the sufferings of the people in the Sunderbans.” The Liver Foundation was already running community kitchens in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Purulia and Birbhum during the lockdown to feed tea garden workers, migrants, the poor and the homeless. Following the Amphan, the organisation has been running its kitchens at Narayanpur, GPlot and Kultali in the Sunderbans. “We are feeding about 1,000 people each from these kitchens. How can people fight Covid on empty stomachs?” said Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, project director at LFWB. Among those extending help to the affected in the Sunderbans are doctor associations, who are either distributing relief or holding health camps. “Going by chief minister’s guidance, Indian Medical Association (IMA) has been organising health camps in several affected places, such as Hingalganj, Sandeshkhali, Gosaba and Patharpratima,” said Santanu Sen, IMA state secretary. Organisations, like Association of Health Service Doctors, West Bengal Doctor’s Forum, Medical Service Centre and Service Doctors’ Forum, have also been helping out with relief materials and medicines in the Sunderbans as well as villages in North 24 Parganas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/moved-by-plight-of-sunderbans-nobel-laureate-sends-help/articleshow/76271653.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Some restaurants reopen, but customers stay away||CHENNAI: Restaurants in Chennai gave preference to takeaway services over dine-in as businesses resumed on Monday after more than 70 days. While the footfall was poor, only 10% eateries operated dine-in services, according to the owners’ association. About 60% of eateries remained shut for a variety of reasons including absence of adequate manpower. Restaurant chains reopened selected branches but dine-in services increased the overall sale by only 5%. Industry sources said ever since the lockdown, sales at restaurants have shrunk by 80%. K T Srinivasa Raja, managing director of Adyar Ananda Bhavan, said they opened 40 branches in and around Chennai. “We expected 200 to 300 visitors for fine dine-in on Monday. We have received about 50% to 60% of walk-ins for dine-in services. We are serving South Indian dishes,” he said. M Ravi, president of The Chennai Hotels Association, said that 10% of additional restaurants were reopened for fine dine-in on Monday. “This pushed the number of restaurants operational in the city to 40%. However, the eateries are contemplating whether to close them again due to less footfall,” he said. Even as footfall was poor, some curious individuals ventured out. Sameer, a city resident, who came along with his friend to an eatery in Pondy Bazaar, said he had been sourcing food from outside during the lockdown. “Now, I wanted to eat out and it drove me to the eatery on day one,” he said. Not all restaurants followed government norms. A visit by TOI found that a leading restaurant at Pondy Bazaar was serving its customers in an air-conditioned facility, while a vegetarian restaurant at Mylapore let customers sit close to each other. The state has ordered that commercial establishments cannot use air-conditioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/some-restaurants-reopen-but-customers-stay-away/articleshow/76271642.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nag River encroachments inside Krazy Castle being removed||Nagpur: After 18 years, the stretch of Nag River situated within the premises of Krazy Castle water-cum-amusement park is all set to get rid of encroachments made over it. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is also likely to demolish the parking slab constructed over the river at skating rink in Corporation Colony. According to an NMC official, BOT operator of the park, Haldiram Food International Ltd, began removing the encroachments on Monday. The operator had constructed seven bridges over the river and three big platforms measuring upto 30 metres each. NMC issued notice to Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), owner of land, on May 29. NIT issued notice to operator on June 2. Accordingly, the operator started the work. “It may take a week to remove all encroachments,” the official said. NMC sources told TOI municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe came to know of the encroachments in the meeting held for pre-monsoon activities. He directed deputy commissioner Mahesh Moroney to issue notice to NIT. NIT had leased out around 6.4 acres land to Haldirams on September 4, 2002. Around 300 metre stretch of the river after overflow point runs through the premises of Krazy Castle. The park was developed on both sides of the river. As a pre-monsoon activity, the civic body desilts Nag river excluding this stretch every year. None from NMC cared to ensure encroachments were removed till Mundhe took note. For last two years, the park is closed as NIT has handed over some part of the land to Mahametro for Metro Rail project. Remaining part is still under the possession of Haldirams due to a case going on in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. Haldirams have sought compensation from NIT over notice to terminate its lease which was valid upto 2022. TOI many times reported about construction of parking slab on river’s 100-metre stretch near skating rink at Corporation Colony. Following TOI reports, NIT only made some holes on the slab but did not demolish it completely. NMC officials said it was also set to go. “Now, the entire skating rink is under NMC’s possession. We will remove it,” they said. With Mundhe as civic chief, NMC is also likely to issue notices to shanties that have cropped up within and on banks of river in many parts of the city. Removal of these encroachments is necessary for execution of Nag River Pollution Abatement and Nag River Beautification Projects that have been cleared by the central and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nag-river-encroachments-inside-krazy-castle-being-removed/articleshow/76271621.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 9, 2020||India||Who’s afraid of Covid? Filmmakers rush to book titles||KOLKATA: What’s in a name? A lot, actually, if it refers to a once-in-a-century scourge that has brought the world to its knees. Even as India battles the increasing number of novel coronavirus cases, production houses across the country have started making a beeline to register titles related to the pandemic. In Tollywood, a production house has applied for registration of the title “Corona Virus and Covid-19”. And, with the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) having reopened its doors, permission is expected to be granted anytime after scrutiny. “The application for the title has come from actor Jeet’s production house,” said Piya Sengupta, president of EIMPA. With words like “lockdown”, “mask”, “quarantine”, “2020” and “sanitisation” part of the new-normal vocabulary, Sengupta expects more such title applications in the future. Gopal Madnani, one of the directors of Jeetz Filmworks Pvt Ltd, said this is the first time the production house has tried to register a title following a calamity. “When the pandemic broke out, we had a discussion regarding registering a title. If we didn’t register the title beforehand, we might not be able to use this title. That’s why we applied on March 17. That was before the lockdown,” Madnani said. Incidentally, the first in ternational feature film on Covid-19 has already been made. Titled “Corona”, the film has been directed by Canadian filmmaker Mostafa Keshvari and examines xenophobia and racism. Completed in mid-February, before most countries went into lockdown, the film takes a look at what happens when a group of people find themselves locked in an elevator along with a Chinese woman. In Bollywood, Eros International has already registered the title “Corona Pyaar Hai”, giving a twist to Hrithik Roshan’s 2000 hit “Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai”. For title registration, a production house has to pay a fee of Rs 1,770, including GST. It usually takes 15 to 20 days to register a title. Once the application is received, the matter is discussed at the EIMPA finance administration committee and then it is sent to the executive committee. The approved title is published in EIMPA’s bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whos-afraid-of-covid-filmmakers-rush-to-book-titles/articleshow/76273289.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Cops’ new mantra in unlock 1.0 is ‘chase the criminal’||Nagpur: City police have entered unlock 1.0 phase with their own ‘Operation Crackdown Phase-II’, spanning 10 days from June 5, with the motto ‘chase the criminal’.There was a spurt in murder cases in May-end, as the lockdown started relaxing, and cops were busy in the containment zones to stop community transmission of Covid-19. So, CP BK Upadhyay had launched the intense anti-criminal drive.With many cops now freed from the responsibility of feeding and sheltering migrant labourers, Addl CP, crime, Nilesh Bharne and DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane also went back to core policing. Rajmane had immediately set specific targets for all crime branch units across the city, with timely review of performance.Around 1,917 offenders had been checked till Sunday, anticipating that loosening of lockdown may give rise to increased criminal activities. Around 90 goons were slapped with preventive actions and several offences, including 25 under the Indian Arms Act, were registered.Addl CP Bharne said every day police are checking those released from jail, with criminal past records, staying in city violating externment orders, gangsters, goons, and anti-social elements.With six murders in the first week of June, including a dacoity, the rising criminal tendency is apparent, leaving cops no option but to start zeroing down on all goons, whether active or otherwise.CP Upadhyay is also issuing fresh reminders of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) to logistics and financial companies dealing in cash. “We may act against logistics and financial companies if we find them violating SOPs like carrying cash on bikes,” he said.Bharne too said that though law and order is police responsibility, this does not gives citizens and others permission to flout prescribed norms.Most of the recent half-dozen murders were due to personal enmity. However, the murder of dreaded goon Balya Wanjari near Pardi raise question as he had been checked a day before by Pardi police.Bharne said any mission is not foolproof assurance of making the city ‘zero crime’, but police are more pro-active and effective in this period.CHECKING ACCOUNT235 persons with murder cases checked125 persons released from jail checked63 gangsters checked199 active criminals checked176 externed goons checked 25 cases of Arms Act registered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-new-mantra-in-unlock-1-0-is-chase-the-criminal/articleshow/76270391.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 9, 2020||Kolkata||Sabyasachi, CISF guard ‘attacked’||Kolkata: Former Bidhannagar mayor and now BJP state secretary Sabyasachi Dutta was reportedly manhandled and his CISF guard roughed up at Lake Town on Monday when Dutta was returning from a party worker’s home at Dhakshindari who was recently attacked by alleged Trinamool men. BJP men in protest blocked VIP Road near Dum Dum Park and burnt tyres. Alleged Trinamool workers, 50-60 of them, reportedly mobbed Dutta’s car They and got into a scuffle with Dutta and his party associates. The CISF guard was also attacked. Later, as Dutta visited Lake Town police station to lodge a complaint, the attackers reportedly followed him there and staged an agitation. “Such attacks are doing damage to Trinamool’s image when chief minister Mamata Banerjee handles the home department,” Dutta said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sabyasachi-cisf-guard-attacked/articleshow/76271685.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Meeting on Vadnere committee next week’||Kolhapur: State irrigation minister Jayant Patil on Monday said that a meeting with MPs and MLAs of all the constituencies affected by floods in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts would be held next week to discuss the recommendations of the Vadnere committee report. Patil also discussed the monsoon preparedness with officials from Sangli district administration and asked them to ensure that all precautions are taken to avoid loss to the lives and properties. “Adequate boats should be made available to each village on the banks of Krishna river so as to avoid unfortunate incident of capsizing of boats,” he said referring to the incident in Bhramnal village where 20 people lost their lives. “The 10-member committee set up after the unprecedented floods in August last year has submitted its report. Before accepting the recommendations, the public representatives of the flood-affected areas of all three districts will be called for meeting to discuss the same. The committee has cited heavy rainfall of over 1,800 mm in catchment areas of dams as the major cause for the floods,” Patil said. While speaking to TOI couple of weeks ago, Nandkumar Vadnere, chairman of the committee and former principle secretary of state irrigation department, had stated that both long-term and short-term measures are required to address the floods in Krishna-Bhima river basins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/meeting-on-vadnere-committee-next-week/articleshow/76269254.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kudumbashree units allowed to take up minor repair works||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a significant step that may address delay in minor repair works of roads and buildings, the government has entrusted skilled workers under Kudumbashree to undertake the repair works that were being done by key government departments. The finance department has issued the order permitting women’s construction groups and Arise (Acquiring Resilience and Identity through Sustainable Employment) multi-task teams that have been registered under Kudumbashree to undertake works up to Rs 2lakh in the public works, irrigation, water resources and local self-government departments. The works will be awarded on nomination basis, and not on tender basis. The move is in the wake of engineers in charge of maintenance from these departments citing non-availability of skilled labour for such works in a time-bound manner and the delay had been inviting adverse comments from the high court as well as the media. Presently, there are 288 construction groups as well as 216 multi-task teams registered under Kudumbashree. The works worth a maximum of Rs 25 lakh in a year will be entrusted to Kudumbashree team in a particular public works division. The works will include filling of potholes in roads, cleaning of choked drains, cutting and moving of branches of roadside trees, small repairs of culverts, cleaning of public buildings in the pre-monsoon period and petty works and maintenance of public buildings. The works of repetitive nature like the annual maintenance contract of water supply, sanitary and electrical works will be handed over to Arise groups. Though the groups will be selected on nomination basis, each group will be given works of not more than Rs 10lakh. Kudumbashree had launched Arise program after the 2018 floods. Under this, the Kudumbashree had provided training to about 10,000 youths in various disciplines, including electrical works, electronics repairing, plumbing, housekeeping, data entry, sales, laundry and ironing, day-care and agriculture and allied works. Training was given to about 3,000 youths in plumbing, electrical works and basic masonry. The training that was provided from December 15, 2018 till March 31, 2019, contained both theory sessions as well as practical classes. The government had then utilized the services of Kudumbashree in restoring the houses that were hit by the floods. The Kudumbashree-trained plumbers, electricians and mechanical workers were hired by the local self-governments in restoring the electrical fittings and plumbing lines of houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kudumbashree-units-allowed-to-take-up-minor-repair-works/articleshow/76270389.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Deceased Beed teacher given Covid duty||Aurangabad: The name of a high school teacher from Parli in Beed, who had died about three months ago, was found in the list of employees assigned Covid-19 duties. The incident has left the administration red-faced. Revenue authorities on Monday evening said the list has now been updated and another teacher has been assigned the job. Recently, Parli tehsildar and in-charge of disaster management Vipin Patil issued orders appointing eight teachers from the Milind High School. While four teachers were deployed to Jagatkar Galli, another four were assigned duties in Bhimnagar. The deceased teacher, identified as Sachin Kaldate, had his name in the Bhimnagar roster. When contacted Patil said, “The list of teachers in our office was not updated. On realising the error, we have revised the order and deployed another teacher.” Officials refused to reveal whose responsibility it was to update the records at the revenue office, which is currently supervising measures related to curbing and controlling the pandemic. School management and education department officials could not be reached for their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/deceased-beed-teacher-given-covid-duty/articleshow/76269239.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Disprove my charges against KTR, says Revanth||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy challenged municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao and other TRS leaders to prove the allegations that the minister owned land illegally in GO 111 area in Janwada were false. At a press conference on Monday, he reiterated his demand that KTR should step down from municipal administration and urban development minister’s post till completion of inquiry into the allegations. Reacting to KTR’s tweet that he did not own land as being alleged by the Congress, Revanth said: “The police sent me to jail on March 5 on the charges of using a drone illegally. The police, in the remand report submitted to the court, stated that KTR owned land at Janwada.” He further alleged that two acres land was registered in the names of KTR and his wife in survey number 301 on March 7, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disprove-my-charges-against-ktr-says-revanth/articleshow/76271655.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Surat||MMF sector at war over new rules||SURAT: All is not well in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) sector in the city. Three key industry segments — powerloom weavers, textile traders and processors are on the warpath with each other over the new business norms proposed by various bodies. At a time when the extended lockdown and the mass exodus of migrant workers has left the city’s MMF sector gasping for breath to resume production at full capacity, the ‘dhara-dhoran’ (business norms) has become a bone of contention for industry players. The textile processors have set the payment deadline for the finished fabrics to 30 days and interest of 1.5% for the late payment for the textile traders. However, the textile traders reacted by implementing 30 days deadline for the delivery of finished goods or else 2% interest will be deducted from the payment on the total value of the grey or unfinished fabrics. On the other hand, the powerloom weavers set the seven days deadline for the payment of the grey fabrics supplied to the textile traders and interest of 1.5% for the late payment. Also, the weavers have decided to take interest on the outstanding payment of the traders pre-lockdown. President of South Gujarat Textile Processors Association (SGTPA), Jitendra Vakharia told TOI, “Industry has remained closed for more than two months and now it is the survival of the fittest. Only those who accept our business terms will be entertained.” The powerloom weaving units weave raw fabric and supply to the textile traders, who give it to textile processing units for dyeing and printing. The finished fabric returns to the textile markets for value addition such embroidery and hand-work including tikki, jari, lace fitting etc. on the saris and dress material. The saris and dress material are then supplied to various wholesale mandis across the country. Ashok Jirawala, president of Federation of Gujarat Weavers Association (FOGWA) said, “The weavers are unanimous on the new business rules. This is for the overall benefit of the powerloom sector. The situation is going to be worse in the coming days and we can’t lose money.” There is a section of industrialists who believe that the internal war over payment terms is going to damage the industry in the long run. Sanjay Saraogi, director of Laxmipati group said, “The three brothers of the industry can’t fight like this. At present, we need to fight for getting government benefits, relaxations in the property tax payment, minimum electricity charges etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mmf-sector-at-war-over-new-rules/articleshow/76269276.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kochi||Micro surveillance committees to manage containment zones||KOCHI: Amidst apprehensions of rising positive cases, the state government is seriously looking at the increasing trend of panchayats completely coming under total lockdown. Ever since the borders have opened up and people from other states and countries are coming in with home quarantine, the number of local self-government bodies in which all wards are becoming hotspots or containment areas have been rising. The ‘full ward’ hotspots include Bathery municipality in Wayanad, Ambalappara, Kadampazhipuram and Sreekrishnapuram in Palakkad, Dharmadam and Muzhappilangad in Kannur, Thuneri, Purameri, Mavoor and Olavanna in Kozhikode and Anchal, Yeroor, Kadayakkal in Kollam. The numbers have been changing and shuffling, disturbing the equilibrium in the local bodies. Last week, Kozhikode district had 11 panchayats which were ‘all ward hotspots’ while Thiruvananthapuram had nine panchayats in the same category. Though these have been declared ‘no containment zones’ on Monday, they still remain in the watch zone of the local officials. State officials said that a strict surveillance programme is in place to ensure that people don’t break home and room quarantine rules. These places are marked ‘LSGs with special attention’. “We have a ward-level committee in the local bodies under containment zones. The committee is led by the ward member and includes a revenue official, panchayat staff, Kudumbashree and Asha workers. They are regularly calling and making surprise visits to check whether people are violating quarantine. That’s the most effective method as of now,” said Dr P K Jayashree, director-panchayats. She said that the health department is working on more details and accordingly modifications will be introduced to ensure containment of cases in the local bodies. Even while the system is stretched with rising number of cases, officials said that after phase-II of lockdown, the state has managed to keep the infection under control. “The cases are from people who have returned. When the government decided to open our borders and airports, we knew that the near-zero level of active cases would take a reverse turn. That’s why we decided to insist on this micro quarantine surveillance. This will ensure controlling of infection spread and restrict it to a small area and thus remain manageable. Moreover, at home, people get home-made food and in case of any positives, the high-risk zone will be very limited,” said Dr B Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/micro-surveillance-committees-to-manage-containment-zones/articleshow/76269309.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 9, 2020||Nashik||8 stolen bikes worth Rs 2.15L recovered||Nashik: Bhadrakali police have arrested two people and recovered eight stolen two-wheelers worth Rs 2.15L from their possession. Sajan Sonawane, senior police inspector of Bhadrakali police station, said a bike was reported stolen from the Old CBS area on May 31. “During the course of investigation, we got information that the bike was stolen by a history-sheeter, Sunil Deshmukh (30). We detained him for questioning and during interrogation he confessed to the crime and informed us about his accomplice, Zakir Shaikh (36). The two were then formally arrested on Saturday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-stolen-bikes-worth-rs-2-15l-recovered/articleshow/76269264.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Excavation of murrum, tree felling in Nagzira raises eyebrows||Nagpur: The People For Animals (PFA) has alleged felling of trees and excavation of murrum on a large scale to construct roads inside the core area of Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary, now part of Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) in Bhandara-Gondia districts. In a complaint to PFA chairperson Maneka Gandhi on June 1, Sachin Rangari, PFA’s Bhandara unit chief, charged park officials with illegally felling 55-60 trees in compartment number 97 during excavation by JCB machine in core area, and using murrum to develop roads in at least eight compartments. “At least 300 tractor-load of murrum must have been used to repair 30km roads,” he says. Rangari also alleged that another 400 trees have been felled in compartment number 125 and 126. He says there are videos of JCB drivers admitting to have uprooted many trees during digging. The machine was in use since lockdown from March 20 to April 23. There are also statements of protection staff who said they were also deployed for various works. Based on this complaint, Gandhi asked MoEFCC officials to look into the matter and subsequently Maharashtra PCCF asked wildlife wing officials to seek a report. The state government has also sought report in the matter. NNTR field director Ramanujam RM termed the allegations baseless. “Can you imagine felling 450 trees in a reserve, where one cannot even remove a blade of grass?” he asked. “On May 31, I was camping in the park and several trees had fallen in Buddha-Buddhi, Kosamtondi and Murpaar road in the core area due to lightning and gusty winds on several routes. I had to take a long route to move out of the reserve,” said Ramanujam. “The excavation of murrum was done with the help of JCB machine to repair damaged roads. This is not the first time a JCB has been used to repair roads. It is better than deploying 50 labourers, which caused more disturbance in the park,” said Ramanujam. He added, “ACF RB Tanpure is investigating the matter and all the facts will be submitted in final report in eight days.” Sources said as the matter is attracting much attention, a preliminary report has been submitted to the PCCF (wildlife) office, in which no violations have been found. The matter has been blown out of proportion, they said. “The work for road repairs, desilting and deepening of nullahs was done as per estimates with prior permission and work orders were also issued,” they said. Rangari says, “Small-scale use of roadside murrum without disturbing vegetation as part of routine road works can be understood, but picture speaks volumes about large-scale excavation including felling of many trees. Entire work has been done insensibly and action should be taken against RFO Sachin Shinde who is mainly responsible for the mess.” Rangari also released an internal communication showing how Shinde was hauled up by senior officers for taking up ploughing inside the park and not consulting them. WHAT WILDLIFE PROTECTION ACT 1972 SAYS * Prohibition on picking, uprooting, destruction etc of specified plants in a sanctuary without a permit * No person shall destroy, exploit or remove any wildlife from a sanctuary or damage the habitat of any wild animal or deprive any wild animal or its habitat within such sanctuary except under and in accordance with a permit granted by the chief wildlife warden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/excavation-of-murrum-tree-felling-in-nagzira-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/76271650.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Sanitizing tunnel, no-touch ‘jalabhishek’ for devotees||Lucknow: Devotees visiting Mankameshwar Temple on Monday were in for a surprise. Not because they had to undergo thermal scanning and use sanitizer, but for the fact they had to offer water and milk to the deity via stainless steel slide, put up at a distance from the sanctum sanctorum, especially made by the temple authorities for contactless ‘jalabhishek’. Other places of worship also came up with innovative ways to meet the requirements of the new normal. Head priest of Mankameshwar temple, Mahant Divyagiri, came up with the idea after the district administration’s guidelines barred devotees from touching idols in temples. “Since offering of milk or water to ‘shivalingam’ is an essential part of worshipping Lord Shiva, we came up with this idea. The new set up enables devotees to make offerings without entering the sanctum sanctorum,” said Mahant Devyagiri. The pipe is designed on the lines of an ‘arghya-patra’ (a container in which libation is made). Devotees can pour in offerings on the circular vessel attached to the slide and the offerings flow directly over the ‘shivalinga’, without any touch or crowd near the deity. “We have never seen such a unique way of offering milk or water to the deity,” said Nikita Singh, a devotee. At Hanuman Setu temple too, sprinklers were used to sanitize devotees before being allowed entry. At St Joseph’s Cathedral Church in Hazratganj, people were made to pass through a sanitization tunnel while wearing face mask. When a person passes through the tunnel, nozzles spray a disinfectant mist which kills most of the germs and viruses. “The chemical used for sanitization is safe for humans,” said Father Donald D’Souza, spokesperson of Cathedral Church. Gurdwara Naka Hindola used a nano spray gun to sanitize devotees from head to toe. “The machine is filled with an alcohol-based sanitizer (75% alcohol) which is sprayed on devotees while keeping their eyes safe,” said president of Lucknow Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (LGPC) Rajendra Singh Bagga. At Gurdwara Sadar, foot-operated hand washing and hand dryer has been is set up, apart from thermal scanners and sanitizer dispensers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sanitizing-tunnel-no-touch-jalabhishek-for-devotees/articleshow/76272544.cms||Aditi Singh
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Asad: Modi failed to control Covid spread||Hyderabad: AIMIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken ‘the country for a ride’ as far as the management of the Covid-19 situation was concerned and has completely failed in controlling the spread of the virus. “Protect yourself from the virus, don’t keep hopes on Modi ji, he will not save you from the virus. People clapped hands, lit diyas, stood on the terrace to clap, burnt crackers and resorted to so many such activities, did these activities contain the spread of the virus? Modi Ji has taken you for a ride,” said Owaisi, while addressing a press conference. On the China issue, he said that the Centre must tell the people about the talks with China. “The home minister and the defense minister can easily tell the nation what exactly they are discussing with the Chinese, why are they embarrassed?” he said. The MP also distributed 227 sanitiser dispensers to representatives of temples, mosques, churches and gurudwaras in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-modi-failed-to-control-covid-spread/articleshow/76271688.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Footfall low but youngsters keep bizmen’s hopes afloat||Lucknow: The young and the restless, who had been desperately waiting for a rendezvous during lockdown, had their get-together while maintaining safe distance in the comforting climes of shopping malls away from the sultry weather on Monday. While the footfall in malls remained low on Monday, nearly 20% as compared to pre-lockdown days, 90% of the visitors were youngsters. City malls were closed since March when nationwide lockdown was enforced in view of coronavirus pandemic. Nishant, who had come for a meal at a food court with his girlfriend, in a mall in Gomtinagar, said: “For the first time in last 85 days, we got an opportunity to spend some moments together.” Many flocked electronics stores to check out new smartphones, smart watch, laptops and gaming devices, besides cosmetic, handbags and garments stores. Raghav Jha of Dalibagh, who had come to an electronic store in a mall in Gomtinagar, said: “I bought a high performance laptop that I had been waiting to buy since lockdown started. It is available only in select stores.” Vidhi Bajpayee of Aliganj who came to buy women’s wear and accessories said, “My sister is getting married in early July. I have come here to buy a lot of handbags, clothes, accessories and footwear. Nobody knows when markets will be locked down again.” Families and elderly people were found visiting stores of footwear, optical, garment and electrical appliances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/footfall-low-but-youngsters-keep-bizmens-hopes-afloat/articleshow/76272560.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Exams of all semesters to be conducted: MUHS||Nagpur: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has come out with clear instructions that it will be conducting examinations of health science courses in phased manner this year. “MUHS has decided to conduct examinations from July 16 in a staggered manner. Accordingly, it has been decided to conduct final-year examinations of health science courses of all pathies first. Time table of the same has been published on our website,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, controller of examination, MUHS. Final year students can serve as Covid warriors during the internship after passing the examinations. After completing their internship, they can appear for PG-NEET like other state students. So, the preference was given to final year students first. As per the norms of central health education councils, MUHS has planned the time table in such a way that students will get sufficient time to prepare for examinations. The university has announced many services, relaxations for students ahead of examinations. “All administrative process related to Summer-2020 examinations will be done through e-mail, SMS as well as WhatsApp. The students need not have to go to college / university in person for these tasks,” said Dr Pathak. Students can chose either home centre (the city of medical college) or hometown centre (a college of the same pathy near the place where students is presently residing due to lockdown). Covid distancing, face mask, sanitizers and other rules are, however, compulsory. University has decided to provide even PPE kits to students during practical examinations in case the practical is to be performed on patients to demonstrate clinical skills. “If everything goes smoothly, we will declare results before September 1. Practical examinations will be conducted afterwards. Students can be able to start internship after declaration of results,” Dr Pathak said. Dr Pathak also made it clear that the first year examination of MBBS will be held as per schedule. There was some confusion among students as first year time table was not declared. “First year MBBS 2019 batch has new syllabus. Accordingly, the examinations are scheduled in September 2020, as per Medical Council of India norms. So, the time table will come as per normal schedule,” he added. Tips For Medicos Prepare for exams in stress-free environment Stay at current place of residence, avoid unnecessary travel Remain in touch with college authorities on phone / e-mail/ SMS etc Information about exams to be published on MUHS website Do not rely on suggestions and news coming from other sources Call helpline numbers, use e-mails published on varsity website HELPLINE E-MAILS: ugmuhssummerexam2020@gmail.com (Students of all UG courses) pgmuhssummerexam2020@gmail.com (Students of all PG courses)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exams-of-all-semesters-to-be-conducted-muhs/articleshow/76270412.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 9, 2020||Nashik||6 Covid cases in & around Cantt area||Nashik: As Covid-19 cases are increasing in and around the cantonment board area, senior officials of the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) said that they have been taking all the precautionary measures and spreading awareness among people regarding the infection. On Monday evening, six Covid-19 cases were found in and around the cantonment area. Of the fresh cases, two are reported from the cantonment area and four from villages around the cantonment area. A patient from Vijay Nagar who was undergoing treatment at the CBD hospital was shifted to the Nashik civil hospital and another high-risk patient from the cantonment area was shifted to the civil hospital, officials said. Ajay Kumar, the CEO of CBD, said that they have been spreading awareness among people about the importance of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, etc. Apart from this, Spraying of disinfectants is regularly carried out in the containment area. Bhagwan Kataria, the vice president of CBD, said that they have 11 ghantagadis in the board area through which announcements, like wearing masks, not crowding at public places and maintaining social distancing, are made. A separate arrangement has been made at the CBD hospital to treat Covid-19 patients and suspected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-covid-cases-in-around-cantt-area/articleshow/76269335.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Workshop on ending child marriages||Hyderabad: Department of Women Development and Child Welfare (WDCW) Telangana in collaboration with Mahita NGO and Poverty Learning Foundation organised a ‘State-level virtual workshop to discuss strategies to end child marriages in Telangana’ on Monday. The meeting was conducted with about 300 of the department’s officials who are in charge of responding to children at risk of being married off. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workshop-on-ending-child-marriages/articleshow/76271672.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirumala temple reopens, darshan for 6,000 devotees||TIRUPATI: It was a ‘darshan’ with a difference for the 6,000-odd devotees when the doors of the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala reopened on Monday, after staying closed for 80 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Elaborate preventive measures were put in place by the authorities of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to ensure all Covid-19 norms are in place. There was no pushing or shoving, social distancing and hygiene were paramount. The trial run will continue for two more days. On the first two days, entry would be allowed only to TTD staff and their family members, while Tirumala locals can have darshan on June 10. The temple opens for devotees from across the state and outside from June 11. “Perhaps for the first time in many years I had such a smooth experience. There was no pushing or shoving inside the sanctum sanctorum, everyone was wearing masks. It felt a bit surreal. There is no differentiation between common devotees and VIPs at Tirumala temple now. The quality of darshan is the same for all,” said a TTD staff. While nearly 4,500 to 6,000 devotees used to have darshan per hour in the pre-Covid days, now only 500 devotees would be allowed entry per hour. TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, who is personally monitoring the resumption of pilgrim services at the temple, said their main focus would be on ensuring that devotees are not inconvenienced despite the strict norms in place. “For the first three days we decided to allow only our own employees, their families and Tirumala locals for darshan so that any shortcomings in the arrangements can be spotted and improved upon to ensure that the best of amenities and safety measures are in place when pilgrim services resume from June 11,” he told TOI. He said not more than 6,000 devotees will be allowed in a day for darshan till the end of June. “TTD will actively monitor the situation and if time and other constraints permit, we will try our best to facilitate darshan for more number of devotees in the weeks to come. But resumption of arjitha sevas for devotees will remain cancelled till lockdown is completely lifted,” Subba Reddy added. TTD has also resumed laddu distribution, tonsure services and annadanam services in strict adherence with Covid-19 safety protocols. Meanwhile, other TTD temples across the country except for those in the containment zones also reopened for pilgrim worship on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirumala-temple-reopens-darshan-for-6000-staff-kin/articleshow/76271670.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||BCI issues guidelines for univs on online exams||Nagpur: After Maharashtra government’s proposal to cancel the final year/semester exams in view of Covid-19 pandemic, more and more apex bodies are coming out in open in support of conducting examinations.The Bar Council of India (BCI) has issued guidelines to all vice chancellors and various law universities across India regarding online examinations as per the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directives.A letter by BCI secretary Srimanto Sen stated that the apex body’s general council had passed a resolution in this regard in a meeting on May 24 for framing guidelines on the exams.“Final year students of three and five years courses may be allowed to appear in online examinations. However, the universities must adopt an alternative strategy for conducting them for those students who are unable to avail the online mode for various reasons,” the BCI’s letter to principals, deans, head of departments along with all centres of legal education in the country, mentioned.According to BCI, the intermediate semester students will be promoted on the basis of performance of previous years and marks obtained in internal examination of the current year.“The universities are directed to conduct the end semester examination within a month of reopening of the colleges. They must adhere to Covid-19 protocol and ensure that the norms of social distancing are complied with inside the campus. All classrooms and examination halls should be sanitized time to time,” the BCI said, adding that the safety and health of the students should not be compromised at any cost.Sen further instructed the universities to maintain the highest academic standards and integrity in conducting the examinations.Even All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) is of view of conducting at least the final exams of students, even if they were deferred till September/October. Its chairman Anil Sahastrabudhe had already told TOI that cancelling the exams should be the last option and decision should be left on the universities to decide depending on situation in their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bci-issues-guidelines-for-univs-on-online-exams/articleshow/76270404.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Class X students receive hall tickets and face masks with bated breath||Coimbatore: Government schoolteachers in the district on Monday reported to their schools and distributed hall tickets and face masks to Class X students. The teachers also gave instructions to students on safety and precautionary measures and gave them counselling on how to face exams.Chief education officer (CEO) P Usha said all the teachers, except those who had Class XII evaluation duty and those who were stuck in other districts, reported to their schools. A team of two teachers was asked to handle 10 students each. “The teachers would download the hall tickets from the website of the directorate of government exams (DGE) and give it to students. They would also counsel students on facing the exams and guide them on transport facilities available for them. To clear their doubts, we have formed teams of teachers. Students would also be given contact numbers of the teachers,” the CEO said.Schools have been asked to finish distributing hall tickets within Tuesday, she said. “Based on the strength, we have asked the schools to increase the number of teacher teams to finish the work,” she said.Though at first the DGE had asked all students to download hall tickets from their website directly, as all government school students might not have the facility to do that, they had asked to collect it from schools. They were also encouraged to come to schools as they could be given personal guidance by teachers on the exams and Covid-19 precautionary measures, the CEO said.Teachers said they were not able to talk to students about subjects specifically but had time only for giving them general instructions on safety measures such as personal distancing and wearing masks and tell them examination details. “When we spoke to students, we asked them whether their parents were going to work. Many of them said their father had found work and had started working recently. Normalcy is just returning in the households of many students,” said a teacher.In most of the schools in the city, while there were proper arrangements inside the campuses to ensure personal distancing, students were seen gathering in groups outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-x-students-receive-hall-tickets-and-face-masks-with-bated-breath/articleshow/76271681.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nashik||Only 25% rickshaws ply on Monday||Nashik: The city had very few autorickshaws plying on Monday as some drivers were unaware of the permission granted to them while a few others feared contracting the infection. There were hardly any passengers either, said autorickshaw drivers. Bhagwan Pathak, the district president of Shramik Sena autorickshaw taxi union, said, “Only 25% of the autorickshaws plied on Monday. Either the autorickshaw drivers are scared of contracting Covid-19 or they are unsure of the tariff to be taken when only two passengers are permitted.”  Pathak said he has told the autorickshaw drivers to ply strictly by the meter and not allow a third passenger in the vehicle. Some autorickshaw drivers said when they get two passengers, they recover the fare of the third passenger from them as well. Vinay Ahirem, the deputy regional transport officer, said they have not received any complaint about over-charging by autorickshaw drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-25-rickshaws-ply-on-monday/articleshow/76269272.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kochi||Anti-fake news unit here to stay||ALAPPUZHA: The Anti-Fake News Division Kerala (AFNDK) set up by the state government to tackle the spread of fake news during the Covid-19 lockdown will be made permanent. Since its inception on April 6, AFNDK has received 36 complaints regarding fake news on Covid-19 that was being spread on social media. Based on the division’s report, the Kerala police’s Cyberdome has registered 11 cases and the investigations are progressing. AFNDK says it has come across an array of fake news circulated in WhatsApp groups and posted on Facebook and Twitter. Even a Malayalee doctor residing abroad was tracked down for claiming online that Covid-19 could be cured through prayers. One had posted that his doctor friend had urged him to avoid using masks while another misled the public through a post that claimed 16 Covid patients were in Kerala at a time when the state had yet to report a case. AFNDK also came across fake posts claiming the state had banned trucks from Tamil Nadu. “At the beginning of lockdown, people were eagerly waiting for information and some people took advantage of it and they created fake information and posted in social media for getting attention, likes and shares,” said Mir Mohammed Ali, the coordinator of AFNDK. According to Ali, the culprits were in the 40-50 age group. Upon receiving a complaint on fake news, the AFNDK would contact the suspect and tell them to take it down. “If it is a grave issue, we will report it to the police,” Ali said, “We also inform Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter for removing such posts. We then post the facts in the official Facebook and Twitter accounts of AFNDK. This system has been made permanent.” The AFNDK’s WhatsApp number to report suspicious messages and fake news is 9496003234.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anti-fake-news-unit-here-to-stay/articleshow/76270408.cms||Sajimon P S
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cash reward handed over to ex-Maoists||Hyderabad: Bhadradri-Kothagudem district SP Sunil Dutt on Monday handed over a cheque worth Rs 13 lakh to four Maoists-- Ubba Mohan, Podiyam Santosh and a couple Sodi Narasimha Rao and Podiyam Sanni-- who surrendered last year before the district police. The amount was the reward on the head of the Maoists and was given to them as they had joined the mainstream. Addressing the media, the SP said the four former-Maoists were handed over the money under a rehabilitation package that the government had announced to help surrendered Maoists enter the mainstream. He said the government would reward and rehabilitate everyone from the banned CPI (Maoist) party if they surrender. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cash-reward-handed-over-to-ex-maoists/articleshow/76271700.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Aurangabad||3 Hingoli youths drown in backwaters||Aurangabad: Three of the five youths who went swimming in the backwaters of Isapur dam in the Morgavhan area of Kalamnuri tehsil, about 200 km from here, drowned on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Yogesh Gadappa, Rohit Chittewar and Shivam Sonekar, all college students in their 20s. A case of accidental death has been registered. Police said five youths entered the water on Monday morning. Three of the youths did not know how to swim and started drowning. The other two raised an alarm. Farmers from the nearby areas rushed to the spot. The revenue officials informed the police and with the help of locals, the bodies were fished out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-hingoli-youths-drown-in-backwaters/articleshow/76269302.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Scrap Std XI online admissions: Schools||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM), an association of school trusts, has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding scrapping of online admission system for Std XI in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The association claims that the admissions get delayed every year because of the multiple round system and now due to the pandemic, it won’t make sense to prolong the process. Ravindra Fadnavis, general secretary of the association, said, “The online admission process drags on till August because of the multiple rounds which keep on going endlessly. The delay was happening even though results were declared by June second week, sometimes earlier. But now here the results may not come out till July. That will push the online admission process completion to September or even October.” MRSSM says in rural areas, where the online system is not applicable, admissions are completed ‘fast’. “We have observed that admissions are done within 20 days and junior colleges there start. So while the rural students are back in classes as early as June last week or as late as mid-July, their urban counterparts don’t enter college till August,” said Fadnavis. He added that this is the reason why city-based students don’t prefer colleges here. “They prefer to take admissions in colleges which are just outside city limits. In Nagpur city, you can see the impact in number of vacant seats every year,” he said. He added that in 2019-20 academic session, around 20,000 junior college seats in city were vacant. “In Aurangabad, there were 8,000 seats vacant. If this is the scenario, then where is the need to have an online system with multiple rounds,” said Fadnavis. In the offline system, admissions happen with students directly approaching colleges and completing formalities. In online system, the education department carries on admissions through its proprietary software which is managed from its Pune headquarters. Students fill the forms online and opt for colleges and courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scrap-std-xi-online-admissions-schools/articleshow/76271678.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Artificial limb centre to come up at CMCH||Coimbatore: Taking a step forward in setting up an in-house artificial limb centre in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the authorities are planning to start procuring equipment to create artificial limbs. They hope to have at least 10 completely rehabilitated patients by Independence Day this year. CMCH aims for the centre to produce light weight calipers made of poly propylene for at least 10 patients a month, so they can be completely rehabilitated before they are sent home. Officials said they see more than 10 patients who undergo amputations either due to accidents or diabetes every month. “After we amputate them, the patients go home, completely dependent on their families for movement and sustenance,” said director of the institute of orthopedics, Dr S Vetrivelchezhian. “Most of them start begging,” he said. “We now plan to completely rehabilitate them, so that their movement and daily duties can be performed independently,” said dean Dr P Kalidas. CMCH says they already have four prosthetic craftsmen who were allocated to them more than a year back, an occupational therapist and a psychiatrist. The hospital has also identified a space for the centre near the hospital kitchen. “Now all we need is equipment and refurbishment of the building. The built-in space would be two rooms measuring 800 sq ft and an outdoor space with a roofing of 600 sq ft,” said Dr Kalidas. The hospital is set to issue a tender for 20 equipment including hot air oven, jig saw cutter, carpenter chisel, nail puller, drilling machine, etc., to make the limbs. “We have allocated around Rs 50 lakh to set up the centre. But each patient’s cost will be covered by the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme,” the dean said. The reimbursements range from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh per prosthetic,” said Dr Vetrivelchezhian. Now, all amputees are sent to the district collectorate’s department of social work, where they apply for a limb, and get it free of cost. However, since it depends on funds, the backlog sometimes runs into hundreds and requires submission of multiple documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/artificial-limb-centre-to-come-up-at-cmch/articleshow/76271738.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Goa||Isidore wants Goa-K’taka border sealed||Poinguinim: Fearing a further rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes has sought the closure of the Goa-Karnataka border. He has urged chief minister Pramod Sawamt to “completely seal the border” at Polem in Canacona. Fernandes raised concerns that a lot of people are entering Goa through this busy check post at Polem and said he is worried that this could trigger an outbreak of the pandemic in Canacona. He also said that although the border is manned properly, a “slight misjudgment could be detrimental to Canacona taluka and the state”. He said that he wants the Polem border entry point closed for traffic, except for essential services and goods vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isidore-wants-goa-ktaka-border-sealed/articleshow/76272566.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||It’s just pre-monsoon, yet few farmers start sowing||Nagpur: The pre-monsoon bouts of rain triggered by the cyclone have led to a marginal section of farmers start sowing operations in the region. It’s high risk high returns game, they say. Each year some of the farmers go ahead with early sowing, said sources. Early sowing is a gamble that can pay off or leave the farmers in losses, especially in case of cotton. If monsoon arrives in time the crop can get a major boost. If not, sowing has to be done again, leading to losses. The early sowing is mainly done by farmers having irrigation facilities, but a section of dryland farmers are also learnt to have taken up sowing at this stage. The agriculture department has issued an advisory saying that sowing needs to be taken up only after monsoon arrives officially. “These are just pre-monsoon showers and it needs 70mm to 100mm rain for sowing to start. We have advised farmers to wait till arrival of monsoon,” said an official in the state’s agriculture department. The monsoon usually arrives in the region after June 10. Sudhir Kothari, a director of the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) at Hinganghat in Wardha district, said that around 5% of farmers are estimated to have started sowing. “Each year around 20% of farmers taken up pre-monsoon sowing and end up in losses,” said Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government think-tank on farm crisis. The government had banned sale of seeds till May 30 only to prevent early sowing. Vijay Jawandhia, a veteran farm activist, said that he has reports that around 20% farmers in Wardha have started sowing. “As there is a risk of failure, the government should promote use of straight-line seeds. The seeds can be produced in-house by farmers as against the hybrid varieties which have to be purchased each time,” said Jawandhia. As TOI talked to farmers in Wardha, Yavatmal, Amravati and Buldhana districts, there were reports that only a marginal section of farmers who had irrigation facilities had started sowing. Even in the normal years sowing does start before June 10, said the farmers. Manish Jadhav of Wagad-Ijara village in Yavatmal bordering Telangana confirmed that he had started sowing. “I could do it because I have larger holding. It’s a high risk decision though. If it rains in time, I will reap a bigger harvest of cotton,” he said. Dams full with waterThe Totladoh dam on Pench river, where the storage had slipped below the dead level mark around this time last year, had 73% of water as on Sunday. The city gets its water supply from the dam. In a week, the water level in the dam increased by 16 million meter cubes (MMC), touching 749 MMC due to pre-monsoon rain. According to figures released by the water resources department, the 18 major dams of eastern Vidarbha have an average water level of 41% as against 3.44% during same period last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-just-pre-monsoon-yet-few-farmers-start-sowing/articleshow/76271707.cms||Shishir Arya
June 9, 2020||Surat||Two deaths, 42 positives mark ‘back-to-normal’ on Day One||SURAT: Surat city on Monday, the ‘back-to-normal’ day after the four-phased country-wide lockdown ended on June 8. Every small, big business establishments along with public places like restaurants, hotels and religious places re-opened, and diamond city recorded 42 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths from the virus on Day 1. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, Katargam recorded the highest number of cases at 16, followed by six in Udhna, five each in Limbayat and Rander zones respectively. The new cases pushed the Covid tally in the city to 2,166 on Monday. Meanwhile, the city also recorded tow deaths owing to the virus. A 53-year-old woman from Varachha (A) zone and a 69-year-old man from central zone succumbed at the New Civil Hospital, taking the toll to 85 in the city. Altogether 43 positive patients were discharged in the city on the same day taking the total number of recoveries to 1,380 till date. “From Monday, hotels, restaurants, malls and temples were re-opened as per the government guidelines and life is coming back to normal post lockdown. However, safety is in the people’s own hands now. They have to take more precautions to ward off Covid-19 threat. SMC has started visiting elderlies and those with health complications in various parts of the city to give Ayush ministry recommended medicines. Such people also have been asked to stay at home only,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, Surat municipal commissioner. According to SMC, more than 7,000 people are under home quarantine till date. On Monday, more than 7,000 people entered into the city through road, air and train routes, sources said. “As many as 4,901 people entered via road, while 1,222 people came in by trains. The huge number of people arriving in the city is making the task humongous to cope with the possible spread of virus,” an SMC official said. Meanwhile, five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat rural areas on Monday, taking the total to 177 cases in the district till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-deaths-42-positives-mark-back-to-normal-on-day-one/articleshow/76269330.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha records highest four deaths in a day, 52 new Covid-19 cases||NAGPUR: For the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak in Vidarbha, the region reported four deaths in a day on June 8. All the deceased were below 50 years old. Two of them were from Akola, with one each from Nagpur and Amravati. With 31 positive cases in Nagpur, total 52 new Covid-19 cases came from Vidarbha region, taking total to 2,318. On the other hand, 39 patients recovered and were discharged, taking total to 1,558. The recovery rate of Vidarbha stayed above 65% (67.21%). Two of the four deaths were reported in Akola, including youngest among Monday’s victims — a 36-year-old woman. She was admitted to GMCH Akola on June 2 and tested positive the same day. A 45-yr-old man from Naigaon in Akola also died in the isolation ward early Monday morning. He was admitted on June 3. Both patients had severe comorbidities. Akola also recorded eight new cases on Monday, taking total to 821 – highest for a Vidarbha district. Akola accounts for 39 of total 82 deaths in Vidarbha. In Nagpur, a 42-yr-old man from Sheikh Bari Chowk in Hansapuri, who was admitted on June 1 and tested positive on June 2 died during treatment on June 8. A patient of chronic kidney disease, he was on ventilator support from 2 days. With this, Nagpur’s death toll reached 15. City also recorded 31 new cases taking total to 739, including 464 recoveries. In Amravati, a 50-year-old woman patient with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) died on Monday morning in Covid hospital. Her swab samples were taken four days ago and tested positive the same day. With this, Amravati reported its 17th Covid death. Six patients recovered and were discharged while five new patients were admitted to the Covid hospital. Amravati has total 284 cases, including 191 discharged and 17 deaths. Buldhana continued to report new cases from rural areas. On Monday, five new cases, including four women and a man from Malkapur and Motala towns were reported. This took total cases in Buldhana to 90. By late Monday night, report of one of the close contacts of Mahagaon Covid-19 patient in Yavatmal district tested positive, which took total cases to 159. With 122 discharged and three deaths, total active cases in Yavatmal are now 34. Washim reported no new patient and the condition of three patients admitted there is stable. In Gadchiroli, one more man, a migrant labourer coming from Mumbai tested positive on Monday, taking total number of cases to 44. But, with four patients discharged on Monday, total 31 have recovered. Gadchiroli has 12 active cases at present. A patient from Bhandara recovered early on Monday morning and a new patient tested positive in the afternoon. Due to this, the total cases in Bhandara surged to 42 but the active cases remained stable at 17. Wardha, Gondia, Chandrapur and Washim reported no new cases. In fact, 4 patients were discharged from Gondia. With this, 67 out of 69 patients in Gondia have been discharged and the district has only two active cases at present. AMRAVATI CASES at 284: Besides the 17th death, Amravati reported five positive cases to take the district’s count to 284. These include a 36-year-old woman of Kishor Nagar who allegedly came in contact with a Getlife Hospital positive woman. The other case is from Chawadi Chowk, Badnera, where a 28-year-old youth tested positive. This is the second case from Chawadi Chowk after a 50-year-old woman, who tested positive on Saturday last. The Covid hospital today discharged six patients. This has taken the number of recovered patients to 191. Meanwhile, the collector told TOI on Monday that implementation of new guidelines regarding home isolation are not feasible at this stage in Amravati and he would continue with the current practice as most patients are slum-dwellers with very inadequate housing facilities. “If situation warrants in future, we may take a decision,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-records-highest-4-deaths-in-a-day-52-new-cases/articleshow/76271752.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 9, 2020||Lucknow||Abodes of god unlock their doors for devotees||Lucknow: After long gap of two-and-a half months, places of worship opened their doors to the call of faith as restrictions on their operations were relaxed on Monday as part of Unlock 1.0. While devotees brought their own prasad and puja material to city’s Mankameshwar Temple, Muslim devotees carried their own skull caps to the Aishbagh Eidgah and other mosques for namaz. Sikhs were unable to hide their tears while praying at Gurdwara Naka Hindola. Similarly, morning and evening prayers were hled in the lower chapel Hazratganj’s St. Joseph’s Cathedral Church with limited entry. All the devotees were allowed entry only after thermal scanning and hand sanitization. Those with high temperatures were sent back. At Hanuman Setu temple, people had to offer prayers from outside the temple gate. Standing on the assigned demarcations on the road to maintain physical distancing, not more than five people at a time were allowed to offer prayers. Many were eager for darshan as they couldn’t do so during the auspicious occasion of Bada Mangal, over three centuries old tradition which was broken this year due to the lockdown. Vishesh Arora, came to take blessings for his one-month-old daughter. “She was born in the middle of the lockdown,” he said. “Every year, entire family used to visit the temple during Bada Mangal, but missed this time due to lockdown. Today, members will come one by one at different hours to offer prayers,” said Rajesh Srivastava. People offered ‘namaz’ at mosques with safety measures in place. Only five people were allowed to take part in a prayer session. Morning prayer at Aishbagh Eidgah mosque witnessed four jamaats of five members each offering namaz after 15-minute intervals. Similar reports were recieved from Jama Masjid, in Masjid Ammar Khadra, and Ek Minara Masjid. “We prayed for the well being of entire humanity,” said Imam Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahli. All gurdwaras, after going through the mandated safety precautions, let a few devotees lend a helping hand by giving dry ration to the gurdwaras performing langar seva. “The eagerness to visit the gurdwara was seen in the public. Many of them came teary-eyed and couldn’t hide their emotions while praying,” said Satpal Singh, religious secretary, Gurdwara Naka Hindola. At St. Joseph’s Cathedral Church, only a few people were allowed for the holy communion. Mansi Kumar, a regular church-goer, came to pray for the well-being of her cousin in Delhi diagnosed with Covid-19. “Only prayers can give strength in these trying times,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abodes-of-god-unlock-their-doors-for-devotees/articleshow/76272568.cms||Aditi Singh
June 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Three siblings drown in Beed pond||Aurangabad: Three siblings drowned in a water pond at Dawoodpura area in Parli tehsil of Beed district on Monday. The trio had gone to wash clothes when the incident took place. The deceased have been identified as Surekha Rajaram Dandekar (15), Rekha (12) and their cousin Rohit Narayan Dandekar (8). Their parents hailed from the Nanded district had been working as stone quarry workers. Parli rural police station assistant inspector Vishal Shahane said that it was Surekha, who in an attempt to help her family in domestic chores took the clothes for washing at the quarry based pond. While she was washing clothes, Rohit entered the water and started drowning. Surekha and Rekha too jumped in the water to save him but they too drowned with him. “On Mondays, we have a weekly market at Parli, and so none of the workers were present at the quarry. These kids went to wash clothes, and after the boy, who inadvertently entered the water, two sisters jumped one after the other to save him.” On learning about the incident, family members rushed to the spot and took them out. Police too rushed to the spot after learning about the incident. The bodies were sent for an autopsy before handing them over to their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/three-siblings-drown-in-beed-pond/articleshow/76269320.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Watermelon, mangoes from AP to reach UK stores soon||Visakhapatnam: In a first, fresh fruits were exported directly from Visakhapatnam Port to the United Kingdom (UK) through container shipment. Two consignments carrying 19,000 kg of watermelon and 12,000 kg of mangoes from coastal Andhra Pradesh were packed and loaded in containers by a Vizag-based logistics company via Visakha Container Terminal Private Limited (VCTPL) for two ports in the UK. Speaking to TOI, Anil Narayanan, deputy chief operating officer (COO) of VCTPL said, “Vizag is a gateway port for containers and direct shipment is available from Vizag to European countries though fruits have never been shipped before. They used to be sent through trans-shipment in Colombo. This month, we sent the first consignment of fruits in refrigerated containers to UK on trial ships maintaining the ideal temperature so that the fruits remain fresh for the month-long journey. Depending on its success, more varieties of fruits can be directly shipped from Vizag to other European countries.” On their first fruit export shipment, director of Elite Logix Exim Agency (India) Pvt Ltd, A Ravi Shankar, said, “There is a demand for tropical fruits in UK and Europe. They had been importing from other Asian countries and from other Indian ports or through air cargo. Due to the pandemic, fruit cultivators of AP are also facing losses in their business. So we decided to purchase in bulk from local farmers (19 tonnes of watermelon from Vijayawada and 12 tonnes of mangoes from East Godavari), got them packed (three kg of mangoes per box) at Nuzvid.” “The mangoes are being shipped to London Gateway port while watermelons are being sent to Felixstowe Port and will be subsequently dispatched to supermarkets in London. We are planning to send 18 tonnes of pineapple from Tuni in East Godavari,” added Ravi Shankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/watermelon-mangoes-from-ap-to-reach-uk-stores-soon/articleshow/76271757.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 9, 2020||Kochi||PPE manufacturers make hay in Kerala||KOCHI: Manufacturing of diagnostic kits, PPE kits, etc has flourished in the state during Covid-19. The sales of e-gadgets are also showing an upward trend. At least four firms in Kerala are producing PPE kits and other safety gear and one has already delivered 2 lakh pieces to the state government. “Several sectors are facing hardships due to the situation that has come out of the pandemic. But, it has come as a boon for some firms manufacturing products used for healthcare,” a state government official said. “Many of the firms are rapidly switching over to areas where they can generate profit. In what can be seen as the best example for making hay while the sun shines, a garment manufacturing firm in the state switched over to the manufacturing of PPE kits. They have already distributed around 2 lakh PPE kits to the government,” the official said. Similarly, manufacturers of diagnostic and pharmaceutical items also have bettered their prospects. Several units engage in the production of hand wash, sanitizers, and even RNA extraction kits. “We have started manufacturing RNA kits on a large scale," said an official with a private firm. "We see a lot of opportunities in the areas related to manufacturing of diagnostic kits and other items which are used for fighting Covid-19,” he added. The state government has already pumped in around Rs 270 crore for the purchase of drugs, equipment, etc required for fighting the pandemic. Given the constraints in importing and transporting necessary items from other states, authorities in the state are preferring procurement from competent local firms. This will also help reduce the time lag in procuring essential items. The sale of electronic gadgets is another area that has thrived during the pandemic. Laptops worth Rs 22 crore were sold in the state in May. With online classes gaining momentum, the demand for laptops and computers is also going up. “Now, we are waiting for the manufacturers to supply adequate laptops. Manufacturing of laptops and computers have almost been stopped as various countries that are gripped by the virus situation. So, major distributors in the country are transporting the stock from their godowns in other states to Kerala for meeting the growing demand,” an official with a computer manufacturing company said. “In other states where online classes are yet to pick up, there is adequate stock,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ppe-manufacturers-are-making-hay/articleshow/76270436.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 9, 2020||Kochi||HC asks Kerala government to consider aid demand of IT firms||KOCHI: The high court directed the government to consider the demand of IT companies based in Smart City, in Kochi, for financial aid in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Anu Sivaraman issued the directive after considering a petition (WP-C No. 10536/2020) filed by four companies based in Smart City through advocate Joby Cyriac. Through the petition, the companies had sought a declaration that IT companies (operating from Smart City) are entitled to privileges, subsidies or concessions or the same is extended to such companies under the IT policy of the government from time to time as long as agreement between the government and Smart City Kochi Infrastructure Pvt Ltd is in force. They had sought a directive to the government to take appropriate steps to extend the same financial benefits provided to IT companies as per a government order issued on April 27 (GO-RT No. 51/2020) to the IT companies working in Smart City. During the hearing, the counsel representing the companies submitted that IT companies based at Smart City are also entitled to financial aid and reduction of rent during the pandemic as per a clause in the agreement between the government and Smart City Kochi Infrastructure Pvt Ltd that was signed on May 13, 2007. A representation has been filed before the principal secretary of department of electronics and information on May 21 pointing out the factual aspects and seeking the benefits as per the agreement, the counsel told the court. In the judgment, the court directed, “Having heard the learned government pleader also, there will be a direction to the 1st respondent (principal secretary) to take up, consider and pass appropriate orders on Ext.P5 representation preferred by the petitioners, after hearing authorized representatives of the petitioners also through video conferencing. Notice can be issued to the petitioners intimating the date of the hearing and the time fixed therefore by e-mail or by any other electronic transmission methods. Orders shall be passed within a period of three weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this judgment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/consider-aid-demand-of-it-firms-hc-tells-government/articleshow/76269356.cms||Mahir Haneef
June 9, 2020||Nashik||Offices reopen across Nashik city||Nashik: With offices resuming after a 74-day gap, it was a mixed feeling for the employees and employers who have either expanded their infrastucture or slashed the number of staff to meet the new norms set by the government to operate the offices. All offices are allowed to resume operations with only 10% of its staff and ensure physical distancing rule is followed. “Since much of the work in our office is collective and requires presence of staff, we had to hire a neighbourhood office that helped us to accommodate people as per the norms. Besides we have also installed glass separators to ensure that our employees and customers feel safe,” Suresh Sharma, a businessman, said. However, the situation is not good for many employees as many businesses have cut down on the number of staff owing to the difficult economic conditions. “I have been asked to stay at home as the company does not require my services,” Sudhanshu Patil, who was employed with a Satpur-based company, said, adding that he is now looking for another job. Those going back to work also exhibited different moods as they stepped out of their homes after a long time. “While we are happy to come back to work, we are also sorry for the ones who lost their jobs. Owing to the current market situation we are also under the constant fear of losing our jobs,” Abhijit Ranade, an employee with an engineering company, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/offices-reopen-across-nashik-city/articleshow/76269347.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||HT cotton seeds available in almost all rural areas||Nagpur: Amid the lockdown, illegal herbicide tolerant (HT) seeds have once again made their way into the Vidarbha hinterland.As cotton sowing is set to begin, agents from Telangana and Gujarat have starting sending consignments into Vidarbha. Even as farmers say that the quantity has gone down, they do not deny the availability. Sources say since seeds come under essential commodities, even illegal varieties are being easily transported through state borders.On June 12, Shetkari Sangathana — a farmers’ organization has planned a countrywide agitation in which HT seeds will be openly sowed by its members. The outfit had organized a similar agitation starting from Akola district last year. Shetkari Sangathana has been demanding that government legalize HT seeds.A genetically modified variety — HT seeds sprout cotton plants that are tolerant to glyphosate-based herbicides. Commercial use of the seeds is not allowed in the country. The technology was mooted by Mahyco Monsanto Biotech Limited (MMBL), but it withdrew the application in 2016, over issues related to licence fee.With no applicant, even the government cannot give a green signal to its use. The seeds are, however, easily available in the black market since last four cotton seasons.Shetkari Sangathana members said the seeds are openly available this season too and will be used in the sowing campaign planned on June 12. The outfit calls it stance a ‘civil disobedience movement’. The law will be openly flouted by sowing HT seeds. Last year, the police had booked 16 persons including seed traders. The Sangathana later secured a court direction preventing action against farmers.Anil Ghanawat, president of Shetkari Sangathana, said this year not only HT cotton but soyabean, brinjal and maize will also be sowed. The drive will be held in other parts of the country also.Ghanawat said the seeds are available through channels in Gujarat.“On Saturday, police and agriculture department officials laid a trap to arrest a farmer in Adegaon village of Akola but no HT seeds could be found with him,” said Lalit Mahalle, a farmer from the same district. Mahalle was the first to sow HT seeds under the Shetkari Sangathana campaign last year, and had been booked.Manish Jadhav from Wagad-Ijara of Mahagaon taluka of Yavatmal said he had already sowed HT seeds on his farm. Jhadhav, however, refused to disclose the source.Rajesh Padalkar, a farmer in Yavatmal not related to Shetkari Sangathana, said the seeds are available through the bordering districts of Telangana.Bhagirath Chaudhary, director of South Asia Biotechnology Centre (SABC), said, “There was a rampant black market in 2017, which came down in 2018 following stricter vigil by the authorities. A number of farmers in Banaskantha and Sabarkantha in Gujarat had grown seeds in 2019, when Shetkari Sangathana had held its campaign.”CANCER CONCERNA section of activists have expressed concern that use of HT seeds can lead to cancer. This is because it will increase use of glyphosate, which they claim is carcinogenic. The producers have, however, refuted the theory.In US, a groundskeeper, Dewayne Johnson was awarded $78 million compensation after he filed a case claiming that glyphosate-based weed killer had caused him cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ht-cotton-seeds-available-in-almost-all-rural-areas/articleshow/76271733.cms||Shishir Arya
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Books best companions of kids in tribal settlements||Coimbatore: When children in cities were whiling the lockdown period away in electronic gadgets and on social media, close to 50 children in tribal settlements in Anamalai taluk had spent it in a useful manner – reading books. Thanks to the Centre for Justice and Peace, an NGO, that distributed more than 200 books to the children a couple of days before the Lockdown1.0 came into effect. Samyuktha, 11, of Kakkakothiparai, a tribal settlement, was happy that she received a comic book before the lockdown. Since then, she had spent her time in delving into the book every night before going to bed. Once she completed the book, she exchanged it with her friend who was reading a different book in her settlement. “Once a child completes a book, he/she would exchange it with her friends and it goes on till all the books are read. Then, we would exchange the bunch of books with the neighbouring settlements,” said C Velumani, a volunteer assisting the children in reading the books. It is not just the children, adults and elders are also reading the books during their free time, she said. To inculcate reading habits among the tribal children and to assist them in their learning process, about two years ago the centre started evening classes in 15 tribal settlements including Kakkakothiparai, KPM Colony, Sarkarpathy, Kuzhipatti and Vepparai in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts. “During the classes, books on different subjects like non-fiction, science, general knowledge, biographies, tribals and their culture were distributed to them,” founder of the centre S Thangaraj said. A volunteer from Mudaliarpathi settlement, D Savithri said she has witnessed a huge change in the mindset of the children after they were introduced to the world of books.“Earlier, teachers would often visit our village to enroll students who had dropped out. But now, even the children who had refused to go to schools had started going to the schools regularly. Many of them had even shown willingness even to travel to study further,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/books-best-companions-of-kids-in-tribal-settlements/articleshow/76271755.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nashik||‘Reopen train ticket counter in city soon’||Nashik: City MP Hemant Godse has urged the railways to resume operations at the reservation counter in Nashik city that was closed down due to the lockdown to avoid crowding at the railway station counter, which is also far away. “A large numbers of travellers are from the city, which is 10 km away from the Nashik Road railway station. They find the passenger reservation system (PRS) at Tibetan Market convenient in these times when the public transport system is still closed,” he said. People are forced to spend large amounts of money for travelling to the railway stations in autorickshaws, which have restrictions on the number of passengers. Besides, fewere counters at the station result in long queues. The railway authorities had to open a third counter on Monday considering the rush of the citizens. “If one or two counters are opened in the city, 70% of passengers will benefit. This is the reason why we want the reservation centre in the city operational,” said Sanjay Pingle, a regular rail commuter. R K Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager of Bhusawal division, said “We have decided to open the counters gradually and carefully. We have received a representation for the same and are thinking of opening the city counter shortly,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/reopen-train-ticket-counter-in-city-soon/articleshow/76269364.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 9, 2020||Patna||One more death; 177 fresh cases take Bihar Covid tally to 5,247||PATNA: One death and 177 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bihar on Monday, taking the death toll to 31 and the total number of cases to 5,247 in the state. With 2,542 recoveries and a suicide committed by a Coronavirus positive person, the active cases in the state stand at 2,673. The lone death was reported from Darbhanga, which is the first Covid fatality in the district. Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM said the 37-year-old deceased had returned from Delhi on June 4 via bus and died on the night of June 5. “The person had fever and contacted local administration when his health deteriorated, however, he died soon. His report confirming Covid-19 came on Monday,” said Thiyagrajan. Health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 1,02,318 samples have been tested so far. “In the past 24 hours, 203 new cases have been registered and 137 people recovered,” said Lokesh, adding that 3,756 migrants who returned to Bihar after May 3 have tested positive for the virus. He further said altogether 5,35,756 people have been covered so far under door- to-door surveys initiated by the state government and 253 people with symptoms of Covid-19 have been identified. As per information shared by the health department, cases were reported from across 25 districts with maximum from Siwan where 28 people have tested positive for the virus. Other districts with large number of cases include Madhubani with 19 cases, Munger with 11 cases and Rohtas and Buxar with 10 cases each. Nine cases were reported from Patna district including a 38-year-old male from Shahpur, a 35-year-old man of Bahadurpur, a 35-year-old female from Athmalgola, two men aged 30 and one aged 20 from Masaurhi. Three more men aged 28, 40 and 50 from Patna also tested positive for the virus, however, their location was not given out by the health department. Total 280 cases have been reported in Patna so far of which 195 have recovered and two have died, taking the active cases in Patna to 83.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-death-177-fresh-cases-take-state-covid-tally-to-5247/articleshow/76269358.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Surat||Vapi man working in Daman tests Covid-19 positive||SURAT: A person employed with a plastic-manufacturing company in Daman’s Kachigam has tested positive for Covid-19 in Vapi on Monday. The Daman administration was quick to respond to the development stating that the 31-year-old working in the plastic manufacturing company has not come to Daman since June 3. In a public notice issued by the health department on Monday, it is stated that the resident of Vapi had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted there. However, the person has not come to Daman since June 3. It must be noted that the Daman administration had banned the entry of the workers coming from Vapi and Valsad to work in the industries in Daman and DNH. Also, the movement of vegetables and fruits into the territory from Vapi was stopped. Official sources said that the decision was taken after a couple of vegetable dealers and vendors in Vapi’s vegetable market tested positive for Covid-19. After unlock 1, the Daman administration had started issuing e-passes to the persons coming for work in the territory and also to those who were going out of the territory. The Covid-19 positive person went to Vapi after the administration started issuing e-passes from the last one week. He went to Vapi where his health deteriorated and was admitted in the hospital where he tested positive for Covid-19,” said a senior officer in Daman’s health department. Meanwhile, Daman’s health department swung into action and about 40 high and low risk contacts in the company and the place where the Covid-19 positive person lived in Daman were identified and samples taken. “We have taken samples of the high and low risk contacts of the Covid-19 positive patient. There is no positive case of Covid-19 in Daman,” said S Krishna Chatainya, deputy health secretary of Daman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vapi-man-working-in-daman-tests-ve/articleshow/76269351.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad ferried 4.2K guest workers to nearest rly station||KOZHIKODE: Despite being one of the two districts in the state without rail connectivity, Wayanad has handled the repatriation of guest workers back to their home states in Shramik trains in a commendable manner. According to labour department officials, the district has sent home 4,230 guest workers to date, and only 1,903 that wish to return remain in Wayanad. District collector Adeela Abdulla said they would be able to complete the task of sending all the guest workers who wish to go home, except those residing in the containment zones, within the next two days. Of the remaining, 760 are in the containment zones in Sultan Bathery and thus cannot travel soon. District labour officer K Suresh said that the repatriation of the others will be completed in two days. The district had taken up the task on a campaign mode and had widely publicized helpline numbers so that guest workers or any public who had information of stranded workers could contact the special district-level team to facilitate their journey. Nodal officer of the district-level team and district panchayat secretary P M Shaiju said that they utilized all available opportunity to secure seats in trains and had sent the guest workers to multiple railway stations in various districts like Kannur, Kozhikode, and Palakkad. Suresh added that of late with the commencement of construction activities, the guest workers are in demand and many that had registered to return to their home states like West Bengal and Assam have expressed interest to stay back. "Yesterday we had arranged for travel of 700 guest workers but only 357 turned up. We are personally contacting the workers once more to confirm if anybody needs to travel," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-ferried-4-2k-guest-workers-to-nearest-rly-station/articleshow/76270458.cms||K R Rajeev
June 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Can’t test all the dead in state, will move SC: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: The state government has decided to move the Supreme Court against the Telangana high court order to conduct tests for coronavirus on dead people. A few days ago, the high court had directed the state government to conduct tests on all dead. But chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said that it was not possible to conduct tests on all the dead. “Every day, about 900 to 1,000 people die in the state due various reasons. It is not possible to conduct tests on every dead person. If the health department goes on conducting tests on dead, all other services will be affected, including treatment in positive cases. World Health Organization, central government and even ICMR did not ask the state to conduct tests on every dead person,” the CM said. The chief minister held a review meeting with health officials on Covid 19 cases on Monday, and said there was a conspiracy going on against the government on Coronavirus cases. He said some people are approaching the courts and filing public interest litigation (PIL) on coronavirus cases and tests in the state. “It appears the PILs being filed in the courts were intentional, and as a result of this, health department officials were compelled to attend the court and they are losing their precious time. With this, it has become difficult for them to attend courts and monitor Covid-19 cases too,” the CM said. On the Covid-19 deaths, the CM said 95% coronavirus victims were suffering from various ailments like kidney, heart diseases, diabetes and high blood pressure. When they get tested positive for Covid-19, and died due to organ failure, those deaths were being branded as corona deaths, which is unscientific,” he said. The CM suspected there was a smear campaign going on against the government on Covid-19 cases, which is creating panic among the people. Though the state government has enough PPE kits, masks and equipment and infrastructure, some people spreading false news that Gandhi hospital is full. “It is a conspiracy against the government. While the Gandhi hospital has a capacity of treating, 2,150 patients, only 247 are being treated in Gandhi. But some people are spreading rumours that Gandhi hospital is full of Covid 19 patients,” KCR said. He said many patients were treated and recovered for the infection and discharged. Now also asymptomatic persons are being treated at home as per the guidelines of ICMR, the CM said. He said there was a deliberate attempt to demoralise doctors and health workers. “According to ICMR, about 10,000 health workers exposed to the infection. In Telangana, 153 medical workers tested positive for the Covid-19, and none of them are in serious condition,” the CM said. On the availability of equipment, he said 9.61 lakh PPE Kits, 14 lakh N 95 maks and 3,600 beds with oxygen facility, testing kits and tablets are available with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cant-test-all-the-dead-in-state-will-move-sc-cm/articleshow/76271742.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Love helps bridge border divide||By: Sandeep Thomas IDUKKI: A bridge in Idukki, on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, stood witness to an unusual function on Sunday. For a short while, the transit point inside the Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary turned into the venue of an interstate wedding. There were no priests, instead, forest and health department officials blessed the ceremony. Priyanka, 25, daughter of Shekar and Shanta of Munnar and Robinson, 30, son of Moorthy and Bhagyathai of Sharavanampetty in Coimbatore had fixed their marriage at Munnar Workshop Recreation hall on March 22. But the Covid-19 lockdown disrupted their plans. After much contemplation, the bride and the groom decided the interstate border would be the setting for the union of their families. A small mandapam was raised near the bridge and the authorities stood guard. The officials also had to ensure the lockdown wasn't violated. "The health department ensured that Covid-19 protocol was followed during the marriage," said Abdul Majeed, junior health inspector, Marayoor health centre. According to the official, the groom's party comprised 12 while on the groom's side 25 had reached the border to witness the unique ceremony. The officials also had to ensure that celebrations didn't go overboard because otherwise, the protocol would kick in. "Had the families come together at the mandapam the entire team would have gone into quarantine. The parents and family members of the bride and groom watched the marriage function from their side of the border. Before the marriage we sanitized the garlands," said Majeed. Under the circumstances, the wedding party wasn't permitted to conduct any other marriage related functions. Before the wedding, the bride was given a pass to cross the border and she accompanied Robinson to his village. Former Devikulam MLA AK Mani, Marayoor Panchayath member Jomon Thomas were also present to witness the unusual, yet gratifying ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/love-helps-bridge-border-divide/articleshow/76270476.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Kochi||Covid-positive man dies in Thrissur||THRISSUR: Another death of Covid-19 patient was reported from Kerala on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Dinny Chacko (41) from Chalakkudy, and he had returned from Maldives by ship on May 16. Chacko was under treatment at Thrissur medical college hospital (TMCH), and died of acute respiratory distress syndrome and cardiac arrest, apparently caused by Covid-19 infection, according to district health authorities. His mother-in-law, wife and son who accompanied him from Maldives had tested positive earlier, and were also under treatment at TMCH. They had recovered and were discharged about five days ago. According to TMCH sources, Chacko was suffering from comorbid conditions like diabetes, obesity, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. This is the third Covid death in Thrissur. However, officials have confirmed only two Covid-19 deaths in the district.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-positive-man-dies-in-thrissur/articleshow/76269397.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik admin draws up flood control plan||Nashik: The district administration has chalked out a flood control plan that will come in handy for all government departments during any possible deluge as the plan has been drawn from the experience of the system handling the worst floods in the history of Nashik. “Instead of voluminous 400 pages of the regular district disaster plans which at time is difficult to understand and refer to, we have created a 16-page key that defines the roles of every agency without any overlapping of the responsibilities,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. When flood strikes, it is not the responsibility of all government agencies to scout for relocation and shifting of the people. It is the responsibility of the local self-governing bodies to prepare the list of such establishments and keep the infrastructure ready to use. “The police only has to provide security and the revenue has to be ready to rush the people out of the danger zone. This is the clarity of thought and action that we have prepared for all the government agencies during the flood,” Mandhare said. The plan includes information presented in the form of a flow chart for all the government agencies — from water resources department (WRD) to Nashik Municipal Corporation — and villages to be prepared to face natural disasters during monsoon. During rain and flood, the first role is that of the WRD is to control and sound alert, after which the local self-governing bodies, police and the revenue department come into play with for relocation and the security of the people. Uncertainty over Kazhi Gadi remains The situation at Kazhi Gadi, a hillock along the banks of river Godavari, remains the same this year too with no change in the offing. “Last year we had evacuated people in the last minute. We will soon have a word with the municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game about this,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-draws-up-flood-control-plan/articleshow/76269374.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Chorus grows against Plus III final semester exam||BHUBANESWAR: Graduate students from several colleges joined protest against the decision to hold sixth semester exam, claiming that it will compromise their health during the unprecedented crisis unleashed by the novel coronavirus. On Monday, students of Utkal University, Rama Devi Women’s University, Ravenshaw University and other institutes staged demonstrations outside their respective campuses to make authorities hear their voice. The students demanded alternative methods to the physical exam process. Sourav Kumar Kar, a Plus III final year student of Utkal University, said the university authorities and the government should understand the gravity of the public health situation before going ahead with the final semester exam across the state. “If the government can promote second and fourth semester students, why is it not doing the same for the sixth semester students? It will be easy for the authorities to calculate the average marks of the last five semesters and add it into the final semester papers,” said Kar, who was among a group of six Plus III students who staged a demonstration in front of Utkal University main gate demanding the cancellation of the exam. Utkal University on Monday issued a notification for the sixth semester exam. As per schedule, practical tests will be conducted between July 7 and 13, while theory papers will be held between July 14 and 23. Projects can be submitted by July 28. Students of Rama Devi Women’s University have been protesting against the sixth semester exam for a while. On Monday, they once again staged a demonstration in front of the university. They sat on a dharna in front of the university gate and asked senior professors and officials to make alternative arrangements to promote students. “Many students stay outside the state. Some are in containment zones. Besides, we have visually challenged students who will need writers to assist them. How will they maintain social distance while appearing for the exam?” asked Shristi Ray Choudhury, a final year Plus III student. The university has shifted the exam dates from June 25 to the second week of July. “The state government has taken the decision to hold the exam. We cannot change the decision,” Rama Devi Women’s University vice-chancellor Padmaja Mishra said. Ravenshaw University students submitted a memorandum to the vice-chancellor to cancel the examination. “Several students of business administration need their certificates by end of July to join work. But it is not feasible to hold the exams, either online or offline, in this situation. The government should tabulate the average marks of the last five semesters,” said Mohammad Mushahid Khan, a final year student of the university. Asoka Kumar Das, vice-chairman of Odisha State Higher Education Council, said, “For the government, the priority is the students’ health and their career. All possibilities are being considered to keep these aspects in mind. Students should not worry.” Educationist Prasanna Kumar Mohanty said the state government should pay heed to the plea of students. “The risk of contracting Covid-19 is very much there. Students fear they may contract the virus while appearing for the exam and they can’t be faulted for this. We can use alternative methods to evaluate students’ grades instead of holding exams. The universities can promote students considering their performance in the last five semesters,” Mohanty said. Meanwhile, students of BJB Autonomous College Bhubaneswar will hold a peaceful protest in front of the college campus on Tuesday aganist the government decision to conduct the sixth semester exam. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/chorus-grows-against-plus-iii-final-semester-exam/articleshow/76269369.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Manish Sisodia accuses BJP of playing 'dirty politics'||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday alleged that lieutenant governor Anil Baijal was "forced" by BJP to overturn CM Arvind Kejriwal's decision to reserve state-run and private hospitals for the residents of the national capital. Accusing BJP of playing "very dirty politics", Sisodia said the Centre should've supported the decision taken by the elected government in the "interest" of the people of Delhi. "Will you take responsibility if people of Delhi start dying for want of beds?" a visibly angry Sisodia said in a video statement. LG order is as per law, says BJPWhere will the residents of Delhi go if all beds are filled by patients from other states in the next 2-3 days?” He demanded that the LG revoke his order at the earliest. “In the name of disaster management, it (BJP) is taking the city towards a disaster. When the Delhi government is working well in the health sector you are putting pressure on the LG to pass such orders. Shame on you!” Sisodia said, hours after Bajial issued directions that no patient is to be discriminated against for not being a resident of the capital. The deputy CM said it was after due deliberations that the CM had taken the decision to reserve hospitals. He said that the CM had prepared a complete plan on how many beds were required to provide hospitalisation when Covid-19 positive cases reach a certain number. By overruling Kejriwal’s decision, the BJP-led Centre was trying to make the policies of the Delhi government unsuccessful, he said. “BJP has forced the LG to overturn the Delhi cabinet’s decision by putting pressure on him. I want to ask BJP if it is working to face the corona challenge or playing politics,” Sisodia said. He said at this time of crisis, there was a need for "wise management" decisions, not political management. Leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, however, said that the LG had issued the order as per the law. He said that the high court has already said in an order in 2018 that preferential treatment cannot be given in health facilities. “The Delhi government has failed to tackle the coronavirus crisis that’s why the AAP government is adopting these diversionary tactics. In a state where most cabinet ministers themselves are from outside Delhi such orders smack of a bias,” Bidhuri said. "Where will the poor migrants who work here but have no documents go if they get infected?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-manish-sisodia-accuses-bjp-of-playing-dirty-politics/articleshow/76273294.cms||Atul Mathur
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||11 PCR cops get notice after drugs, liquor recovered from their beats||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana Police has served show-cause notices on 11 PCR cops after other agencies recovered illicit liquor and drugs from their beats.After chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said that SHOs would be held responsible if illicit liquor or drugs were seized from their jurisdiction, the city police had passed a directive to hold PCR cops liable, too.The Ludhiana Commissionerate has 458 PCR cops deputed on 77 beats. There are 112 PCR vehicles, including motorcycles and four-wheelers. Assistant commissioner of police (headquarters) Jang Bahadur Sharma said, “To make PCR more effective, the Ludhiana Police has become strict and will soon be techno-savvy too. The PCR cops should have information of their beats as they remain in field all day. And they must face action if they straggle.” “In the past few days, we have issued notices to 11 PCR cops, as they failed to provide information or nab drug and liquor smugglers. We are waiting for their replies to proceed further. Besides, appreciation certificates and cash rewards have been given to seven PCR cops who helped arrest crime rate. No notice has been served on any SHO,” the ACP added.  “We are working on making PCR more effective. It will be more visible in the city soon. Now, their roster will decide how much time they spend at a particular chowk or in patrolling. The cops who have been at the same beats for years will be reshuffled. GPS will be installed in PCR vehicles, so that they could be traced,” he said.Following the CM’s orders, cops were on their toes and arrested even those who had small quantities of liquor. On June 4, Division 1 police had recovered a quarter of liquor from Balwinder Singh, a resident of Khanna, near Lassi Chowk. He was accused of drinking at a public place. On June 3, the Jodhewal police had arrested Vijay Kumar of New Kailash Nagar with half a liquor bottle near Indra Vihar. On June 2, Division 2 police had arrested Prince Kumar of SBS Nagar and Mansoor Ali of Ganesh Nagar from Ganesh Nagar with half a liquor bottle. Later in the day, Division 4 police had arrested Karan of Gandhi Nagar and Babblu Mishra of slums near Chand Cinema with half a liquor bottle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11-pcr-cops-get-notice-after-drugs-liquor-recovered-from-their-beats/articleshow/76269385.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||It’s free for all at Chawni Mohalla containment zone||Ludhiana: Even as the district administration has declared Chawni Mohalla a containment zone, banning movement of people, people can be seen moving in and out of the area without much hassle and violating other restrictions imposed by the administration.During a reality check, TOI found people entering and coming out of the locality both on foot and on two-wheelers through a barricade near Peepal Chowk. People were also seen flocking to a government dispensary in the area, with children standing there without face masks. On June 5, the Ludhiana district administration had declared Chawni Mohalla a containment zone and sealed the entire area, with only essential services allowed here.In a statement, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal had said, “Since a total of 15 cases have come from Chawni Mohalla alone, the district administration and health department have declared it as a containment zone. Curfew-like situation will be maintained in this area and no person will be allowed to leave or enter Chawni Mohalla.”Reacting to the reports of violations, DC Agrawal said he would ask the police for strict implementation of the restrictions in the containment zone.Police officials said necessary steps are being taken to ensure that containment zone protocols are enforced.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal said he would get the ground reality checked and issue guidelines accordingly for strict adherence to the norms. He stressed that no one, barring those providing essential supplies at the doorsteps, can enter or come out of the areas under containment zone restrictions.BOX:Rapid rise in casesChawni Mohalla, which had its first Covid-19 case on May 29, saw a rapid rise in the number of patients, reporting a total of 15 cases by the first week of June. It turned into a cluster of infection, forcing the authorities to declare it a containment zone.The area has a 17,000 population. The first person catching the infection later died. Seven persons of his family tested positive on May 30, another resident on May 31 and six on June 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/its-free-for-all-at-chawni-mohalla-containment-zone/articleshow/76269379.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||After 2.5 months, Kerala government offices up and running||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Most government offices in the state are up and running after two-and-a-half months. Offices were either shut down or have been functioning with sparse staff since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown came into effect due to the Covid-19 outbreak. All government offices, public-sector undertakings, semi-governmental organizations and cooperative institutions -- except those in containment zones -- functioned normally on Monday. Department offices located in containment zones or hotspots, however, functioned with minimal staff from within the district. At the Secretariat, employees turned up for work like any other normal day. Attendance will be monitored by joint secretaries and additional secretaries of the respective departments, as the punching system as well as manual attendance marking system have been temporarily suspended so as to avert any chances of virus spread. “The eOffice suite, which the Secretariat has implemented, helps us effortlessly determine the number of employees who reported for work. But this has not been extended to the field offices, where we will depend on reports of senior officers to ascertain attendance,” general administration department sources said. When public transport was suspended, the government had asked employees who could not reach their workplaces concerned in other districts can report to the nearest collectorate or local bodies. All such employees reported back to their original workplaces on Monday. The government has also sought to exempt employees with mental and physical health issues from duties that require direct public interaction, as also parents of children below five years and those with parents above 65 years of age. All offices have been asked to give top priority to clearing pending files. However, till further orders are issued, Saturdays will continue to remain a holiday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/after-2-5-months-govt-offices-up-and-running/articleshow/76270503.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents protest construction of sewage pumping stn||Coimbatore: Residents of Arputha Nagar near Konavaikalpalayam here on Monday staged a protest condemning the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) for constructing a sewage pumping station on an Open Space Reserved (OSR) land. About 84-cent site was earmarked as park site as per the DTCP approval, residents said. After installing children play equipment, around 90 families in the area have been using the site for years. A John Jorlin, a resident, said they raised objections when the board had informed them about their plan to construct a sewage pumping station at the site. Then, there was no communication from the board about it, but they had been carrying about pipeline laying works in the surrounding areas, he said.“About a couple of days ago, cleaning work was carried out at the site. When inquired, we were told that board is planning to begin construction work there,” he said.Pointing out that a deep pit would be dug up in the station, Jorlin said any leakage in the pit would contaminate underground water. Several houses would be located around the station, how could families reside amid the foul smell emanating from it, he asked. “As per the Madras high court directions, OSR sites should be used only for its earmarked purpose,” he said. Meanwhile, a source privy to the project said, “As pumping is a continuous process and it takes place every three minutes, sewage would not be stored at the station. It would be sent to treatment plant continuously. To prevent foul smell, odour controlling device will be installed.” Location to construct the pumping station was chosen after studying the topography of the area, the source added. TWAD officials are not available for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-protest-construction-of-sewage-pumping-stn/articleshow/76271777.cms||---
June 9, 2020||Nagpur||Offices open but cos wary of scaling up attendance||Nagpur: The private sector in the city partially reopened on Monday. As smaller offices started with 10% staff most IT companies, which are the major service sector players in the city, had their offices shut as staff continued to work from home. The software companies are located in Mihan-SEZ and IT Park near VNIT. A source in Mihan said almost all plan to let staff continue work from home for some more days. Industry sources said companies have realized that work from home not only gave the same productivity but also cut down the expenses of maintaining huge campuses. At Mihan, IT campuses are spread over areas ranging from 50 to 150 acres. HR departments are insisting to continue with work from home model, they said. The restriction on workforce did not apply in Mihan even earlier, as the area is out of municipal limits. However, the companies preferred to keep the offices closed. The units had to give intimation to development commissioner’s office for scaling up the workforce. Even as intimations to increase workforce from June 1 itself were given, none of the units actually scale up the numbers. A handful of units had applied for increasing the staffers from Monday too but continued with work from home model. “As some units have intimated the staffers may be increased next week, it is hoped normalcy would return slowly,” said a source. Sameer Bendre of Persistent Systems said at its office in IT Park near VNIT they have started with 50 staffers though 10% would mean 150 employees. “A number of people have preferred to work from home as they have children or elderly in the family,” said Bendre. A spokesperson of HCL, which has a unit at Mihan, said no decision on increasing the workforce at the campus had been taken yet. The road along the IT Park remained as quiet as it was during the lockdown. Three young techies came out for a smoke reminding of the old times. It was their first day at work after the lockdown. Mutual fund offices also reopened with 10% employees, said financial advisors. The two central registrars that keep an account of mutual fund companies’ transactions started from Monday. Ranjit Dani, a financial advisor, said his firm had started with teams working on rotational basis. Dani said he got messages from a number of mutual fund companies indicating offices had opened again. Those in legal, finance, insurance sectors and corporates said starting with even 10% staff made a difference, though they insisted the number should be increased for smooth functioning. “Though we’re not covered under the Shops and Establishments Act, we decided to keep staff at minimum strength. We’ve already sent those staying out of the city to their homes. We have arranged the rest in three shifts — from morning to evening — to maintain Covid distancing. Our office was operating on all days except Sundays throughout lockdown,” lawyer Anand Parchure said. Nitin Khara, managing director of Confidence Petroleum said, the key employees had been called on rotational basis. “Starting with 10% has helped as direct interaction is possible, but there is need to increase the limit,” he said. Sameer Bakre, a chartered accountant, said given the piled up workload due to the lockdown, the government should further extend the last date for filing income tax returns. Amit Agrawal, a chartered accountant, said he reopened the office with 10% staff but he himself was avoiding going to the office for some more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/offices-open-but-cos-wary-of-scaling-up-attendance/articleshow/76271908.cms||Shishir Arya
June 9, 2020||Nashik||Onion prices rise by 18% at Lasalgaon as demand goes up||Nashik: The average wholesale onion price increased by 18% — from Rs 720 per quintal on June 2 to Rs 850 per quintal on Monday — at the Lasalgaon APMC. According to APMC officials, a rise in demand as compared to supply led to the increase in the prices of onion. The demand had reduced considerable during the month of Ramzan as Muslims either consume less onions or totally avoid them. The demand, however, stared increasing soon after the Muslim holy month ended,” said APMC officials. The officials said that the average wholesale price is expected to be in the range of Rs 800 to Rs 950 per quintal over the next few days. Presently, onions arriving in the market are of the summer crop, which is harvested in March and April. There is no fresh harvest until the arrival of the new kharif variety by September 15. The summer onions, which are stored by farmers, cater to the market demand for almost five months until the arrival of kharif onions. On Monday, the minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 500 and Rs 1,011 per quintal respectively at Lasalgaoin while 19,000 quintals were auctioned off. The Maharashtra onion growers’ association has urged the government to introduce minimum support price of Rs 2,000 per quintal in the interest of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-prices-rise-by-18-at-lasalgaon-as-demand-goes-up/articleshow/76269393.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||On Day I of restart, very few board intrastate trains||Bhubaneswar: Intrastate trains received a poor response on resumption of services on Monday. It had been stopped since March 22. Six trains connecting Bhubaneswar with Sambalpur, Rourkela, Bhadrak, Koraput, Berhampur and Balangir plied during the day. These trains will ply till July 1 except on Saturdays and Sundays. Five trains will run on five days a week and the train connecting Bhubaneswar with Koraput will run three days a week, said East Coast Railway (ECoR) sources. It further said there were only 67 passengers on the Khurda Road-Sambalpur special that had 794 seats. The train in the opposite direction had 230 passengers. Similarly, 230 passengers travelled in Bhubaneswar-Balangir special that had 867 seats. It’s pairing train Balangir-Bhubaneswar special had only 152 passengers. Even the intra-state trains like Bhubaneswar-Berhampur special plied with only 20 passengers against it’s capacity of 648 seats. Bhubaneswar-Rourkela special also got only 123 passengers against 1,266 seats. Other trains Bhubaneswar-Bhadrak and Bhubaneswar-Koraput special also got less number of passengers, sources said. Chief public relations officer of ECoR J P Mishra said, “At least one train in each direction is now available. This is just the beginning. We request the passengers to maintain social distancing and observe all health protocols, including wearing masks.” People with urgent work were travelling in the trains. “My father’s health condition is not good. My family wanted me at home. I got a confirmed ticket today and going to Balangir,” said Subash Suna, a construction worker. Persons with confirmed tickets were allowed to board the train that were sanitised. Passengers had been asked to reach the boarding stations 90 minutes before the departure of the train. They were screened at the entrance to the stateion and had to wear masks. “There was no congestion in the trains due to less number of passengers. Social distancing had been maintained by the passengers,” said a senior officer. Tickets are available on passenger reservation system (PRS) counters at different railway stations and IRCTC website. So far, 220 shramik special trains have arrived in Odisha carrying more than 2.7 lakh migrant workers since May 1. One train from Madgaon in Goa arrived in Balasore on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/on-day-i-of-restart-very-few-board-intrastate-trains/articleshow/76269386.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 9, 2020||Delhi||Day 1: A table for two, but at a distance||NEW DELHI: A senior bureaucrat was seen having lunch at Blue Door Cafe in Khan Market on Monday afternoon. He was eagerly waiting for it to open as he had been “missing his favourite restaurant”. The diner, which opened on Monday, had various altered rules in place for its patrons — from sanitisers and temperature checks at the entry to revamp of seating arrangements to ensure social distancing. However, it was an exception. Other outlets like Smoke House Deli, Dhaba and L’Opera had only takeaway. Most restaurants in major markets like Greater Kailash-II, Vasant Kunj, Safdarjung Development Area, Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden and Khan Market either remained closed or were open only for takeaway or home delivery. At GK-II M-Block market, stories of hope and after-effects of a long lockdown’s economic impact could be seen. Hriday Chauhan of Mini Mughal restaurant was eagerly awaiting his first customer of the day. “Sanitisation and temperature check are a must in our robust system of operations. We have fewer chairs now to ensure a distance between customers. We will sanitise the place thrice a day for the safety of people,” he added. To prevent crowding, Defence Bakery was seen closing its entry gate after a fixed number of customers had entered the shop. Many restaurant managers said they weren’t hopeful of business returning to normal anytime soon, but were counting on loyal patrons visiting them after a few weeks. Gaurav Chhatwal of Chungwa restaurant was surprised to get a few customers on the first day. “It is, perhaps, because we informed them about our safety protocol. We are not only sanitising hands of visitors, but also the soles of their shoes. As a precaution, we have decided to use only disposable cutlery, unless customers specifically demand proper plates,” he said. The food court at Select City Walk had reduced the number of tables and made diagonal seating mandatory. The smell of disinfectants hung in the air. Except for Taco Bell and Saravana Bhawan, the other major outlets were shut. The manager overseeing the implementation said, “At twin tables, we have ensured that crosses are put on diagonal seats so that people do not face each other.” Abhineshwar and Sidharth, two friends working in Saket, came to the mall to have lunch. “It is a surreal experience to eat in the mall, something we used to do earlier without thinking twice,” they said. While they looked for options, they realised that the restaurants were shut, only the food court was open and Starbucks would open in the evening. Anand, an employee at Saravana Bhawan, said their setup hadn’t changed much. “But we have been asking people to stand at a distance from each other while ordering food,” he added. Things weren’t much different in the western part of the city. For Sagar and his fiancee, the news of restaurants opening from Monday came as a pleasant surprise and they planned to meet at a fine dining restaurant in Punjabi Bagh almost two months after they had last met. However, they were in for disappointment on reaching the eatery as there was a board announcing “Only Takeaway” at the entry gate. Their excitement melted away within seconds. “We really like the food at this place. Since we hadn’t met for long, we picked this place to see each other. We saw similar boards hanging outside other restaurants. I guess we’ll head back to our homes after a drive,” said Sagar. Almost half of the 200 restaurants and party spots were closed at Punjabi Bagh. The others were not open for patrons and only staff could be seen entering the outlets. Most of the eateries in the malls of east Delhi were shut and only a couple of fast food joints were open for takeaway. A group of students was seen hanging out near McDonald’s. “We were missing our friends, so we decided to come to the mall and eat burgers. We have been cooped up at home for long and now our schools are shut too,” said Akash, a Class XII student. At another mall, Ajay Rawat, the manager of Cafe Coffee Day, was seen explaining to his colleagues about various measures that needed to be taken once customers arrived. “Currently, we are checking our stock and making arrangements to open. We have kept the tables at a distance of four feet,” he said. (With Pankhuri Yadav, Sakshi Chand inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-1-a-table-for-two-but-at-a-distance/articleshow/76271822.cms||Paras Singh
June 9, 2020||Nashik||Industrial production in Nashik increases to 45%||Nashik: As state government’s Mission Begin Again gathers momentum, the output of the Nashik-based industries is also gaining pace with the production increasing to 45%. According to Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA), the industrial production in Nashik district was around 10-15% in the second week of May. But as the industries have started getting raw materials from Mumbai, Pune and other destinations, the production has started going up. Moreover, the industries have also started getting new orders. Over 7,000 industrial units have started operations in the district so far after getting permission from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). “Initially, there were various problems when the industries resumed operations after the lockdown was lifted. Getting workers to the workplace was also difficult as there were restrictions on the mode of travel. But with relaxations this problem has been resolved,” Tushar Chavan, secretary of NIMA, said. Availability of raw material was another major issue the industries in the district were facing due to lockdown in Mumbai and Pune. “But the situation has improved a lot during past one month. Industries have been getting spare parts and raw materials from industries in Mumbai and Pune,” said Chavan. “This is really a positive sign that industrial production is increasing. But scarcity of workers is also a major issue for certain industries like steel or heavy industries. We have written to all the industries to inform us about the workforce they need. We are expecting the feedback shortly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industrial-production-in-nashik-increases-to-45/articleshow/76269403.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus surges ahead: 19 positive cases reported||Ludhiana: Nineteen patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday.Two of them were tested at DMCH. They include a 35-year-old man and a year-old girl, both from Panache Homes, Omaxe Royal Residence, Pakhowal Road.Prem Gupta, DMCH secretary, said, “Of 72 samples sent for testing, 68 were from DMCH, two from Deep Hospital, one from government hospital and one from Fortis Hospital. The two residents of Pakhowal Road, who have tested positive, had walked into the OPD of DMCH on June 7 and their samples were taken.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “In the evening, 50 pending reports were received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Of them, 15 were positive and 35 negative.” The 15 include two men — a 28-year-old and a 25-year-old with Kuwait travel history. They had landed at Amritsar airport on June 1. They have been isolated at Meritorious School. Another case is a 40-year-old man from Vivek Dham, Noorwala Road. He works as a fruit arhtiya at Sabji Mandi. Fourth and fifth cases are a 42-year-old woman and a 13-year-old girl of Chawni Mohalla, who were contacts of a patient who died on May 29. With them, the cases from Chawani Mohalla have gone up to 18. Sixth case is a 48-year-old man from Vishkarma Colony who works in a pharma company at Kala Amb, Himachal Pradesh. A 30-year-old undertrial also tested positive. As many as 84 samples were collected from jail and reports of five were received, of which one was positive. A 32-year-old man from Kusht Ashram, Islamganj¸ who is driver of a positive patient and has travel history to Rajasthan, and a 30-year-old man from Dashmesh Nagar also tested positive.Besides, two women, aged 40 and 66, of Jalandhar have tested positive at Christian Medical College and Hospital.Six of the positive cases are from Khanna. They include two doctors — a 57-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman — and their two maids. They are contacts of a doctor admitted to Oswal Hospital. A 47-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman, contacts of the doctor couple from Khanna, too, have contracted the vitrus..SMO Dr Rajinder said, “With this, number of positive patients in isolation ward of Khanna civil hospital has gone up to 16.” DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “Three patients were cured and discharged from Mother and Child Hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-surges-ahead-19-positive-cases-reported/articleshow/76269390.cms||Mehak Jain
