June 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai K-pop fans dance away to a virtual face-off in the lockdown||The global popularity of South Korean culture, often known as the Korean wave, is quite prevalent in Chennai, thanks to the growing number of K-pop fans in the city. While ideally, this year would have been earmarked by K-pop rendezvous, the lockdown has forced many to lock their talent indoors. However, in the past few days, Chennaiites channeled their fandom through a virtual dance-off. Conducted by the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai, the dance competition was a way to engage with the K-pop fans during the lockdown. Hong-yup Lee, the Deputy Consul General, tells us, “This year, the Consulate had fantastic events lined up in Chennai. But due to the lockdown and social distancing, we now count on social media to depict our K-culture.” For Jeongyeon Choi, an 11-year-old South Korean from the city, the competition was a fun nod to her culture. “I am naturally a huge fan of K-pop,” laughs Jeongyeon, who was one of the two winners of the competition. “I have not been out for months because of this lockdown. My mom saw this activity and asked me to participate in the event. This was also a nice memory to make with my family,” she adds. Rhea, a medical student and vlogger from the city, is a regular at K-pop events and fan meet-ups in the city. And for her, the event was more about the feeling of being one with the community than winning. “I was drawn to K-pop around four years ago, when I was preparing for my NEET exams. I had logged off all social media accounts, except for YouTube. That is when I discovered K-pop, which ended up being a positive break for me,” Rhea recollects. The fan culture of K-pop goes much beyond good taste in music and dance, she adds. Iconic K-pop group BTS recently donated $1 million to the official charity funds of the Black Lives Matter movement. Within 24 hours of the announcement, fandoms of the boy band became a surprising ally and matched the donation on Twitter. “Things like this make the K-pop fandom extremely interesting,” Rhea notes. K-pop is a part of Korean culture, a culture that is known for its love for family, adds the Deputy Consul General. “I believe that is the reason why young Chennaiites like K-pop rather than American or British music,” he says. This was also why IT professional Nara got hooked to K-pop. “But my interest stemmed from K-dramas, which have brilliant stories to tell,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-k-pop-fans-dance-away-to-a-virtual-face-off-in-the-lockdown/articleshow/76290806.cms||Sruthi Raman
June 10, 2020||Kochi||Malls open with happy shoppers and hopeful retailers||For the past year and a half, 24-year-old Krishnamoorthy D from Kochi, a freelance digital marketer cum web designer and his friends would work from Costa Coffee in Lulu Mall. They would occasionally order coffee, chit chat with staff, and continue hanging out with their friends there after work. With the lockdown, they really missed this prized ‘work-cum-leisure space’. Within a few minutes of the mall opening today after 2.5 months, one can see Krishnamoorthy and his friend Ameen Shahid back at their favourite spots in the coffee shop with their laptops. He says, “We came as soon as the mall opened to assess things. We missed working from here, but want to ensure we aren’t careless to get infected, as there are elderly family members at home. As of now, it looks like fewer people are coming in, so social distancing is ensured.” Meanwhile, shop staff are busy ensuring that they put in the new set of precautions in place. We speak to the shoppers and staff about their first-day-at-the-mall experience. Customers feel safety ensured by new rulesState Award winning costume designer Stephy Xavier is busy with purchases at a textile store in the mall. She had the mandatory mask and gloves. She says, “Before the lockdown, I used to come here almost every day. The new regulations felt a little puzzling at first, but one feels safety is ensured. Just that earlier, you could touch and feel the materials you wanted to buy and now, with the gloves, that experience is absent, but being wary, I am ok with that.” Actress Durga Krishna also got there in the morning. She says, “I came to the mall early in the morning and was there till the evening. Unlike in the past, it isn’t too busy, so shopping is easier. Moreover, as there are constant temperature checks, ensuring of gloves in almost every store and sanitisation, one doesn’t feel too scared about safety.” Retailers are open to product trialsIt was reported that textile and footwear shops aren’t allowed to let customers try on the products. However, it doesn’t look like mall customers have to worry about buying products sans trial, as almost every retailer says they have detailed sanitisation procedures in place. Calvin Klein Jeans store manager Nicey Ann George says, “We have disposable socks for customers and footwraps for vendors. The tried-on items collected in our trial room laundry bins will be sanitised and kept away for 28 hours, before they go on display again.” Anoob T K of Joy Alukkas says, “We will sanitise the jewellery that customers touch or try on, before displaying them again,” he says. Footwear stores have more detailed procedures. Anusha A Mathew of ALDO footwear store says, “For the past month, our staff was here, sanitising products. We aren’t letting our customers touch all the products they want to like in the past. If they want to try on a pair, we give them disposable socks first. And if they aren’t buying the product, we put it away for 24 hours after sanitisation, before it is displayed again.” Precautions taken by shopkeepers1) Allowing people inside ensuring social distancing. The number of customers differ according to store sizes 2) Customers are encouraged to avoid touching items unless they are sure about purchase 3) Sanitising customer’s hands, checking temperature, and offering gloves before entering 4) Ensuring the masks are worn properly 5) Collecting customer details in register books 6) Encouraging the use of Arogya Setu app||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malls-open-with-happy-shoppers-and-hopeful-retailers/articleshow/76286608.cms||Deepa Soman
June 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Floral art tribute for COVID-19 warriors from June 11 to 13 in Bengaluru||As a token of appreciation to COVID-19 warriors who are working across India, The Flower Council of India will install floral artworks across namma Bengaluru from June 11 to June 13. These will be available for public view in different landmarks across the city - namely Windsor Manor Circle, Metro Station near Chinnaswamy Stadium, Wilson Garden, Brigade Road, Shivajinagar, Frazer Town, Jayanagar (4th Block Police Station), Whitefield Police station, Anil Kumble Circle and Town Hall. Srikanth Kanohi, event planner and florist who has worked on styles for the different installations, says, "Apart from finding unique designs, I had to keep certain things in mind, like the surroundings of the place chosen, the kind of flowers being used - their durability, shape, size and colour." Also joining the initiative, which was inspired by a similar act in New York, are India Florist Association, the Karnataka Event Management Association, South India Floriculture Association, Cut Flower Growers of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Karnataka Horticulture Department, BBMP, Bangalore Flower Growers Association and Karnataka State Exotic Flower Grower & Sellers Association. The installations are going to be facilitated by six wedding and event planners from the city - Kalidas Raj, Viveck Bharadwaj, Zubair Abdul Waheed, Srikanth Kanohi, Srikanth Sai, Sanober Mannan and Anitha Raj. Florists and growers from the city and neighbouring parts of Karnataka will contribute their floral produce to the initiative for free. Zubair says, "Each planner has taken up a different viewpoint to portray as a floral display. My installations will be showcased at Brigade Road, Frazer Town and Shivajinagar. I will install a multifloral cape around different mannequins dressed as policemen, doctors, nurses and more." Flower Council of India president Srikanth Sai says that they're looking at installing these artworks across India, starting with Bengaluru. "The work that the medical staff, government officials and the state police departments have done is incomparable and we were looking for ways to showcase our gratitude for their hard work and services. When we read about the flower arrangements at streets and landmarks in NYC, we decided to do a similar initiative," he says. Flowers to be used for the installations- Roses - Carnations - Anthurium - Oriental lilies - Chrysanthemum - Birds of Paradise||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/floral-art-tribute-for-covid-19-warriors-from-june-11-to-13-in-bengaluru/articleshow/76288982.cms||Hansy Sanctis
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Shireen Mirza: Loved being back to the monuments I have grown up visiting during childhood||#UnlockingDiaries  A day out at Hawa Mahal, Jantar Mantar: As the monuments and museums in Rajasthan opened for public from June 2, Yeh Hai Mohabbatein fame actress Shireen Mirza, decided to spend an afternoon at Hawa Mahal and Jantar Mantar, along with her mom. The actress, who is in Jaipur since the lockdown was announced in March, shares how it was a surreal experience to revisit the monuments, during Unlock 1.0. 'Grew up visiting city monuments'Shireen, who hails from Jaipur, says, “I grew up visiting these monuments with my parents during childhood. I also remember my annual school tour to these places with my friends. It was so much fun. I want to relive those days. When the government announced the opening of historical monuments from June 1, I decided to once again explore all these places.” Dr Gopal Sharma, assistant administrative officer explaining about the sun dial at Jantar Mantar‘There were not many tourists, and everybody followed the guidelines’Talking about her experience of visiting the monuments during the Unlock 1.0, Shireen says, “I entered wearing a mask. They did my temperature check at the entrance, and then I sanitised my hands, so this was quite a new experience for me. Also, I was warned by the staff to maintain social distancing every now and then. Thankfully, there were not many tourists, and everybody followed the guidelines.” Shireen clicking a selfie at Hawamahal‘No place more picturesque than Hawa Mahal’Shireen, who has a deep interest in history, was particularly excited to revisit Jantar Mantar and Hawa Mahal. “Jantar Mantar was built by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh, who was the founder of Jaipur. I’m so keen to know more about him and his vision. And Hawa Mahal is symbolic of my city and stands tall when we talk about historical monuments of any city. There is no place more picturesque than this, and it has so much character to it. It’s a unique combination of Hindu and Islamic architecture, and I love it.” GUIDELINES TO BE FOLLOWED1. Encourage online ticketing as much as possible 2. Fumigation and sanitisation of the premises before opening and closing of the monuments 3. Thermal screening and sanitising of staff, officials, guides and tourists at the entrance 4. No entry without masks 5. Not more than five to six people will be allowed entry at a time. Next group of people will be allowed after a gap of at least five minutes. 6. Guards to ensure that tourists follow social distancing norms inside the premise. 7. Staff and officials living in the containment zone or curfew area will not report to work. 8. Everyone to follow social distancing 9. Book shops, souvenir shops and restaurants inside the premises to follow social distancing 10. Housekeeping staff will report in shifts 11. Tourists will have to stand in especially drawn circles at the ticket window to follow social distancing Watch Shireen Mirza visits historical monuments of Jaipur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shireen-mirza-loved-being-back-to-the-monuments-i-have-grown-up-visiting-during-childhood/articleshow/76289413.cms||Richa Shukla
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 1.0: Kalibari to open from June 15||CHANDIGARH: Kalibari, one of the biggest temples in the Tricity, will open from June 15 for fixed time duration. Devotees can come between 8am and 11am in the morning hours while the temple will remain open from 5-8pm in the evening. The temple authorities have issued detailed guidelines for the followers to ensure all social distancing norms are followed. As per the guidelines, the main gate of the temple will be partially opened so that devotees can come inside on foot and keep their vehicles in the park adjacent to the canteen. The gates will be monitored by the temple staff. The devotees have been requested not to bring any ‘prasad' (fruits, sweets or any dry commodity), flowers and garlands to be offered to deities. Placards giving directions towards the parking place will be put up outside the main gate and canteen areas. The visitors must wear face mask at the times and they will be checked with digital non-contact thermometer at the time of entrance and will be allowed entry only if temperature reading is less than 98.6 degree Fahrenheit. Clothes of the devotees will be properly sanitized by spraying of disinfectant. Those entering the main gate will have to properly wash their hands with liquid soap. The temple authorities have installed foot automatic sanitizer machine at the main entrance of Maa Kali and Shiva temple. The devotees have been requested not to touch temple bells and deities. Also at any given time, not more than 20 devotees should be allowed entry from the main external gate and not more than five should be allowed entry from the main entrance of Maa Kali/Shiva temple. Community kitchen, distribution of langar, and any special gathering will be avoided till further directions. However, live coverage of amavasya puja/ any special puja will continue as before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unlock-1-0-kalibari-to-open-from-june-15/articleshow/76291678.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 10, 2020||Amritsar||Raj Kumar Verka, Inderbir Singh Bolaria meet Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to ‘discuss Amritsar projects’, lead to talk on push for cabinet berth||AMRITSAR: As the Punjab Congress has begun preparing for the 2022 ballot battle, party's two MLAs from Amritsar — Raj Kumar Verka and Inderbir Singh Bolaria — held a meeting with chief minister Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on Tuesday. The meeting comes three days after Capt Amarinder expressed his wish to contest the next assembly elections. It is also significant since there is cold war between Amarinder and former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, and also because Verka, former vice-chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, enjoys the confidence of SC community. Verka, who is MLA form Amritsar West assembly constituency, enjoys the status of cabinet minister sans portfolio. According to party sources, he had been putting pressure on the chief minister to give him some influential portfolio in his cabinet for the remaining period of Congress government in Punjab. Bolaria, who is MLA form Amritsar South assembly constituency, is also seek cabinet berth, they said. Bolaria claimed that he and Verka had met Amarinder to discuss the development projects in Amritsar. "Why would Amarinder will hold meeting with just two MLAs to know the overall situation of Covid-19 and development projects of Amritsar? He could have summoned all Congress MLAs from Amritsar," a senior Congress leader from Amritsar said. There would not have been any meeting had Amarinder not expressed the desire to contest next assembly elections, the party leader added. Another Congress MLA said, "Which MLA doesn't want to be a minister. Everyone tries it at their own level. Since the chief minister has expressed the desire to contest next assembly elections, the meeting should be seen in context with poll preparedness, after all there is much anti-incumbency and SAD(B) is giving us a tough fight."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/verka-bolaria-meet-cm-to-discuss-asr-projects-lead-to-talk-on-push-for-cabinet-berth/articleshow/76291708.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Wearing PPE kits can be cumbersome, but customers feel safe when they find us following all the safety norms, say salon staffs||Now that the lockdown has been eased a bit, city salons have opened doors for customers with every precaution needed to restrict the transmission of coronavirus. Parlour staffs are taking all the safety measures in maintaining hygiene and regular disinfection of the premises. Though working in PPE suits for long hours can be difficult and cumbersome, salon workers are ready to adjust to this new normal keeping the health risks in mind. Clients are being allowed only by prior appointments and the staffs are trying to maintain social distance as much as possible to make them feel comfortable. Temperature checks and applying hand sanitisers are mandatory for everyone before entering the salon. We spoke to a few salon staffs and customers about their experiences… ‘It’s difficult to breathe properly in a PPE kit, but we are getting used to it now’Keeping in mind the safety of the customers as well as the staff members, wearing a PPE kit is of utmost importance now. Although we are facing a lot of challenges while working in a PPE suit all day, we can’t complain. PPE kits are so uncomfortable that you can’t even breathe properly. However, with time, we are getting used to it. Wearing a PPE kit is mandatory, as it is difficult to maintain social distance when I am giving a haircut, threading or waxing. Unless absolutely necessary, we are not letting our customers remove their masks. Also, our shaving services for men are suspended as of now to maintain social distance. — Disha Purkait, manicure and pedicure specialist at Pritaam’s The Brand of Family Salon ‘Our customers feel safe when they find us wearing PPE kits’It’s been a week that we have reopened. And I am glad to be back at work after so many days. So, no matter what the challenge is, I am ready to face it. The initial two days were very difficult as we were not used to wearing PPE kits. Even though our salon is fully air-conditioned, these PPE kits make you feel uncomfortable and don’t let you breathe properly. Also, whenever we need to go to the washroom or even have lunch, we have to open the kit and sanitise it properly before wearing it again. However, we are getting used to this process. The few customers who are dropping by now, are feeling safe when they find us wearing PPE kits and following other safety norms. — Tumpa Sengupta, a salon staff at Momaf Style Zone‘Safety of our customers is priority now. We need to be extra careful’This is one business that makes social distancing impossible. So, we need to be extra careful. We wear PPE kits while working but it is not always comfortable, but safety of my colleagues and our customers is priority now. We are trying our best to follow all the guidelines while pampering our clients. I am happy to be back at work, but I never thought that we would ever experience a situation like this. We feel happy when our customers feel safe. — Puja Bose, manager, hairstylist and beautician, Looker Makeover Salon and Spa Ecstasy‘You can’t move around fast in a PPE kit, so I wear fully covered apron and face shield’ Since I am mostly into hair styling, I need to move around swiftly to get my tools, hairdryer and other things. But wearing a PPE kit makes the moving around difficult. PPE kits are very suffocating and make you sweat a lot. So, at times, I wear a fully covered apron, a face shield, mask and gloves when I have back-to-back client appointments. We are taking best possible measures in order to maintain a safe working environment. — Ali Md Mubarak Hossain, hairdresser at Green Trends Unisex Hair and Style SalonCustomer speak ‘Temperature check was done and I was given hand sanitiser before I entered the salon’Recently, I visited a salon in the Lake Gardens area after over two and a half months. I had to get my hair spa, waxing and eye brows done. Initially, I was a bit sceptical about visiting the parlour, as we all know COVID-19 cases are on the rise. But I was quite surprised and happy to see the safety measures they have taken to treat their customers. Temperature check was done and I was given hand sanitiser before I entered the salon. I saw all the staff members wearing PPE kits. The manager informed that customers were not allowed to open their masks unless we were doing anything on our faces. Even the gloves they used to wash my hair were disposed of before attending to another client. — Mouli Roy, 28, resident of Lake Gardens‘The salon informed me that I must buy a safety kit for an additional charge’When I called up my salon at Salt Lake, Sector V, to book an appointment for a haircut after almost 90 days, they informed me that I must buy a safety kit for an additional charge of `100. When I reached there, they sanitised my hands before letting me in. Thereafter, I was given my personal kit that had a disposable mask, a good quality apron, shoes and towel. The stylist was wearing a mask and gloves. Combs and scissors were sanitised in front of me and I was told they do that after every use. It was a unique experience. I felt absolutely safe and all my anxieties were taken care of. — Aditya Agarwal, 33, resident of Salt Lake||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wearing-ppe-kits-can-be-cumbersome-but-customers-feel-safe-when-they-find-us-following-all-the-safety-norms-say-salon-staffs/articleshow/76291913.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
June 10, 2020||Bareilly||#Unlock Diaries: Bareilly salons adapt to ‘new normal’ guidelines and takes precautions amid corona pandemic||With India in post-lockdown and unlock phase, salon services in Bareilly have been finally resumed on day-wise basis with strict safety measures in place. We speak to salons and beauty parlours in the city about the ‘unlock’ phase and the guidelines they have adapted to as the ‘new normal’. PROTECTIVE GEAR, TEMP CHECKS, BY-APPOINTMENT SERVICE IN PLACEBareilly salons have got protective gears for their teams and also giving them training on how to use these and how to adapt to the ‘new normal’. Siddharth Singh, owner at Geetanjali Studio, Bareilly says, “We have already conducted SOP training for all staff members before opening of the salon. Adapting to the ‘new normal’ and taking care of strict do’s and don’ts, we are doing complete sanitization and deep cleaning of the salon regularly. We have equipped every staff member with personal protective gears. We are regularly conducting temperature checks for all guests as well as staff members, plus we are also reviewing every guest’s travel declaration before taking any service from us. We are not allowing entry of guests without face-masks and following social distancing wherein we have adapted to distancing of service stations and limiting appointments via online-only. For this, we have started online system to send appointment requests directly. Besides, we have made an arrangement for single use items like water bottles, gloves, napkins, service kits, towels, linen, head-bands, etc and their proper disposal.” MAINTAINING HYGIENE AND DISINFECTION PROCEDURESTulika Saxena, owner at Looks Salon, Bareilly, says, “As per the measures recommended by Government, we are following protocols and measures to ensure safety of our staff and clients by keeping the highest standards of hygiene and disinfection procedures. We have been recording staff body temperature with contact less thermometer incorporated with health questionnaire which will emphasize on the early stage symptoms to rule out all the possibility of contagion. We are taking temperature of each client to ensure that no potential carrier of virus walk-in to the salon. Services are purely appointment based and during fixing of appointments, our manager is ensuring to enquire about past 14 days history of the client. We are following the social distancing during work by using alternate work station. All the tools, accessories and station are sanitized and disinfected prior beginning of the work and after finishing of the work. Most importantly, all the staff is wearing PPE kit and face shield to ensure safety of our client and their own safety. A ‘NEW NORMAL’ FOR BAREILLYWALLAHSSoumya Srivastava, a resident of Janakpuri says, “Personal grooming has been one of the major hits during 3-months of lockdown and life has come to a halt. Not only the salons but we too have been at the receiving end of the lockdown. But now finally there is some respite as salons have opened up in the city. Be it by way of single-use products, increased sanitation or disposable tools, salons are taking multiple measures post-lockdown to ensure hassle-free experiences for customers. From now, even the customers are aware and cautious about what and how the services have been provided. Masks and sanitizers have become a staple at parlours, and it’s the ‘new normal’.” Prateeksha Agarwal, a resident of Rampur Garden, says, “If we have a cold or flu-like symptoms, salons are straight-away refusing to provide any service, which I believe ensures safety of each one of us. Most importantly, there is no crowding at the salons anymore. Use of single-use items is a great way to establish hygiene as well as defeat the risk of contamination.” Manyaekta.Gugliani@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unlock-diaries-bareilly-salons-adapts-to-new-normal-guidelines-and-takes-precautions-amid-corona-pandemic/articleshow/76291945.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government asks private hospitals to add over 2,000 Covid-19 beds||NEW DELHI: Faced with an increasing demand for beds in private hospitals even as the ones in government hospitals remain unoccupied, the Delhi government on Tuesday asked 22 prominent private hospitals to increase their capacity for Covid-19 patients. These include Apollo, Max, Fortis and BLK. Taken together, these hospitals had 1,441 Covid-19 beds on Tuesday. The order, a copy of which is with TOI,will increase this to 3,456, an addition of 2,015 beds. Each hospital has been assigned a figure. This might bring relief to patients with severe symptoms of Covid-19 who need admission. In the past one week, there have been multiple instances of denial of admission to needy patients due to unavailability of beds, particularly at the top private hospitals. Delhi government had recently come out with an app – Delhi Corona App – to provide real-time information on availability of beds. When TOI did a random check on Tuesday, it found that biggest private hospitals had no or very few beds available. Max Shalimar Bagh, which has reserved 56 Covid-19 beds, had none available. Similarly, Fortis Shalimar Bagh with 52 Covid-19 beds didn’t have any available. Apollo has 133 beds but only one was vacant. Max Shalimar Bagh and Fortis Shalimar Bagh have now been ordered to reserve 156 and 100 beds for Covid-19 patients, respectively, while Apollo has been asked to reserve 300 beds. Other hospitals too have been given similar targets. “The MS (medical superintendents) of these hospitals are directed to admit Covid-19 patients as per the revised allocation of beds and update the data on Delhi Corona app with immediate effect,” the government has ordered. Delhi had a total of 8,975 beds for Covid-19 patients as on Tuesday, which will now go up to 10,990. However, the question is why people are struggling to find beds when the Delhi Corona app shows nearly half the beds are vacant? While Covid-19 cases are constantly on the rise, the number of beds available, going by the Corona Delhi app, was 4,185 out of 8,826 till 3 pm and 4,137 out of 8,875 by 8 pm on Tuesday. The maximum of 67% beds were vacant in hospitals run by the state government followed by 31% in private hospitals and 175 in the ones run by the Centre. “There is a misconception among people that govern ment hospitals aren’t good enough. That’s why everyone wants to get admitted in private hospitals even if it costs them a lot,” said Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest hospital run by the Delhi government, has 2,000 Covid-19 beds. Of this, government data shows, 891 (45%) are occupied. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, also run by the state, 46% of the Covid-19 beds were vacant on Tuesday. “We aren’t denying admission to anyone. But the fact is we have a serious shortage of staff. If we have to operate at full strength, which is 500 Covid-19 beds, we will require more manpower,” said a doctor. Even among private hospitals, the rush is limited mostly to the super-specialty hospitals and the smaller ones continue to have vacant beds, said another doctor. “Delhi government has made arrangements for beds for the seriously ill and directed hospitals to prioritise such patient. However, patients want admission at the earliest, leading to a crisis situation,” said the doctor. He added that in many cases, patients have died because the symptoms deteriorated fast and they couldn’t get admission. Among government hospitals, RML and Safdarjung are the most sought after and, according to the app, both had two and seven beds, respectively, till 8pm on Tuesday. Though the government has appointed nodal officers at the private hospitals to facilitate admission, there are no contacts available for prior confirmation. Watch Delhi: Owners of smaller Covid-19 hospitals in trouble as patients keep away||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-asks-private-hospitals-to-add-over-2000-covid-beds/articleshow/76292676.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Community spread? Delhi says Centre to confirm||NEW DELHI: The two dreaded words — community spread — brought to the fore a difference of opinion between the Centre and the state government at a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the capital at the lieutenant governor’s office on Tuesday. Emerging from the meeting, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “On community spread in Delhi, central government officials said it has not happened yet and there was no need to discuss this matter.” However, his cabinet colleague and health minister Satyendar Jain indicated that the Delhi government believed otherwise but will wait for the central government to confirm. After the meeting, Jain explained that community spread is a situation when people do not know how they got the infection. “In 50% of the cases in Delhi, the source of infection is not known. The director of AIIMS has also observed that there is community spread in the containment zones of Delhi,” he said. “On behalf of the state government, we can only say that there is a significant spread, but only the central government can say if it is community spread or not." Health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier pointed out that even at the LG’s House where many employees had recently tested positive, it had been difficult to trace their source of infection. “What is community spread? It is a situation in which the source of infection in positive persons cannot be ascertained,” he added. TOI had last week reported that the source of infection in around 30% of Covid-19 positive persons was not known, leaving the authorities wondering whether the pandemic had entered the community spread stage in the capital. Delhi has so far witnessed more than 30,000 Covid-19 positive cases. More than 1,000 fresh Covid positive cases are being reported daily. If community spread is confirmed, the government will have to modify its strategy in the fight against Covid-19. Chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the DDMA meeting was also attended by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev, police commissioner S N Shrivastava and other officials from the Delhi government and central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/community-spread-delhi-says-centre-to-confirm/articleshow/76292688.cms||Alok KN Mishra
June 10, 2020||India||N95 mask prices rise 250% in 4 months, but no cap yet||NEW DELHI: N95 masks, bought by government agencies at Rs 12.25 including taxes in September 2019, cost them Rs 17.33 in January 2020, Rs 42 by March-end and up to Rs 63 by the middle of May, an increase of over 250% since the beginning of the year. Yet, the price regulator NPPA has decided not to cap the price of N95 masks as it “may disincentivise domestic manufacturing”. Instead, on June 3, it put out alist of maximum retail prices (MRP) of N95 masks manufactured by domestic companies ranging from Rs 95 to Rs 165 as reduced prices. The ‘reduced’ MRPs are 450%-850% higher than the January price paid by agovernment institution. The list of MRPs was for N95 masks of four manufacturers including Venus Safety and Magnum, the two largest Indian ones. NPPA claimed prices had been brought down after its May 21 memo “advising” manufacturers/ importers/suppliers “to maintain parity in price for nongovernment procurements and to make available the same at reasonable prices”. The NPPA claimed a “significant” reduction of 47% in prices, though the price of just one N95 mask had been reduced by 47%. Most came down by 23%-41%. Even these reductions were from prices over ten times the January price. So far during the pandemic, the Centre has bought 1.15 crore masks, mostly from Venus Safety, via its procurement agency HLL Lifecare. Almost a crore more are to be delivered. HLL Lifecare bought 40 lakh N95s for Rs 40 plus taxes till the last week of March. By May 15, HLL Lifecare was buying these masks for Rs 60 plus taxes, an increase of Rs 20, which would have cost the government crores of rupees extra. “How does NPPA justify this as a price reduction when something sold for Rs 17.33 in January is now being sold for as much as Rs 165? It is plain loot or profiteering. If it can cap charges of hospitals and even airlines, why can’t they intervene to cap price of N95 masks,” asked Anjali Damania of Voice of Taxpayers, one of the petitioners in the Bombay HC over mask pricing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/n95-mask-prices-rise-250-in-4-months-but-no-cap-yet/articleshow/76292726.cms||Rema Nagarajan
June 10, 2020||India||India to register 1 crore migrant workers at village, block level||NEW DELHI: India will soon undertake a gigantic exercise of registering all migrant workers and specifying their occupational skill at village, block and district levels, an exercise the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the Centre and states to complete to help provide employment to over 1 crore migrant workers who have returned their native places following the lockdown. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said in a 30-page order, “Majority of stranded workers have reached their native places. The second major task now to be undertaken by the concerned states and Union Territories is to take care of those migrant workers who have returned to their native places after cessation of their employment.” The UP government recently claimed that it has completed skill mapping of all 23.5 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state. The bench directed the Union government to give details of all schemes, so that workers who have migrated to their native places could avail the benefits. “All states and Union Territories shall also give details of all schemes which are currently operating in the states/UTs, benefits of which can be taken by the migrant labourers, including different schemes for providing employment.” The necessary details have to be laid before the Supreme court before July 8, the next date of hearing. The court said it was one thing to have schemes and quite another for workers to have knowledge of them. “The state shall establish counselling centres, help desks at block and district level to provide all necessary information regarding government schemes and extend helping hand to migrant labourers ,” it said. Watch India gets ready to register 1 crore migrant workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-register-1-crore-migrant-workers-at-village-block-level/articleshow/76292792.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 10, 2020||India||Covid-19: In 9 days, June cases at 50% of May count||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases in India were poised to cross 2.75 lakh on Tuesday, with the actual numbers remaining unclear as the Delhi government had not released the day’s data for the capital till past midnight. In the first nine days of June, fresh Covid-19 cases as well as deaths from the virus were already more than 50% of the corresponding figures in the whole of last month. June had so far seen nearly 84,000 new Covid-19 cases in the country whereas 1.5 lakh infections were reported in May. Likewise, more than 2,300 deaths had been reported thus far in June. In May, 4,251 fatalities were recorded. With Delhi’s count not having been released, 8,806 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the rest of the country, taking the overall count of infections to 2,74,748, as per data from state governments and the health ministry’s count of unassigned cases. In keeping with the trend of the past many weeks, Maharashtra reported the highest number of fresh infections in the country at 2,259, although the number had dipped from over 2,500 reported on Monday. At 1,015, new cases reported from Mumbai also declined. However, infections continued to rise in Tamil Nadu, which reported its highest single-day count of 1,685. At least three other states, Rajasthan (369 new cases), Andhra Pradesh (216) and Mizoram (46) saw their biggest surge in infections on Tuesday. With Tuesday’s cases, Maharashtra’s total caseload crossed 90,000, accounting for a little less than a third of all cases in the country. While there was a slight dip in the number of new cases, deaths from the virus remained high, with the state re porting 120 fatalities on Tuesday. Overall, 243 deaths were reported from across the country. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu’s health minister C Vijayabaskar said Covid-19 cases were “spreading at lightning speed across the state” and promised 1,100 more hospital beds in worst-hit Chennai. TN’s cases touched 34,914. The state is expected to see 1.3 lakh cases by the month-end, according to projections by various agencies including the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical Universities. Rajasthan too recorded its highest single-day spike of 369 cases in the last 24 hours. With these new cases, the state’s Covid-19 count has risen to 11,245. The state reported nine fatalities. Gujarat crossed 1,300 deaths on Tuesday with 33 deaths in 24 hours taking the death toll to 1,313. Last four days have witnessed 123 deaths in Gujarat, giving the death rate of 6.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-in-9-days-june-cases-at-50-of-may-count/articleshow/76292821.cms||---
June 10, 2020||India||SC: Drop FIRs for lockdown breach against migrants||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday suggested that the Centre and states drop FIRs lodged against migrant workers for violations of lockdown guidelines and said having lost their means of livelihood, they were anxious to avail of whatever mode of transport, including walking and cycling, to reach home, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. The Supreme Court asked state governments to identify all stranded migrants who wanted to return home and send them to their native places by trains or buses in 15 days. It asked the Centre to provide Shramik Specials, in addition to 171 already requested, within 24 hours of requisitioning, as promised earlier by solicitor general Tushar Mehta. It asked the Centre to provide Shramik Specials, as promised earlier by solicitor general Tushar Mehta. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said, “The process of transportation by rail and road has to be completed by all states and Union Territories (in 15 days) so that the next stage of attending to the needs of migrant labourers can be looked into, i.e. source of employment and providing food and ration for them.” After lockdown was declared on March 25, huge crowds of migrant workers thronged bus terminals and railway stations at many places to go back to their hometowns. Delhi and Mumbai police alone have booked thousands of migrant workers for violating social distancing norms in March and April. The bench said, “The migrant labourers who were earning their bread by working in different establishments, due to cessation of work, were forced to move to their hometown. The action of movement of these migrants after enforcement of lockdown measures was by force of circumstance. “We are of the view that the state may consider withdrawing prosecution/complaints lodged against such migrants for the offences as referred to in Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other related offences lodged against migrant labourers during the period of lockdown.” Gujarat saw 90% of its migrant workforce, 20.5 lakh of 23 lakh, returning home, the court was told. Maharashtra said 17 lakh migrant workers had left for their home states and another 37,000 were waiting to return. But it has requested only a single Shramik Special. Karnataka said one lakh migrant workers still wanted to go home. Kerala arranged for transportation of 1.2 lakh migrant workers and another 1.5 lakh are awaiting their turn to return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-drop-firs-for-lockdown-breach-against-migrants/articleshow/76292827.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Bahubalis used to run parallel government during RJD rule: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: JD (U) national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday took a dig at RJD rule of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi by saying that ‘bahubalis’ (musclemen) used to run parallel government during their 15 years’ regime (1990-2005). Addressing a virtual meeting of party workers and functionaries in Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran and Vaishali districts, Nitish said, “Massacres, murders, kidnappings, robberies and theft were rampant. People used to be scared while coming out of their homes after sunset. However, rule of law is prevalent in Bihar today.” State water resources minister and JD(U) national general secretary Sanjay Kumar Jha said Nitish was referring to “the reign of former Siwan MP Md Shahabuddin”. “Everybody knows who ruled Siwan during the Lalu-Rabri regime. There was one ‘Sahab’ in Patna and another in Siwan. Besides, the lawlessness was also rampant in neighbouring Gopalganj, the native district of Lalu and Rabri,” Jha told TOI. Elaborating on the improvement in law and order situation, Nitish said Bihar ranked 23rd in crime across the country as per the National Crime Records Bureau report in 2018. “Today, law is being implemented without any pressure. We neither protect nor spare anyone,” he said. Nitish told the party workers from booth to district level that various milestones of development have been achieved under his leadership in the last 15 years. “Yield of crops has increased with execution of agriculture road map. Development has reached every village following the execution of numerous schemes under the Seven Resolves of the state government,” he said. Elaborating on the steps being taken to tackle Covid-19 crisis, Nitish said altogether 21.5 lakh people returned to the state by Shramik special trains and lakhs of people came by other means of transport. “Altogether 15 lakh people were kept in quarantine centres, where they were provided all basic amenities. Various alternatives are being explored for providing livelihood opportunities to them,” he said. Hitting out at states from where the people returned, Nitish said: “It was the responsibility of the states to take care of the workers during this crisis. However, they did not fulfil their responsibility, forcing the workers to return. Now we want that maximum people should get work here only.” JD(U) national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh, Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav were also present in the virtual meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bahubalis-used-to-run-parallel-govt-during-rjd-rule-nitish/articleshow/76291374.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tired of working without leave for months, say doctors||PATNA: Government doctors, nurses and paramedical staff have started feeling exhausted after working continuously for the last three months without any leave. The frontline warriors, who spend hours in personal protection (PPE) kits in hospitals, are also disappointed by the state health department’s order cancelling any leave for them till June 30. Besides, they also fear another wave of Covid-19 in the coming days, which will make the situation even worse for them. Secretary of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Sunil Kumar, said the doctors have been working throughout the day since the imposition of lockdown by the state government in the second week of March. “If doctors, who are considered to be the frontline warriors during this pandemic, get exhausted, who will treat the patients?” Kumar asked. “We even met senior health department officials following the cancellation of leave of doctors, paramedics, laboratory technicians and other staff till June 30, but to no avail,” he said. Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, head of microbiology department at PMCH, said the government should impose complete lockdown for at least one more month. “The amount of mental pressure we are facing cannot be described. Our lives have totally changed. And given the number of increasing cases, I doubt the situation will normalize until a vaccine is found,” he said and added: “Doctors, especially above 50 years, who meet several patients on a daily basis are at very high risk.” Dr Vinay Kumar, president of Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) at AIIMS-Patna, said they were under tremendous mental stress and pressure. “The stress of medical workers, be it doctors, nurses or laboratory technicians, has increased to a great extent in the last few months. We are tired. We have also a family to look after,” he said. Dr Kumar said the number of rising Covid-19 cases in India is quite high. “If it continues like this, we will soon enter another phase of corona transmission called community spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tired-of-working-without-leave-for-months-doctors/articleshow/76290947.cms||Archi Rani
June 10, 2020||Patna||Cyber fraud dupes railway employee of Rs 8.93 lakh in Patna||PATNA: A passenger train guard lost Rs 8.93 lakh after he shared the OTPs with a cyber fraud, who posed himself as an employee at the divisional railway manager office and called him over phone. Surprisingly, the call was made on June 5 but the money was transacted from the victim Arun Kumar’s account in the Sinchai Bhawan branch of State Bank of India the next day. Arun, posted at Patna Junction, lives at RK Puram near Saguna Mor under Danapur police station. An FIR was lodged with Secretariat police station on Saturday evening. SHO (incharge) Sanjay Paswan said the matter was being investigated. Arun’s son Rahul Kumar, who is also an employee of Canara Bank, said the con man knew even his father’s retirement age and talked to him for 40 minutes in the name of recording his data on digital platform for retirement purpose. “My father is not tech-savvy. He was made to delete the OTP and SMSs. After disconnecting the call, he informed me and rushed to the SBI branch near Saguna Mor for help,” Rahul said on Sunday. He said the debit card was blocked within few minutes of disconnecting the conmen’s call, but transactions took place the next day. “Altogether 23 transactions were made and no SMS alert was received from the bank. We have already alerted the cyber cell,” he said. In another such incident, one Himanshu Shekhar of East Indira Nagar in Kankarbagh was duped of Rs 13,000 after sending money through G Pay account as advance for booking a flat on rent advertised on a website. Shekhar said the advertiser stopped picking calls after that transaction and he lodged an online complaint for registering an FIR. A cellphone shop owner on Boring Road, preferring anonymity, said he fell victim to cyber fraud even without sharing details of his debit card or bank account. “Money was transacted using my debit card in San Francisco. I complained to my branch. They agreed to reimburse the amount after which I didn’t approach the police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cyber-fraud-dupes-railway-employee-of-rs-8-93-lakh/articleshow/76291104.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 10, 2020||Patna||Steady rise in footfall at malls, places of worship in Patna||PATNA: Shopping malls and places of worship in the city recorded a significant increase in footfall of people on Tuesday. The number of visitors at hotels and restaurants, however, continued to remain low. A senior executive at a prominent mall in the city said the number of customers visiting the establishment increased by 25% on Tuesday. Asharam Singh, chief security officer of a shopping mall on Pataliputra-Kurji Road, said people are gradually trying to adapt the new normal. “More than 7,000 shoppers visited the mall on Tuesday. While some bought clothes from the showrooms, others ate food at the food court,” he said, adding the food stalls at the food court are operating on alternate days in a bid to avoid crowding. “A quarantine room has also been set up at the mall to deal with any emergency,” Singh said. Meanwhile, at least 10,000 devotees visited Mahavir temple near Patna Junction on Tuesday. Mahavir Temple Trust secretary Kishore Kunal said altogether 2,000 people made online bookings and around 1,300-1,400 kilograms of laddoo were sold on the second day of reopening of the temple. He added that the temple authorities are also encouraging people to wear socks while entering the premises. At Takhat Shri Harmandir Patna Sahib Gurdwara, the number of visitors was quite less. “Only local people are visiting the gurdwara,” said M S Dhillon, secretary of Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Prabandhak Committee. Eateries, including restaurants and coffee shops, are likely to take another few months to win the trust of customers, claimed owners of the establishments. Aman Kishore, co-owner of a restaurant-cum-coffee shop on Boring Canal Road, said he received a lukewarm response from customers even on Tuesday. “The footfall was average, but we are hopeful of getting the customers back in the coming weeks,” he said. Aman Kishore, manager of a hotel near Gandhi Maidan, said the footfall of people has gone down by 80%. “With number of coronavirus cases increasing, we are not sure how long it would take for things to return to normal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/steady-rise-in-footfall-at-malls-places-of-worship/articleshow/76291025.cms||Archi Rani
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Reopening schools: Review by Aug 15||Ahmedabad: The state government will review the situation, with the help of health officials, by August 15 and then consider reopening schools that have remained shut during the Covid lockdown. The government has already asked schools, teachers, and experts concerned to review the circumstances and offer opinions. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said, “We will study all reviews, discuss them with parents, and only then consider opening schools.” He went on to say: “I am more concerned for students of Classes I to V. We are starting online classes from June 15 and making arrangements for students to get textbooks.” Meanwhile, the virtual academic session has begun in most schools in the city, and students are taking classes from the comfort of their homes. Amidst the corona crisis and the lockdown, schools have adopted the new way of teaching and are busy implementing virtual time-tables. Most schools confirm that the emphasis is on creating a fine balance between learning outcomes and the limited exposure to digital screens. School authorities maintain that the study pattern is intense for senior classes, but junior classes get a blend of academics and activities. However, for senior KG to Class III, most schools are imparting lessons through videos. Educators prepare videos on academic topics and share them with parents who subsequently show them to their children. However, students have their own set of problems. Mana Singh, a student, said, “At times the online lecture gets boring and I get distracted. This never happened in the classroom.” Another student, Pretty Desai, said: “Sometimes, there is a clash of timings between my school and tuition classes and I have to opt for the latter.” Anand Niketan Group of Schools director Nashy Chauhan said, “The administrative staff has resumed duty and online sessions for senior classes have begun. For other classes, they will start from June 18.” Chauhan said: “Everything is being done keeping social distancing norms in mind.” Maharaja Agrasen Vidyalaya director Shobha Tyagi said: “Online classes have commenced and educators are doing the needful from their homes.” Sujata Tandon, the principal of Udgam School for Children, said: “The beauty of online classes is that attendance is almost 95-100%. But students are yearning for face-to-face learning.” But some parents have other concerns. All Gujarat Parents’ Association president Naresh Shah said: “Schools are asking for fees for six months, besides charges for transportation and food.” Shah went on to say: “The chief minister had spoken about fees for only one month. The schools are asking students to buy books of private publishers for virtual classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reopening-schools-review-by-aug-15/articleshow/76291468.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
June 10, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur traders demand resumption of train services||BHAGALPUR: With shopping malls, restaurants and temples reopening in the district on Monday, traders have demanded resumption of long-distance trains to Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Mumbai and other destinations from Bhagalpur Junction. Only one passenger train, Dibrugarh-Delhi Brahmaputra Mail, currently passes through Bhagalpur. Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Ashok Bhiwaniwala said all long-distance trains originating from Bhagalpur should be started. “We have to live with Covid-19 with precautions as directed by the central and state governments,” Bhiwaniwala added. General secretary of Eastern Bihar Industries Association Alok Agarwal said revival of business and economy along with safeguarding people’s lives can bring the country and human lives back on track. According to sources, the mechanical department of the Eastern Railway has sent a report to the Railway Board, recommending resumption of long-distance trains originating from Bhagalpur. Divisional railway manager of Malda division Yatendra Kumar said the railways always remains in action mode and it can resume long distance trains from Bhagalpur once the higher authorities issue permission for it. “Resumption of Brahmaputra Mail is not enough. The urgent need is to resume all long-distance trains from Bhagalpur,” said Jagdish Chandra Mishra Pappu, entrepreneur and former Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-traders-demand-resumption-of-train-services/articleshow/76291205.cms||Kumar Rajesh
June 10, 2020||Business||JM Fin launches Rs 760cr QIP offer||Mumbai: Domestic financial services firm JM Financial is raising about Rs 760 crore or around $100 million, through an institutional placement of equity shares. The offer was launched on Tuesday. JM Financial is the first non-banking financial company (NBFC), a sector battered by the coronavirus crisis, to raise funds through the stock market route in over three months. The minimum issue price has been fixed at Rs 66.72 per share, the company informed the bourses. Since March this year, when the pandemic started spreading in India, some other NBFCs have raised funds, but all those were through the debt market route with most backed by the RBI’s special window christened targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO). “It (JM Financial’s QIP) is a testimony to the confidence of the management as well as of the investors’ to the company’s financial and business strength…the funds from the QIP will be used for regular business growth and in case of any exigency, during the current market environment,” a source said. On Tuesday, JM Financial stock on the BSE closed at Rs 71 and the qualified institutional placement (QIP) offer is expected to be priced around that price, sources said. IDFC Securities and ICICI Securities are managing JM Financial’s QIP offer. In Tuesday’s board meeting, the company got the requisite approval for the QIP offer, including the floor price, date of opening of the offer and also the preliminary offer document that is to be placed with the prospective investors. The company has already started the road show for the QIP offer, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jm-fin-launches-rs-760cr-qip-offer/articleshow/76292032.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Job racket: FIR lodged against fraudsters||PATNA: An FIR was lodged on Tuesday on the direction of state assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary against unknown fraudsters running a job racket and candidates who had applied for appointment in the category of attendants and other posts in the assembly secretariat. They – the fraudsters and involved candidates – brought out “fake results” of the ongoing tests being conducted for appointments in the assembly secretariat and pasted them at the gate of the state assembly on Tuesday. Assembly secretariat deputy director Sanjay Kumar Singh said the FIR was lodged at the Secretariat police station. “The fake result list contained the names of candidates and it was immediately brought to the knowledge of the assembly Speaker, who ordered lodging of an FIR against the fraudsters,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/job-racket-fir-lodged-against-fraudsters/articleshow/76291130.cms||Abhay Singh
June 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Thieves use ropes to drag ATM cash dispensing unit out of kiosk||PUNE: A gang of thieves used a pick-up van and ropes to drag a cash dispensing unit, containing Rs5.71 lakh, out of an unmanned ATM kiosk of a private bank at Thermax chowk in Nigdi and fled with it in their vehicle in the early hours of Tuesday. “The incident occurred around 3am,” senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad of Nigdi police told TOI. “The cash dispencing unit was afixed to the floor with screws. The suspects dragged it out with rope and fled with it.” When the unit was being dragged out, a siren inside the kiosk went off. Undeterred by it, the suspect loaded the unit into the van and drove away. A security guard from a nearby restaurant noticed it and alerted the police control room with the help of another guard. Police said the kiosk had two cash dispensing units. The suspects reached the kiosk around 3am in a white pick-up van. They tied a rope to one of the units and tied another end of the rope to the pick-up van. One of the suspects accelerated the van till the unit came out of the kiosk. The glass doors of the kiosk broke when the machine was being dragged out, police said. “We immediately carried out a nakabandi and also alerted the police control rooms of Pune city, Pune rural police and also the police units of the neighbouring districts,” Jawadwad said. He said that the kiosk was unmanned and the CCTV cameras in the kiosk too were not functioning. “Assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane is investigating the case,” Jawadwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-use-ropes-to-drag-atm-cash-dispensing-unit-out-of-kiosk/articleshow/76292501.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 10, 2020||Business||For first time, a Godrej becomes GCPL’s CEO||Mumbai: In a significant leadership change at Godrej Consumer Products (GCPL), Nisaba Godrej will take over the additional role of managing director & CEO from Vivek Gambhir, 51, who has resigned for personal reasons. This is the first time since the formation of GCPL that the post of MD & CEO will be held by a member of the promoter family. Nisaba, 42, who is currently the executive chairperson of the company, will take over the additional responsibility with effect from July 1, 2020. She was appointed chairperson by the board three years back after group patriarch, and Nisaba’s father, Adi Godrej assumed the role of chairman emeritus. While there’s no clarity as to whether GCPL would search for a professional CEO, externally or internally, industry analysts termed the move as “sentimentally negative” due to investor concerns about a professional MD being replaced by a promoter. In a statement, Nisaba, said, “I would like to thank the board for reposing their confidence in me. Humanity is going through difficult times right now and GCPL is committed to doing whatever is necessary to serve its stakeholders and community. I look forward to working closely with our talented team to drive our company ahead with clarity, hard work, kindness and a strong sense of purpose, to emerge stronger on the other side.” Abneesh Roy, research analyst at Edelweiss Securities, who closely tracks the company, said, “This could be sentimentally negative as there can be investor concerns that, after a long time in GCPL, a professional MD is being replaced by a promoter family. However, Nisa has been closely involved in reinventing GCPL for many years, especially in innovations, acquisitions, modern and employee friendly work culture and marketing. Also, most of the key departments of GCPL are headed by professionals. Ultimately, it will boil down to the financial performance of the company.”Gambhir is moving on to chart the next phase of his journey. “For the past many years, I have been living away from my family and seeing them only on weekends. Recently, I had some health problems that made me think more deeply about my lifestyle. Thankfully, I have fully recovered. I would now like to be able to spend more time with my family,” he said. Gambhir took over as MD & CEO of the company from A Mahendran in July 2013. Prior to that, he was chief strategy officer at Godrej Industries and associate companies, wherein he was part of the team that architected GCPL’s ‘3x3’ growth strategy (building presence in three categories across three geographies — Asia, Africa & Latin America). Before joining the Godrej group in 2009, Gambhir was a partner at Bain and Co. During his tenure, GCPL’s revenues trebled from around Rs 1,700 crore in 2012-13 to about Rs 5,500 crore in 2019-20. “Over the last decade, GCPL has transformed into a leading emerging markets home and personal care company, with ambitious aspirations. I am very grateful that I had the opportunity to lead such a fantastic team. I have partnered closely with Nisa over many years, and she has been a key architect of GCPL’s growth journey. She has also been an amazing friend. I am sure that under her inspiring and authentic leadership, GCPL will achieve even greater success,” said Gambhir. On Gambhir, with whom she has had a strong partnership for over a decade, Nisaba, said, “He is someone who has not only created a lot of value for Godrej, but has also been a wonderful friend and mentor to me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/for-first-time-a-godrej-becomes-gcpls-ceo/articleshow/76291693.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Youth killed in celebratory firing in Gaya||PATNA: A 26-year-old youth was killed in celebratory firing at Karhatta village under the Paraiya police station area in Gaya district around 10.30pm on Monday. Police said the incident took place during ‘tilak’ ceremony. One Santosh Kumar Yadav, brother-in-law of groom-to-be Ramesh Kumar, opened fire with a country-made pistol causing bullet injury to one Kundan Kumar. Kundan, a resident of Sarvadipur village under the Paraiya police station area in Gaya district, was rushed to the Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital at Gaya where he succumbed to his injuries. Kundan, police said, received bullet injuries when he tried to prevent Santosh from opening fire during the function. Additional station house officer of Paraiya police station Arvind Kumar said on Tuesday that four people have been named as accused in the FIR. “While three of the accused hail from Sarvadipur village, the fourth accused is a native of Haspura village,” Kumar said, adding efforts were on to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-killed-in-celebratory-firing-in-gaya/articleshow/76291394.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Business||Cheaper stocks open gates for buybacks||MUMBAI: Depressed stock valuations, triggered by coronavirus-induced business impacts, have prompted several companies to repurchase their shares and offered promoters a chance to delist their units from the bourses. The moves allow management to increase stake in their companies, and signal their confidence in businesses amid an economic growth contraction projection for fiscal 2021. Delisting, which enables promoters to take their entities private, also gives them the liberty to restructure the businesses without public scrutiny. READ THE STORY ON TOI+ Why cheaper stocks could mean vanishing stocks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cheaper-stocks-open-gates-for-buybacks/articleshow/76291932.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 10, 2020||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation bid to ensure safe disposal of masks, gloves||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has joined hands with United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)-Bihar to collect discarded masks, napkins and gloves from households as part of its door-to-door garbage collection drive to stop the spread of Covid-19. After using the protective gears, people discard them in the trash, thus posing health threat to sanitation workers. For proper disposal of used medical wastes, the PMC has decided to place yellow plastic bags in all 375 auto-tippers so that people can keep the used gloves, masks and napkins separately. To make people aware about the consequences of mixing the medical waste with dry and wet waste, the UNFPA-Bihar members are conducting training of sanitation workers and holding awareness drive in societies. Mohd Nadeem Noor, head of UNFPA’s Bihar chapter, said they have trained 4,080 sanitation workers on Covid-19 safety measures. “Every morning, we conduct training session for PMC workers. We impart training to them on proper segregation and collection of used masks and gloves from households,” he said. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said civic body workers have distributed yellow polythene bags in apartments and slums for segregation of the used masks and gloves. “From coming week, yellow plastic bags could be seen hanging from the auto- tippers. People can directly deposit their used masks and gloves in this bag,” he said. “Through door-to-door awareness campaign, we are encouraging the people to segregate the masks for proper disposal,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-bid-to-ensure-safe-disposal-of-masks-gloves/articleshow/76290992.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Skill mapping of 16 lakh migrants done, job options being created: Bihar government||PATNA: Even as the Supreme Court asked the state governments on Tuesday to carry out skill mapping of their respective returnee migrants, the Bihar government has claimed that the process is in the final stages of completing in the state . According to industries minister Shyam Rajak, more than 16 lakh skilled workers have been identified so far who were put up at quarantine centres across the state after returning from various states. “The skilled workers include tailors, carpenters, construction workers and handlooms workers among others. District-level workers advisory centres are being formed for coordinating with migrants to accommodate them in different works being executed by the government,” Rajak told TOI on Tuesday. In another positive development, two companies have expressed interest in exploring opportunities in Bihar in response to a letter written by Rajak on May 29 to 25 leading industrialists inviting them to set up units in the state. “Two companies- Ajanta Shoes and Hindustan Foods Limited have replied to my letter, saying they consider Bihar as a prospective place for setting up their new units. They have claimed that they will visit Bihar once the Covid crisis normalizes and assess the ground scenario for finalizing their proposals,” Rajak said, adding, new industrial units will provide employment opportunities to the returnee migrants. Secretary, information and public relations department, Anupam Kumar said in his daily Covid press briefing on Tuesday that a proposal for mid-term amendment in the Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy is being prepared to attract more industries to the state. Anupam said in a statement that 5.43crore human days of work has been created in 4.46 lakh government schemes during lockdown period. Labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said migrants will be provided livelihood opportunities based on the level of their skills— unskilled, semi- skilled and skilled. “The government will also provide training to returnee migrants to enhance their industrial skills as well as self-reliability,” he said. Instructions have also been issued to executive engineers in the road construction department to deploy manual labour wherever possible instead of machines. “Due to the requirement of providing livelihood opportunity to lakhs of migrant workers, senior officials and executive engineers have been asked to talk to construction agencies for comparatively less usage of machines, wherever possible, so that more manpower can be used,” RCD minister Nand Kishor Yadav told TOI. He added: “Apart from labourers and daily wagers, vacancies have been identified for around 5,000 skilled manpower, such as supervisor, surveyor, wielder, gas cutter and masons among others.” Urban development and housing department minister Suresh Kumar Sharma claimed that efforts are being made for absorbing migrant workers in construction works. “The department has come up with fresh proposals fpr construction of boundary walls on vacant plots of Bihar State Housing Board. Besides, the construction workers will be roped in for different projects of urban local bodies as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/skill-mapping-of-16-lakh-migrants-done-job-options-being-created-bihar-govt/articleshow/76291354.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 10, 2020||Patna||Universities in Bihar to get academic calendar back on track||PATNA: The universities in Bihar are striving hard to get their derailed academic sessions back on the rails by resuming the admission process and completing the pending examinations at the earliest. Most universities are planning to hold examinations in July. The colleges remained shut due to the nationwide lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic since March last week. The process of online admission in some universities, including Patna University, is already on for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The university would have to arrange for common entrance test for the undergraduate courses. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra said the college principals at a meeting held under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor H N Prasad discussed in detail the issues related to conducting pending examinations in July. They also discussed the representations submitted by some student union leaders for promoting students from first to second to third year at the undergraduate level without taking any examination. The matter would be referred to the chancellor, he said. Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma said admission and examination works would commence in July but teaching not before August. The problem is that several of its colleges have been serving as quarantine centres and it is difficult to hold classes there soon, he said. Nalanda Open University has decided to start counselling classes for students of Intermediate, certificate and diploma courses in the first week of July and conduct their examinations after at least 10 days, said pro-VC Kriteshwar Prasad. Meanwhile, governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Tuesday reviewed the academic progress of Purnea, B N Mandal, L N Mithila and B N Mandal universities through videoconferencing and made an assessment of the progress made by them towards implementation of their academic calendar, conducting pending examinations, admission and examination works and NAAC accreditation of colleges. The chancellor reportedly asked the VCs to conduct their pending examinations strictly as per UGC guidelines and maintaining social distancing norms. He would interact with the VCs of BRA Bihar, Jaya Prakash, Magadh and Patliputra universities on June 11 and those of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur, Munger and Veer Kunwar Singh universities on June 12. The review meeting of Patna, Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian, Aryabhatta Knowledge and Nalanda Open universities will be held at Raj Bhavan on June 15, the sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/varsities-to-get-academic-calendar-back-on-track/articleshow/76291079.cms||B K Mishra
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizamabad government hospital to be Covid-19 centre||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases seeing an unprecedented rise in Greater Hyderabad areas and districts, especially after the return of people from foreign countries, the state government has now decided to expand the Covid-19 treatment base. District-level offices will now head Covid-19 wards and Nizamabad Government General Hospital is all set to become the first government Covid-19 treatment centre in Telangana outside Hyderabad. Nizamabad was one of the hotspot districts along with Suryapet and Rangareddy which had recorded more than 60 Covid cases. Following the relaxation in lockdown guidelines, there has been a spurt in positive cases among migrant workers in the district which shares a border with the worst-hit Maharashtra. Officials told TOI that GGH being a big facility could serve patients from Kamareddy and Jagtial districts. Till now, those who tested positive for coronavirus were sent to Hyderabad in ambulances. On Tuesday, collector C Narayana Reddy visited the virology lab, which is getting ready. Sources said 300 to 500 tests can be conducted once the lab is fully operational. According to officials, the testing equipment has arrived. “At present, 200 beds for Covid-19 patients are kept ready,” said the collector. The GGH has five ventilators exclusive for Covid patients. About 30 beds are ready with oxygen support for critical patients. “Soon, the health department will allocate another 15 ventilators to the hospital,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nzb-govt-hosp-to-be-covid-19-centre/articleshow/76291944.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 10, 2020||Business||No need of long-term insurance for cars, bikes||MUMBAI: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has withdrawn long-term covers of three years and five years for cars and motorcycles respectively, which were made mandatory for all new vehicle sales since 2018. Among various reasons, the regulator has said that selling these policies was difficult because of “affordability factors for a large section of owners of vehicles” and the possibility of a forced sale of the vehicle due to it being linked to a loan. In August 2018, Irdai made it mandatory for insurers to only sell a three-year motor policy for cars and five-year motor policy for two-wheelers with effect from September 2018. This followed a Supreme Court decision aimed at ensuring that vehicles did not ply without the mandatory third-party insurance cover. The latest guideline comes at a time when insurers have been fearing a collapse of the motor insurance business as sales of new vehicles have been almost non-existent in the first quarter due to the lockdown. With falling incomes and job losses, high upfront payment toward long-term policies are also seen as a deterrent. Besides affordability and the likelihood that the owner may be forced to sell a vehicle availed through financing, Irdai said that the three-year policy saddled the customer with an insurance company for three years even if he did not have a good experience.“These provisions will bring relief to those planning to buy new vehicles, as upfront payment of insurance premium for multiple years was an additional burden for many customers. This has also come at the right time as we see many auto dealers have started opening their outlets in cities,” said Iffco Tokio General Insurance EVP Subrata Mondal.He added that this may also lower the cost of ownership for the customers. “From insurers’ perspective, pricing for long-term cover was a challenge as also there were administrative challenges for ‘No Claim Bonus’ allocation. However, this will be a learning experience and also demonstrates our readiness in adapting to changing customer demands,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-need-of-long-term-insurance-for-cars-bikes/articleshow/76291777.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 10, 2020||Business||Mgmt should allow team leaders to pick their own talent||By Prabir JhaI am reminded of two contrasting leadership mindsets that show the extreme polarity towards talent in corporations. An expat CEO once told me he would back my pick for the leadership team and be happy to add to the sales pitch to whoever I wanted to hire. Another promoter had a different view: She wanted to meet and approve every candidate I wanted to hire before I went ahead. And she actually preferred to hire the worse than the better! These two approaches show the wide gap in talent mindset that is seen in corporations today. Each may have had their logic and reason, but the messages they sent were very different. In the first, the message was about having hired right and leaving the leader to pick a team that would deliver the mandate. It was about trust, faith, empowerment and, finally, accountability. In the other, it was about distrust, looking over the shoulder, critiquing without having any ownership and surely not setting the leader up adequately for success. Why do leaders at the top have a very different disposition to building teams? How can we create a better cascade of talent culture? How can we improve the accountability for talent across levels? How can we win, not just play, the talent game? While involving senior levels of leadership is a great signal to talent-centricity, as the company evolves, it runs the risk of slowing down a process. Or worse, getting more cookie-cutter talent in. These five things could help build a winning talent culture: 1. Set the right tone for talent from the top: Define the dimensions for talent well. Clarify the non-negotiables. Highlight the diversity that would be encouraged. And role model your talent scout agenda by picking your top leadership team right, whether from within or without. From your industry or elsewhere. Getting your top team absolutely right is your biggest job. And mould it to be a functionally competent team than a set of individual superstars. Deliver on that. 2. Hold your own reports (and they theirs) accountable for the quality of their reports: If you have hired the right people on your team, they should be able to pick their team to similar standards. And if they have not, you cannot make it worse by hiring another wrong bunch. Give them the prerogative to hire their team, but hold them accountable to high standards. Avoid doing the hiring for them. Support them in their sales pitch, leave them with your perspective, but allow them their pick. They then will own their deliverables or you would have given them an alibi up front. That would be poor strategy. 3. Review talent across levels in a planned cadence: Whether you follow an externally aided assessment process or just ask each level of managers to recommend their best talent, it is important you take stock. Building a talent culture cannot be a sporadic ritual. It needs your interest and your time, even beyond meeting some quarterly numbers. The risks otherwise can be disastrous. How you engage with such talent, the quality of conversations with them and about them reinforces or corrodes your stated talent philosophy. It allows you to know who are your best talent managers and how they can be celebrated. Who are the indifferent ones and how they need to be reprimanded, coached, or replaced. How do lunch table conversations happen about your commitment to talent building? Do they inspire hope and confidence or do they signal despair and hopelessness? You need to ensure that the rank and file believes that your talent culture promotes an egalitarian (not equal) meritocracy and not a paternal bureaucracy. 4. Make talent your business: Very often talent is like the last cosmetic footnote on a business agenda. And then one wonders why our talent strategy is broken or weak. I once worked with a promoter chairman, the only one in my career, who started his management reviews with HR and talent. This was a gold standard practice. Everyone knew he meant business — and talent was the most serious. Likewise celebrate talent, give them exposure. Allow them to shadow you. Invest disproportionate time with them. Throw stretch challenges at them. If you don’t bet on them, someone else will. 5. Build a talent culture and you will never be short on it: I have been a strong advocate of creating the soft ecosystem that attracts and nurtures talent. In a company where I was the CHRO, the culture that was created gives it a sustainable talent edge. Even as it exports talent to the industry and beyond, it is able to attract great talent across levels. From fresh campus hires to alumni, they are all champions of its talent culture. The best want to work with the best. Informality, easy access, the opportunity to engage and challenge the leadership without fear, sharing credit, working through communities of practice, celebrating talent — these are easy to write but very tough to do. But if you can indeed create that fabric and continuously nurture it, you have a winning formula, which you flex as appropriate to your context. Many a company flounder because of ignorance or worse — denial. As I reflect and yet look ahead, talent in most organisations is in a state of crisis. Most companies are not adequately talent-sensitive. And it needs a lot more of believing than some tinkering that will help them get out of the woods they have landed themselves in. (The writer is founder & CEO, Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mgmt-should-allow-team-leaders-to-pick-their-own-talent/articleshow/76295562.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Couples in a hurry to tie the knot||PATNA: As the Centre has allowed marriage ceremony with limited number of guests, several would-be couples are rushing to priests and wedding planners in order to get married in June itself. Their wedding plans had got derailed due to the lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic. Priests say only six auspicious dates for marriage are available this month; otherwise, they would have to wait till the last week of November. According to Pandit Manoj Ojha, the auspicious dates for marriage are June 14, 19, 20, 25, 28 and 30. “Of these, only June 25 and 28 fall in the ‘Shukl Paksha’, which is considered to be the most auspicious. Hence, most people are opting for these dates” he said. “There are very few dates, but I can officiate at only one marriage in a day. Several people, especially those whose weddings got postponed due to the lockdown, have approached me. After June, the wedding season will begin in November.” With the wedding days round the corner, preparations are in full swing. From buying dresses and jewellery to making the guest list, people are leaving no stone unturned to make the day special. Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo said the number of people visiting the shops has increased in the last few days. “As the wedding days are round the corner, people are buying jewellery and clothes,” he said. Similar was the reaction of Rajesh Gupta, the owner of a jewellery shop on Boring Road. Gupta said he didn’t expect so many people at his shop for buying jewellery. As only 50 people are allowed in a marriage ceremony, most banquet hall owners are not taking bookings. Sujeet Kumar, manager of a banquet hall near New Bypass, said bookings have been cancelled till June 30. “Arranging everything for 50 people only will land us in loses. Only when the Centre issues new guidelines, we will plan what to do next,” he said. Sanjay Kumar, manager of a banquet hall in Gola Road side, said all bookings in June had been cancelled. “The bookings made before the lockdown have also been cancelled,” he said. Meanwhile, some of the would-be couples said even though not more than 50 people can attend their marriage, they are happy to finally get hooked. The 25-year-old Smriti Singh was supposed to get married on May 10. “From getting the wedding dress to distributing cards, all preparations were done for my marriage, which we had to be postponed because of the lockdown. We wanted to postpone it further but several preparations will go waste if we do so,” she said. Boring Road resident Satyam said he had to remove 650 people from the guest list. “As we can only call 50 people, I have invited only the close family members and friends on my D-Day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/couples-in-a-hurry-to-tie-the-knot/articleshow/76291046.cms||Archi Rani
June 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: 8,475 visit zoo, parks on Day 1||PATNA: Around 8,475 people visited different city parks and the Patna zoo when they reopened on Tuesday after being shut for nearly two months amid the Covid-19 lockdown. According to environment, forest and climate change department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh, parks were thrown open to visitors from 5.30am to 10am in the morning and from 3pm to 6pm in the evening on Day 1. The zoo, on the other hand, was open in the morning hours from 5.30am to 10.30am. There are 72 parks in the city, including the big ones like Rajdhani Vatika, Veer Kunwar Singh Azadi Park, Shivaji Park and S K Puri Park. Patna DFO (parks) Shashikant Kumar told this newspaper that parks in residential areas attracted more visitors during the morning and evening hours. “All precautionary measures, including thermal screening and regular sanitization, are being taken to ensure the safety of employees and visitors. Besides, those above the age of 65 years and below 10 years are not allowed to enter the parks,” Kumar said and added that open gyms and kids’ play areas were closed. Zoo visitors also underwent thermal screening and used hand-free sanitisers. “Only 300 people came here on Day 1,” zoo director Amit Kumar said. Meanwhile, fitness enthusiasts, who stepped out of their houses after a long time for morning walks, were seen wearing face masks and gloves and carrying their own bottles and hand sanitizers. 53-year-old Vinod Kumar, a resident of Saguna Mor, claimed, “This is for the first time after the lockdown that I have come out of my house.” A regular morning walker, Putul Kumari (45), said, “After a long time, I met my friends at the S K Nagar Park. We shared how we had spent our lockdown days.” 30-year-old Amir Khan, who lives in S K Puri, went to a nearby park for a morning walk with his friends. “We need to be physically fit to fight Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8475-visit-zoo-parks-on-day-1/articleshow/76290972.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 10, 2020||Vadodara||Steady trickle of cases in rural Vadodara||Vadodara: The steady trickle of cases from the rural parts of Vadodara district continued with four persons from outside the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits testing positive. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases in the district outside city limits went up to 77. In all, with 32 more tested positive for Covid-19 since Tuesday evening, the total number of cases in Vadodara city and district went up to 1,372 including the 77 cases in rural areas. The death toll remained at 47 with the VMC not confirming deaths of Covid-19 positive cases in the city. The number of tests conducted in the city continued to rise with 185 tests being conducted in the city. Sources, however, said that the rising numbers were also due to private hospitals getting tests of patients admitted in their hospitals conducted. These include tests done ahead of surgeries. Sources said that the cases in the rural areas had seen a spike after the lockdown was relaxed. Three cases were reported in the rural areas on Monday and nine on Sunday. The cases included that of a man working in the godown of a pan masala company. Earlier, some vegetable and fruit vendors have also tested positive in the district. Fifteen persons were discharged on Tuesday taking the total number of discharged patients up to 871. As many as 454 persons remained admitted in various facilities or in home isolation in the district. These include 60 on oxygen support and 32 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/steady-trickle-of-cases-in-rural-vadodara/articleshow/76289811.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Police HQ prepares list for cops’ transfer before polls||PATNA: The state police headquarters is gearing up for the state assembly elections due in October-November this year. A senior IPS officer said Covid-19 would definitely shadow the headquarters’ preparations. “There is possibility of increasing the number of polling stations by the Election Commission (EC) in order to maintain social distancing. This will increase the requirement for central forces for deployment across the state,” he said, preferring anonymity. He said the police headquarters might ask Centre for more central forces. “There are 85,000 police personnel in state at present,” he said. “Senior IPS officers posted at the headquarters are going through preparation done in last assembly polls and looking after way central forces and state police were deployed,” he said. Meanwhile, police headquarters has already prepared a database of police personnel from the rank of constable to district superintendents of police for transfer as per the EC directive. Sources said the list includes all those who have been posted in a district or in an assembly constituency for three years or more in any capacity. “However, the conditions for transfer may change as per the EC direction. We have prepared it to execute whenever EC asks us to do,” he said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar confirmed that the list was prepared. “But further details about it can’t be disclosed at present,” he said and added, “Several required actions are being taken, including the assessment of central forces required for deployment in elections.” Another IPS officer said the headquarters was looking into cases registered under The Representation of the People Act in the last assembly elections to ensure the disposal of all such pending cases as soon as possible. “Execution of pending warrants against criminals and accused in criminal cases across the state will begin soon. Property attachment orders by courts against the accused persons or criminals are also to be executed soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-prepares-list-for-cops-transfer-before-polls/articleshow/76291251.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 10, 2020||Business||Coimbatore, Tiruppur top in small biz loan offtake||Mumbai: Coimbatore and Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu top the bulk of the loans disbursed to small businesses under the government’s emergency credit line guarantee scheme. However, in terms of sanctions, Surat tops the list of small businesses. On Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a review meeting with chiefs of public sector banks (PSBs) to assess the progress in disbursement of loans under the government-guaranteed scheme. A statement from the department of financial services said that Sitharaman complimented PSBs on rapid traction for achieving sanctions of Rs 20,000 crore and disbursements of Rs 9,300 crore as of Tuesday. She also advised them to be proactive in reaching out to borrowers at the branch level and to keep forms for the emergency credit line simple and formalities at minimum. According to data shared by the finance ministry, 21 MSME hubs in 12 states have received Rs 5,999 crore of loans disbursed by banks under the government scheme. At an all-India level, banks have disbursed loans of Rs 8,320 crore to 1.51 lakh small borrowers and sanctioned Rs 17,705-crore additional funds for 2.88 lakh small borrowers. SBI, with disbursements of Rs 6,084 crore, accounts for over 73% of the total loans disbursed, followed by Union Bank of India (Rs 435 crore), Canara Bank (Rs 430 crore), and Punjab National Bank (Rs 242 crore).Tamil Nadu received the highest share of disbursements at Rs 1,325 crore followed by Uttar Pradesh (Rs 825 crore), Gujarat (Rs 617 crore), Andhra Pradesh (Rs 571 crore), Maharashtra (Rs 542 crore) and Rajasthan (Rs 524 crore). Bankers say that Maharashtra has been badly affected by the lockdown in industrial centres with many small businesses yet to open. The data pertains to June 5, 2020.In terms of sanctions too, Tamil Nadu continued to lead with Rs 2,018 crore of loans being cleared by banks, followed by Uttar Pradesh (Rs 1,960 crore), Gujarat (Rs 1,696 crore), Maharashtra (Rs 1,316 crore), Andhra Pradesh (Rs 1,015 crore) and Rajasthan (Rs 955 crore). The emergency credit line guarantee scheme allows banks to disburse to small businesses additional loans up to 20% of the credit line, or loan limit, they currently have. This loan will be entirely guaranteed by the government. According to bankers, this guarantee has the potential to expand the loan book of banks by Rs 3 lakh crore. However, given the continued lockdown, many small businesses are not availing loans as there is no certainty with respect to supply of raw materials or demand for fresh orders. “Many SMEs are waiting for the lockdown to get over to get a sense of demand in the market before availing of additional funds,” said a banker. There is also a feeling that if SMEs avail loans to repay existing liabilities, it might not serve the intended purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coimbatore-tiruppur-top-in-small-biz-loan-offtake/articleshow/76292115.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||RJD to feed poor on Lalu’s birthday||PATNA: RJD will celebrate its incarcerated chief Lalu Prasad’s birthday on June 11 as ‘Garib Samman Diwas’ by providing food to 151 poor people at each of the block headquarters. Sources said RJD state president Jagdanand Singh has advised party workers to help the poor facing tough times due to Covid-19 instead of cutting cakes and spending money on celebrating the occasion on a large scale. Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has planned to meet his father on his birthday, if he gets administrative approval, his close aide said. RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said arrangements were being made by district presidents to provide food to at least 151 poor people in all blocks. “Lalu ji has always worked for the poor and nothing could be better than helping the poor on his birthday. This will give him real happiness,” he said. Tejashwi’s political adviser Sanjay Yadav said apart from block headquarters, food would be provided even at panchayat level. “Estimated 5 lakh people will be fed that day. The money will be spent for a noble cause,” he said. RJD’s national secretary general and MLC Qamar Alam said the party would also celebrate the day in other states in a similar way. “We have party units in 24 other states. Those who want to do havan or celebrate the day in a similar manner are free to do it,” he said. RJD workers had cut a 72 pound cake at the party headquarters here last year. Lalu has been undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Ranchi, while serving jail terms in fodder scam cases. “His physical absence hurts us and we miss him. But let me tell you he is not an individual, but an ideology and crores of people are with him and pray for him,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-to-feed-poor-on-lalus-birthday/articleshow/76291176.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt sanctions Rs 234 crore to Compfed to tide over crisis||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved Rs234.75 crore to Bihar State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Ltd (Compfed) for four fiscal years from 2020-21 to 2023-24 to implement 10 pending projects and part of the sum as financial assistance to help it tide over the crisis caused by over two months of lockdown amid coronavirus pandemic.Similarly, the cabinet sanctioned Rs5,018 crore, as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission, among the panchayats, panchayat samitis and zila parishads in the 70:20:10 ratio.As regarding the assistance to Compfed, the state’s apex cooperative body has been procuring milk from farmers but has been unable to clear their dues. Further, it has been converting 7-8 lakh litres of milk into milk powder, but its stock worth Rs200 crore has remained unutilized and unsold due to the lockdown. Further, Compfed has to also complete formation of eight milk producer associations and two dairy projects over the next four fiscals. The government’s proposal was also cleared to spend Rs60,000 on the purchase of homestead land for the homeless families under CM Awaas Yojana. The amount is also to pay the families concerned, who would be uprooted after the clearance of the encroachments on ponds during Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Mission, for purchasing the homestead land. Further, the state cabinet also gave its nod to the dismissal of 11 doctors from service for absenting themselves from duty. They were posted in government hospitals in various districts.The 11 doctors dismissed from service are Dr O P Lal (Rohtas), Dr Kamran Habib (Banka), Dr Nityanand Pathak (Supaul), Dr Yakub Sanga (Saran), Dr Indra Mohan (Siwan), Dr Sunita Kumari (Gopalganj), Dr Haroon Rashid (Katihar), Dr Renu Kumari (Katihar), Dr Sunita Kumari Sharma (Saran), Dr A S Yahya (Saharsa) and Dr Tanvir Alam (Katihar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-sanctions-rs-234-crore-to-compfed-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/76291270.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||‘Early mining restart can bring relief to state coffers’||Panaji: Polytechnic Mining Alumni Association of Goa (PolyMAAG), the prominent body of mining engineers in the state, has appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to take immediate steps to ensure resumption of mining operations in Goa. The association said that in light of the current situation, where the state’s tourism sector, one of its biggest revenue earner and employment generator, has come to a grinding halt in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, early resumption of mining could provide much-needed relief to the state exchequer. In a memorandum submitted to the chief minister, the association has requested him to impress upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the need for a legislative amendment to do away with the present mining stoppage in the state to address the suffering of Goans. “In the economic development of any nation, sustainable exploration and mining of minerals plays a vital role. In India, the mining industry is the third largest in terms of generating jobs per unit increase in the sectoral GDP. The state’s iron-ore mining industry supports over 60,000 direct and indirect jobs, with more than three lakh people in the state dependent upon it for generation of their livelihoods,” PolyMAAG said Referring to the crisis in the tourism sector, the association said that considering the nature of the coronavirus, the industry is unlikely to pick-up for at least another 12-15 months, resulting in widespread job loss and loss to state revenue. In light of this, PolyMAAG said, the state’s mining industry, due to its unique characteristics of being self-reliant in terms of local employees, machinery and equipment, is best placed to step into this vacuum and give much-needed relief to the state exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/early-mining-restart-can-bring-relief-to-state-coffers/articleshow/76291947.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Business||Oyo gets fraud expert on its board||Bengaluru: SoftBank-backed Oyo Hotels & Homes said it has appointed fraud expert W Steve Albrecht as a non-executive director on the company’s board to help “strengthen its focus on corporate governance and process improvement at multiple levels”. Albrecht has consulted with organisations like the FBI and the UN, serving as an expert witness in over 38 major fraud cases. The development comes at a time when Oyo has been going through a process of restructuring, which started before the lockdown. The hospitality company, which expanded across the world last year, has laid off over 5,000 employees and last month furloughed more as Covid-19 pandemic hits its business. Albrecht, former president of the American Accounting Association and the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, is also on the board of SkyWest Airlines and Larry H Miller Group of Companies while earlier being on the board of Red Hat and Cypress SemiConductor. He will join other recent board members at Oyo like former Starbucks COO Troy Alstead and Baja Corporation’s Betsy Atkins besides investor representatives from SoftBank, Sequoia and Lightspeed Venture Partners. “As Covid-19 continues to impact the business and forces businesses to rethink its strategies, our board has also come together and has been constantly guiding us on business continuity and recovery measures,” said Oyo founder Ritesh Agarwal in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oyo-gets-fraud-expert-on-its-board/articleshow/76292093.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||CID dog squad member, BMP Gorkha Vahini jawan test Covid positive||PATNA: Two state security personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, including a member of the CID’s dog squad posted in Patna and a jawan of the Bihar Military Police’s Gorkha Vahini, which is deployed for VIP protection. CID sources said that the policeman attached to the dog squad was tested as a precautionary measure as he was scheduled to leave for a training programme in Hyderabad with 49 other colleagues. Following the development, several CID personnel attached with the dog squad in Patna have pulled out of active duty as a precautionary measure. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the jawan tested positive on Monday and he has been taken to an isolation centre for treatment. The BMP jawan from the First Battalion, also known as Gorkha Vahini, tested Covid-19 positive after returning from his hometown Darjeeling after his leave ended. The jawan is associated with one of the four companies of the Vahini, which gets deployed for VIP security duty such as providing cover for the chief minister, Patna high court Chief Justice and senior IPS officers among others. The jawan was living at the Imam complex located near the Dakbungalow roundabout which has the temporary office of a company of BMP-1. The premises also houses small company offices of other BMP battalions which are deployed for law and order duty in Patna. Several others from the premises have been quarantined as a precaution. Following the development, a section of the eastern flank of Fraser Road from Dakbungalow roundabout going towards Patna railway junction was shut on Tuesday by the district administration. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said contact tracing is being done after the BMP-1 jawan tested positive. “His report came in the last 24 hours. Rest of the battalion is safe as he was at a separate office in city. Necessary actions are being taken by the health department as well as the district administration as per protocol. The headquarters is monitoring the situation,” he said. The ADG said altogether 94 police personnel across the state have tested Covid-19 positive till now which includes the Gorkha Vahini jawan. “71 of them have already recovered. This includes all 46 BMP-14 jawans living inside the BMP-5 battalion premises in Patna,” ADG Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cid-dog-squad-member-bmp-gorkha-vahini-jawan-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76290864.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 10, 2020||Patna||Dead ASI tests Covid positive||PATNA: Altogether 69 police personnel of Aurangabad police lines were quarantined on Tuesday after the test report of an assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI), who died there on Sunday morning, came positive for Covid-19 Monday night. This is the first case of a policeman’s death due to Covid-19 in Bihar. The 58-year-old ASI was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the police barrack of the police lines. He had earlier complained of high blood pressure and blood sugar. The postmortem report, however, stated cardiac arrest as the cause of death. “The ASI’s test report from Sasaram came on Monday night,” Aurangabad district public relations officer (DPRO) Dharmaveer Singh said on Tuesday. His samples were collected after death and sent to the government hospital at Sasaram in adjoining Rohtas district. Aurangabad SP Deepak Barnawal said the police personnel who had come in contact with the deceased were identified and sent in quarantine for 14 days. The police barrack in which the ASI was staying has been sealed and is being sanitized. Aurangabad DM Saurabh Jorewal said all precautionary measures were being taken. The samples of the deceased ASI were sent to Patna for further test. His last rites were performed in the presence of family members while following all Covid protocols on Tuesday, the DM said. The ASI, a native of neighbouring Buxar district, had been posted at Khudwa police station in Aurangabad since May 5, 2019. Bihar Police Association (BPA) president Mritunjay Kumar Singh, however, said the ASI was deployed at Haspura quarantine centre under Obra block in the district against the police headquarters directive to the SPs not to depute any aged policeman or those suffering from diseases. Singh demanded action against the SP for violating the police headquarters order and deputing a sick policeman at a quarantine centre. The ASI had come to the police lines on May 27 to hand over reports of evidences in cases under the NDPS Act. He fell sick and was under medical treatment. The BPA chief also demanded Rs50 lakh as compensation to the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dead-asi-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76290839.cms||Ramashankar
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jaganmohan Reddy sets deadline for welfare programmes execution||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday announced timelines for implementation of the government’s various welfare programmes. The government will pay compensation to beneficiaries if the administration fails to meet the deadlines, he said. “Rice card and welfare pension card should be granted within 10 days from the date of application. Arogyasri card should be granted within 20 days and it should not take more than 90 days for grant and registration of house sites. There should not be any deviation from the timelines,” said the chief minister during a review meeting on the government’s Spandana programme with district collectors and SPs through video conference. Jagan directed the district collectors to take measures to adhere to the timelines fixed for issuing the new beneficiary cards for ration, Arogyasri, pension and other benefits. “No application should be turned down without valid reason. Implementation of all welfare programmes within a fixed time-frame would enhance peoples’ trust in the government,” he said. Stating that the process of granting welfare benefits is a continuous one and anyone who was left out could apply in the respective ward/village secretariat, the CM said no one should feel neglected or left out without valid reasons. “Joint collectors in charge of village/ward secretariats should review the implementation of the programmes regularly and take immediate corrective measures,” he added, and directed officials to display the beneficiary lists on the notice boards at village/ward secretariats and allow all those left out to file fresh applications. He further said that all cards should be home-delivered and officials should get biometric acknowledgement from the beneficiaries. “The previous government granted pensions to 44 lakh people. We added another 14 lakh pensions to take the tally to 58 lakh in 12 months. We can win the trust of people if we can extend the welfare programmes without bias and corruption,” said the CM. He also asked officials to accept fresh applications for grant of house sites. “Collectors and joint collectors would be held accountable if they fail to meet the deadlines without any valid reason,” the CM warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-sets-deadline-for-welfare-prog-execution/articleshow/76290147.cms||Samdani MN
June 10, 2020||Delhi||‘Outsider’ issue echoes at all-party meet in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the number of novel coronavirus cases crossing 30,000 mark in the national capital and likely to surge, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday called an all-party meeting to discuss the current situation and measures required to be taken to contain the spread further. Baijal said the meeting was held in a “constructive and harmonious atmosphere” and several constructive suggestions had been received from the leaders of political parties. “Discussed issues relating to availability of beds for Covid-19 patients, extensive testing, swift ambulance response, providing critical information in public domain etc,” the LG tweeted after the meeting. The representatives of political parties said their views were also sought if schools and Delhi Metro should continue to remain closed and whether the shopping malls and restaurants should be closed again considering the increase in the number of corona positive cases. While the political parties agreed with the government on keeping schools and metro suspended, they suggested that the fixed charges collected from commercial electricity connections should be suspended if malls, restaurants or any other establishment is told to shut again. It was the first all-party meeting called by the LG to discuss the pandemic situation in Delhi. While BJP and Congress demanded increased testing for Covid-19, the ruling AAP raised the issue of patients from other states and sought to know the arrangements made for them. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta told reporters after the meeting that he emphasised on the need to increase number of testing and beds in the hospitals. “The government should rise above politics to work with other parties and organisations,” Gupta said. Senior AAP functionary and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh raised the issue of patients from other states coming to Delhi. Singh alleged that the decision was taken by Baijal under pressure from BJP. “When I asked the LG if any arrangement of people who would be coming from all over the country had been made, he did not have an answer. It is clear that Yogi and Khattar’s governments have collapsed in tackling the health services in Noida, Ghaziabad and Guragaon. That is why BJP pressured the LG into revoking the decision of Delhi government,” he said after the meeting. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar claimed in the meeting that since the coronavirus cases started to spike after June 3, Delhi had been testing fewer people every day and the situation was “dangerous”. “Delhi has completely failed on the testing front,” he said after the meeting. He also demanded that a cash transfer of Rs 10,000 be immediately made to the account of each coronavirus affected family and those in quarantine zones to help them survive the financial and health crises. CPI Delhi State Council secretary Dinesh Varshney said there was an urgent need to increase dedicated Covid beds with oxygen and ventilators, which could be achieved by building temporary hospitals. He demanded the Centre released special funds for Delhi government to augment health facilities. He also demanded that all marginalised families should be given free rations with edible oil and other essentials for the next six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/outsider-issue-echoes-at-all-party-meet/articleshow/76291952.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Two held, duo detained for bludgeoning youth to death||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Monday arrested two youths and detained their two minor accomplices when they were about to leave the city after bludgeoning a 20-year-old youth to death at Pimple Saudagar late on Sunday night. The victim, Viraj Jagtap, who sustained severe injuries in the attack, succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Police probe revealed that Jagtap’s murder was the fallout of his alleged relationship with the sister of one of the arrested suspects. The Sangvi police have registered an offence against six persons, including the girl’s father, under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Atrocities Act. Viraj’s uncle, Jitesh Jagtap, stated in his FIR that that while the suspects were beating his nephew, the girl’s father helped them by restraining Viraj. On Sunday, around 10pm, the suspects had dashed Jagtap’s two-wheeler with a mini pickup van. After he fell down, they hit him with iron rods and bludgeoned him with stones. An injured Jagtap was taken to a private hospital where he succumbed to injuries on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-duo-detained-for-bludgeoning-youth-to-death/articleshow/76292507.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs chip in to help fund-starved Secunderabad Cantonment Board||SECUNDERABAD: Resident Welfare Associations in the city have extended help in the form of donations to aid the fund- starved Secunderabad Cantonment Board in its Covid-19 containment efforts. Nearly three months ago, SCB had urged the state government to help the board which was neck-deep in a financial crisis. “We has sought Rs 5 crore from the state government for sanitisation efforts and to purchase equipment to tackle Covid-19. But till date, we have not received any official communication,” SCB chief executive officer, SVR Chandra Sekar told TOI. Only the Ministry of Defence (MoD) had provided grant-in-aid, which was used to control the spread of the pandemic, he added. Meanwhile, in order to overcome the crisis, SCB officials convened a meeting with the representatives of RWAs and sought contributions. The RWAs readily responded with a total contribution till date of nearly 30 lakh. Few RWAs also distributed grocery kits, masks and sanitizers to the SCB sanitation wing workers, migrants and daily-wage workers in the Cantonment. RWA representatives told TOI that donations were done with the awareness that we could fight the pandemic as a community. “We have contributed Rs 1 lakh from our association fund to help sanitary workers in SCB. This is a small gesture in solidarity with the frontline warriors,” said M Srinivas, advisor, Text Book Press Colony RWA, Karkhana. Narsing Rao, a representative of Ishaq Colony Residential Welfare Association, West Marredpally said, “ We have contributed Rs 1 lakhto SCB to back their efforts to ensure proper implementation of sanitisation and preventive measures in SCB limits. “The RWAs’ contribution to fight Covid-19 crisis is appreciable and we invite other RWAs to come forward for the cause,” the CEO said. Individual contributions also came from city firms and residents. R Sridhar, fielding coach of the Indian cricket team, contributed Rs 50,000 and was the first donor. Megha Engineering, an infra firm in Telanagna and AP donated Rs 5 lakh to the board. Several elected ward members and former Board members have also made personal contributions for sanitisation drives and donation of safety and grocery kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-chip-in-to-help-fund-starved-scb/articleshow/76291951.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Bhama Askhed pipeline work halts amid protests||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday said the work on the final 1km-long stretch of the pipeline-laying project, connecting Bhama Askhed dam in Khed tehsil with a civic pumping station, was being suspended for the time being in view of fresh protests by the project-affected farmers from 23 villages. Ram, who visited Khed on Tuesday after a group of farmers started an agitation on Monday by standing knee-deep in the dam water to demand land and monetary compensation, told TOI, “We discussed the matter afresh with the farmers and decided to stop work for the next few days as the protesters are aggressive and unrelenting. We will hold another meeting with the farmers and convince them to allow the project work to go ahead,” he added. Satyavan Navale, the president of Bhama Askhed Jalandolan formed by the affected farmers, told TOI, “Around 450 farmers, who gave their agriculture land for the dam, are yet to get appropriate compensation. Only 179 farmers have so far received compensation in the form of land. Another 300 farmers got Rs15 lakh per hectare in compensation. But the government is not taking any decision regarding the remaining farmers who are landless and don’t have any source of income.” Ram said, “We are giving equal importance to the farmers’ demands and the pipeline work. Our proposal regarding grant of alternative land is pending with the state government. Last year, we gave monetary and land compensation to some of these farmers, and are serious about their rehabilitation.” Everyone ranging from children to senior citizens, including women, has been protesting in knee-deep dam water at different villages near the dam for the past two days. “The government has been giving us false promises. Only a bunch of farmers have got compensation after a Bombay High Court order. The farmers had allowed the jackwell work when the government promised that they won’t initiate the final 1km pipeline work till the farmers’ demands were met. Now suddenly they have started the work,” said Devdas Jadhav, one of the protesters who attended the meeting. Pune municipal corporation’s executive engineer Pravin Gedam said the civic body has already released its share of monetary compensation of Rs105 crore to the district administration. “We are ready to pay our remaining share of Rs30 crore, but the farmers are not relenting. Protests at regular intervals have already delayed the pipeline project which was to be completed in 2016.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhama-askhed-pipeline-work-halts-amid-protests/articleshow/76292504.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 10, 2020||Goa||Dongrim-Mandur throws up possibility of eco-tourism||Panaji: A team of educationists and government officials visited the Dongrim-Mandur area on Sunday to explore the possibility of developing a pilot eco-tourism project. Over the day, the team navigated through the interiors of the village by boat to access submerged khazan lands. The team comprised principal of Don Bosco college of agriculture, Sulcorna, Dr Suresh Kuncolikar; deputy director of agriculture, Satej Kamat; environmentalist, Mahesh Patil, architect; Mahesh Naik, vice-principal of Fr Agnel College, Fr Fredrick Rodrigues and principal of Kala Academy’s Goa college of theatre arts, Ramrao Wagh. “There is a vast scope for eco-tourism in this area. We want to encourage the youth of the village to take up cultivation because the land has been lying fallow for years. Also, we want to generate additional revenue through eco-tourism activities without causing damage to the environment,” Wagh said. The area is already known among some tourists for bird-watching, crocodile-sighting and fishing. However facilities such as boats, eateries, etc are not yet available. On Sunday, local youth from the area showcased the potential of boating, fishing, swimming, etc. The team now wants to prepare a model plan for tourism which can provide these facilities to interested visitors. “We have checked the feasibility of eco-toursim in this area because paddy cultivation in this area has almost discontinued. We are looking at alternative ways in which the youth of the village can generate sustainable income through eco-tourism,” said Mahendra Shirodkar, a resident of the village said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dongrim-mandur-throws-up-possibility-of-eco-tourism/articleshow/76291949.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kochi||No rush as Guruvayur temple opens for devotees||Thrissur: Devotees entered the Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple on Tuesday, after a gap of about 80 days, following the relaxation of the lockdown rules. However, contrary to the popular assessments that there will be a heavy rush of devotees to enter the temple, much less than the permitted number had turned up on the first day. According to the devaswom administrator, S Sisir, only 88 devotees had come to the temple, though 284 had booked online requesting for darshan. The devaswom had in fact announced its decision to allow 600 devotees to enter the temple each day. Three marriages were also held on Tuesday at the temple kalyanamandapam. The devaswom had in fact decided to give sanction to conduct 60 marriages per day at the temple. The bookings for darshan in the coming days are also reported to be not high. The devaswom has so far received only less than 1,000 requests for free darshan till June 13, when the present online registration will continue. Devaswom sources said suspension of private buses and campaigns by some Hindu outfits against opening of the temple could have contributed to the dip in the arrival of devotees. But more than anything else, apprehensions about the possibilities of getting infection appear to be a major reason which deters the heavy flow of devotees to the temple. They are also worried of the need for going under quarantine if any of the devotees tests positive later. The devaswom had put in place elaborate systems for ensuring that the devotees adhere to the norms of physical distancing and sanitisation to avert Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-rush-as-guruvayur-temple-opens-for-devotees/articleshow/76290173.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shutters open after 80 days, Sadar Bazar breathes again||NEW DELHI: Rajendra Sharma finally opened his toy shop in Sadar Bazar on Wednesday after 80 days. Though his inventory was ravaged by rats during the lengthy closure, he is enthusiastic about getting back on track. The otherwise jam-packed market is now breathing again, after being notified as a containment zone on April 10 and remaining closed even as other markets were allowed to open conditionally from May 20. Having run from pillar to post for the market’s reopening, the traders were finally able to smile on Wednesday when the narrow streets sprang to life. “I was at my shop at 10.30am,” gushed Sharma, who is also the general secretary of Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Associations (FSBTA). “It is difficult to explain the feeling of being able to work. Most of us used the day to clean our shops. The shopkeepers were also busy segregating damaged and expired stocks.” Though there weren’t too many customers on Wednesday, the shop owners remained busy, taking stock, rearranging their shelves, and, above all, raising roped barricades outside their shops to facilitate social distancing. This is necessary because the market still falls in the buffer zone. Brijesh Goel, convenor, Confederation of All India Traders, said, “The authorities opened the market on condition that no new cases are reported from the area. This is, however, a challenge in this overcrowded market. The market associations have asked shoppers above 60 years not to come here.” The advisory issued by the traders’ body has also asked shops to keep hand sanitiser machines, use thermal scanner for employees and buyers, disallow anyone with symptoms from entering a shop and operate for limited hours daily. “We might also decide to open shops trade-wise, encourage customers to pre-order goods on WhatsApp, and open stores on odd-even basis, especially on lanes that are around 3-feet wide,” added Paramjit Singh Pamma, vice-president, FSBTA. Describing the market as a lifeline for lakhs of traders in north India, Jasvinder Singh, a wholesaler of artificial silk flowers, felt business would revive soon. “The corona crisis has broken everyone. Due to the lockdown, the artificial flowers we ordered for the wedding season in March-April got damaged. Survival is possible if we don’t lose hope, and I think it will take six months for a revival,” said Singh. Rickshaw puller Ramesh Kumar too hoped for a turnaround. “Because trucks can’t come to the narrow lanes, hundreds of rickshaws ferry goods from the main road to the shops. Our survival had become a challenge,” Kumar said. Sadar Bazar has around 40,000 shops and dozens of smaller hubs, such as Pratap Market, Swadeshi Market, Toy Market and Bartan Market that each deal in a specific product. There are 83 traders’ associations in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shutters-open-after-80-days-sadar-bazar-breathes-again/articleshow/76310940.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Film shooting to resume in Andhra Pradesh from June 15||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has given the green signal for resumption of film shootings in the state from June 15. He has also agreed to waive the fixed electricity tariff on film theatres which have remained closed due to the lockdown. A delegation from the Telugu film industry comprising actors Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna, director Rajamouli, and producers D Suresh Babu, Dil Raju, Potluri Vara Prasad and C Kalyan met the chief minister at his camp office on Tuesday. The meet lasted for about 30 minutes. “We thank the chief minister for his proactive support to provide relief to the film industry. He has agreed to waive fixed power charges for film theatres which are facing financial trouble due to the lockdown,” said Chiranjeevi after the meeting.  He said the CM has also agreed to look into the issue of flexi-pricing of tickets which is already in vogue in Chennai, Mumbai and other metro cities. Ticket prices would go up depending on the budget of the film in flexi-pricing mode to help big-budget film recover their production cost. The CM has also promised to take a final call on holding the Nandi awards function shortly after declaring the winners for 2019-20. “The chief minister assured us that he will look into the issue of land allotted by (Jagan’s father) YS Rajasekhara Reddy in Visakhapatnam for construction of film studios. It will boost the film industry in AP,” added Chiranjeevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/film-shooting-to-resume-in-the-state-from-june-15/articleshow/76290174.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Walking at Race Course barred over Covid fears||Coimbatore: To prevent the spread of Covid-19, district collector K Rajamani has ordered the public not to use the walking track on Race Course till the lockdown is over. Hundreds of people have been using the stretch for morning walks every day at Race Course ever since the government relaxed the lockdown from May 4. There were lots of complaints of overcrowding and lack of social distancing on the stretch. “We came to know that some people failed to wear protective masks and maintain social distancing when they came to the Race Course for a walk. Hence, the district administration has imposed a ban on using the walking track at Race Course until further orders,” the collector said. He said the police patrol vehicles have been asked to advise the general public to desist from using the walking track. He said that the government has invoked section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that empowers an executive magistrate to issue an order prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one place or from organizing any event/ programme where a gathering can be expected. Rajamani said that people who had returned from Chennai should compulsorily inform the district administration so that they can be kept under quarantine for at least two weeks. “Those who fail to inform the district administration and those who are roaming freely with flu symptoms will be booked under the Epidemic Act,” Rajamani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/walking-at-race-course-barred-over-covid-fears/articleshow/76291953.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Waterholes in Mollem forest curb man-animal conflicts||PANAJI: The timely initiative of building artificial waterholes in forest areas to prevent incidents of wild animals straying into human habitations in search of water has helped forest officials avoid man-animal conflict in Mollem. Animals require food, water and cover to occupy a habitat. While food and cover are generally available, water is often short supply, especially as the seasons move towards summer. “The whole idea is to provide the animals with water inside the forest itself so that they don’t stray out into the settlement areas. This is because, once the herbivores stray out, the carnivores also follow them. We’re preventing that,” a forest official said. This year, the range forest at the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and national park has developed three rainwater structures. One of these is about 50x4 sqmts wide, two metres deep and has four nullahs connected to it. “These nullahs will feed the area with water which will be utilised by the animals. This water will also help in recharging the groundwater,” officials said. In one of the dry areas of the forest, one artificial waterhole was built for the animals to quench their thirst. In addition to this, there are some perennial water holes as well. Unlike the man-made water holes which require to be refilled with tanker water, the natural water holes are naturally replenished by forest springs. Last year, the forest department had created three artificial waterholes in the area. A rain water harvesting unit was also constructed which would convert into a waterhole post-monsoon. “We laid out a camera trap to capture the sights. We managed to capture images of a sloth bear and her cubs, and a bison with her calves. This was only possible because our intervention has been very scientific,” officials said. As of today, there are a total of five rainwater harvest structures cum water holes, seven natural or perennial water holes and four man-made water holes. There are also about eleven old water holes that are being maintained by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waterholes-in-mollem-forest-curb-man-animal-conflicts/articleshow/76291954.cms||Nida Sayed
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: What’s eating Khan Market restaurants? It’s corona||NEW DELHI: The surprise over the closure of Café Turtle in Khan Market is yet to die down — and eight other outlets in the market have already given vacation notices to their landlords. With no headway in rent negotiations, more are likely to follow suit. With the new guidelines of reduced operating hours, no serving of alcohol and no waiver of licence fees by civic authorities, operating a restaurant is no longer a viable proposition, say restaurant owners. Restaurateur Navneet Kalra has no doubt that the present Covid-19 induced phase is the toughest the industry has every faced. Kalra, who owns Town Hall and Khan Chacha in Khan Market, has seen just 15-20% sales at these outlets in the last two days. He also disclosed that Coffee Bean and Tea Leaves and Harry’s Bar, who were his tenants, Sidewok and three others have closed or are about to. Without the support of landlords and state government, many restaurants, he said, would down shutters in Khan Market. Varun Tuli of Yum Yum Cha, however, expects things to normalise if the right message is given and the panic of customers addressed. His own landlord has been supportive and enabled him to reopen and offer both dine-in and delivery services. Resumption of his outlets in the malls, though, will depend on deals with mall operators and consumer confidence. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “We have disposable cutlery and crockery, staff wearing face shield and contactless ordering through phone,” he said. The hygiene precautions taken by most restaurants, he argued, would make them safer than grocery stores, where hundreds touching the items on the shelves in an air-conditioned setting. “Just as confidence in food delivery has bounced back due to sustained messaging, restaurants will similarly reopen,” Tuli asserted optimistically. In Khan Market, however, at present the restaurant owners aren’t so hopeful. A market representative revealed that a European eatery, a café-cum-bar and a burger and barbeque joint, besides three retail outlets, including a beauty salon, have already informed their landlords that they would be closing. Smoke House Deli, another marquee eatery, is also closing, with owner Riyaaz Amlani saying the current outlook did not encourage a reopening of the restaurant. Kalra said waiving the rent for the lockdown period and reducing rents for the remaining months, relaxing the operating hours and permitting use of the terraces could inject some confidence. This week is a test case for many. With disappointing returns on the first two days of resumption of business, the coming weekend will be the indication of customer confidence and help shape decisions on whether to run an outlet or switch to takeaway and home delivery. Rajneesh Malik, who started Sidewok in 2006, decided to shut down the outlet in Khan Market. While an emotional decision for him, he said he felt it made no business to run the establishment following unsatisfactory meetings with the landlords and observing the market sentiment. Malik explained that home delivery and takeaway accounted for only 10% of his sales. He couldn’t rely on these to return 90% of revenues with dining-in expected to contribute only 10% due to the fixed closing time of 9pm. Also read: BSF jawan succumbs to Covid-19; 14th death in CAPFsUmang Tewari of Big Fish Ventures concurred with Malik and thought consolidation could be the way out. Tewari, who has 10 outlets across Delhi, said he would rather focus on reopening his food outlets and close four of his high-energy bars to trim losses. With clientele depleted, he reasoned, “Reopening means a sizeable investment per outlet. If any customer tested positive, it would close the outlet for 14 days again. With this uncertainty, it makes no sense to invest in reopening.” A restaurant consultant foresaw a similar scenario in Connaught Place, Hauz Khas Village and Rajouri Garden, where 20% of the outlets have closed down and many others have not applied for renewal of their licences. This unforeseen, though temporary situation, can only be overcome with cooperation between stakeholders, explained Shriram Monga of SRED Advisory, a food and beverage and retail advisory firm, who is part of many renegotiations between restaurateurs and landlords. He pointed out that the mindset right now was to save the company rather than a single outlet, and if the landlords did not sign new rent deals, the tenants could just vacate the premises and move on. With the landlords and tenants deadlocked, and the city authorities not ready to support the industry, Monga feels dining out will no longer be a hallmark of the city. Restaurants that shut down will think multiple times before investing in the business again, resulting in a loss for everyone, including for the state government in terms of tax revenues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/whats-eating-khan-market-restaurants-its-corona/articleshow/76291964.cms||Amin Ali
June 10, 2020||Amaravati||Film shooting to resume in Andhra Pradesh from June 15||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has given the green signal for resumption of film shootings in the state from June 15. He has also agreed to waive the fixed electricity tariff on film theatres which have remained closed due to the lockdown. A delegation from the Telugu film industry comprising actors Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna, director Rajamouli, and producers D Suresh Babu, Dil Raju, Potluri Vara Prasad and C Kalyan met the chief minister at his camp office on Tuesday. The meet lasted for about 30 minutes. “We thank the chief minister for his proactive support to provide relief to the film industry. He has agreed to waive fixed power charges for film theatres which are facing financial trouble due to the lockdown,” said Chiranjeevi after the meeting.  He said the CM has also agreed to look into the issue of flexi-pricing of tickets which is already in vogue in Chennai, Mumbai and other metro cities. Ticket prices would go up depending on the budget of the film in flexi-pricing mode to help big-budget film recover their production cost. The CM has also promised to take a final call on holding the Nandi awards function shortly after declaring the winners for 2019-20. “The chief minister assured us that he will look into the issue of land allotted by (Jagan’s father) YS Rajasekhara Reddy in Visakhapatnam for construction of film studios. It will boost the film industry in AP,” added Chiranjeevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/film-shooting-to-resume-in-the-state-from-june-15/articleshow/76297797.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Slum in Pune's Koregaon Park has 470 asymptomatic cases||PUNE: A slum pocket on South Main road of Koregaon Park has now been declared a containment zone after 470 residents, out of an estimated total of 1,200, tested positive for Covid-19. But the area has sparked some concern among officials as all of the 470 cases are asymptomatic, which means they don't have most of the symptoms that have been linked to the disease. Police are scrambling to contain the stealth spread near the slum which, officials said, will need 24x7 monitoring. Authorities said despite prohibitory orders, residents have been spotted moving about inside the slum. A team of about 20 policemen have now been stationed near the slum that has two key lanes lined with homes — Sant Gadge Maharaj Vasahat and Rajiv Gandhi Vasahat. Both lanes lead to the South Main road. Police are keen on keeping residents inside the containment zone. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II), Shirish Sardeshpande, said the slum pocket didn't have a single case until two weeks ago. “Many residents here are employed in hospitals located on Bund Garden road, Koregaon Park and Kalyaninagar,” Sardeshpande said. “One resident was infected during hospital stay. He did not have symptoms at the time of discharge, but was traced to the slum by PMC officials after he came in direct contact with a symptomatic positive patient.” The senior police official said many of the slum's residents had initially refused to be tested because they were not displaying common Covid-19 symptoms such as fever or cough. "But after much counselling, they finally relented. In the past two weeks, health workers have been able to test 1,200 residents. The 470 who have tested positive have been sent to isolation units. The entire slum is now a micro containment zone," said Sardeshpande. Police officials said continuous monitoring is on to ensure the slum residents stay indoors. “Some were spotted moving about as houses here are small. We have stopped them from going out to the main roads or to their workplaces. Seventy-five people here have been appointed as Special Police Officers (SPOs) and they will help monitor cleaning of toilets and supply of essentials to households,” Sardeshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/slum-in-koregaon-park-has-470-asymptomatic-cases/articleshow/76291959.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 10, 2020||Goa||Shack owners abandon sand bags in Salcete||Colva: Even though shacks along the Salcete beach stretch have been dismantled, sand bags which were used by operators to erect their structures have not been cleared. The stacked sand bags lie tattered, with some scattered along the beaches. Discarded cement bags are filled with sand and utilised to either elevate the seating area outside the shacks or to prepare embankments against unusual rise in sea level. Two shack owners who were in the process of stacking more sand bags told TOI that they have not cleared bags as they feel it prevents erosion. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said, “There is a clause in the shack agreement, that upon the expiry of the licence on May 31, shack owners have to clear everything, including the sand bags”. D’Souza said his staff will soon carry out an inspection and defaulting shack owners will be penalised by forfeiting their deposits. Member secretary of Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority Johnson Fernandes said he is unaware of the situation but would direct the tourism department to survey the coastline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shack-owners-abandon-sand-bags-in-salcete/articleshow/76291961.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hubballi||Savadi’s rising clout evident||Belagavi: The decision of the BJP central leadership to pick two low-profile district-level party workers as Rajya Sabha candidate is proof of deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi’s rapidly rising clout in the party. Though party sources maintain that Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti were picked by party’s national secretary (organization) B L Santosh, it is amply clear that his loyalist Savadi played a key role in identifying them. Both Kadadi and Gasti are said to be Savadi’s hardcore supporters. While Kadadi has been his lieutenant in Belagavi for a long-time, Gasti’s association with Savadi began when Savadi was made Raichur district minister. The BJP central leaders made Savadi the deputy CM despite him not being an MLA after the party came to power in July last year. Though he was denied a ticket to contest the bypoll from Athani, he was made a member of legislative council to allow him to continue in the post. There has been a long-standing rivalry between Savadi and Kore-Katti-Jarkhiholi trio . A few years ago, they joined hands to defeat Savadi in a cooperative bank election and in the 2018 assembly polls. “Savadi was appointed DCM despite losing the assembly election. On the other hand, the party ignored Umesh Katti by denying him a cabinet berth. They rubbed salt on the wounds of the Kattis by denying a Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha ticket to Ramesh. This shows that BJP central leaders are firmly with Savadi,’’ a senior party functionary said. Despite their stranglehold on several institutions in the Belagavi region for the last two decades, the politically influential families of Kore and Kattis now appear to be grappling for a foothold in their own district now. B L Santosh said whether what is unfolding in the BJP is for good or bad is for political observers to comment on. He further added that the party has bestowed him with certain responsibilities which he is discharging in the best interest of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/savadis-rising-clout-evident/articleshow/76290199.cms||Shreyas HS
June 10, 2020||Bareilly||UP: After temples, prominent Muslim shrine calls for boycott of alcohol-based sanitizer||BAREILLY: A prominent cleric at Dargah Aala Hazrat in Bareilly -- the most revered shrine of Muslims' Barelvi sect -- has asked the followers and mosque heads to avoid using alcohol-based sanitizers. “Alcohol is prohibited in Islam. So, Muslims should not use alcohol-based sanitizers. A mosque will become impure if alcohol-based sanitizer is used for cleaning the premises. We cannot make God’s home impure. Namaz cannot be offered at an impure place. If the mosque is made impure knowingly, it will be a sin. I have appealed to Imams of mosques and mosques’ committees to refrain from using alcohol-based sanitizer,” said Mufti Nashtar Farooqi of Sunni Markaz Darul Ifta, Dargah Aala Hazrat. Farooqi also gave an alternative to save the followers from the “sin”. “Instead of using alcohol-based sanitizer, Muslims should properly wash their hands and mosque campus with soap, detergent powder and shampoo,” the cleric said. It comes just a day after priests of some prominent temples in Mathura refused to use the sanitizer with alcohol content. Some prominent temples, including Iskcon, Banke Bihari, Mukut Mukharvind and Shri Rang Nath Ji in Mathura and Vrindavan, had decided not to open their doors for public from Monday. One of the reasons behind their decision was the government’s directions for mandatory use of alcohol-based sanitizers on premises. Most sanitizers have over 70% alcohol content in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-temples-prominent-muslim-shrine-calls-for-boycott-of-alcohol-based-sanitizer/articleshow/76290187.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 10, 2020||Pune||Panmala area on Sinhagad road isolated as cases crosses 150||Pune: The Panmala slum pocket on Sinhagad road, which has registered over 150 Covid-19 cases since May 15, has now been isolated.There’s now a single point of entry and exit. Inside the slum, all small lanes have been closed and residents are not permitted to step out of their homes.Elected representatives from the area said cases surged in the slum since the first positive case on May 15. “The number rose especially in the last two weeks,” said Shankar Pawar, the local corporator. “First, there was a surge in the nearby Janata Vasahat slum. Within a few days, we started seeing cases in Panamala.”Civic officials said Panmala has two sets of community toilets. Three movable toilets have now been set up in the pocket and health workers said disinfection drives and water supply have been stepped up to improve hygiene. “Most Panmala residents use the community toilets; many don’t have loos at home. Some houses are no bigger than 100 sq ft,” said Anand Rithe, another corporator. “We have asked residents to help contain the spread. We are hoping containment measures that worked in the Janata Vasahat slum work for Panmala as well.” Jayant Bosekar, zonal commissioner, said health authorities are monitoring every lane inside Panmala. “Swab collection of at-risk patients is underway. We have earmarked two schools as isolation units for people who're awaiting test results,” Bosekar said.Two more slum pockets, including one near Dandekar bridge, have also reported nearly 70 positive cases so far. Similar steps have been taken in both the areas to contain the spread, the civic authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panmala-area-on-sinhagad-road-isolated-as-cases-crosses-150/articleshow/76291963.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||New guidelines for hospitality sector, separate rules for the sick||Vijayawada: The tourism department has issued a detailed guidelines for the hospitality sector which are mandated to be followed from June 8 onwards. In this regard, special chief secretary Rajat Bhargava issued a government order (GO RT No123) which handed over the responsibility of implementing the guidelines to the district administration and the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Authority’s chief executive officer. Some of the main guidelines mentioned in the annexure of the GO includes, self-declaration of the guest/tourist’s medical history to the hotel management. From troubleshooting through intercom or video chat to delivering food outside the door, a new normal is being established for room service. New check-in and check-out protocols have been put in place. A minimum six-feet distance has been mandated while interacting with guests and staff. Interestingly, the GO also includes separate check-in guidelines if the guest is found to be sneezing or coughing. “Do not deny check-in. Offer medical assistance and deep clean the reception area,” the guideline reads. If the illness persists, the lodging staff must contact Covid-19 control number. Tourism officials explain that the main aim of the guidelines is to reduce contact between guests and hospitality staff and increase traceability of the guest if the situation warrants. All common facilities such as gyms, play areas and swimming pools are mandated to be closed. In terms of restaurant operations, the basic rule is to ensure spacious seating arrangements and markings on the floor to ensure social distancing. The second most crucial rule is to run with minimum seating capacity. Officials said failure to comply with the guidelines or lapses can be punished by the district administration or by the FSSAI department by suspending/cancelling their licenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-guidelines-for-hospitality-sector-separate-rules-for-the-sick/articleshow/76290203.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Virus, changing rules play havoc with wedding plans||BHUBANESWAR: Marriages are made in heaven but solemnised on Earth. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has made the solemnisation of marriages impossible with many families forced to frequently change the date to adjust with the government norms and many more shifting the ceremonies to the year-end with the hope of the infection fizzling out by then. Some families are keen to go through the ritual by the end of summer or the rainy season fully aware of the difficulties they might face in organising the ceremonies. “My daughter’s engagement took place in 2019. I don’t want to delay the marriage further,” Debadas Mohanty, a retired government servant, whose daughter is set to get married on June 29, said. The family had initially decided upon June 28, which falls on a Sunday, as the date of marriage. But they were forced to change the date with the Odisha government implementing the weekend lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Faced with a similar situation, the family of banker Sikhya Priyadarshini, changed her marriage date from June 28 to July 17. Even her engagement ceremony with a Kolkata-based engineer, which was scheduled to be held on April 26 (Akshaya Tritiya), was cancelled owing to the lockdown. “We are keeping our fingers crossed. It’s difficult to predict what will be the government norms after June,” Sikhya, whose family is toying with the idea of a temple or mandap as her wedding venue, said. “According to an Odia almanac, marriages can be held on June 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 17, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and July 1,2,6, 7,8,11, 12, 13 and 14 in the end of summer and the beginning of the rainy season in Odisha,” astrologer Sripati Acharya said. But organising a wedding in this time of crisis is no mean task. Sikhya has been juggling office and running around to put her wedding preparations in place. The bride-to-be is extremely worried for her father, who is constantly interacting with outsiders to organise the ceremony. “The pre-wedding functions would be low-key and the number of invitees at the wedding would be 50,” Sikhya said. The Mohanty family has also planned to conduct the pre-wedding ceremony at their home with a limited number of guests. “I have invited one person from the families of each of my relative for the marriage. It would be a token attendance,” Mohanty, whose daughter, a dental surgeon, is set to get married to a doctor, said. Both the families have decided to limit the baraat to 20 people. “There were suggestions to scale it down further like going for a court marriage, but I preferred to go the traditional way as she is my only daughter,” Debadas said. He is planning a low-key wedding in a hotel. Hotels are also not allowing more than 50 people and taking all the necessary steps to sanitise their premises while being sceptical of cancellations owing to constant changes in government norms. “The business of marriage in hotels has been hit. This June, we have just four marriages and two thread ceremonies lined up compared to much more the previous years. We will follow all social distancing and government norms to organise the ceremonies,” Chidanand Mohapatra, the assistant general manager of a city hotel, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/virus-changing-rules-play-havoc-with-wedding-plans/articleshow/76290206.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
June 10, 2020||Bareilly||Boy found dead with bite marks on body in Bareilly||BAREILLY: With his face bearing several deep marks of bite and scratches, the body of a boy, aged four, was found on Tuesday morning from the bushes close to a wedding venue, where the child had come with his parents the previous night. The incident took place in Bareilly’s Bhamora area. And the autopsy revealed that the boy was sodomized, a senior police officer said. The gruesome murder took place about 30 km from Bareilly’s Sirouli area, where another child, who was six years old, was found dead four days ago, with his testicles missing. While the Tuesday’s murder was “handiwork of some drunkard pedophile”, the other murder was most likely committed by some tantric (occultist), according to preliminary probe of district police. When asked, senior police officers said that there was no common link between the two murders “as of now”. On Tuesday, senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey inspected the spot where the child’s body was recovered and met his family members. The police officer assured a quick probe and speedy disposal of the case. “It is most likely work of an inebriated man,” said another senior police officer. While on Saturday morning, the mutilated body of a missing six-year-old boy was found from a pond in Sirauli area’s Barsair village. His genitals were chopped off and he died due to excessive bleeding, police said. He had gone missing on Friday evening and his body was fished out from a pond on the outskirts of the village. There were injuries on his lips and cheeks too. His family members have alleged that their son was killed by their rivals in the village. Police had recovered soil from the fist of the child which suggested that the boy was alive when he touched the surface of the pond. SSP Pandey had told TOI, “Investigation team and forensic experts have thoroughly studied the crime spot and collected evidence. We have also asked the family to provide a list of people who have enmity with them as it might help us to reach the killer.” On Tuesday, police said it was probing the role of a tantric who had come from Delhi before lockdown. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-kids-aged-4-6-found-brutally-murdered-in-a-span-of-4-days-in-bareilly/articleshow/76290202.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 10, 2020||Pune||Housing societies making own rules will face action: Pune collector||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday said housing societies preparing and enforcing their own “prohibitory orders” would face strict action under the Disaster Management Act. He said the administration would initiate action if any member raised a complaint. Ram’s warning comes in the wake of reports that several housing societies were making their own rules, such as not allowing domestic help to enter the premises despite the requirements of several senior citizens or blocking supply of essential services such as milk and gas cylinders. Many societies across the PCMC limits have resorted to polling within societies to justify their methods and practices. Ram said notices would be issued to the offending societies under Section 188 of the Disaster Management Act and FIRs could be registered against the society members not adhering to the state government’s directions. He said people living in housing societies could reach out to the offices of the collector, municipal commissioners and local authorities with their complaints. “Housing societies cannot have rules that contradict the state government’s rules relaxing the lockdown. We are receiving complaints and my orders will ensure that nobody staying in housing societies faces any unnecessary hassle. Housing societies should take a more proactive role in alerting the administration in case of people coming from outside. They should work with the administration, rather than create issues for the member residents,” Ram said.Rules made by many housing societies preventing and regulating ancillary staffers’ entry and not allowing domestic help have left many senior citizens in a spot. Vernon Fernandes (67) said his 90-year-old mother-in-law faced a lot of difficulties in the absence of her domestic help. He added that despite showing the municipal commissioner’s order allowing house helps from the non-containment zones, the chairman of his housing society did not budge from his stand. “It gets very difficult in such situations. Random rules only create chaos,” Fernandes told TOI. Social worker Rohan Gaikwad said many societies had prevented domestic helps doubting he medical certificates they carried with them. Pune civic chief Shekar Gaikwad told TOI that the rules clearly allowed movement of domestic helps from non-containment zones and there was no scope of any confusion. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar iterated that there were no special rules disallowing the domestic helps from entering the housing societies. He said people could allow them to work amid proper health precautions. A senior officer in the district registrar’s office told TOI that if the collector has issued instructions, they would ensure notices were issued to the housing societies if there were valid complaints against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsg-societies-making-own-rules-will-face-action-pune-collector/articleshow/76292511.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Candidates face issues while filing admission forms||PUNE: The candidates facing problems while submitting online admission applications, said they were not getting any help from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) as its phone lines were not being answered. The SPPU opened admissions for the next academic session and the interested candidates were to apply online for the courses of their choice between June 1 and 30. The only problem was that many candidates were having trouble doing so and when they called the helpline numbers given on the website, there was no response. “I want to apply for a postgraduate degree in SPPU. When I saw the dates had been announced, I tried applying online. To be eligible for the entrance examination, we have to first create a profile in the SPPU database, after which we will be allowed to fill up the application form. So, my friend and I tried creating a profile, but it was just not getting uploaded. We have been trying to call the university, but there has been no response,” Swapnil Gaikwad said. Another student applying for an MA in Gender Studies too faced problems while uploading her documents. “I was able to create a profile, but when I tried to upload the documents required for the application, an error kept popping up. The helplines were not responding and I did not know what to do. Finally, after many trials, I was able to get through. However, in these times when students cannot travel and when the university is also not allowing outsiders inside for enquiries, they should at least keep communication channels open,” she said. The pro vice-chancellor NS Umrani said that at the moment, the number of staff coming to the office had been curtailed, which could lead to some issues with responding to calls. “However, students can send us emails describing their problems and we will reply within three days,” Umrani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-face-challenges-while-applying-for-admissions-to-sppu/articleshow/76291971.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Fortress city: 42 areas in Vijayawada notified as containment zones||VIJAYAWADA: A major portion of Vijayawada city, including arterial roads and commercial hubs has been brought under the containment zone restricting movement of people and transport and commercial activity. Only a few days ago restrictions were lifted in many parts of the city allowing normalcy to return. In a sudden development on Tuesday evening, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz issued orders bringing a number of areas under containment zones. Vijayawada is the commercial capital of Andhra Pradesh and business activity began slowly picking up since the relaxation of Covid-19 norms a week ago. But the order on demarcation of new containment zones has taken businessmen, shopkeepers and daily wagers by surprise. The order did not specify for how long the restrictions will be in place. As many as 42 areas were declared as containment zones. If the boundaries earmarked for these zones are taken into account, there will be restriction on movement of people and commercial activity in about two-thirds of the city. All places of worship in these zones will remain closed. They reopened after 77 days of lockdown on Monday. The district collector said the announcement was made to reduce the spread of Covid-19. The number of cases registered in Krishna district touched 570 cases on Tuesday and around 520 cases were registered in Vijayawada city alone. The number of containment areas in the city as on May 26 were 13. They have now increased to 42. “Strict perimeter control will be under enforcement in the core area with restricted movement inside the buffer area,” Imtiaz said. Indrakeeladri, atop which is the famous temple of Sri Kanakadurga, also falls under containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fortress-city-42-areas-in-vij-notified-as-containment-zones/articleshow/76290214.cms||Venu Lanka
June 10, 2020||Goa||With breaches to bundh network, Carambolim locals wary of floods||Panaji: Heavy rainfall triggered by cyclone Nisarga last week, has further devastated the weak bundh network in the vast Carambolim khazan. Villagers are now distantly pinning their hopes that the bundhs will be repaired urgently so that their houses remain above flood-water-level. The rainfall for a couple of days washed away parts of the nearly 2km Guddier-Panch manos bundh, exposing paddy fields at a higher level and houses in Porkebhat and Petter to dangers of increased flooding. “The village, especially its low-lying areas, may now face more flooding. If the government doesn’t act quickly, the residents in these areas will have to be evacuated before their houses submerge,” Rajesh Naik, a pancha said. A network of intricate bundhs in one of Goa’s biggest khazan lands, from Agasaim to Carambolim and Gandaulim, protects the cultivable land from the Cumbharjua canal in the east and the Zuari towards the south. The area, said to be about 2,000 hectares, was once a fertile zone - a rice, vegetable and fish bowl since time immemorial. “But now, most of the areas in our village, and up to Agasaim, remain submerged throughout the year. Only fish production seems to have become a priority,” a villager said. The main bundh, Domzo, which extends from Dongorim in south to Nagonzo, Carambolim, towards north, and acts as the main barrier against the Zuari-Cumbarjua flow, has developed many breaches largely due to negligence. The tidal flow through the broken bundhs has ravaged other barriers. The Nagonzo-Vallapoi bundh, which formed the second line of defence, also cracked some years back, reducing the agricultural area. “Now, the Panch Manos-Guddier bundh, the third line of defence, has become porous,” Naik said. A tender for repairs issued a year back is still pending government approval. The paddy fields in Savatt area comprised the last few cultivable patches in the vast khazan. “Now influx of saline water has damaged the fertility of these fields below the Carambolim lake,” a villager said. With the bundh system likely to face fury of monsoon floods, villagers are worried. “Some houses and occupants on the edge of fields are in danger,” one farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-breaches-to-bundh-network-carambolim-locals-wary-of-floods/articleshow/76292513.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vimannagar girl, one-year-old cousin killed as tanker hits scooter||PUNE: A 16-year-old girl from Vimannagar, riding pillion to her elder sister on a scooter, and their one-year-old cousin died of grievous wounds after a tanker hit the two-wheeler at the Inspection Bungalow Chowk in front of Residency Club at Queen’s Garden in Pune Camp on Sunday night. The Koregaon Park police have gathered some clues about the tanker from the CCTV footage and hope to arrest its driver soon. The elder sister, Ruksar Rizwan Shaikh (24), a sales executive with a private firm in Vimannagar, was injured in the accident. She later lodged an FIR. Ruksar and her sister, Rehnaz, a school student, along with their one-year-old cousin Ummehani, daughter of their uncle Suhel Shaikh, were on the way to his home at Sharbatwala Chowk on Dastur Meher Road in Camp. Police said the sisters were not wearing helmets and should not have ventured out on the two-wheeler after 9pm considering the night curfew in force due to Covid-19. Sub-inspector Bhagwat Shedge of the Koregaon Park police told TOI, “The sisters were heading towards Camp from Circuit House chowk. The water tanker was heading in the same direction and hit the scooter while overtaking it.”Rehnaz and Ummehani fell on the road and sustained grievous injuries to head and hands. Ruksar suffered some bruises. “Rehnaz’s head banged against the road surface. The tanker driver did not stop and fled,” an officer said. People in the vicinity took Ruksar and Rehnaz to a private hospital in Koregaon Park and the infant to another private hospital near the accident spot. The doctors, however, pronounced Rehnaz and Ummehani as brought dead. Shedge said the CCTV footage showed that the tanker went in the direction of the Jehangir Hospital Chowk and then towards Shivajinagar. The Inspection Bungalow chowk is a narrow junction linking Bund Garden Road, Mobo’s Hotel Chowk, Agharkar Road, Pune railway station, General Arun Kumar Vaidya Road, Queen’s Garden Road, Old Circuit House and Koregaon Park. It comes under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), but the areas around it come under the Pune Cantonment Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vimannagar-girl-1-yr-old-cousin-killed-as-tanker-hits-scooter/articleshow/76292512.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Poor transport facility sours chance of profit for farmers||Vijayawada: The coronavirus outbreak has had a serious impact on mango farmers in the district. Despite support from horticulture authorities, the mango season has ended with huge losses, primarily owing to the issue of transportation. The loss felt even more poignant as farmers have suffered losses in the last three years owing to poor produce and untimely rain. This year, however, not only there were fewer thunderstorms, but also the jute-bag system protected the crop from insects. So farmers were able to harvest their entire crop. But transport issues prevented most exporters from coming forward and buying the stock. Many of the farmers ended up selling their products in the local markets — they had to shoulder the local transport cost as well — at a cheaper rate. “We were not fortunate enough this year. Poor crop was a major concern in the last three years. But we tried several ways to boost crop production and used the jute bag system, suggested by horticulture department. But poor transport facilities affected us. I sold fine quality Chinna Rasalus for Rs 12 each in local markets that usually sells for Rs 20 in inter-state export,” said K Nagu, a mango farmer from Idara village. “We, however, are thankful to the marketing and horticulture authorities for providing us carts to sell our products directly to consumers in Vijayawada, Gudivada, Eluru, and other nearby cities,” he added. Mango is one of the main crops grown in Krishna district, including in Nuzvid and Aagiripalli. Mangoes are cultivated in around 10,000 hectares in the Nuzvid region. Chinna Rasalu, Pedda Rasalu, Banginapalli, Thotapuri are some of the popular varieties cultivated in this region. And around three hundred tonnes of mangoes are exported to other states from Asia’s largest mango market situated at Nunna every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/poor-transport-facility-sours-chance-of-profit-for-farmers/articleshow/76290237.cms||Venu Lanka
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Pleas in Delhi high court on Covid-19 test rates, easing of restrictions||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday asked Delhi government to treat two petitions as representations. While one of them sought a cap on rates that can be charged by private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients, another filed on behalf of a toddler highlighted the considerable risk faced by him and other minors due to government’s decision to lift the restrictions. The first plea sought a direction to Delhi government to develop a mechanism where the hospitals display availability of Covid-19 beds at a prominent place on its premises and their websites. The second petition by a two-year-old boy through his father said he resided in a joint family comprising working members who would be resuming work pursuant to the “Unlock” announced by Delhi government with effect from June 8. He claimed that the move would put him at a considerable risk of contracting the virus through his family members due to the lifting of restriction on movements. He said the situation has been further aggravated due to shortage of requisite healthcare infrastructure such as hospital beds and ventilators. The plea highlighted the hardship and challenges faced by the residents in getting admission in a hospital despite having tested Covid-positive or showing symptoms, and being a high-risk category patient facing difficulty in breathing and in urgent need of getting medical assistance. The court asked the government to treat both the petitions as representations and decide as per law. Meanwhile, it also disposed of a batch of petitions challenging Delhi government’s June 7 order directing all the government and private hospitals as well as nursing homes to admit only “bonafide” residents of Delhi for treatment, after it was informed that the lieutenant governor has restored the earlier situation. The petitions had sought setting aside the June 7 order saying the decision was unconstitutional, arbitrary, against the humanity and results in discrimination on the basis of residence of a citizen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pleas-in-hc-on-test-rates-easing-of-restrictions/articleshow/76291993.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Aided school holds test, sealed||Coimbatore: The district administration and school education officials sealed an aided school in the city on Tuesday for conducting entrance exam for Class VI in violation of the state’s orders. The school violated two rules - not to function during the pandemic and that aided schools shouldn’t hold entrance tests. On Tuesday morning, around 30 students and their parents gathered at the CSI Boys Higher Secondary School, Town Hall, for the entrance test. District collector K Rajamani received a written complaint, along with the question paper of the exam, from a well-wisher, while a few reporters sent him pictures and videos of parents and students on the school premises. Subsequently, he ordered a team of officials, including tahsildar and chief education officer, to seal the school, if the violation was proven. Chief education officer P Usha said they have evidence to prove that the school had violated the state rule. “We have initiated an inquiry. Based on its outcome, we would decide on further course of action.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aided-school-holds-test-sealed/articleshow/76291337.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Mysuru||3 cows killed after consuming jackfruit laced with poison||Chikkkamagaluru: Three cows were killed after consuming jackfruit laced with poison at Basaravalli village in Alduru police station limits of Chikkamagaluru. The veterinary doctors examined the bodies and confirmed poisoning. Accused has been identified Manjunath, a neighbour of cattle owners, said Aldur police. “He is absconding,” they added. Manjunath’s family was not in good terms with cattle owners Madhu and Kittappa Gowda over fencing of a property. He had previously raised complaints about the cattle destroying the fencing that separates their properties, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-cows-killed-after-consuming-jackfruit-laced-with-poison/articleshow/76290242.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Stop Kerala from sealing pipeline: BJP||Coimbatore: The BJP has sought the state government’s intervention to stop Kerala government from sealing a Siruvani dam pipeline. BJP district president R Nandakumar said the Kerala government has been trying to seal a 300mm diameter pipeline that was carrying water to the Siruvani dam from catchment areas and that the move would have a serious impact on the water supply in the district. Pointing out that state government has been paying a huge sum to use Siruvani water, he said as per the norms, Kerala was not allowed to carry out any major works without communicating the same to the state or central government. A couple of weeks ago, Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) had protested the Kerala government’s move to violate the agreement that they had struck with the state by sealing the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stop-kerala-from-sealing-pipeline-bjp/articleshow/76291340.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Time ripe for land reform: IIM-A working paper||Ahmedabad: In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, India saw perhaps its largest exodus of migrant workers from cities to the hinterland. While land issues in their native places is a driving factor for them to seek employment outside of their states, their return and at least temporary efforts to find a toehold in their native places will also require much-needed land reforms in India, argues an IIM-Ahmedabad working paper. The paper, titled ‘Covid-19 Crisis, Pandemic Resilience and Linkages to Land: An Exposition’ is co-authored by Pranab R Choudhury, vice president of NRMC Centre for Land Governance; Ranjan K Ghosh, assistant professor, IIM-Ahmedabad; and Sumita Sindhi, assistant professor, IIM-Sambalpur. “The fragmented legal frameworks around land are unsuccessful and inadequate to govern land. This is amply demonstrated in terms of co-existence of formal and informal tenure regimes across land use landscapes,” the paper says. “The Corona crisis provides an opportunity to define a new normal with a multidimensional approach to land governance with multi-stakeholder partnerships, connecting land uses and land tenures in a more integrated and systemic fashion. This will help in better adaptation to existing contexts, and also in augmenting pandemic resilience.” “We can see our connection to land in two ways – need for more and more land for development has brought us closer to the forest. It has led to more human-animal conflicts and increase in chances of future pandemics,” said Prof Ghosh. “Moreover, the pandemic has also showed that high rentals on land in urban areas makes is unsustainable for the workers to stay here for long. But when they go back – and stay for at least some time – they will need land for economic activities.” He added that due to the land handover down the generations, the majority of workers or owners don’t have adequate land to develop. “Barring a few states, lease or rent of land is not legally allowed. Even if a person wants to set up a plant or factory, availability of land often is an issue. One must understand that about 70% of the cases in our civil courts are land disputes,” he said. The researchers argued that the pandemic has given an opportunity to review the land policy and trigger tenure reforms to facilitate vibrant agriculture, rural property markets and labour force absorption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/time-ripe-for-land-reform-iim-a-working-paper/articleshow/76291464.cms||Parth Shastri
June 10, 2020||Goa||High risk patients won’t be shifted out of Covid hospital||Panaji: Asymptomatic Covid patients who fall in the high-risk category will not be transferred from the Covid hospital in Margao to the Covid care centre at Shiroda. Health secretary Nila Mohanan on Sunday had said that asymptomatic Covid persons were being shifted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda, while the symptomatic ones who required medical attention would continue to be accommodated Children, pregnant women and senior citizens with comorbidities will not be shifted out of the Covid hospital in Margao. The 220-bedded Covid hospital has a dedicated paediatric ward with a specialised team of paediatricians and obstetricians as well as its own ICU. Once detected positive, the asymptomatic patients are taken directly to the 60 bedded-Covid care centre at Shiroda, while the symptomatic are taken to the Covid hospital. In case of any doubt, the asymptomatic patients will be taken to the Covid hospital and assessed by a physician before a decision is taken. While the first family brought in from Mangor Hill were symptomatic, the others who tested positive from the area after them were largely asymptomatic. “It is because the family was symptomatic that they came to the hospital and were detected. Had they been asymptomatic, they wouldn’t have been detected,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-risk-patients-wont-be-shifted-out-of-covid-hospital/articleshow/76292533.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Builders' body wants more trains for return of workers||PUNE: The The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) has written to the Union and Maharashtra governments to start more trains for ensuring return of the migrant workersto the state. Currently, 200 trains are in operation. “We are receiving enquiries for our ongoing projects and the sites where work has commenced. But labour shortage is a major deterrent,”Credai national vice-president Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India Shantilal Kataria said. “A video made by Credai featuring construction workers who stayed back at the sites is being circulated to woo back all of them who left the state,” he added. Credai has also reached out to its members in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Chhatisgarh, urging them to coordinate with the construction workers and send them back to Maharashtra. “The association has offered to pay their travel fare,” Kataria said. He told TOI that over 10-12 lakh migrant workers have left Maharashta and ,most of the, were from the construction industry. Many migrant workers own marginal land and sow crops. “But that is insufficient to meet ends. Though many of them have gone back, they are stuck now,” a Credai official said. National Real Estate Development Council (NARDECO) chairman N Hiranandani said they have requested the railway ministry to start more trains so that the construction workers could return. He added that the suburban trains should also start in Mumbai, as the services would help the workers travel to the construction sites. “We are getting enquiries and material flow has also started. The workers can report to work if the government can start the suburban trains,”Hiranandani told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/builders-body-wants-more-trains-for-return-of-the-workers/articleshow/76291986.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Mangoes take sea route this year||VISAKHAPATNAM: In spite of the Covid-19 crisis bringing trade to a halt, the horticulture department has managed to export over 80 tonnes of mangoes (of the Banginapalli and Rasalu varieties) to New Zealand, Switzerland and Germany among other countries. In the next couple of days, the horticulture department is planning to export 30 tonnes of mangoes to countries across the world. However, this is not to say that the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown did not have an impact on mango export. Chiranjiv Choudhary, horticulture commissioner of the state, said that over 1,470 tonnes of mango were exported to different countries in 2019. This year, the department had targeted to export over 3,000 tonnes. But with the Covid-19 lockdown shutting down flight services, only 81 tonnes of mangoes have been exported and 31 tonnes will be exported soon, This year, 12 tonnes of Banginapalli mangoes grown in Nuzvid in Krishna district were shipped in a container vessel to London on May 29. The consignment was sent through Visakha Container Terminal Private Ltd, a BOT operator of Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT). The horticulture commissioner said that exporting mangoes via sea is a challenging job as the mangoes have to be harvested at the right stage, packed appropriately and a cold chain must be maintained to ensure freshness as it could take 30 to 40 days in transit and marketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mangoes-take-sea-route-this-year/articleshow/76290248.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Private buses to hit roads today||Coimbatore: More than a week after the state government relaxed lockdown norms and granted permission to resume bus services, private buses are expected to hit the roads from Wednesday. Around 350 buses may be operated in the district. The state government had allowed operation of only stage carriage buses that operate within 100km, while guidelines to operate private omni buses in the state are yet to be received. “Following the same timings and routes that were followed before the lockdown, private buses would operate with 60% occupancy from 5am to 9pm. We have made no changes in ticket fare,” said V Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore district bus owners association. Buses would also be operated to destinations outside Coimbatore such as Erode, Tirupur, Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam, except Palani, he said. Palani doesn’t fall within the zone, hence buses would run only till Madathukulam, he said. Bus operators have to adhere to safety measures like ensuring social distancing inside the bus, providing hand sanitizers to bus drivers and conductors and spraying disinfectants after each trips, Duraikannan said. Specific directions were given to conductors not to allow passengers without a face mask. “For now, we will accept currency notes from passengers but the options to enable digital payments were also explored,” he added. He said he was hopeful that more people would come forward to use private bus services. “Our buses are cleaner and fares are less when compared to TNSTC buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-buses-to-hit-roads-today/articleshow/76291345.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Officials, traders wrangle over opening of shops in Peth areas||PUNE: Officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the city police and members of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) are at loggerheads over opening shops located in containment zones in the Peth areas. Despite a joint meeting on Monday and a visit to the containment zone shops on Tuesday, a decision on the matter is yet to be taken. FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka said, “On Tuesday morning, we showed officials the area where we want the markets to open. The authorities held a meeting on Tuesday evening while another joint meeting with traders is scheduled for Wednesday. A decision is likely to be taken then.” Manoj Oswal, a trader from Raviwar Peth and a member of Pune Stainless Steel Association, said, “Business has been at a standstill for over two months and we are only demanding permission to open shops for four hours every day. Most of our staff members have returned to their states and only the owners will go to the shop for cleaning, stocking and selling. Raviwar Peth is a wholesale market. We want to open to revive the supply chain, ensure that business starts picking up and we can make pending payments. After the first few days, we may not even open the shop for four hours.” According to Oswal, traders located in Pune’s old city area need some concessions from the authorities. “We do not even want to open entirely. We will keep half the shutter down and open on alternate days. Accounting, auditing and other works can also be completed during this period,” he said. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “We did a spot visit on Tuesday and met them without any prejudices. The visit was held to understand what they are saying and which shops they want to open. A decision on the matter will be taken after analysing all related issues.” Saurabh Rao, former municipal commissioner and current sugar commissioner, who is among the four IAS officers deputed to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the city, said, “The visit was conducted to understand the field situation to decide on what relaxations can be provided in these areas. During an internal meeting with PMC officials and the police, we analysed satellite maps of the area to look for options to open and close arterial roads, lanes, by-lanes and others. A meeting has been organized with traders at 11am on Wednesday and a decision will be taken after a discussion.” Watch Pune: Traders, officials at loggerheads over opening of shops in Peth areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/authorities-traders-wrangle-over-opening-shops-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76292002.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 10, 2020||Pune||PCB eases rules for takeaways||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) on Tuesday issued a circular allowing restaurants, hotels and sweet shops located in non-containment zones to start takeaway service between 9am and 8pm. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI, “On the lines of the Pune Municipal Corporation, we have also strictly allowed only parcel / takeaway service. No hotel, restaurant, sweet shop and sweetmart is allowed to open dining facility or serve food in their establishments.” Kumar added, “We have told representatives of Poona Camp Merchants Association and independent shops to adhere to social distancing norms, as prescribed in our orders so far. The hotels, restaurants and sweet shops are supposed to arrange sanitizer dispensers at the entrance and wearing face mask is mandatory for customers as well as employees.” There are over 200 commercial establishments, mainly on MG Road and East Street that are in the cantonment area. Meanwhile, a cantonment board team closed three shops, including a sweet mart, on Tuesday for operating illegally. “We had to seize material and handcarts belonging to street vendors,” said PCB’s joint CEO Rahul Gajbhiye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-eases-rules-for-takeaway-service/articleshow/76292014.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Crowds missing though Mominpura shops open||Nagpur: Even though four Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) starbuses were parked nearby and a civic medical team was busy tracing close contacts of latest Covid patients for most part of Tuesday, all that nearly went unnoticed as the focus shifted to reopening of businesses in Mominpura after over two months. The famous Mohammad Ali Road, which remained shut because of containment in entire Mominpura area, came alive with non-essential shops on the iconic Jama Masjid side lane upping their shutters as per the odd-even arrangement permitted by the civic body. The continued closure of two main entry points — Dosar Bhavan and Pahelwan Baba railway underpass — had kept customers away from the main market area known for low prices of garments and mouth-watering food and snacks. Some also didn’t rule out the fear psychosis among people from other areas in the wake of large number of Covid cases reported from Mominpura and nearby localities. “How will people know we are open when the main road is closed,” said Mohammad Zaid, a garment hawker, pointing towards Dosar Bhavan. Cap seller Javed Shaikh said he did manage to do a fairly good business. “But, it was not like what I earn other times. It will take time,” he said. The passage of over two months without any commercial activity was evident on goods which had gathered heaps of dust. Several shopkeepers used the time to clean up their shops and stock. Catching up on latest trends, some switched the items they had been dealing in. “Wearing masks all the time is one of the conditions imposed by NMC. So, I decided to sell masks. I had been into fashion accessories but I think this will sell fast,” said Ayub Khan. The relaxation also gave mobility to many auto drivers who had been stuck because of complete closure. Ibrahim Shaikh said, “We have run out of all resources to sustain ourselves. I do a couple of trips but the passenger flow is weak. My son used to ferry schoolkids, but that is also not working out,” he said. Owners of popular eateries and restaurants said they would be able to service home deliveries in a couple of days. Many others are dependent on salons and pan kiosks for their livelihood. Mominpura Traders’ Welfare Association president Javed Ansari said as assured to the NMC, shopkeepers followed all precautions and guidelines. “Shops opened at 10am and closed at 5pm,” he said. As shopkeepers keenly awaited customers and better times, the NMC health team departed with another batch of suspects in the starbuses without making a buzz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crowds-missing-though-mominpura-shops-open/articleshow/76292110.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Doesn’t age norm apply to TTD’s senior priests and advisers?||Tirupati: Though the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has barred the entry of people above 65 years into the Lord Venkateswara temple in adherence with the government’s Covid-19 guidelines, it seems hesitant when it comes to implementing the same rule for priests and Vaikhanasa Agama advisers associated with the temple. Sources said TTD officials have asked a few Agama advisers and senior priests — who are above the age of 65 years but are associated with the affairs of the temple — not to visit the temple till the Covid-19 norms are in place. But against the norms, some of them have been spotted inside the temple after it reopened on Monday. Honorary chief priest Ramana Deekshitulu, NAK Sundaravadana Bhattacharyulu, AS Ananthasayana Deekshitulu and officer on special duty P Seshadri are some of the senior priests and Agama advisers above the age of 65 who continue to be associated with temple work. With the ‘trial run’ of pilgrim services ending on Wednesday, TTD needs to strictly implement the age norm once the temple opens its doors to general devotees from June 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/doesnt-age-norm-apply-to-ttds-senior-priests-and-advisers/articleshow/76290280.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 10, 2020||Mysuru||Two poachers held||Mysuru: The Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary foresters have arrested two persons on charges of poaching and seized a country-made single barrel gun and a two-wheeler. The foresters said that based on credible information, Hoogyam forest range officers went to Gudaparehalla forest area at Naalroad Beat where they found Leo Kalai Chelvan, 35, a resident of Jallipalya village in Hanur taluk and Joshi Anand, 28, a resident of Thomiyar Palya village in Hanur trying to hunt wild animals. The foresters arrested the duo and seized a gun, seven live cartridges, two small plastic boxes filled with gun powder, a battery, two mobile phones and a Tamil Nadu registration bike, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-poachers-held/articleshow/76290274.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teachers wired to new normal||Ahmedabad: Laptops and desktops are the new blackboards in virtual classrooms. Learning and adopting new techniques to engage students and facilitate learning, this brigade of educators has taken the challenge head-on. The pandemic and lockdown in mid-March were sudden and no one was prepared for this situation. Still, teachers rose to the occasion. Most schools, during the enforced vacation, ensured training for educators in the new style of teaching. Anjali Chhabra, an educator, said: “I could not operate a mobile phone properly, but now I connect to Zoom and interact with my students comfortably.” Chhabra added: “This pandemic made me tech-literate.” Divine Child International School director Ruchi Chaudhury said, “It was a big challenge for educators. With training that we gave in May, educators are armed with technology to teach now.” Even the government is up to speed. Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan director P Bharti said, “We have trained about 30,000 teachers in the state — 15 teachers from every cluster — in online teaching.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-wired-to-new-normal/articleshow/76291473.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Oppn to protest Singareni privatisation bid||Hyderabad: Congress, Left, TDP, TJS and other political parties on Tuesday demanded CM KCR come clear on the Centre’s proposal to introduce privatisation in SCCL. The meeting unanimously resolved to extend support to national trade unions which have planned protest demonstrations on June 10 and 11. The meeting also resolved to hold dharna in front of Singareni Bhavan on the two days and submit memorandum copies to the governor, CM and chief secretary. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-to-protest-singareni-privatisation-bid/articleshow/76292012.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase Covid testing: Kishan Reddy to Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Expressing concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Secunderabad and Greater Hyderabad, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Tuesday wrote a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekha Rao urging him to increase the testing in the containment zones of the twin cities. In a two-page letter to the CM, Kishan said that it is important to make sure that results of the tests are known immediately and steps taken in such a way that local hospitals are made active to identify people with health problems. Kishan suggested that disinfectants should be sprayed in the houses and streets of Covid-19 patients. Kishan said he has been receiving representations from people expressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases in the city. He advised the CM that by recognising the aged people and others in the early stages, the virus spread could be contained and several lives saved. He said it was the responsibility of both the state and the central governments to control the situation as expeditiously as possible. He appealed to the CM to follow the advisory issued by the ministry of health on Tuesday after a review meeting with 10 states where Covid-19 was spreading fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-covid-testing-kishan-to-cm/articleshow/76292045.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP eyes two Rajya Sabha berths when it has numbers for one||JAIPUR: Rajasthan BJP is gearing up for the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled on June 19. The saffron party has fielded two candidates while it has numbers to ensure the victory of just one candidate. The party has fielded former minister Rajendra Gehlot and had surprised everyone by announcing the name of former state president Onkar Singh Lakhawat at the eleventh hour in March. The elections were postponed due to the Covid-19 situation in the state which did not deter the party from changing its stand on fielding the second candidate. Exuding confidence over the victory of both candidates, Satish Poonia, state president, BJP, said the first 51 MLAs will cast their votes for the party’s first preference Gehlot, while the rest 24 will go with our second candidate Lakhawat. “We have already made an appeal to the independent lawmakers and those from other parties who feel that the Gehlot government has failed to deliver on all fronts, to support our second candidate,” Poonia said over phone. The saffron party has 72 lawmakers and has support from three lawmakers from Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) of Hanuman Beniwal. The Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) with two MLAs has neither extended support to the Congress nor BJP. “The party is hopeful that they will receive some support from the independents who extended support to the Congress. Some of them have expressed unhappiness with the party for not providing them positions and portfolios as promised during their inclusion,” said a source. Meanwhile, the BJP is not leaving any stone to ensure the victory of both the candidates. The party will call a training session on voting in the RS polls to ensure no room for any error. Sources said that fielding of a second candidate is a way for the BJP to acknowledge the older worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-eyes-two-rs-berths-when-it-has-numbers-for-one/articleshow/76292551.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for murdering 30-yr-old driver||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for murdering a driver and dumping the body on the roadside pit on Sathyamangalam Road at Sirumugai on May 29. The accused, R Madavan, 30, a truck driver from Kovilmedu in Sirumugai, was booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody. The Sirumugai police said M Subramni, 30, Sujil Kuttai near Bhavanisagar in Erode district, was found dead with a rope tied around his neck on the roadside pit at Kovilmedu pump house on Sathyamangalam main road on May 29. Preliminary inquiries revealed Madvan had murdered Subramani when he mistakenly attempted to enter former’s house thinking that it was his paramour’s house. Subramani was working as a driver and employed by some people, who had won the auction of fishing rights of Bhavanisagar dam, to stop poaching. Subramani used to roam in the dam area in SUV to check poaching. Police said he had developed extra marital affair with a woman at Kovilmedu in Sirumugai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-murdering-30-yr-old-driver/articleshow/76292023.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Melauli locals oppose govt’s IIT project, say it will harm rich biodiversity area||KERI: Nearly a year after the state government allocated land in Melauli for the permanent campus of IIT Goa, villagers have voiced apprehension over the project, pointing out that the location is a biodiversity-rich area. Last year in August, the cabinet had approved land admeasuring around 10 lakh sqm of land in Melauli for the IIT project. As per census records, around 81.38 hectares of the 1,629.14 hectares of land in Melauli is forested. Melauli is also located in close proximity of the Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary, Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change, in its notification dated February 27, 2020, has declared Melauli as an ‘ecologically sensitive area’ of the Western Ghats. This notification prohibits all new and expansion projects of building and constructions with the built-up area of 20,000sqm. Villagers of Melauli, which is part of the Guleli panchayat in Sattari taluka, said that they own cashew plantations at the project site. “This is the only area in our village where excellent forest cover exists. Also, our villagers raise horticultural crops, which is the main source of livelihood for us. The proposed project will pose a threat to our livelihood,” Shubham Shivolkar, a local, told TOI. However, Guleli sarpanch Apurva Chari said, “We have not yet received any letter opposing the IIT project. Villagers at the gram sabha had earlier requested for detailed information on the project. The area has cashew trees, five houses belonging to the Dhangar community and the Jalmi Dev temple. Our MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane has assured to resolve their issues.” As per the letter sent to the panchayat by the directorate of technical education on August 26, 2019, the project will directly and indirectly benefit locals, and help Goa transform into an educational hub. Melauli village consists of Shel, Dhada, Paikul, Maiguini and Murmune, in which wildlifers have recorded the presence of the Sri Lankan frog mouth, Malabar pied hornbill, bison, leopard, five species of deer, Malabar giant squirrel, king cobra and other species of wildlife. The area also has four perennial natural springs. “This forest sustains our lives by recharging the water table, provides timber and other produce, while also maintaining soil fertility, ecological balance and reducing man-animal conflicts. Hence, we want this forest to be protected,” said Krishna Naik from Melauli. Meanwhile, villagers recently invoked the presiding deity Jalmi Dev for blessing them with the courage to oppose proposed IIT project. A memorandum was also submitted to government officials concerned, highlighting discrepancies in the project approvals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-locals-oppose-govts-iit-project-say-it-will-harm-rich-biodiversity-area/articleshow/76292552.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore hospital to join plasma therapy trials for Covid-19||COIMBATORE: A city-based private hospital is all set to join the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s plasma therapy trials for Covid-19 patients. PSG Hospitals authorities said they had received approval for the trials around 10 days ago, making it only one of the two private medical college hospitals in the state to join the trials. However, the hospital is yet to find ideal patients to join the trials or donors to start collecting blood plasma. The hospital, which has been treating Covid-19 patients since April, has treated around 25 patients so far. Hospital dean Dr S Ramalingam said, “Except two, all our patients have been asymptomatic. While the two are ideal donor candidates, we want them to finish 28 days of recovery as per protocol, before requesting them to come forward. Once things settle down, we will begin the trials by formally informing the public health authorities.” The hospital authorities said the ICMR had approved their application to start clinical trials of convalescent plasma therapy last month. “According to the approval, we can try the therapy on patients with moderate symptoms and an oxygenation level of 93% and less up to about 85%,” said Dr Murali, infectious disease expert and Covid-19 nodal officer of the hospital. “We will be allowed to give two transfusions of plasma therapy to a patient. Each transfusion will have around 250ml of plasma.” The plasma donor should be a person who tested positive for Covid-19 with strong symptoms, including fever with cold and cough. The hospital could also include patients who are suffering from respiratory distress. “We have to wait for 28 days after recovery for them to come forward and donate plasma. A patient can donate plasma only once a month” Dr Murali said. He said the plasma would be separated from flood with the help of a plasmapheresis machine. “Once that is done, the remaining components of the blood, including red and white blood cells and platelets, would be reinfused in the body. One litre of blood could produce anywhere between 400ml and 600ml plasma in one to one and half hours.” The plasma, which contains readymade antibodies, is believed to be able to fight the virus more effectively in the body, halting its spread and killing it off, allowing the patient to recover fast. The experimental therapy has been found useful in treating diseases like the 1918 Spanish flu, H1N1 in 2009 and SARS outbreaks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-hospital-to-join-plasma-therapy-trials-for-covid-19/articleshow/76291381.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
June 10, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 changes diamond polishing units’ seating order||Surat: With social distancing the only mantra for the new normal in the Covid-impacted society, its rippling effect can be felt in the industries, including the Surat’s famed diamond-cutting and polishing centres, too. Many a traditional practices are being revised now owing to the rules including seating arrangements besides the working style. So, what was always a square story behind every emery wheel since ages, will now be a rectangular one retold to ensure physical distancing among the polishers using the polishing equipment. So, instead of the traditional four, each table will be occupied by only two polishers at a time. Ashit Mehta, chairman of Blue Star diamond company told TOI, “With the rectangular sitting arrangement, we have successfully created more than one metre distance between two workers and also introduced shift system in three-day rotation to follow social distancing norms.” Regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya, said that the new seating arrangements is here to stay. “This is the best option to keep workers safe in the units. Less than 35% of the diamond units have reopened owing to shortage of workers,” he added. Hitesh Patel, managing director of Dharmandan Diamonds Private Limited, too, agrees that maintaining social distancing on the emery wheel, which is almost impossible, can only have this only one option — to adjust number of people in shifts. “Rectangular format of diamond polishing is the new normal in the industry. With this we are operating our factory at less than 40% capacity and on rotational basis to maintain social distancing,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-changes-diamond-polishing-units-seating-order/articleshow/76290337.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Complete Sauni Phase-2 by Aug 15: CM to officials||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday instructed the state water resources department to complete the phase-2 works of the Saurashtra-Narmada Avataran Irrigation Yojana (Sauni Yojana), which has an objective to meet the drinking water requirements of Saurashtra and Kutch regions with Narmada water, before August 15. Rupani held a high-level review meeting with senior officials to review the progress made in the works of Sauni Yojana. The Yojana is a vital scheme to fill 115 water reservoirs of Saurashtra-Kutch region to meet drinking and irrigation water needs of 737 villages of 11 districts and 31 cities with Narmada water. The completion of the first phase of the scheme provides water to 16 dams. And, now the work of second phase to fill the 57 water reservoirs through pipeline networks of 541km is almost complete. Rupani asked the water resources department to prepare a time-bound plan to complete all four link works of phase-2 before August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complete-sauni-phase-2-by-aug-15-cm-to-officials/articleshow/76291461.cms||---
June 10, 2020||India||Time to dry sneeze droplets may affect Covid spread: Study||NEW DELHI: Cities where cough or sneeze droplets took a shorter time to dry out due to higher temperature and lower humidity had a lesser spread of Covid-19 infection, a study by two professors from IIT Bombay has found, report Malathy Iyer & Clara Lewis. Rajneesh Bhardwaj and Amit Agrawal worked out the time a droplet, possibly coughed out by a novel coronavirus patient, takes to dry and mapped it with daily infections in six cities across the world. “The likelihood of survival of the virus increases roughly by five times under humid conditions compared to dry conditions,’’ said Bhardwaj. With monsoon soon to hit Mumbai, which is accompanied by high humidity levels of over 80%, Agrawal feared the city could see a surge in Covid infections. Agrawal said, “In Mumbai and cities in Kerala, if humidity is one of the main factors determining the infection, we could expect things to worsen.” But several doctors were not convinced. The high humidity levels and the monsoon could actually work in Mumbai’s favour, said a civic doctor. In an article published in a peer-reviewed journal of the American Institute of Physics called “Physics of Fluids” late on Tuesday, the Mumbai-based engineering teachers found that droplet drying time was lowest in Singapore and higher in New York, which is among the world’s worst-hit cities. Sydney, Miami and Los Angeles, too, had quicker drying times and saw a relatively lower infection spread. The IIT-B duo took up the research to answer a popular question: how long does the coronavirus remain alive after an infected person coughs or sneezes? It is known that once the droplets evaporate, the virus in them dies quickly. “Our simple graph explains aslow or fast growth of the infection in a particular city. This may not be the sole factor, but definitely the outdoor weather matters in the growth rate of the infection,” said Bhardwaj, who said the droplets are as thin as human hair. A doctor in the state task force on Covid said the monsoon could aggravate the situation. “We cannot predict with the coronavirus as it is relatively new. There are 35 known mutations the world over and the more deadly A2a strain has been found in parts of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan. In July we will need more ICUs. Stay home as much as possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/time-to-dry-sneeze-droplets-may-affect-covid-spread-study/articleshow/76292956.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Casual labourer’s son scores 97.13%||VADODARA: The lockdown blues of small Agrawal family in Navayard area of the city were washed away as their son made them proud by scoring 97.13% in the SSC (general stream), results of which were announced by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) on Tuesday Krunal Agrawal, whose father Jagdish is a casual labourer, aims to become a chartered account. “Now, I want to pursue commerce stream in class 11 and class 12 and later become a chartered accountant,” said Krunal, who stays with his parents in a small one room that acts as kitchen, dinning room and bedroom for the family of three in Lalpura locality. To ensure that Krunal pursues his studies, his father also runs a tempo on part-time basis. “As a family, we have faced financial difficulties, but somehow I managed to continue our studies,” said 16-year-old Krunal, whose mother Saroj, is a housewife. Meanwhile, Vadodara’s overall passing percentage of 60.19% was low compared to the state average of 60.64% and even lower compared to two previous years. Of the 38,135 students who appeared in the exam, 22,954 were eligible for qualifying certificate (EQC). The district’s overall standing in the state, however improved, it ranked at 14th position this time, much above the previous years when was at distant 22. It however still lags behind three major cities and districts of Gujarat -Surat, Ahmedabad and Rajkot. A total of 83 students have got A1 grade this year whereas 1,444 others have bagged A2 grade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/casual-labourers-son-scores-97-13/articleshow/76289836.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Chewing tobacco, spitting to attract fine in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: GVMC on Tuesday banned consuming smokeless/chewable tobacco or non-tobacco products and spitting in public places with immediate effect. The civic body made a resolution to levy a fine of Rs 500 for first-time offenders and Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500 for subsequent times and other punishments under the provisions of Indian Penal Code and CrPc). In a release on Tuesday, GVMC said it is of utmost need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices that may potentially lead to the spread of Covid-19 and other infections. The habit of public spitting poses a serious threat to the spread of such infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chewing-tobacco-spitting-to-attract-fine-in-vizag-city/articleshow/76290314.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Srikalahasti temple staff tests positive||Tirupati: The Srikalahasti temple, which was set to reopen for pilgrim worship from June 12, will continue to remain closed for another two weeks in the wake of a temple staff testing positive for novel coronavirus on Tuesday. Confirming the development, Srikalahasti temple EO Chandrasekhar Reddy said the temple has been designated as containment zone after the temple’s staff’s sample returned Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, a young priest associated with the TTD’s information centre and temple in Chennai has tested positive too. TTD’s local advisory committee president J Sekhar Reddy confirmed the report. “Samples of 30 people associated with the TTD temple in Chennai were tested recently. The sample of one of the priests was confirmed positive on June 6. The temple will remain closed for now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/srikalahasti-temple-staff-tests-positive/articleshow/76290298.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||RS elections: Second-preference votes may count||Ahmedabad: The second-preference votes of MLAs will likely come into play in the June 19 Rajya Sabha election for seat seats in Gujarat, as going by the present numbers neither the BJP nor the Congress have the required numbers to get all their nominees elected outright on first-preference votes. The BJP has 103 MLAs and requires 105 first-preference votes (35 each for its three nominees) to secure outright wins for all its three candidates. The Congress has 65 MLAs and needs 70 first-preference votes to get both its candidates elected. Second-preference votes are counted when one or more candidates are unable to get the required first-preference votes. Where two candidates get the same number of second-preference votes, third-preference votes are taken into account. Both BJP and the Congress have been conducting training sessions for their MLAs as the Rajya Sabha election is a numbers game. A voter (in this case an MLA) cannot give his first-preference and second-preference vote to the same candidate. In such a scenario, parties have been batches of 35 MLAs each. All MLAs of one batch will cast their first-preference vote for one candidate and their second-preference vote for another candidate. Sources in the BJP said that three sets of MLAs will cast their first-preference votes for the three candidates, and two-thirds of the MLAs will cast their second-preference votes in favour of the third candidate, Narhari Amin. Congress leaders said only the 35 MLAs who cast their first-preference vote for Shaktisinh Gohil, can cast their second-preference vote for the second candidate, Bharatsinh Solanki. The election is still nine days away and the numbers could change. However, if second-preference voting does come into play, the BJP will have the advantage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-elections-second-preference-votes-may-count/articleshow/76291454.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt hosp puts safety measures in place||Coimbatore: Days after public health department issued a notice to PSG Hospitals for not separating the emergency ward for fever patients from the general emergency ward, hospital dean Dr S Ramalingam on Tuesday clarified that was a stopgap arrangement for the day to facilitate some maintenance work and disinfection of the dedicated Covid-19 block. The notice was issued on June 4. The health department had also found many hospital staff flouting the face mask and social distancing norms. “The trauma ward common area and adjoining rooms should be separated, so that healthcare staff do not get infected. Social distancing is not maintained by the hospital staff,” it said. The health department also provided the hospital time till June 12 to take corrective measures. The hospital dean said, “We have a dedicated block for fever patients. People with high temperature are directly sent to that block. Since it was 5pm when the inspection took place, some staff were in a hurry to leave and catch buses, as the public transport services are numbered. So, they may have missed maintaining proper social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-hosp-puts-safety-measures-in-place/articleshow/76291390.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Three of 22 Congress MLAs slip out of Rajasthan resort, return to Gujarat||JAIPUR: Three of the 22 Gujarat Congress MLAs brought to Abu Road left for their home state early on Tuesday under the pretext of going to offer prayers at a nearby Ambaji temple. The MLAs had not returned till the reports last came in. Sirohi Congress leaders who are overseeing the Gujarat lawmakers’ stay at Abu Road have hinted at shifting the remaining 19 MLAs to a hotel in Jaipur. These MLAs were brought to Abu Road ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19. Sources told TOI that these MLAs have been going out for prayers in temples and meeting their local acquaintances since they arrived on Sunday. “The three MLAs had left separately for visiting a temple of Ambaji on Tuesday morning. A few MLAs had also visited the same temple on Monday. So, the coordinators willingly allowed the three of them to go,” said a source. As the MLAs were not seen during lunch at 12:30pm, the coordinators began looking for them. “Initially, they didn’t respond to the calls. Later, Kalol MLA Baldev Chanduji Thakor informed about heading home due to some personal reason, while the status of the other two is not known. The coordinators are still hoping that the two MLAs will return by night,” said a source. Thakor had initially informed about returning to Abu Road after two days as he was undergoing a physiotherapy session for his cervical problem every day. He, however, changed his statement later and said, “I have not gone to Abu Road due to poor health and will join my colleagues in the next two days”. Meanwhile, Rajasthan Congress has made arrangements to place the MLAs in Jaipur right under the eye of CM Ashok Gehlot who has ample experience of hosting Congress party MLAs from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Responding to the controversy, Amit Chavda, Gujarat Congress president, said, “Our MLAs of bordering Banaskantha came to their areas for local issues. We have made three zones only so MLAs can travel whenever needed in their constituency. All three MLAs are in our contact. Not only MLAs in Rajasthan resort but also Saurashtra and central Gujarat MLAs are freely going and coming.”  BJP leader Narayan Purohit on Tuesday attacked Congress for allegedly shifting its Gujarat MLAs to a resort in Sirohi amid the coronavirus spread. “Congress has lodged its MLAs in a hotel. The state government said that they are alert about Covid-19 but they brought their 22 MLAs here. We have filed a complaint and action must be taken against them,” said Purohit while speaking to media. It is believed that the Congress has moved its legislators fearing poaching by the BJP ahead of the crucial elections for four Rajya Sabha seats from Gujarat. The MLAs were shifted to Sirohi after three Gujarat Congress MLAs resigned from the Assembly. The polls for 24 Rajya Sabha seats—four each in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka, three each in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two in Jharkhand, and one each in Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh—are scheduled to be held on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-of-22-guj-cong-mlas-return-home-from-sirohi/articleshow/76292554.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Private hospitals get Telangana govt nod to treat Covid-19 patients||HYDERABAD: Private hospitals in Hyderabad have started treating Covid-19 patients in Hyderabad after an informal nod from the government in a move to decongest government facilities. All suspect novel coronavirus patients who are already admitted are no longer being sent to Gandhi hospital or other state-run designated hospitals. The decision to allow private facilities to treat Covid-19 patients comes after a high court order to the Telangana government asking it to allow corporate hospitals to treat novel coronavirus cases. While the decision might seem like a relief for many who wish to be treated in private facilities, most hospitals are already running a full house in the Covid-19 exclusive wards now. “Among our patients who had come for various treatments, we have many suspected Covid-19 patients. Our isolation facility is completely full. While we are open to taking in patients who might want to shift from a government facility, but it is subject to availability of beds,” said an official from a private hospital city. While the state health department had previously allowed 40 private hospitals in the state which had the required infrastructure to admit suspected Covid-19 patients, the hospitals were mandated to send all positive cases to designated government facilities only. At least 8-10 large hospitals had set up exclusive isolation facilities and had admitted suspected cases, but kept redirecting positive cases so far. “We are not sending positive patients to Gandhi hospital or any other government facility for the last couple of days now. We have now been asked to go ahead with their treatment. No formal orders have, however, been issued,” said a senior official from a corporate hospital in the city. Another corporate hospital now has 12 Covid-19 patients under treatment. “We have just 60 beds available and they are running full due to patients coming to various departments with symptoms of Covid-19. If a patient tests positive, the patient still has the option to shift to Gandhi hospital, if they cannot afford treatment here,” said an official from the hospital. In the absence of a regularised tariff structure, hospitals are charging as per their existing norms, apart from additional charges for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits which range from Rs 15,000- Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-hospitals-get-t-govt-nod-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76292556.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Left parties seek financial assistance for unorganized workers||Coimbatore: Communist parties have sought that the state and Centre should give financial assistance to families which do not fall under the income tax limit, for six months. Representatives of CPI and CPM on Tuesday held a demonstration in the city bringing to fore these demands. They said the Centre should pay Rs7,500 and the state Rs5,000 for six months for all families which do not come under the IT limit, as their livelihoods were the most affected by the Covid-19 lockdown. They also sought that the all essentials should be delivered through ration shops regularly and fully. Those who have registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act for 100-day guaranteed labour, should be given 200 days of work and the scheme should be extended to town panchayats also. “Farmers who produced banana, jackfruit, cashews, vegetables have been struggling to market their produce. They should be given suitable relief. As all micro, small and medium industrial units have been hit badly by the lockdown, they should be given Rs10akh collateral-free and unconditional loans to restart their operations and pay their workers,” they demanded. Coimbatore member of parliament P R Natarajan from CPM, M Arumugam, state treasurer of CPI and other communist party representatives were present at the demonstration held in front of the CPI district office in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/left-parties-seek-financial-assistance-for-unorganized-workers/articleshow/76292066.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||6,000 Pune patients back home, Covid-19 recovery rate now 63%||PUNE: As many as 6,053 of the 9,537 Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) have been discharged so far from care centres. This number, recorded until June 7, brings the region’s recovery rate to 63.46%. The national average is 48.19%. The PMR’s recovery rate is a massive improvement from what it was registering in early May. Experts said the new rate is mostly because of the new patient discharge policy, early detection and faster contact tracing. The new policy that came into effect on May 9 states that asymptomatic people and those with mild symptoms can be discharged and exempted from a second Covid-19 test. The total number of positive cases in the region recorded until Monday (June 7) was 9,537. The virus has claimed 415 lives — nearly 4.35% of the total positive cases — in the PMR. Currently, there are 3,069 active cases (patients undergoing treatment) in the region. “It’s the new discharge policy that has accelerated the recovery rate. But there is no denying the fact that contact tracing has also become faster and smoother,” said senior public health expert Subhash Salunke, technical advisor to the state government on Covid-19 containment. “These faster processes are helping positive patients find early treatment. And early treatment means faster recovery,” Salunke said. Earlier, the rules stated Covid-19 patients can only be released if their swab results tested negative twice in two consecutive analyses. But as per the new rule released on May 9, mild to very mild and pre-symptomatic patients are being discharged without any test. Salunke said, “In Maharashtra, Nagpur has the highest recovery rate of 75%. Mumbai, with 46%, is among the cities with the lowest rate.” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Pune zilla parishad, said, “Pune has been detecting Covid-19 cases early. The best treatment protocols are now in place and doctors are constantly learning new techniques. We have to ensure people are getting better soon.” Experts, meanwhile, said the entire exercise of analysing different values — mortality as well as recovery — still does not portray a clear picture. They reasoned that these analyses only take into account crude data vis-a-vis the number of cases detected daily, as against the number of people tested. Senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee said, “For correct analysis of recovery rate, one has to follow the course of each patient infected with the virus until he or she recovers or dies. The actual denominator while calculating the death rate should be the total number of people infected.” Banerjee said, “The calculation methods underestimate the true recovery rate as we are calculating the fatality rate based on denominators (total cases) provided by hospitals and from detections reported through contact tracing and other screening methods. For further refinement of the base number of total cases, administrations should also include results from sero-surveys being carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research.” The ICMR in May had asked states to conduct the sero-surveys — blood-based diagnostic tests — to measure the coronavirus exposure in varied sections of the population to track any wider spread of the disease for both prevention and treatment. Researchers said the tests can be carried out in key populations that include vendors and owners as well as staff working in grocery shops, pharmacists, restaurant staff, employees of banks, postal offices, couriers and telecom offices and air travel staff. The results of these surveys will be announced soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6000-pune-patients-back-home-covid-19-recovery-rate-now-63/articleshow/76292553.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 10, 2020||Pune||Reverse flow: Migrant force from Bihar, UP returning to Pune||PUNE: The migrant workers’ need to keep the home fires burning is beginning to outweigh the urgency shown by them to get back home amid much tumult recently. Around 6,000 passengers have so far returned to Pune from Bihar in the Pune-Danapur Express train which began services from June 1. Besides Bihar, some workers from Uttar Pradesh are also making their way back to the city. Vrind Kumar Singh, who hails from the Aurangabad district of Bihar, reached the Pune railway station in the early morning hours on Tuesday, two months after he had left for his hometown due to the lockdown. Singh worked in a factory which makes construction rods in Kolhapur. “I did think of staying back in Bihar but my employer urged me to return and said my job will be intact. I need to work and earn for my family,” Singh told TOI, adding that he had requested a friend to drop him off to Kolhapur on his motorcycle. As many as 200 trains are running across the country and the Pune station operates the train to Danapur in Bihar. “This train started from June 1 and the first rake returned from Bihar to Pune via Uttar Pradesh on June 5. Since then, it has been regular. The average passenger traffic in the train is around 1,200. Proper screening and a 14-day home quarantine is being ordered,” a rail official told TOI. Sources said a large number of those returning were migrant workers. “Many of them left for home a month or two ago by various means including the special Shramik trains but have returned to either search for fresh work or go back to their old employers. The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) estates are opening up as are many offices and shops. The Danapur train has the most number of people coming in. There are some other trains which make stops in Pune but the number of passengers getting down here is fairly less,” another official told TOI. Monu Yadav, who hails from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh, also returned to the city on Tuesday. “I work in a shop selling dairy products here. I went back home two months ago after my family forced me to return. However, I couldn’t get a job back home and decided to return. My employer has told me to rejoin after my quarantine period, which is a relief,” he said. However, Abhisar Kumar, who hails from Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh, has to find a new job. “I was a waiter in a Mumbai hotel and went back home in the last week of April. I have now come to Pune for a job. While hotels and bars are still closed, I will try to find work elsewhere. Some of my friends are helping me find a job,” he said. An industrial steel manufacturing company owner at MIDC Bhosari, who refused to reveal his name, said he managed to get two workers from Bihar. “I got their references and requested them to come. They readily agreed. Times are tough and they just want to find work. They are willing to work even at low salaries. We too need to restart operations. I hope things fall in place by next month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reverse-flow-migrant-force-from-bihar-up-returning-to-city/articleshow/76292072.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Extortion case: Sukesh named prime accused||Hyderabad: In the spoofing scam involving extortion of prominent leaders, including a former MP from AP, CBI, Telangana, has nailed the role of inter-state conman Sukesh Chandra and named him as a prime accused. CBI alleged Sukesh, who is already arrested and lodged in the Tihar Jail, ran the extortion racket with the help of his partner, actress Leena Maria Paul. CBI booked a case based on a complaint from former MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao. CBI got a prisoner transit warrant from Hyderabad court to produce Sukesh from the jail. But, due to lockdown, it was kept on hold. A CBI source said Sukesh, Leena, doctor and industrialist Yala Manivardhan Reddy and Selvam Rama Raj, an NRI from Malaysia, used spoofing applications to impersonate CBI, ED officials, top officials of various ministries and judges of Supreme Court. The victims of the racket include prominent politicians from AP and Tamil Nadu, who paid huge amounts. The former MP is an accused in a CBI case where his company Transstroy allegedly defrauded banks and the accused spoofed CBI officers’ phone numbers and threatened Sambasiva Rao that he would be arrested if the money was not paid. It was on January 18 this year CBI Hyderabad sleuths had arrested Manivardhan and Rama Raj and an FIR was filed when the duo tried to extort money from Sambasiva Rao on January 16. Victims are not coming forward to reveal the fraud as they would be a party to the crime as most of them paid money for the promise of getting bails in courts or for getting discharged from criminal cases, sources said. Sukesh, who hails from Bengaluru, was earlier arrested in 2011 for posing as the then TN chief minister M Karunanidhi’s grandson. Several cheating cases were also booked against him where he posed as an IAS officer in one case to dupe Canara Bank Rs 19 crore and in another case as a friend of Bollywood actress Katrina Kaif. Telangana HC had recently issued an anticipatory bail to Leena in the same case. Leena had starred in ‘Madras Cafe’ and Kollywood films. CBI had conducted searches earlier in January on her beauty parlour in Kochi and house in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extortion-case-sukesh-named-prime-accused/articleshow/76292063.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 10, 2020||Mysuru||Lineman dies of electrocution in Pandavapura||Mandya: A lineman attached to the Chamundeswari Electricty Supply Corporation (CESC) was electrocuted while he was repairing a transformer at Honaganahalli village in Pandavapura taluk on Tuesday. According to police, Lokesh died on the spot, after being electrocuted, while repairing a transformer. The victim was recently transferred to Pandavapura sub-division, and he was attending to a complaint of a defective transformer, along with his colleagues. A case has been registered in the Pandavapura police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lineman-dies-of-electrocution-in-pandavapura/articleshow/76290324.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||No clarity on voting arrangements for MLAs with Covid||Gandhinagar: Even as there is considerable speculation whether Covid-19 positive MLAs will be allowed to cast their vote or not in the upcoming Rajya Sabha election, the state chief electoral officer said there are no directions yet from the Election Commission of India on the matter.Three BJP MLAs have tested Covid positive and others could be infected by coronavirus if they are allowed to cast their vote in the June 19 RS election. The office of the state chief electoral officer is expecting a communication from the ECI, as this is a nationwide phenomenon and political parties are left worried about their prospects in the elections if infected MLAs cannot vote.S Murali Krishna, chief electoral officer, Gujarat, said, “So far, no decision has been made about the arrangements to be made for the Covid-affected MLAs to vote in the Rajya Sabha election. The ECI is expected to issue categorical directions on the voting by corona-affected or symptomatic MLAs.”He added that the Representation of Peoples’ Act allows only physical assistance during voting if the voter requests in advance. “However he/she has to come at the voting booth. There is no provision in the act of allowing proxy voting. Only postal ballot voting is allowed but that has to be requested before the nomination,” Murali Krishna said.He added that his office will however, arrange for health check-up at the voting area and those who have Covid-like symptoms will be allowed to vote at special arrangements only if there are specific directions from the ECI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-clarity-on-voting-arrangements-for-mlas-with-covid/articleshow/76291448.cms||Kapil Dave
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Netizens demand Errum Manzil upkeep||Hyderabad: A video of beer bottles strewn on the premises of heritage structure Errum Manzil surfaced on twitter on Tuesday. Residents called for more care to be taken for the upkeep of monuments in the city. The video of Errum Manzil Palace in a “state of neglect” by Khairatabad resident Sanjay Borra shows empty bottles in front of the heritage structure. “I had not been stepping out during the lockdown, but just began my morning walks. On the second day of resuming my walks, I thought I would pass by Errum Manzil. On entering I saw about 50 to 100 beer bottles strewn around.” The video was taken on Tuesday morning. The video was seen over 2,000 times.Senior advocate Sarasani Satyam Reddy who was among those who led the battle to save the historic structure from demolition said: “After our efforts to save the monument, it is now the duty of the state t to maintain the building and its precincts.” Officials of the Roads and Buildings department, which is located on the premises, did not respond to calls. SHO Punjagutta said the matter would be investigated and action taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/netizens-demand-errum-manzil-upkeep/articleshow/76292073.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt medical colleges offer 50% beds for Covid-19 patients||Coimbatore: The private medical college association has agreed to allot 50% of beds in their hospitals to Covid-19 patients, if the need arose. The association has 13 medical colleges under its kitty.Association secretary V Jagannathan said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar had requested them to make more beds available for Covid-19 patients during a videoconference on Monday night, as private and government hospitals in Chennai have run out of the same. Speaking to TOI, Jagannathan said they had promised to allot 500 beds or at least 50% of their total beds to Covid patients in each of the medical colleges under the association. The medical colleges under the association include PSG IMS and R, Kovai Medical Center and Hospital, and Karpagam Medical College in Coimbatore, Velammal Medical College and Hospital in Madurai, Mookambikai Institute of Medical Science in Kulasekharam and Sri Muthukumaran Medical College, among others.“Since we are medical colleges, we have ample staff strength comprising professor and assistant professor-level doctors, postgraduate student doctors, house surgeons and nursing staff. This makes our infrastructure well-equipped to handle a high patient load,” Jagannathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-medical-colleges-offer-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76291399.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man out on parole among three held for IIT flyover robbery||NEW DELHI: Three members of a gang had been arrested for allegedly robbing a pilot of a private airline on the IIT flyover in south Delhi last week. One of them has been released from Tihar Jail on a 45-day parole granted to enable social distancing during the pandemic, said police. The accused told police that they used to steal valuables from cars parked outside malls and offices before the lockdown. With no car available now, they started attacking people travelling in cars and rob them. DCP (southwest) Devender Arya said the men had been identified as Rahul, P Silva and Ashish, all residents of Madangir near Ambedkar Nagar. “We have recovered the Aadhaar card of the victim from them and seized knives and a pistol. They have been booked for armed robbery,” said Arya. Investigating officers said while recording the statements of the victim, Yuvraj Tewatia, they had got an idea about the appearances of the accused. Moreover, an emergency response vehicle that chased them identified the models of the motorcycles and two scooters used as getaway vehicles. It was found that the gang was also involved in a series of robberies in the past few days before the attack on the pilot. The cops studied the pattern of PCR calls regarding these robberies and zeroed in on an area where the gang was operating. Using these clues, police created a possible route map that the robbers might be using as their escape route. The CCTV cameras on these routes were checked and the men were traced to Madangir. Rahul, who formed the gang in 2017, used to break open car windows outside malls to steal valuables. However, he was arrested soon in RK Puram and was sent to jail. Silva was arrested in March for his involvement in a snatching incident and was in Tihar Jail till April. Tewatia was allegedly waylaid and robbed by them on the IIT flyover while he was on his way to the airport in a company cab. The robbers smashed the windows of the car, attacked him with a knife and fled with his wallet containing Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-out-on-parole-among-3-held-for-iit-flyover-robbery/articleshow/76292077.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Roads begin to cave-in after city’s first showers||Road after heavy rain at Nava Vadaj area of ahmedabad on Tuesday,09,June,2020Ahmedabad: The quality of the city’s civic works have begun to show. A single shower has turned some of the busiest streets in Ahmedabad into nightmares. Even as the monsoon is yet to officially set in, roads have began to settle and cave-in already. Tuesday morning surprised many in Sola, as small patches began to cave-in on some of the main roads. Work related to the laying of storm water drains was already under way on the stretch. Cave-in’s were seen near Jaymangal BRT stand, near the Nirmal Apartments gate. Vehicles parked on the road side got stuck due to the cave-in. “There had been frequent complaints of waterlogging on this stretch and hence the storm water line was a necessity,” said a senior AMC official. Other major cave-ins were reported in Nava Vadaj and Danilimda, along the BRTS corridor. This issue has been unsolved for six years now. A senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official said that there have been seven major cave-ins in various zones and these are the result of civic works that were undertaken during the lockdown. “We were working during the lockdown in the East, North, South and South-West Zones,” admitted a senior AMC official. The deadline for June 15, to wrap up all civic works, came in the middle of Covid-19 responsibilities that delayed works for 35 days, claimed an official in the drainage department. In 2019, following directions from the Gujarat high court, the AMC was told to finish all civic works related to roads by mid-May. “This could not be achieved as containment zones were declared across many areas in the city,” added the AMC official from the drainage department. Meanhwile, the IMD in Ahmedabad, said that light to moderate rain or thundershowers are very likely at many places in all districts of Gujarat region, which includes Ahmedabad. Light showers are also expected in Saurashtra and in Diu, Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and at isolated places in Kutch district. The IMD said that on Tuesday morning an upper air cyclonic circulation was witnessed over South Gujarat and the adjoining south-east Arabian Sea between 2.1km and 5.8km above mean sea level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/roads-begin-to-cave-in-after-citys-first-showers/articleshow/76291445.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Congress will easily win two Rajya Sabha seats in Rajasthan, says Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday claimed that the Congress would win two seats comfortably in the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections from the state. The election is scheduled to be held for three seats from the state on June 18 with Congress likely to win two seats and BJP one, according to their strength in the assembly. But the BJP in a surprise move fielded an additional candidate to test the political waters forcing an election. Talking to media at the PCC office on Tuesday, Pilot said the BJP fielded an additional candidate for a contest and denied unanimous election of the party candidates. When Congress was in the opposition earlier, it supported an Independent candidate. But they know that the numbers are stacked against them, he said. The statement comes in the wake of BJP poaching on Congress MLAs in Gujarat and some of them were shifted to Rajasthan before the Rajya Sabha polls. Pilot said the party proactively worked to provide succour to the people during the Covid-19 lockdown period. “The party set up control rooms at the state, divisional and district level and tried its best to address the grievances of the people due to lockdown. The party organization had distributed 1.33 crore food packets, dry ration to over 29 lakh families and medical kits (masks, saintlier, soaps and PPE kits) to 37.5 lakh people,” he said. Pilot claimed that the party organisation also worked tirelessly to provide relief to the migrant workers stranded in the state on the call of party president Sonia Gandhi. He said 1.6 lakh migrants registered with the party who were given help by the party to reach their destinations. On opening the lockdown, Pilot said some states, including Rajasthan, have opened the lockdown. Markets opened after the lockdown exemption, so people should be cautious at this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-will-easily-win-two-rs-seats-in-raj-says-pilot/articleshow/76292559.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||After birthday party, West Delhi restaurant gets closure notice||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday issued closure notice to the restaurant in Rajouri Garden which was the venue of a birthday party during which social distancing norms were violated. “An FIR has already been registered in this connection and no health trade licence will be issued to them in future,” said a senior corporation official. “The premises may also be sealed for violating the norms and guidelines issued under the Epidemic Act,” the official added. The closure notice issued by the deputy health officer of the west zone stated that hookah, which was banned in the capital, was also being served on the premises. “You are directed to close the trade within 48 hours of the receipt of the closure notice failing which further action will be taken against you under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, including sealing of the said premises,” it read. “The closure notice has already been put up on the restaurant’s premises. According to guidelines, restaurants have to strictly ensure social distancing. In case of dine-in, only 50% occupancy is allowed,” the official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-birthday-party-w-delhi-restaurant-gets-closure-notice/articleshow/76311021.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Panel formed to recommend austerity measures: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said the state government has formed a committee comprising officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the Goa Civil Service to recommend austerity measures that the government should follow. The committee will be headed by the chief secretary. A notification to the effect will be issued soon, Sawant told reporters, even as he said that the state has already undertaken some austerity measures and will introduce some more from Wednesday. Governor Satya Pal Malik had written a letter to Sawant requesting him to adopt appropriate austerity measures in the state and reduce expenditure so that more resources are made available to battle Covid-19 and bring the economy back on track. In the letter, the governor had stated that the pandemic has thrown various challenges before the state like never before. Since the pandemic has severely dented the economy, it is imperative for the state to bring in greater economy in the expenses and set an example, Malik had stated.Last week, the chief minister had said the state government had already taken some austerity measures but had not cut down on any expenditure on health and Covid-19 management. “We know that GST and revenue collection in the state has dropped by 80%, and to tide over the situation, we have started implementing various austerity measures,” he had said. “By Wednesday, we will convey to departments the austerity measures taken by the government.” Speaking on the reopening of schools, Sawant said the directorate of education has started consultation with stakeholders before taking a decision. The Union government has announced that schools will open in the middle of August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panel-formed-to-recommend-austerity-measures-cm/articleshow/76292560.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Chargesheet against ex-swimming coach||PANAJI: Goa police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet before the children’s court against swimming coach Surajit Ganguly for allegedly raping a 15-year-old swimmer. The case pertains to September last year, when the swimmer lodged a complaint at the Rishra police station in Hooghly, West Bengal. “We have filed a chargesheet against Ganguly under Sections 376 (rape), 354 (molestation) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, as well as under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and Goa Children’s Act,” Mapusa PI Tushar Lotlikar told TOI. He was booked in September for the rape and molestation of the swimmer after she accused him of sexual harassment. Her father, too, sent an email complaint to the Mapusa police station, in whose jurisdiction the offence is alleged to have taken place. Goa police later arrested Ganguly. In November, the Goa children’s court granted him bail with “stringent conditions” — he was ordered to be released upon furnishing a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh, and was also directed not to interfere or tamper with evidence, and not to threaten, induce or coerce witnesses, including the survivor and her father. Ganguly, a former Eastern Railways employee, was a specialist in backstroke, and the swimmer he mentored and later allegedly raped was climbing up the ranks, winning two golds at the National School Games in 2017. The court, when granting Ganguly bail, also ordered him not to visit her house in her hometown “at any cost”. Other conditions included remaining present before the court on every date of hearing, unless exempted by the court upon an application stating a valid reason, and not leaving the state or country without permission of the court. Surajit Ganguly was booked in September for the rape and molestation of the swimmer after she accused him of sexual harassment. The swimmer had lodged a complaint at the Rishra police station in Hooghly, West Bengal (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chargesheet-against-ex-swimming-coach/articleshow/76292564.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||District courts to reopen from June 15||Hyderabad: The high court has lifted the lockdown for district courts and said that they would start functioning from June 15. However, the district courts within Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts will continue to be in lockdown till June 28. The subordinate courts will be reopened in a four-phased manner from June 15 to August 8, registrar general A Venkateswara Reddy . If any of the parties fail to appear before the district courts, the judges should not pass any adverse orders. Imposing strict disinfection of premises, sanitization, social distance, etc, HC also issued a standard operating procedure. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/district-courts-to-reopen-from-june-15/articleshow/76292080.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 claims five lives in Meerut & Agra||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: At least three persons died in Meerut while two in Agra due to Covid-19 by Tuesday evening. The two deaths of Agra were reported from the city's SN Medical College, taking the number of dead in the city due to the contagious disease to 53. According to the health department, the two city residents died due to other health complications aggravated by the Covid-19.While at least 10 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra by Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 990. The new cases included a ward boy of SN Medical College and three patients of severe acute respiratory illness. Out of the 990 cases reported in the district, 83.80% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 112 active Covid-19 cases in the district.And, at least five persons tested positive in Meerut on Tuesday. The tally reached 537 (including one found in Kanpur).Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut’s district surveillance officer, said, “At least five cases tested positive in Meerut on Tuesday. Meanwhile, three people died here.” In Bijnor, five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 taking tally to 168. Out of them, 88 are active cases.Meanwhile, three fresh cases surfaced in Bareilly.Bareilly’s district surveillance officer (DSO) Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Three persons, who are undergoing treatment at a private medical college, were tested positive for Covid-19. Of them, two women patients are residents of Bareilly’s Bas Mandi and Nawabganj while third, a man, lived in Kasganj.” With this, tally in Bareilly rose to 74, including 34 active cases.10 cases surfaced in Pilibhit. Among them, the youngest is 12-year-old while the oldest is 48 years.Additional chief medical officer Dr CM Chaturvedi said, “Of the 10 infected people, four belong to Barha village and two to Jiraunia village under Lalaurikhera block. Among others, one each is a resident of Dang village under Amaria block, Itoria and Raypur villages under Puranpur and Nand Puva village under Bilsanda block.”With this, the tally of novel corona infected persons has gone up to 66 here with 21 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-claims-five-lives-in-meerut-agra/articleshow/76290383.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Surat||Pensioners spared from physical verification rule||Surat: In order to help pensioners stay at home amid the threat of Covid-19 spread, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided that these senior citizens need not visit the civic body offices to submit certificates of proof that they are alive. The deadline has been extended till August and if need be, it would be extended further, the civic body said on Tuesday. “SMC is now focusing on safeguarding elders and people suffering from health complications as they are susceptible to the infection. We have, therefore, exempted pensioners from visiting our offices to submit necessary certificates till August and it will be extended further if needed,” said municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani.On Tuesday, 59 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths were reported in Surat city.Pani said that Covid-19 cases have been continuously reported from containment zones and people living in these areas should take this seriously .“Currently, Surat city has102 containment zones with over 9.58 lakh residents. Clusters are announced with guidelines to stall the spread of the virus and these rules should be followed strictly to stop the spread,” Pani said. He added that more cases are being reported in Begampura, Gopipura and Salabatpura in central zone, while cases are emerging in Azadnagar, Parvat Patiya areas in Limbayat zone. SMC officials said that Katargam has become Covid-19 hotspot as it has been overtaking Limbayat zone in terms of daily Covid-19 cases for the last few days. On Tuesday, 20 cases were reported from Katargam zone followed by 14 in Limbayat zone. Meanwhile, 39 patients were discharged in Surat city on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pensioners-spared-from-physical-verification-rule/articleshow/76290387.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat FDCA tops enforcement index||Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s FDCA has ranked high on the enforcement index of the Food Safety and Standard Authority regulations in the country. The Union health ministry declared on Monday that Gujarat led the country when it came to implementation, food surveillance, implementation of best practices, setting up dedicated processes for certifying and the enforcement of regulations across the state. Commissioner of Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) H G Koshia said that Gujarat led the enforcement index followed by Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and then Kerala. The enforcement index was calculated based on measures undertaken since the regulations came into force. “Gujarat was awarded for leading in the enforcement of regulations in the country with the high number of cases and surveillance activities,” said Koshia. The award was officially announced on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-fdca-tops-enforcement-index/articleshow/76291437.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Cases of loot, arson, online fraud in Ajmer||Ajmer: With the opening of lockdown, criminals too are back in action. In past 24 hours, a shopkeeper was looted, motorcycles were burnt and a man became victim of online fraud in the city. According to police, 45-year-old Amit Sharma, a shopkeeper at Kachehri Road, was returning home when five youths stopped him at Rishi Ghati and looted Rs 16,000 from him. The youths beat him up and fled. A 22-year-old man Ravi burnt two motorcycles in Traumbey, after he was denied money to buy liquor. Clock tower police arrested him. A man in Alwar Gate police station area ordered a mobile online wherein he got a link to submit details. An hour later, Rs 44,000 were withdrawn from his account. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-of-loot-arson-online-fraud-in-ajmer/articleshow/76292563.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||No new cellars to be built: GHMC||Hyderabad: Keeping in view of the upcoming monsoon, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has banned the construction of new cellars. Officials have warned builders of criminal cases if rules are violated. Dilapidated structures are being identified as a part of monsoon action plan. “ If cellar excavation is underway, safety measures such as soil strengthening, construction of retaining wall should be taken up,” read a GHMC statement. “If norms are violated, we will file a criminal case against violators,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-new-cellars-to-be-built-ghmc/articleshow/76292083.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hubballi||BSY launches new office for Kalyana Karnataka remotely||Kalaburagi: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday inaugurated the office of Kalyan Karnataka Human Resource, Agriculture and Cultural Association via video-conference from Bengaluru. After inaugurating the facility located on Aiwan E Shahi Road here, Yediyurappa said the development of six districts of this region is the motto behind the renaming of Hyderabad-Karnatak region as Kalyana Karnataka. “The government wants to effectively increase the production and service sectors by enhancing the skills of people of this region. For this, the government has initiated several programmes,” the CM said. Rs 500 crore sacntioned for development Rs 500 crore has been earmarked in the budget for the development of Kalyana Karnataka. Senior leader and former MP Basavaraj Patil has been appointed as the president of the newly formed association, the CM said, adding that he, being an efficient leader, will ensure the development of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bsy-launches-new-office-for-kalyana-karnataka-remotely/articleshow/76290365.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 spreading at lightning speed in Tamil Nadu, says health minister C Vijayabaskar||CHENNAI: Health minister C Vijayabaskar on Tuesday said Covid-19 cases are “spreading at lightning speed across the state” and promised 1,100 more hospital beds for worst-hit Chennai. TN Covid-19 cases touched 34,914 with 1,685 people reported infected on Tuesday. Chennai accounted for 1,242 of the cases and 36 were returnees from other states and abroad. The state also recorded its highest single-day death toll so far, 21. “We have kept 500 beds ready at the newly constructed Institute of Ageing inside King Institute of Preventive Medicine campus. All these beds have adequate oxygen supply. We also have ventilators on campus to treat the critically ill. We will be posting MBBS doctors, specialists and paramedical staff soon,” he said. The facility is to be used to quarantine the elderly and vulnerable population. In addition, there will be 300 beds at the Chennai Port hospital and an equal number of them at the old block of the Government Ophthalmic Hospital in Egmore. “We have increased the number of people who are being tested. The state is expected to see 1.3 lakh cases by the month-end, according to predictions by various agencies including the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical Universities. “We have been given similar predictions by other agencies. We are taking note of all predictions and preparing for the spike,” Vijayabaskar said. By the end of the day, 16,279 people in the state, including 12,570 in Chennai, were being treated for Covid 19. Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpattu (158), Tiruvallur (90), and Kancheepuram (32) added 280 cases on Tuesday. The three districts had 2,157 active cases, some of whom were being treated at hospitals in Chennai. As case load increased, more people showed severe symptoms of the ailments. Officials at the directorate of public health maintained that less than five people in government hospitals were on ventilator – the data is not in public domain. The government dashboard shows that in designated private hospitals 45 of the 163 ventilators and 133 of 236 ICU beds were in use although nearly three-fourths of the isolation beds were vacant. “We have asked private medical colleges to allot at least 50% of their beds for Covid care,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. More people are reporting sick to hospitals, she said. Four of the 21 deaths reported on Tuesday occurred within a day of admission to hospital. Five people including a 30-year-old man had no comorbidities. There were two people each in their 30s and 80s, one each in 40s and 90s, six each in 50s and 70s, and three of them in 60s. While Chennai had one “imported case” all the cases in districts were from within. In addition, Madurai and Vellore logged 16 cases each. , Tiruvannamalai, which also reported 16 cases from with had three returnees testing positive. Tirunelveli and Thootukudi recorded 10 cases each, while 18 other other districts recorded a single digit increase. Among the 36 returnees, five were from other countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Maldives. On Tuesday 798 walked out of different hospitals taking the total number of people cured of the viral infection to 18,325.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/min-virus-spreading-at-lightning-speed-in-tn/articleshow/76292084.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Surat||Five more private hospitals ‘designated’ for nCov in Surat||Surat: Looking the sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the Surat Municipal Corporation has issued requisition order under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987 for five hospitals. These will be declared as ‘Designated Covid-19 hospitals’ for isolation and treatment of the coronavirus patients. Issuing the requisition order, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani stated that these private hospitals shall provide 50% of its total number of beds for the coronavirus positive patients to be referred by SMC, while the other half will be for treating other ailments. These five hospitals include Venus hospital, RB Shah Mahavir Superspeciality Hospital, BAPS Pramukh Swami hospital, Shree Prannath hospital and Sparkle Hospital which will have a combined bed capacity of 345 for Covid patients. The SMC has fixed the ceiling of the rates as per the reduction ordered by the Gujarat High Court in the range of Rs 9,000 to Rs 21,850 for the private beds in various categories including ward admission, isolation and ICU, ventilators and ICU among other other infra needs. At present, two private hospitals — Seventh Day Adventist Mission hospital and Tristar hospital — are designated Covid-19 hospitals with 100 and 80 beds, respectively. New Civil Hospital (NCH) has 670 beds, while Covid care centre at Samras hostel of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has 520 taking the total number of beds in the city to 1,370. Official sources said that the SMC-run SMIMER hospital, which is a non-Covid hospital, may be converted to the Covid hospital with 850 beds capacity. However, the total beds available with the civic body is about 2,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-more-private-hospitals-designated-for-ncov-in-surat/articleshow/76290417.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Cousins found dead at home with throats slit, probe begins||Jodhpur: A man and an adolescent girl, reportedly cousins, were found dead in a room of their house in Bhadwasia area of Jodhpur on Tuesday morning. Their throat were slit. Police have found glass splinters on the floor of the room. Both of them were reportedly living in the house with the grandmother and mother of the girl. Preliminary investigation suggests that the man identified as Govind Chaube, first killed the girl by slitting her throat with glass piece and then committed suicide by slitting his own throat in a similar manner. DCP (East) Dharmendra Singh Yadav said that police received information around 7.30am on Tuesday that a man and a girl in a house in Ashok Nagar in Bhadwasia area were locked in a room and were not responding. “When we reached the spot, blood was flowing out of the room. We broke the door open and found a girl and a man lying in a pool of blood on the floor,” he said. He said that apparently they had some tussle in the room and in a fit of rage, the man accessed some glass item, break it and slit the throat of the girl first and his afterwards. “Though, it was too early to arrive at any conclusion as exact details could be ascertained only after a thorough investigation,” said Yadav. Police have also been trying to find out that what the two were together in the room and the door latched from inside. He said that the investigation was being undertaken by all angles and much would be known only after interrogation of the mother and grandmother of the girl, who were not in position to talk to. According to the information, the family belonged to Banaras and had been living in Jodhpur for the past 35 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cousins-found-dead-at-home-with-throats-slit-probe-begins/articleshow/76292566.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi now has 237 containment zones||NEW DELHI: The number of containment zones in the national capital reached 237 on Tuesday with six new areas added to the list. One area was de-sealed. The newly contained areas included parts of Classic Apartments in Dwarka’s Sector- 22 (Southwest district), Flat no. 1 to 58 in AD Block of Shalimar Bagh, and parts of Block A and B of Rana Pratap Bagh (Northwest district), WZ 247 in New Delhi district’s Naraina and parts of Gali No. 11 in North district’s Sant Nirankari Colony. According to senior Delhi government officials, the officials of 11 revenue districts have also issued scaling down order in 37 sealed areas where no new case has emerged in the last 28 days. As many as 43 such areas, wherein no new case had emerged in over a month since the last person tested positive, have been de-contained so far. As per the protocol in Delhi, a residential pocket is sealed and declared containment zone if three cases of Covid-19 positive emerge from the area. In certain cases, the district authorities contain a pocket despite just one positive case if they think the spread could be larger. With 35 containment zones, North district has the highest number of active sealed areas followed by 33 in South and 32 in Southwest and 31 in West districts. While Northwest has 22 containment zones, East has 19, Central has 17, Southeast 16, New Delhi 15 and Shahdara 14. Northeast district has just three containment zones. “Several blocks of Jahangirpuri have been sealed by the district authorities. It is one of the largest containment pockets,” said an official. Southeast district has so far witnessed highest number of 15 de-contained zones, followed by 11 in East, five in West, three each in New Delhi and South West, and two each in North, Shahdara and Northeast districts. No area has been de-contained in Northwest, South and Central districts so far. Officials, however, said that scaling down orders had been issued in 12 areas in South district. Seven areas in West district have been scaled down till date. Watch Covid-19: Delhi’s containment zones increase to 237||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-now-has-237-containment-zones/articleshow/76292104.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Minor raped in Bundi district||KOTA: A 15-year-old girl, student of Class X, was raped by a youth of her village under Nainwa police station of Bundi district while she was returning home from agriculture field on Monday evening. The accused fled from the spot after the crime and is yet to be nabbed. “The minor girl was returning home from the field around 2km away on Monday evening when the accused youth, identified as Deepak Meena of the same village, forcibly took her to a nearby secluded place and raped her,” SHO at Nainwa police station Ramlal said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-raped-in-bundi-dist/articleshow/76292565.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Former SBI manager held for cheating||Hyderabad: A former State Bank of India (SBI) branch manager was arrested by the CCS detective department, Hyderabad, on Tuesday on the charges of duping the bank of Rs 1.75 crore by sanctioning loans to ineligible persons during his tenure.The accused was identified as Jonnalagadda Deepak (35), who had worked as manager of SBI Red Hills branch between June 2018 and March 2019. “He had allegedly opened 130 OD/Xpress credit accounts without proper documentation and following the necessary guidelines,” said a police officer. Police booked him under sections 420 and 409 of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-sbi-manager-held-for-cheating/articleshow/76292092.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Two buried to death while repairing tubewell in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Two persons died and one injured when rubble fell over them in an agriculture farm in Samrau village at Lohawat sub-division of Jodhpur late on Monday night. The trio had climbed down a tubewell at the farm to repair it. The deceased have been identified as Shravan Deora and Jawri Lal Bishnoi. According to police, three persons had been repairing the tubewell in their farm. A deep hole of about 20ft was dug around the tubewell and they had climbed down in it. “When they began to come out after repairing the tubewell, a rubble of sand suddenly fell on them and all three got buried under it. One of them, however, managed to come out despite some injures, but other two persons, who were little below him, got stuck under the sand,” said the police. Police rushed to the spot on the information and initiated rescue operation with the help of the villagers. Two excavators were roped in to extract the buried persons with adequate light arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-buried-to-death-while-repairing-tubewell-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76292569.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Fazilka MLA’s SUV kills biker on Chandigarh Road||Times News Network Ludhiana: An SUV of Fazilka Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya killed a 40-year-old biker on Chandigarh Road, near Mundiya, late on Monday night.The speeding SUV was going to Chandigarh to pick up the MLA when the accident took place. The deceased has been identified as Bhajan Pal, 40, of Guru Nanak Nagar, Mundiya.After closing his chicken shop on 33 Feet Road around 8.30pm, Bhajan Pal dropped his employee, Sushil, to his house in Mundiya Kalan village. He was on way home when the SUV rear-ender his motorcycle near a government school on Chandigarh Road around 11pm. The collision was so strong that it killed the biker on the spot. Passersby called up the police. Mundiya police post in-charge sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh said, “The SUV belongs to Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya. He, however, was not in the vehicle at the time. His driver Surinder Singh Shinda and a gunman were going to Chandigarh to pick him up.” The police arrested the driver after registering a case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. Bhajan Pal is survived by his wife and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fazilka-mlas-suv-kills-biker-on-chandigarh-road/articleshow/76290421.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Four members of family die after drinking toddy||VADODARA: Four persons of a family died after consuming toddy that was mixed with some poisonous substance in Sinhada village of Chhota Udepur district on Tuesday. Farmer Devsinh Rathwa (42), his wife Dhedadi (40), two sons - Suresh and Manish - and his aunt Sanati started vomiting minutes after drinking toddy on Monday evening. As their health deteriorated, their neighbours took them to the community health centre in Panvad nearby, but were rushed to a private hospital as their condition became critical. While Sanati survived, the couple and two sons succumbed at a private hospital in Chhota Udepur town early on Tuesday. Sanati had come to meet Devsinh and his family from her home at Rumadiya village. The family had consumed toddy collected from a palm tree from their farm near their house. “Primary investigation has revealed that Devsinh had sprinkled pesticides on the palm tree to keep bees and other insects away from the pot fastened to collect the toddy,” said deputy superintendent of police, A V Katkad. Due to incessant rainfall on Sunday night, it is possible that the pesticides seeped inside the toddy and the family may not have realized while consuming, he said. Senior police officials including the Chhota Udepur superintendent of police (SP) MS Bhabhor also visited the as deaths due to toddy has been unheard of till date in the tribal belt. “We asked around, but this is probably first such incident when people have died after consuming toddy,” Katkad said. Toddy, a naturally alcoholic sap of palm tree. A pot is fastened to a cut flower stump of palm tree due to collect the sap over a few days. Later, the liquid is fermented which makes it alcoholic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/toxic-toddy-leaves-4-dead/articleshow/76289870.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Tourism dept warns private hotels to maintain hygiene||Panaji: Following complaints by a few travellers that some hotels used as private quarantine facility failed to maintain hygiene in the premises, the department of tourism has issued a circular directing all the hotels used as quarantine facility to see that their premises and surrounding areas are sanitised and cleaned. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said hotels should take all measures to provide a clean and hygienic environment in and around the hotel premise to ensure that services of the highest standard are provided to all guests accommodated in the hotels. The circular by the tourism department said it is imperative that standards of the highest order are to be maintained for food safety and health hygiene, specifically in the hospitality industry and more so when detailed guidelines have been issued by the authorities from time to time during the lockdown for the containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was brought to the notice of the authorities that one hotel that was taken over as quarantine facility, neglected its duties and failed to maintain necessary hygiene conditions. This was also true in case of few quarantine facilities of Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) residencies that are converted into quarantine facilities. A government official said due to manpower crunch, it is difficult to source people to do cleaning work. When a hotel is converted into quarantine facility, cleanliness work increases. Containment measures, he said, doesn’t end with cleaning rooms alone but involves cleaning the whole premises once the guests depart. “It is not possible to maintain total hygiene if there is no adequate manpower. Plus, cleaning staff have to be provided with protective gears lest they pick-up an infection while doing their duty,” the official added. A few days ago, video showing shabby hygiene condition in one such hotels, had gone viral. While some of the quarantined inmates complained of power cuts, others said that the food is served cold. The quarantined individuals had questioned if the health department had inspected the hotels before selecting them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-warns-private-hotels-to-maintain-hygiene/articleshow/76292571.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Three of family cheat 85 cotton farmers of Rs 3cr||Rajkot: Three members of a family, including a man and his two sons, were arrested for allegedly cheating 85 farmers of Rs 3 crore in Surendranagar town on Tuesday. The accused Raighan Gabu and his sons Rajesh and Mahesh, have been accused of procuring cotton at higher rates from farmers and not paying them. The Gabus are engaged in cotton trading for the past 15 years and own two firms — Sitaram Trading and Samay Enterprise — in Surendranagar. They have been charged for cheating. The trio, along with their family had fled from Surendranagar to escape farmers demanding their money, but got hit by the lockdown. After not getting any work for two months, the accused thad returned home on Tuesday and were arrested by the police. The incident came to light after a petrol pump owner, Dhankhu Khavad, filed a cheating case against the trio. Apparently, they had bought 18,745 litres of diesel worth Rs 13.85 lakh on credit from the petrol pump for which they did not make any payment. The accused also did not pay for 7,980 kg of cotton worth Rs4 lakh which they had purchased from him. In the beginning of the cotton season in January this year, Gabu and his sons began buying cotton directly from farmers at Rs 1,000-1,200 per 20kg, a rate much higher than the prevailing market price. Over the course of three months (January to March), the accused procured cotton worth Rs 15 crore and had made payments to the tune of Rs 12 crore to various farmers. However, while they had procured at higher prices, prices fell sharply when they went to sell the cotton to ginners, and at one point it reached Rs 750 per 20 kg. So the accused sold the cotton at lower price and incurred huge losses. Left with no money to pay the farmers, the accused decided to flee the town. Gabu along with his wife, two sons and their wives, went to Ahmedabad on March 17 and from there via Delhi by flight, they went to Panipat in Haryana where they rented a house. However, soon the lockdown came into force and they could not find work. As they were left with no money, the family decided to return home and were soon arrested,” said Surendranagar LCB police inspector Deepak Dhol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-of-family-cheat-85-cotton-farmers-of-rs-3cr/articleshow/76290436.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Espionage racket busted in Raj has Multan link||Lucknow: The two persons arrested by the Rajasthan police on Monday on charges of operating an espionage racket were constantly in touch with a handler in Multan, Pakistan, sources in the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad have revealed. Chiman Lal (22) and Vikas Kumar (29) were arrested on the basis of specific information from the UP ATS and military intelligence from Bikaner and Jhunjhunu for allegedly passing on classified information of the Indian Army to the Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan. Sources in the UP ATS told TOI that the two arrested accused were constantly in touch with a specific handler in Multan named ‘Anoshka Chopra’ who interacted with the duo on Facebook. The handler is known to be a Pakistani Intelligence Operative (PIO). Vikas happens to be a civil defence employee at an Army ammunition depot near Shri Ganganagar (Rajasthan). Chiman works as a civil contractual employee of Army’s Mahajan Field Firing Range (MFFR), Jaipur. After analysing over 100 suspicious FB profiles, MI Lucknow got to know about Vikas being in touch with Chopra and also passing information pertaining to Order of Battle (composition and order of a military fighting formation), ammunition (photos, state, quantity, type, arrival, departure), units coming for firing practice/military exercise to MFFR and personality traits of senior Army officers in lieu of money. Sources said that Vikas received a hefty amount in his brother’s account and even in his own account. Later, the case was shared with the UP ATS in January 2020 and code named ‘Desert Chase’. “Both the agencies got on the probe and learnt that Vikas was acquiring photos of a ‘water distribution register’ at a water point/pump house in MFFR through a contractual civil employee named Chiman Lal,” said a source in UP ATS. “Fresh payments were detected and so were passing on of more information to Pakistan. Also, after his arrest, Vikas confessed that he had received a friend request from ‘Anoshka Chopra’ in March/April, 2019 and had accepted it,” said a source. Vikas also disclosed that they became very friendly, shared WhatsApp numbers with each other and started chatting and making audio/video calls. The PIO used an Indian WhatsApp number and claimed she was working with Canteen Store Department (CSD) headquarters at Mumbai. Subsequently, she introduced Vikas to her ‘boss’, Amit Kumar Singh (pseudo name used by the handler) who was also using an Indian WhatsApp number. He at times claimed to be from CSD and at times form Military Engineer Service (MES). Once Vikas and the Pakistani handler, ‘Amit Kumar Singh’ started communicating, ‘Anoshka Chopra’ blocked him from her Facebook and WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/espionage-racket-busted-in-raj-has-multan-link/articleshow/76292105.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Quepem civic body removes 15 kiosks||Quepem: The Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) on Monday and Tuesday removed 15 kiosks which were permanently stationed at prime locations for more than three years in Quepem town. Of the 15, eight kiosks were located opposite fish market and seven near the Amona junction. Some of them have no wheels and one has been chained to an electricity pole along the Quepem-Cuncolim highway. QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik said, “The council is collecting only sopo fees from these kiosks and none of them has been issued a licence to operate. All the kiosks were doing business on the roadside causing inconvenience to the public.” Naik further said that the municipality is in the process of locating an area where all the kioks can be shifted. He added that mostly, all kiosk owners are migrants who serve food in unhygienic conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-civic-body-removes-15-kiosks/articleshow/76292576.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Army man ends life in Kota after lover gets engaged||KOTA: A 23-year-old Army man from Maharashtra allegedly hanged himself from a tree here after the woman he loved got engaged to someone else. The incident took place late on Monday night and the body was found early on Tuesday near the Army Public School in Nayapura police station area. The deceased has left 4-5 brief suicide notes in which he expressed his respect for his parents and love for the woman. The deceased was identified as Rambhau Jatav (23), a resident of Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra, currently posted in Army Cantonment in Kota. “Prima facie, disheartened over fixing of his beloved’s marriage with another youth, the army man committed suicide,” said Kanh Singh, investigating officer and ASI at Nayapura police station. In the suicide notes, Jatav hasn’t held anyone responsible for the extreme step. He expressed his respect for his parents and love for the woman he was in relationship with, the ASI said. The body was sent to his native place in Maharashtra after the postmortem on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-man-ends-life-in-kota-after-lover-gets-engaged/articleshow/76292575.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Udaipur||Rape of minor girl: Youth, two aides held in Rajsamand||UDAIPUR: A youth was arrested on Monday for allegedly raping and blackmailing a girl by threatening to make her clip viral in Lasani village under Deogarh police station limits of Rajsamand district. Two of his aides were also arrested for helping him and torturing the girl to change her religion and get married to their friend. Since the girl was lured into a physical relationship when she was a minor, the case has been registered under sections of POCSO Act too. According to police, the 19-year-old girl, who is a native of Lasani village, stated in her complaint that four years ago, main accused Riyaz came to her house and asked for some water. He introduced himself as a Hindu boy. Later they became very close and got into physical relationship. However, sometime later, the girl came to know that the accused had lied to her about his religion. She broke off their relationship but the accused kept pressuring her for marriage. He raped her and recorded the act and threatened her to make the clip viral if she didn't adhere to his wish, police said. On June 1, the girl had gone to work and while returning home, she was stopped by Riyaz and his friends Sulaiman and Saiyed Anwar who took her forcibly to a dargah near Khari river and pressurised her to agree for nikah. They also forced her to change her religion. “The girl told us that when she refused to marry the accused, the three of them thrashed her badly and even threatened to burn her house and kill her family members. However, hearing her cries some boys who were playing cricket in the open rushed towards the dargah and the girl got a chance to escape from their grip,” Nanalal Salvi, SHO of Deogarh informed. As the news spread, large number of people gathered at the river side and the police was informed. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rape-of-minor-girl-youth-2-aides-held-in-rajsamand/articleshow/76292577.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Senior citizens seek MP’s assistance over recreational centre||New Delhi: The Senior Citizens Council of Delhi has written to BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi requesting her to speak to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to not convert their recreational and community centre in Green Park Extension into a Covid facility. They expressed fear that if the centre was taken over, then many elderly people could get infected by the novel coronavirus. The council pointed out that the recreational and community centre was inspected by government officials on Tuesday. They also learnt that approval was obtained to take over the centre on Wednesday. SCCD president JR Gupta said, “We have provided various free facilities, such as homeopathy dispensary, television, newspapers, legal aid with the support of Delhi State Legal Services Authority (south district) and indoor games, to over 200 senior citizens daily during the lockdown.” “Many senior citizens and children may lose their lives if the centre is taken over for converting it into a hospital for treatment of Covid-positive patients. There will also be chances of the virus spreading in the entire colony, which mainly houses senior citizens,” added Gupta. Responding to the plea, Lekhi wrote to the LG saying, “I request you to please issue appropriate directions to the officials concerned not to take over the recreational and community centre to avoid the spread of coronavirus among the residents of Green Park Extension.” A senior Delhi government official said that all banquet halls, community centres and such places were being surveyed on the directions of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as more health facilities would be required in the near future considering the surge in Covid cases. “Several factors will be considered before converting a community centre into a hospital. It’s too early to say if this community centre will be taken over,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/senior-citizens-seek-mps-assistance-over-recreational-centre/articleshow/76311092.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Shots fired at house of murderbid case accused in Dharampura||Times News Network Ludhiana: Five miscreants fired shots at a house in Dharampura early on Tuesday. The house belongs to Rishav Banipal, who is lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail in a case of attempt to murder.At the time, Rishav’s mother Sangeeta Sharma, brother Paras, uncle, aunt and their son were at home. The family suspects it to be the handiwork of the gang led by Jatinder Singh Jindi of Rahon Road and Puneet Bains of Ghora Colony.Sangeeta said in her police complaint, “I, along with my son Paras and brother’s family, live here. I woke up around 1am on hearing what seemed to be gunshots. When I came out of my room, I saw five men outside our house. They had come on two motorcycles. One of them was firing inside our house from the main gate grille gap.” Paras said, “My cousin and I were watching TV when two bullets pierced through the window and hit our room wall. We had a narrow escape.”The family soon called the police. Accusing the gang of the incident, Sangeeta added, “Rishav is lodged in jail in a case of murder bid on Bains.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-investigation) Dayama Harish Kumar Omparkash said, “We have recovered three bullet shells from the spot. The family has accused local gangster Jindi, Bains and their accomplices of the firing. A case has been registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and under the Arms Act.”On February 11, the Moti Nagar police had booked Rishav, Youth Congress leader Ankit Pandit of Tibba Road, district Youth Congress (central) president Shubham Arora of Madhopuri, Sam Oberoi of Division 3 Chowk, Nihal of Tibba Road, Sandeep of Bhamiyan Road, JP and seven others on the charge of attempt to murder after they thrashed Bains outside a restaurant on RK Road. Cases against gang membersLudhiana Police is on the lookout for Jindi and Bains in other attempt to murder cases too.On May 31, the duo and their accomplices had allegedly opened fire at Jaspreet Singh of Mayapuri and his father Kuldeep Singh, a realtor, near their house. Before firing shots, they had thrashed Jaspreet following a monetary dispute. Besides, Moti Nagar police had booked Bains for trying to kill a disc jockey on October 8, 2019. Bains and his aides had opened fire at the DJ at Shankar Dhaba in Transport Nagar following an argument. While Bains had managed to give police the slip, his aides were arrested in the case.Another gang member claims responsibilityOn Tuesday, Nikka Jattana, who claimed to be a member of Davinder Bambiha gang, uploaded a Facebook post, taking responsibility for the firing. In his post, Nikka said he has taken revenge of “sticks” with “bullets” from Rishav and that it was just a trailer. He also threatened him of dire consequences for opposing Bambiha group. ACP (Central) Waryam Singh said, “Nikka is lodged in jail. It is being probed if he is behind the firing or is trying to mislead the investigation.” ‘Case being probed from all angles’Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “As of now, we have registered an attempt to murder FIR against unidentified accused. As Rishav has rivalry with Bains and his accomplices, their role is being probed. The case will be probed from all angles, as a man has claimed responsibility for the incident in a Facebook post.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shots-fired-at-house-of-murderbid-case-accused-in-dharampura/articleshow/76290453.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Doc couple positive, Khanna hosp shut, 28 staffers quarantined||Khanna: Panic gripped Guru Ram Das Market, near Mata Rani Mohalla, after a doctor couple running a hospital there tested positive for novel coronavirus. The hospital was shut after their reports were received. If two more positive cases are reported, the health department will declare the market a containment zone. So far, 13 cases have been reported from the hospital. They include its patients, doctors and their families. The authorities have declared the area a hotspot. While the market is visited by thousands daily, there are not many houses there. Senior medical officer of Khanna sub-divisional hospital Dr Rajinder Gulati said, “The area has been declared a hotspot and a high-priority zone. The hospital has been temporarily closed and its 28 staffers quarantined. Disinfection drive is on in the market. Public movement has been restricted. The health department team is now trying to find out people who came in contact with the doctor couple and their family. As many as 36 employees of the hospital and 36 patients who visited it have undergone testing.”SSP Harpreet Singh said, “We held a meeting with the SMO. After the health departments’ consent, the administration will declare the area a containment zone. We have restricted public movement in the market and contact tracing is being done. Health department teams are visiting the area for surveillance. The entire area has been sanitised and family members of the doctor couple have been isolated at a community health centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doc-couple-positive-khanna-hosp-shut-28-staffers-quarantined/articleshow/76290459.cms||Mehak Jain
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia, mother admitted to Delhi hospital||NEW DELHI/BHOPAL: BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and his mother, Madhavi Raje, have been admitted to Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital in South Delhi. The hospital is a designated Covid-19 facility. Members of the Scindia family have not disclosed any details nor has the hospital management officially said whether or not they were admitted for Covid-19 treatment. Scindia is a BJP candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled for June 19. Shri Jyotiraditya Scindia ji and his mother tested positive for #Covid_19. My prayers for the speedy recovery of b… https://t.co/dCRt61wIrr— Som Parkash (@SomParkashBJP) 1591699412000The junior Union minister for commerce and industry, Som Parkash, tweeted, "Shri Jyotiraditya Scindia ji and his mother tested positive for #Covid_19. My prayers for the speedy recovery of both. @JM_Scindia @BJP4India." श्री @JM_Scindia जी, पूज्य माताजी और आपके अस्वस्थ होने का समाचार मिला। ईश्वर से आपके और माताजी के शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की प्रार्थना करता हूं।— Shivraj Singh Chouhan (@ChouhanShivraj) 1591699063000Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed concern and tweeted: "Received information about you (Scindia) and your mother being unwell. I pray to the Almighty for your and your mother’s fast recovery." Jyotiraditya Scindia had shown some symptoms of the infection, following which he was brought to the health facility, sources in New Delhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jyotiraditya-scindia-mother-admitted-to-delhi-hospital/articleshow/76291484.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chennai||236 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai not recorded by Tamil Nadu government||CHENNAI: At least 460 people have died of Covid-19 in Chennai till June 8, which is more than double the 224 announced by the directorate of public health (DPH), a scrutiny of the city corporation death registry has found. A team of officials from the DPH who visited Ripon Buildings on Tuesday found the death register maintained by the health officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation had recorded 236 more deaths than the state register. If these deaths had been added, the fatality rate in the state would be close to 1.5%, against the 0.7% reported by state officials. On Tuesday, TOI had reported that at least 20 Covid-19 deaths logged by the Railway hospital in Perambur were not reported to the state nodal office for Covid-19. “We have no intention of hiding any deaths. We are transparent. This revision exercise also shows that,” health minister C Vijayabaskar told TOI. All government medical college hospitals and some private hospitals have to report deaths to the state and city corporation through email. “Many have not submitted it and we are finding out why. We will add the cases to the death registry after verification,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “A committee has been formed to reconcile the issue within a week,” she said. The DPH has issued showcause notices to hospitals and set up a committee to “streamline” death reports. It also directed the Greater Chennai Corporation to send all Covid-19 death reports to the state health agency in a prescribed format. Public health officials have also been directed to analyse all domiciliary deaths and see if they could be described as “probable Covid-19”, as per ICMR guidelines. The director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam in a letter to the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said the state has constituted a 11-member expert committee under the chairmanship of DPH (OSD) Dr P Vadivelan to “analyse and streamline the Covid-19 death reports with regard to Chennai Corporation.” In the two-page letter, he has asked the civic agency to send reports of all Covid-19 deaths reports as per prescribed format. “All Covid-19 deaths since March 2020 should be shared. From now on all deaths of Chennai Corporation have to be notified on a daily basis to this office by identified officials – City health officer or health officer”. Deaths will be scrutinised by the 11 –member committee, the letter said. Dr Selvavinayagam had also enclosed the format of reporting to the commissioner. Officials in health department of Chennai Corporation said they had nearly 75% less deaths, partly because they have not updated the state death registry as they were short staffed. Epidemiologists say doctors have to declare Covid-19 deaths and probable Covid-19 deaths along with a list of comorbidities. Like in every other death declaration sheets, the forms 4 and 4 (a) will also ask doctors to write down underlying cause, contributing factors and immediate cause. WHO has provided codes for Covid-19 deaths -- U07.1 for all Covid-19 deaths and U07.2 for probable Covid-19 deaths. In second case, Covid-19 virus is not identified through test, but doctors have clinically or epidemiologically diagnosed and suspect the virus. “Accurate data is necessary to measure the public health impact, plan for timely health interventions and protect communities. At the same time, other health conditions affecting populations need to be also monitored so that the health system is prepared for responding to the needs of the population,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/236-covid-19-deaths-in-city-not-recorded-by-state-govt/articleshow/76292114.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Moneylender tries to run BJP leader over||Ahmedabad: A moneylender from the Hathijan village in Ahmedabad district late on Monday night tried to crush a BJP leader with his SUV over a financial dispute, states an FIR filed at Vivekanandnagar police station. The local BJP leader, Anil Patel, whose wife Poonam Patel was earlier a BJP councillor, in his FIR stated that the accused, Shital Rajput, tried to hit him with his SUV when he went to buy medicines. Patel is said to be close to a leading BJP politician. In his FIR, Patel, a land broker, said he had introduced his neighbour Brijesh Parmar to Rajput a year ago. Patel then asked Rajput to lend Parmar some money. Rajput lent some money Patel did not mention the sum to Parmar at 5% monthly interest. “Though Parmar had repaid Rajput the capital, but he did not repay the interest and Patel wanted Rajput to write off that amount. Patel tried to negotiate with Rajput for a long but Rajput did not want to give up the money,” said the in-charge of Vivekanandnagar police, PSI Raviraj Rana. Rana said that the negotiations turned violent when Patel was walking towards a medical store in Hathijan and Rajput tried to crush him with his SUV. “Rajput tried to kill Patel twice and failed,” said Rana. On whether Patel suffered any injury, Rana said, “Patel did not suffer any injuries but as Rajput’s intention was to kill Patel, we have charged him with attempted murder.” Rana said that Rajput was earlier charged in three cases which include one case each of prohibition, assault and murder. In this case, Rajput was charged with attempted murder, rash driving and causing injury by negligent driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moneylender-tries-to-run-bjp-leader-over/articleshow/76291478.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Swachhata tools lying idle in Rajkot: Cong||Rajkot: The opposition Congress members in the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) conducted a surprise check at a civic body’s store on 80 ft Road and found large number of dustbins and other equipment for cleanliness gathering dust.They alleged that negligence by the solid waste department and said that equipments like masks, gloves and dustbins were allotted under the Swachh Bharat Mission.Leader of opposition Vashram Sagathiya alleged, “Dustbins to be distributed among people and masks and gloves for sweepers were lying like scrap.” RMC did not distribute dustbins to separate dry waste and wet waste in several societies he alleged. “These are purchased from public money and now they are turning into scrap. We believe that it’s a big scam,” Sagathia added. After these allegations, RMC issued a statement saying that the dustbins were removed from various wards after the city was declared ‘Dustbin Free’ in 2017. There are 617 such bins, some of them will be transferred to Rajkot Urban Development Authority (RUDA) as per resolution passed by the standing committee and rest will be disposed through e-auction, RMC stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/swachhata-tools-lying-idle-in-rajkot-cong/articleshow/76290464.cms||---
June 10, 2020||India||10 lakh take JEE, NEET practice tests on app||NEW DELHI: In an encouraging development, close to 10 lakh engineering and medical aspirants used the “National Test Abhyas App” to test their preparedness for JEE (Main) and NEET-UG and data reveal a significant 45% are from semi-urban, rural and under served areas and 37% have no access to private coaching. Read the entire story on TOI+An app that helps IIT aspirants practice takes off||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-lakh-take-jee-neet-practice-tests-on-app/articleshow/76292987.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Why Covid death rate is high in Amravati, HC asks AMC||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over high mortality rate due to novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Amravati, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC) to file an affidavit giving details of all 17 deaths categorized as Covid casualties till date. “We find that the death rate is high. The corporation should furnish details of all 17 deaths, including the names of hospitals (private and government) in which the patients were admitted,” a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amit Borkar said. Before adjourning the hearing till June 12, the bench further asked the AMC to file an affidavit stating the steps taken to prevent community spread of the deadly disease. The HC directives came while hearing a petition by Shivaray Kulkarni, through counsel Pankaj Navlani, pressing for stringent measures to control the exponential growth of deadly virus spread in Amravati. Earlier, Jemini Kasat appearing for the corporation informed that out of 264 Covid-19 cases, 146 have recovered. Of them, 101 are still active, while 17 succumbed to the disease till date. He further informed that out of the 17 deaths, four persons were not admitted to any of the hospitals, but they expired at their homes. Some of the patients were admitted to private hospitals, but subsequently shifted to the government hospital, he said. The petitioner’s counsel contended that blunders on part of various administrative authorities are costing human lives in Amravati. He also prayed for constitution of an expert panel for carrying out testing on war footing. Contending that a unique pattern of virus spread is being observed in Amravati, Navlani said there is urgent need to conduct aggressive testing on the lines of Bhilwara in Rajasthan which had succeeded in curbing the Covid spread. He also claimed that respondents failed to trace the source of infection in the city. “Bhilwara administration aggressively tested 25-30 lakh people within a week and in complete contrast to that RT-PCR testing is comparatively very less in Amravati. As a result, the number of positive patients has jumped exponentially,” he said. In earlier hearing, the HC had directed AMC and collector to file an affidavit explaining why all high-risk contacts were not tested, and to fix accountability for the failure. It also asked the AMC and other authorities to explore implementing Bhilwara pattern in Amravati to contain the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/why-covid-death-rate-is-high-in-amravati-hc-asks-amc/articleshow/76292122.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||16 test Covid-19 positive, count reaches 283||tnnLudhiana: Sixteen patients tested positive for novel coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the district count to 283. Besides them, there are 110 patients from outside Ludhiana who tested positive here to date.Of the 16, four tested positive at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. They include two men, aged 64 and 60, from Jalandhar, a 45-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman, both of Malerkotla. Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, DMCH medical superintendent, said, “The 64-year-old man from Jalandhar had come to the hospital on June 8 with complaints of breathlessness. He was suffering from pneumonia and was admitted to DMCH’s isolation ward. Others were admitted to Hero DMCH Hospital and came for routine tests. They were suspected cases and presented to us with different diseases. The 60-year-old man had visited the hospital OPD.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of 30 pending reports received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, 12 were positive and 18 negative. Positive persons include a 51-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man from Chawni Mohalla containment zone. Others are two sisters aged 13 and 10, both from Chawni Mohalla. With them, the count of the area has touched 22. Two men and a woman from Islamganj also tested positive during contact tracing of a pregnant patient. Others are a 60-year-old man, a 29-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman, who are contacts of a positive patient from Habibganj, and a two-year-old girl, who is the daughter of a positive patient from Gurgaon admitted to DMCH. A 27-year-old undertrial from Fatehgarh Sahib has also tested Covid-19 positive.”DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “With 10 more cured of the disease, the total number of recovered patients has reached 175.”A total of 12,153 samples have been taken so far, of which reports of 11,470 were received and 11,095 were negative. Reports of 683 are pending. The total number of patients from Ludhiana is 283, while 110 patients are from outside. Ten from Ludhiana and seven from other districts have lost their lives to the virus so far. To date, 8,501 have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 2,036. On Tuesday, 239 were sent for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/16-test-covid-19-positive-count-reaches-283/articleshow/76290477.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases rise in Delhi, decision to open malls, eateries may be revisited||NEW DELHI: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly, Delhi government may review its decision to allow shopping malls, restaurants and religious places to open. Sources said both the AAP government and LG’s office have been deliberating on various restrictions that may need to be enforced again to check the spread of Covid-19. During the all-party meeting on Tuesday, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal sought to know from the representatives of various political parties if they thought malls and restaurants should be shut again. While the LG office and chief secretary did not comment on the issue, a senior Delhi government functionary said that the elected dispensation will follow the guidelines issued by the Centre. “If the number surges we will take a call accordingly. In Delhi we are dependent on the Centre for a lot of things. But we will review the situation with time,” the official said. After keeping them closed for almost 75 days due to the nationwide lockdown, Delhi government, from June 8, allowed shopping malls and restaurants to start operating again. To revive the economy, the Centre has allowed all states and Union territories to lift curbs from most activities but educational institutions, Delhi Metro and cinema halls will continue to remain closed at least till June 30. Delhi government has also kept banquet halls and hotels closed. Talking to reporters, state health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said imposing complete lockdown will be illogical as the number of cases will still increase. “When the lockdown was imposed, there were 100 cases across the country, and now that number has gone up to thousands. If we impose lockdown again, there will be no logic as the cases will still increase from 2.5 lakh to 25 lakh,” Jain said. “We have to learn to live with the virus and it is here to stay for two-three years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-cases-rise-decision-to-open-malls-eateries-may-be-revisited/articleshow/76311100.cms||Atul Mathur
June 10, 2020||Surat||Two positive cases in Daman after 75 days||Surat: After successfully staving off the pandemic for 75 days, Daman finally came under the grip of Covid-19 with two cases emerging in the union territory on Tuesday. Official sources said that the two persons including a four-year-old girl, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Both the patients have travel history to Maharashtra in the last 14 days. Jency Rajput, a resident of Kaji Mohalla in Nani Daman and 41-year-old Santosh Pandey, a resident of Shashibhai Chawl in Nani Daman tested positive after their samples were collected and sent for testing at the laboratory in Dadra and Nagar Haveli on Tuesday. Earlier, an employee of a plastic manufacturing company in Daman had also tested positive after he returned to his home in Vapi on Monday. He had left Daman on June 3 after the administration started giving e-passes for workers wanting to travel home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-positive-cases-in-daman-after-75-days/articleshow/76290483.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||MC proposes 15% cut in Rakh bagh swing maintenance rates||Ludhiana: Members of the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) have decided to stay the proposal of giving tenders for annual maintenance of the MC swimming pool and renovation of KG swimming pool for children in Rakh Bagh. Discussing the remaining proposals on Tuesday, they gave the nod to extending the contract of Hero Cycles limited for maintenance of Rakh Bagh. However, the company has been asked to reduce the rates of swings to at least 15%. The committee has also given the nod to handing over parking lots in Feroze Gandhi Market and Sarabha Nagar I block to private contractors. This had been pending since March due to the lockdown. The committee has approved councillors’ request to increase the area of multi-storey and Bhadhaur House parking lots. F&CC members have decided to take up the project of canal-based water supply in the MC general house. During Tuesday’s meeting, it was proposed that the F&CC should approve the proposal on behalf of the house. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “This year, no one will allow the use of swimming pool due to risk of coronavirus infection. So there is no need to give the contract of its annual maintenance. The contractor for annual maintenance is usually hired in February-March and at that time, no one was aware of coronavirus.” He said they have also decided to hold tenders for KG swimming pool renovation because the MC is short of funds. He said they will take it up later.“The contract for Rakh Bagh has been extended but the contractor firm has been asked to reduce swing rates up to 15%. Officials wanted it to be reduced to 10%,” he added. Senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra said, “We kept at least 15 proposals pending. On Saturday, a third meeting will be held for discussion of the supplementary agenda which could not be taken up on Tuesday due to paucity of time.” He said they got rates of swings checked from other such parks and Hero group proposed the lowest rates. Therefore, he said they allowed them to maintain the park for two more years but with swings rates reduced to 15%. Mayor marks inquiry Officials proposed to debar the contractor who had taken the contract for construction of toilet blocks and parking area for shop-cum-offices opposite Keys Hotel in SBS Nagar in 2015. No work has been done at the site so far. Mayor Balkar Sandhu marked a departmental inquiry because the contractor was paid around Rs 59 lakh despite the fact that he did not even start work at site. He claimed that action should be taken against the officer who cleared payment when work was not done. The matter came to light during a third party survey conducted by a private firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-proposes-15-cut-in-rakh-bagh-swing-maintenance-rates/articleshow/76290488.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Probe into 225 TJ cases completes||Lucknow: During the lockdown, the UP police has completed investigation into 225 out of 323 cases registered against Tablighi Jamaatis in the state. Of these, 47 cases are related to foreign jamaatis, while 276 belong to the coutnry. Additional director-general of police, law and 0rder, UP, Prashant Kumar said, “I am personally monitoring these cases and has instructed districts to adhere to guidelines while dealing with foreign Tablighi Jaamatis. Nobody should be harassed and forced for statements,” said the officer. The officer further said that of 47 cases, 31 have been chargesheeted, while in 16 other cases the investigation is pending. In all, 325 foreigners have been named in 47 FIRs.“We have also filed chargesheets in 194 cases out of 276 against Indian Tablighis in which as many as 2,856 persons were named,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/probe-into-225-tj-cases-completes/articleshow/76292125.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Murder accused held||Ahmedabad: An accused in the murder case of a land dealer in Mandavi in Kutch, Ashish Joshi, was caught by a team of Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) from Samakhiyali toll booth on Monday. An ATS official said that the accused, Sukhjindersingh Jaat, had returned to Lakadia village of Bhachau taluka of Kutch to appiont new staff in his hotel which was closed during the lockdown. Joshi had a tiff with Jaat in 2018 over a dispute of Rs 15 lakh over a land deal. Jaat and his aid shot Joshi. The incident had taken place on June 14, 2019 when two men covering their face shot at Joshi. Later, it was revealed by Kutch police that Jaat was behind the murder. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/murder-accused-held/articleshow/76291482.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests negative for Covid-19, advised to take rest by doctors||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has tested negative for Covid-19. Two days after developing Covid-19 like symptoms, he underwent the test on Tuesday morning. “The result of the Covid-19 test is out, and the chief minister has tested negative,” said an official. Kejriwal reported mild fever and sore throat on Sunday afternoon and has since gone into self-isolation. Since fever and sore throat are among the symptoms of corona infections and Kejriwal has a long medical history of diabetes, one of the comorbidities, the doctors advised him to undergo the test. The CM is feeling better and his health condition is improving, said an official. “The doctors have advised the chief minister to take proper rest,” he added. The test result relieved Aam Aadmi Party functionaries and well-wishers of Kejriwal. “Due to the power of prayers of the people, the Covid-19 test of CM has come negative. The CM is working day and night to serve the people of Delhi in this time of crisis. We pray to the God that he recovers fast,” said AAP MP Sushil Gupta. In Kejriwal’s absence, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia participated in Tuesday’s meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to assess the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Delhi has been reporting more than 1,000 cases almost daily for the past several days, with its corona tally crossing the 30,000 mark on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-tests-negative-for-covid-advised-to-take-rest-by-doctors/articleshow/76292123.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Corona scare hits Ludhiana civic body plans of survey to identify migrant quarters, PGs||LUDHIANA: The civic body plans to start a survey in the city to identify the location of migrant quarters, paying guests and hostels for recovery of property tax from these establishments, which fall under commercial categories. Staff members were given 10 days to conduct the survey but employees are reluctant to make door to door visits for fear of catching Covid-19. An official said they will have to visit hostels and PGs in diverse areas for the survey, which would expose them to infection. He said authorities should wait a few more days to conduct such a survey. Property tax superintendent Vivek Verma underlined the importance of the survey saying, “Without conducting a survey, we cannot be sure of the exact number of properties. Once the survey is completed, owners of these properties can be issued notices.” On employees’ apprehension of catching infection, he said an alternative strategy would have to be chalked out to handle the task. Officials said according to rough estimates, there are over 50,000 PGs, hostels and migrant quarters in the city. From every tenant, owners recover at least Rs 5,000 per month. Even in the migrant quarters, owners generate Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 from one quarter. Earlier, when property tax had not been imposed, they used to recover house tax at the rate of 9% from them. MC records for 2012-13 suggest that the civic body recovered Rs 1.08 crore from house tax from 21,099 units. When property tax was imposed in 2013-14, it was fixed at 7.5% but the next year, it was reduced to 3% after which the government asked for it to be charged in line with the residential accommodation. It was suggested that 7.5% of the annual rent be charged from owners of units from where they can generate at least Rs 10 crore in the form of property tax every year. The MC general house gave the nod to this proposal on September 4, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/corona-scare-hits-mc-plans-of-survey-to-identify-migrant-quarters-pgs/articleshow/76290499.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
June 10, 2020||Surat||Within six months, third fire incident at Raghuveer Celium||Surat: The Raghuveer Celium textile market located at Saroli on Puna-Kumbharia road witnessed another major fire late on Monday night. This is the third fire incident in the market in the past six months. The first major inferno took place on January 8 and then another later in the same month on 21. The market was then completely sealed on January 23 by the Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA).The fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) stated that the blaze reported at about 11:45 pm had engulfed the third and fourth floors of the market. It took more than three hours for more than 20 fire tenders from nine different fire stations to gain control over the fire at around 1.30am. While the reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained, fire officials stated that they recovered LPG cylinders from the spot.Expressing his surprise that fire erupted on the third occasion in the same market in the last six months, municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI, “A foul play can’t be ruled out. If there is no human presence and the market is shut for long, how can fire erupt?” Pani said that inquiry was ordered into the incident after the first fire incident, and the report is still awaited. “Investigations are still going on,” he added.Basant Pareek, in-charge chief fire officer (CFO) told TOI, “The market, which had been completely gutted in the first fire incident on January 8, was sealed and there was no human presence. The firemen have recovered LPG cylinders from the spot.” Pareek further said that investigation into the first fire is yet to be completed. The structural stability work of the building was undergoing by the experts of the Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT), but it stopped due to the lockdown, he added.Atul Desai, professor of SVNIT’s civil engineering department told TOI, “SVNIT is doing conditional assessment of fire damage at Raghuveer Celium market. Once the assessment is over, we will give the certificate whether the building structure is intact and needs demolition. Due to the lockdown, work was suspended which will resume soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/within-six-months-third-fire-incident-at-raghuveer-celium/articleshow/76290522.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Surat||Excitement during online ludo triggers clashes in Valsad||Surat: Valsad city police detained six persons on Tuesday after they clashed allegedly over disturbance while playing ludo game online. In the incident that took place in Dhobi Talav locality of Valsad on Monday night, two groups clashed when a youth of one of the groups was attacked for creating disturbance in the neighbourhood while playing on his mobile phone near the home of the accused.Police registered two separate complaints in the fight and have detained Vijay Patel, Amit Patel for allegedly attacking complainant Aasim Kadri, a school teacher. Acting on the counter complaint lodged by Vijay, a labourer, police detained JD Ajmal Kadri, Aasim Kadri, Ikram Kadri and Adnan Kadri. According to police, Amit was playing ludo on his mobile phone near Kadri family’s residence. All the complainants are neighbours for many years now. Amit was allegedly shouting while playing which was irritating Aasim who went to tell him to lower his voice. This, however, started an argument between the duo. At this, Vijay came to help Amit, while Ajmal and Ikram came to help Aasim. They attacked each other with iron rod and blunt wooden objects, said Valsad police. In both the complaints the accused were booked for voluntarily causing hurt and causing hurt by using dangerous weapon. The accused were also booked for violation of prohibitory order issued under public notification and under Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/excitement-during-online-ludo-triggers-clashes-in-valsad/articleshow/76290501.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Vijai Sardesai calls for direct action to stop trains||MARGAO: Fatorda MLA and president of Goa Forward Party (GFP) Vijai Sardesai on Tuesday called for “direct action by Goemkarwadi forces” to stop entry of non-Goans into the state.  Sardesai urged all “like-minded people, activists and organisations” to come together to form an umbrella organization “who will tell the government that we do not want people from outside to come into Goa for at least the next two months.” “People will have to go to the railway stations and stop the trains. We will have to go to the borders and enforce restrictions there and stop people from outside from entering Goa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vijai-calls-for-direct-action-to-stop-trains-and-shut-borders/articleshow/76292584.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Overheads force restaurants to close||AHMEDABAD: Uncertainty over when business and customer footfalls will go back to normal, coupled with overheads piling up, has forced several restaurants in the state to down shutters, even before the government gives the nod to resume business in the ‘new normal’. Staggering under rent and other operating costs, restaurateurs are either forced to temporarily or permanently close, or downsize outlets, because footfalls look like they will be bleak for the coming months. Sunil Shajwani, owner of Kailash Parbat, Gujarat state, said, “We have decided to shut one outlet, at Sindhu Bhavan Road, because the rent is high and operating costs will go up further if we resume dine-in services. Moreover, people are scared of eating out and this is evident with a sudden drop in takeaway orders as well. We are not sure how footfalls will be in the coming months.” “We don’t know for how long we will have to operate at 50% of capacity and this will certainly hit revenues,” he added. Even though malls and restaurants resumed business with precautions, public apprehension about visiting hotels and restaurants was evident as footfalls were the bare minimum. Anticipating low footfalls, several restaurants and eateries have not even resumed operations. Rushad Jinwala, who runs a few restaurants in Gujarat, said, “We have decided to temporarily close one of our restaurants, at YMCA Club. This is because the club is shut and even though it opens, we don’t know how footfalls will be. Similarly, we will also be shutting another restaurant, Dhoom Dham, for at least a few months, because operating at limited capacity and lower footfalls will mean absorbing hefty overhead costs. We are thus in the process of negotiating with the owner of the space.” The situation is also the same in the diamond city of Surat, where restaurants or their franchise outlets are shutting down. The Khichdi restaurant, a franchise of the Ahmedabad-based company has permanently shut all its three outlets, at Varachha, Adajan and Ring Road in Surat. Chandu Patel, who owns three franchise outlet of Khichdi, said, “The going is tough and we have decided to shut all the three Khichdi restaurants in the city permanently. We can’t survive with the hefty rent during this hour of crisis. Our target is customer-based fine dining and people may not visit the restaurant due to the Covid-19 situation for the next few months.” Patel also shut a few outlets of quick serve restaurants he operated in Surat. Jignesh Patel, the owner of a House of Paratha outlet, a Pune-based chain, at University Road in Surat, said, “Business was average before the lockdown. Now, we don’t think we will survive with the rent, wages and low customer footfalls. I may not open the restaurant for six to seven months.” Jigar Desai, the owner of Pepperazzi, said, “We shut our restaurant as there were differences over rent to be paid with the owner of the property. As of now we are accepting takeaway orders. I’ll decide on opening my restaurant after two or three months.” “We have kept our dining services closed as of now. Most of our staff has returned to its hometown and customers too won’t be walking in to have food. But our takeaway services are still on,” said Nitin Nanavaty, owner of four restaurants in Vadodara. Jigar Patel, who owns six eateries in the city, too said that he has started the outlet of a QSR chain, Subway, but the other restaurants he will take decision of re-opening his other restaurants in near future. The scenario in Rajkot is no different. Smit Sagar owner of Smith Kitchen said, “I did not start my business from Monday because it’s difficult to maintain all the norms of social distancing. I am planning to buy a smaller space now. There are many restaurants in Rajkot planning to shrink their business or continue with take away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/overheads-force-restaurants-to-close/articleshow/76291491.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter admissions: All-pass SSC students a new challenge for TSBIE||HYDERABAD: Authorities at the Telangana Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) on Tuesday said their task to accommodate seven lakh students in junior colleges will be a herculean task, specially with social distancing norms reducing the number of seats in each class by almost half. Every year, close to five lakh students take admission in junior colleges, both government and private, but with the government deciding to promote all class X students, close to seven lakh students, including those passing out from schools affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council of Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (CICSE), this year, will be trying to get into junior colleges. “We have a sanctioned strength of 8.75 lakh. However, accommodating these students, keeping in view social distancing norms, may emerge as a challenge as we may have to put a cap on the class strength the way AP government has done,” TSBIE secretary Omar Jaleel told TOI. In May, AP had issued a government order (GO) putting a cap of 40 students per class. Even TSBIE is now in the process of framing similar guidelines on accommodation of studentstion. “Earlier, we used to sanction 88 students in each class. Now, we might have to bring it down. We are also exploring options such as introducing shifts. Second year students can attend classes in the morning shift, while the first year ones in the afternoon shift or vice versa,” Jaleel said, adding different combinations were being worked out and would be presented before the state government for a final call. Allotment of students would also be a major challenge for TSBIE as the government has decided to promote students based on their performance in internal assessments. TSBIE fears that the ratio of students vying for a seat might be higher this year. “If we get more applications for one seat, we will give it to meritorious students. And, if candidates score same marks, then the older candidate will be considered. We have to work out provisions for admitting students,” Jaleel added. TSBIE has also decided to expedite the admission process now, which they had earlier anticipated would commence only by August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-admissions-all-pass-ssc-students-a-new-challenge-for-bie/articleshow/76292132.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 10, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation now accepts cheques for property tax||NEW DELHI: To speed up the process of collecting property tax, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has finally resorted to conventional methods of accepting cheques and organising camps following residents’ demands. It has already organised camps at Greater Kailash I & II, Anand Lok, Panchsheel Enclave, Som Vihar, Defence Colony, Vasant Kunj and Mayapuri Industrial Area. On June 21, it will be held at Arya Samaj Mandir. “Our officials are pursuing councillors, residents and RWAs regularly to help us hold these camps. We share a list of officials and their contact details with the RWAs or organisers, who are responsible for the venue,” said an SDMC official. During the camp, social distancing and other Covid-19 safety norms are strictly followed, he added. The civic agency earlier decided to make online payment compulsory, but is now worried about revenue loss. “We are not accepting cash but cheques are allowed. Our staff are also helping interested applicants in submitting tax online,” the official said. This year, SDMC targets to collect Rs 1,000 crore from property tax. The corporation is asking staff from the building and other departments to visit residential and commercial neighbourhoods, help people fill form and arrange for its collection after two-three days. “Since some departments are not fully operational, their field staff are helping us in increasing the tax collection,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-corpn-now-accepts-cheques-for-property-tax/articleshow/76311121.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||MOB to aid cops in crime control||LUCKNOW: UP Police has constituted a Modus Operandi Bureau (MOB) that will help in cracking cases of heinous crime though scientific probe by collating data of criminals, gangs operating across districts and theirparticular way of committing crime. ADG law and order Prashant Kumar said on Tuesday, “The Modus Operandi Bureau will collect and maintain record of inter-district criminals and gangs as well as sensational cases of loot, bank dacoity, dacoity, murder, fake Indian currency notes trade and smuggling.” “A dossier will be prepared on nature of crime and its pattern will be analysed. Suppose, if a bank dacoity takes place in Mathura and is followed by a similar incident in Aligarh, an analysis of pattern will help in probe of both cases. And if a pattern emerges, then other such cases can also be looked in same light. This will help in cracking cases and arresting accused. The record will also be helpful in future and guide investigating officers in nabbing criminals as per modus operandi adopted by them,” he said. The criminals against whom more than two cases are pending in court will be considered as habitual offenders, said ADG Kumar. The MOB will work under the superintendent of police, state crime record bureau, the ADG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mob-to-aid-cops-in-crime-control/articleshow/76292140.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Allahabad||In Prayagraj, distressed boatmen fight for survival amid lockdown||Prayagraj: Even as religious places reopen across the city, around 3,000 boatmen, who earn their livelihood by catering to the pilgrims at Sangam, continue to fight for their survival. The Navik Sangh District Allahabad, a body of boatmen have also appealed to district authorities to permit the boats to ply at the earliest. President of Navik Sangh, Pappu Lal Nishad, told TOI that majority of the boatmen are left with no money to even arrange for two square meals a day. “Boatmen at Sangam solely rely on rowing boats to earn their bread and butter. Due to the lockdown, they are not only debt ridden but also on the verge of starvation.” Usually, around 1,500 boats are permitted to ply on Sangam and at least two boatmen work on a single boat. “We have already submitted a memorandum to district authorities appealing them to permit the plying of boats with the assurance that all the boatmen would follow social distancing norms and no pilgrim would be allowed to board the boat without mask,” said Nishad, adding “We have also planned that only five people would be permitted on a boat at a time.” Rajan, a boatman, said, “Devotees have started flocking to the Sangam campus to take holy dips since June 1 but we are not able to cater to them. The ban on boating should be immediately lifted.” Another boatman, Pawan, said “We had approached the administration, police officials and Jal Police authorities to permit boating from 6 am to 5 pm but to no avail.” Boating is our only source of income and we can’t afford to sit idle for more days now,” he added. On being contacted, IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh, meanwhile, said he would discuss the matter with district authorities and take action accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/in-prayagraj-distressed-boatmen-fight-for-survival-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76288858.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kochi||Rights panel can’t decide on disputes on statutory powers||Kochi: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) cannot decide any dispute arising out of an exercise of statutory powers and duties, the high court said while setting aside an order issued by the commission.Powers of SHRC was discussed by Justice A Muhamed Mustaque while considering a petition filed by KSEB challenging an order issued by the commission in April 2012. The order was issued by SHRC on a complaint filed by MN Swaminathan of Mavelikkara.It was alleged by Swaminathan before SHRC that four stay wires have been laid in his property for an electric post by KSEB without his consent and knowledge. The SHRC had ordered for drawing underground cable and to remove the four stay wires from Swaminathan’s property. KSEB then approached the high court questioning the jurisdiction and authority of the human rights commission.Commenting on the limitations of the powers of SHRC and differentiating between human rights and other rights, the court said in the judgment, “The Human Rights Commission cannot decide any dispute which arises out of an exercise of statutory powers and duties. The very nature and power of the Human Rights Commission is recommendatory, when it is called upon to decide the rights of the individual which is otherwise available to him collectively. Individual may have many rights. All rights are connected to human also.”“The fundamental difference between human rights and other rights is simple. The former refers to a group right which one could claim being the member of that group. The identity of the group is the paramount consideration. Rest of the rights are either referable to the individual derived to him naturally, or under law or as a right under the Constitution,” the judgment said.While considering the complaint before it, the human rights commission could not have embarked upon deciding the matter without differentiating these rights, the court said while holding that the SHRC’s order was passed without jurisdiction. The complainant before the SHRC can invoke any other remedy available under law, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rights-panel-cant-decide-on-disputes-on-statutory-powers/articleshow/76290541.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||MCQs dropped, SSC result dips to five-year low||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSEB) declared the result of SSC, class 10 exam on Tuesday. The pass percentage this year dropped by 6.33% to 60.64% as compared to 2019. One of the reasons for this dip is being attributed to the board’s decision to do away with the multiple choice questions. The board had introduced the MCQ system about a decade ago and this was the first examination when there was no MCQs as the board followed the NCERT examination pattern. The result is the lowest in five years. Of the 7.30 lakh regular students who appeared in the examination, only 4.81 lakh cleared it. The number of students securing over 90% marks also dropped considerably. Only 1,671 students got 90% or A-1 grade in the SSC exam, a drop of 3,303 students as compared to last year. Of the 2.12 lakh repeating candidates, only 9.10 % could clear the papers and of the 17,178 external students who appeared only 1,051 could clear their exams. Girls have once again scored better than the boys. The success ratio of girls was 66.02%, while that of the boys was only 56.53%. This year, in Science and Technology, Social Science, Mathematics, English second language and Sanskrit, 276 students have scored 100 out of 100. According to board officials, 22,470 students failed in one subject, while 1.34 lakh students failed to clear their examination in two subjects. These students will be allowed to take the re-test which while be held in July. Among the districts, Surat had the highest pass percentage of 74.46% while the lowest pass percentage was of Chhota Udepur that was 47.47%. The schools getting 100% result was 281 which was 336 in 2019. The result of the candidates with disability was also less as compared to the last year. Of the 5,408 who appeared in the examination, only 493 cleared their examination with 20% passing standard. This number in 2019 was 872 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mcqs-dropped-ssc-result-dips-to-five-year-low/articleshow/76291501.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Students double check corona preparedness||Bhopal: Class 12 students of the MP board, who began taking the remaining board exams from Tuesday amidst the pandemic, reached the exam centres, armed with all precautions. With students fearing for their health, the pre-exam chat has been completely turned around as unlike the last-minute revision and cramming of formulae, it focused majorly on coronavirus and safety measures. While earlier students used to ask each other if they were carrying extra erasers, pencils and pens, this year, students rushed to ask each other if they could borrow the other person’s hand-sanitizer. “I forgot to carry my hand-sanitizer,” Surbhi Agarwal said to her father, worried whether she will be allowed to enter the examination centre without her own hand-sanitizer. When they spoke about it to the guard, he assured her that the school had arranged for sanitizers too. Surbhi then told her father not to go back home in a rush to bring her the sanitizer. They are saying that there is extra hand-sanitizer in the class,” she assured her worried father. Another student, Rahul Kushwaha, who broke the string of his mask before entering the campus, rushed out to buy a new mask from a vendor on the footpath near Naveen Higher Secondary School, near 10 number market. Fear among the students was palpable as they tried to keep to themselves. However, the excitement of meeting their friends after two long months did not do much good to social distancing among students, as they huddled together to discuss the latest developments before the gates of the exam centre were opened. “This is the first time I am stepping out of the house since the lockdown was enforced. Though I am carrying my own water bottle, hand sanitizer and am wearing a mask, I am still scared of being out among so many people at this time,” said Ajay Diwakar, a student of class 12. Photo Quotes- Rahul Lovanshi- “I am a little scared but as I have taken all precautions. I think I will be fine. My parents were worried too, but they were told about the measures the exam-centres were taking to minimize the risk of infection, that reduced their stress.” Bhawana Ludere- “I have my chemistry exam today and though I am very well prepared for it, I have never been more scared of taking an exam. I just hope no one in the centre is suffering from any flu-like symptoms.” Muskan Kushwaha- “Is is strange that when the cases were so few in number, the exams were postponed, and now that the cases have crossed the 2 lakh mark, we are being asked to take the exam. I am scared of infection and so am taking all the precautions that I can.” Aryanshi Soni- “I am pretty scared despite knowing that the exam centres have been sanitized and we too have been allowed to carry our own sanitizers and water bottles. I also feel a little uncomfortable wearing a mask for long, which is creating another problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/students-double-check-corona-preparedness/articleshow/76290549.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Infections in Vizag surge past 200 mark||Visakhapatnam: The tally of Covid-19 cases in Visakhapatnam district crossed the 200 mark on Tuesday and settled at 212. While it took 70 days for the district to register its first 100 Covid-19 cases, it took only 12 days—from May 29 to June 9—to reach the next 100. All 111 cases detected in the last 12 days are currently active and undergoing treatment at various Covid hospitals in Vizag city. Overall, a hundred patients have been discharged so far while a 62-year-old Covid-19 positive patient Chengalraopeta with kidney trouble died last month. While the district saw a few sporadic cases in March and April, cases started to rise in May, with five to six reported on some days. The trend has continued into June, with above 10 cases being reported everyday. In the last five days, the district has recorded 84 new cases, the highest single day tally being 20 cases on June 8. As per health officials, the worst-affected areas remain Dandu Bazar (30 cases), followed by Anakapalle, Kurmannapalem, Gnanapuram and PM Palem. Speaking about the rapid increase in number of infections, Dr P V Sudhakar, special officer for Covid-19 (Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts) and principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) told TOI, “Once a Covid-19 positive case is detected, the medical teams are promptly tracing out the primary and secondary contacts of the patient and testing them immediately.” Dr Sudhakar added, “They are mostly found to be positive as well. And these positive contacts are at times from new areas of the city, which means, new clusters have to be brought under containment zones. On Tuesday, we added three new clusters, which earlier had no records of positive cases.” As of June 9, out of a total of 55 clusters, declared on cumulative case basis, 30 are currently in the ‘very active’ zone while eight are in the ‘active’ zone. Among the remaining, 17 are in the ‘dormant’ zone (no cases reported in the last 14 days) and nine have been de-notified after no new cases were reported in the last 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/infections-in-vizag-surge-past-200-mark/articleshow/76290529.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||MPCB’s sand mining public hearings on Zoom challenged||Nagpur: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s online public hearings for granting environmental clearance for sand mining projects have been challenged in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. While refusing any interim stay, a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar on Tuesday issued notices to the Maharashtra government chief secretary, State Revenue Department, and MPCB asking them to reply by June 30. The judges however made it clear that as four hearings through online mode are still remaining all proceedings would be subject to HC’s final decision. Government pleader Sumant Deopujari pleaded for the respondents while Ravi Sanyal held brief for the MPCB. Vidarbha Environment Action Group knocked the judiciary’s doors through its convener Sudhir Paliwal contending that public hearings are being conducted all over the state via Zoom app during lockdown period with a view to prevent the “poor and affected persons” from rural areas to raise objections. Arguing on petitioner’s behalf, counsel Tushar Mandlekar assisted by Mahendra Limaye stated that online hearing was in violation of Environmental Rules 1986. “The widest possible participation of affected persons and stakeholders is not possible on Zoom App as most rural citizens are not literate and techno savvy. A large number of them will lose their fundamental right to raise objections and give suggestions to sand mining projects across region,” they said. Pointing out that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has already issued an advisory to all states on April 16 of not using the Zoom app for official working, the lawyers said still collectors of many districts along with the additional secretary of Revenue Department have issued a notification on April 27 for public hearings through it. Praying for cancellation of all public hearings on Zoom app by collectors of Nagpur, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal and other districts, Mandlekar stated the state had no powers to frame any protocol/guidelines/rules for public hearing as they were vested in Centre as per the Environment Protection Act. “Any such hearing needs to be opposed and cancelled immediately as during lockdown period both Centre and state have prohibited assembly of people in public places and auditoriums, assembly halls,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpcbs-sand-mining-public-hearings-on-zoom-challenged/articleshow/76292144.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Now, cycle easy on Kolkata roads||KOLKATA: The commissioner of Kolkata Police Anuj Sharma issued an order on Tuesday, allowing the use of bicycles in city roads. In New Town, the authorities are mulling over an idea to introduce car-free Sundays in specific zones to encourage the use of bicycles. “Bicycles will be allowed in the lanes and bylanes within Kolkata Police’s jurisdiction. Restrictions will continue on the main arterial roads, flyovers and any other area as notified from time to time. The bicyclists should obey one-way restrictions and other traffic rules and regulations,” the order read. This will be effective till July 30. “We cannot allow cycles on the main roads and all flyovers in the city. They should use the lanes and bylanes. There will be no restrictions on timings except between 9pm and 5am,” said DC (Traffic) Rupesh Kumar. Earlier 62 roads in the city had a blanket ban on cycling from 7am and 11pm. The fresh classification of arterial roads, however, was not clear. “I travel from Dunlop to Shyambazar. Shall I not be allowed on BT Road?” asked Suresh Chand who works in a private firm. Cops said local traffic guards would fix routes in the business hubs with least intrusion on any important road. Sources said that cycles have made a comeback on important arterial roads like CR Avenue and EM Bypass, causing a major traffic challenge. The guards will chalk alternate routes for them. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has planned to set up more dedicated bicycle lanes and GPS-enabled bicycle stands, from where one would be able to hire cycle to move around New Town. Officials said New Town has already about 29km dedicated bicycle lane. The authorities are also planning to reintroduce the cycle sharing scheme in New Town very soon, where one would be able to hire a bicycle from a stand. Each bicycle will be GPS-enabled so that it can be tracked. NKDA is working on the process to identify the spots where the cycle stands will be set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-cycle-easy-on-kolkata-roads/articleshow/76291504.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||SSC examination: Most failures in maths, science||AHMEDABAD: Maths and science remain the Achilles heel of Class X students in Gujarat. This year, 39.24% of Class X examinees failed in mathematics and 35.35% in science. These figures have remained high for the past three years. This year, the overall passing percentage was 60.64%, the lowest in five years. For the past three years, the numbers failing maths and science were around 30% and 29%. The English (second language) exam is another trouble spot, for Class X students as over 2.02 lakh students failed it.  The maths problem has been one of the toughest in 2020. Of the 3.12 lakh students who failed to clear the SSC examination, 3.11 lakh failed mathematics. Some 2.80 lakh students failed this science and technology paper. The officials said that these subjects have has the most students failing since 2015. Board officials said in 2017 and 2018 mathematics was the subject in which the highest number of students failed, but in 2019, science had the maximum students failing. Expert say that the majority of students taking the SSC examination are from rural area and their teachers have not been able to teach properly, and such students do not get extra tuitions unlike their city counterparts. This year, without the section having multiple choice questions (MCQs), students found it difficult to score well. Subject experts say that the suddenly introduction of NCERT textbooks in Class IX makes it very difficult for students from rural areas to cope up with the advanced NCERT syllabus, as their base in mathematics and science is weak due to the lack of proper teaching in lower classes. Kalpesh Akhani, a mathematics teacher says that he suddenly introduction of NCERT textbooks with the advanced syllabus in Class IX makes it very difficult for the students from rural areas to cope as their base of mathematics and science is weak due to lack of proper teaching in lower classes. He said students here fail to calculate properly. He even said instead understanding the concepts, students try to cram the solutions to mathematical problems. M M Pathan, officer on special duty, Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board, said, “So far MCQs were helping students clear the examination. With the NCERT syllabus, students are finding it difficult to explain concepts in details. And this is mainly because their base is weak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/most-failures-in-maths-science/articleshow/76291514.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Wholesale fish market won’t open before August 1: MLA||Margao: Nuvem MLA and chairman of South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) Wilfred D’Sa on Tuesday stressed that the wholesale fish market will not be reopened before August 1. Addressing reporters, D’Sa while pointing to the formalin- in- fish scare that occurred a year ago, said that the SGPDA has laid down certain conditions for fish traders for carrying out trade in the wholesale fish market. “They need to fulfill these conditions. We need to know the source of the fish as we want to ensure that only formalin-free fish enters the wholesale fish market,” D’Sa said. Stating that he had no intention to open the market anytime soon, D’Sa stressed on the need for restoring people’s confidence in the fish trade. “Though plenty of fish is available in the market, people are scared of buying it because of the formalin scare,” D’Sa said. He pointed out that the chief minister has responded positively to his request for deputing an inspector at the wholesale fish market from 5am to 1pm on a daily basis to conduct random checking of fish entering the market. “I have spoken to the chief minister and he has assured to appoint an inspector soon,” D’Sa said. In the letter to the chief minister, D’Sa had said that SGPDA will soon make formalin testing kits available at its office in the wholesale fish market for the public to test the fish purchased by them. Further, responding to criticism from certain quarters over felling of trees by the roadside at Nuvem for highway expansion, D’Sa said he had no role to play in it. “The trees were cut by the PWD, and the land in question was acquired for highway expansion. After the PWD identified trees that posed danger to the public, the forest department conducted a valuation of these trees and issued NOC for felling them,” he said.. Panchayat members of Nuvem were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wholesale-fish-market-wont-open-before-august-1-mla/articleshow/76292588.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||56 fresh cases take city Covid count to 1980||Bhopal: With 56 fresh infections on Tuesday, city’s Covid tally went up to 1,980. Among the new cases were five members of a family in Bairagarh. SDM (Bairagarh) Manoj Upadhyaya confirmed that five members of a family tested positive, three days after one more member of the family was diagnosed with Covid-19. He said that the family members are associated with a religious darbar in Bairagarh. As per reports, nine people tested positive in a quarantine centre in Bhauri, on the outskirts of the state capital. Earlier, in the last three days, a dozen people tested positive at another quarantine centre located within the RGPV campus at Gandhinagar. A teenager, who was admitted to AIIMS Bhopal for an orthopaedic intervention, has also contracted the virus. He was admitted to the hospital on May 26. Two more cases were reported from Sanjay Nagar and one from Nariyal Kheda area. SDM Rajesh Gupta said, another CRPF personnel has tested positive for the infection in Bangrasia campus. He is a head constable. The infection spread in the campus is being attributed to a CRPF personnel who had travelled to Delhi. So far, two positive cases have been detected in the CRPF campus in the last week. SDM (TT Nagar) Rajesh Shukla said, “One more cases has been reported from Panchsheel Nagar and two from Bhim Nagar. These are low-cost housing and slum localities. The administration is closely monitoring the situation to avoid community spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/56-fresh-cases-take-city-covid-count-to-1980/articleshow/76290563.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Police lend helping hand to mother in need||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was when all other doors closed, she decided to inform the police about her plight in the form of a petition. She lived at Palode and wanted to go to Kulathupuzha in Kollam district to get her daughter’s transfer certificate from the school. But she did not have money as she could not go to work ever since lockdown began. “I wanted Rs 2,000 to go to Kulathupuzha and I will return the money as soon as I am able to start working again,” said her petition. The officer, SI Satheesh Kumar, who received the petition was moved by her plight and decided to help her with his own money. When other officers of the station got to know about this, they too decided to chip in. When the woman finally visited the station on Monday, she was not only given the money she wanted, but grocery items for one month too. Ever since the lockdown commenced police personnel across the state had been doing something extra apart from their routine work to ensure that people are not suffering under their watch. However, this particular gesture by the police personnel of Palode police station in the rural part of the capital district is winning hearts on social media. Palode station house officer Inspector C K Manoj said that the woman was a daily wage labourer. She has two daughters, one who had just completed her higher secondary education and other a class IV student. “Her husband is estranged from them. They hail from Kulathupuzha, but had to shift to a rented house here after he abandoned them as her relatives are here,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-lend-helping-hand-to-mother-in-need/articleshow/76290560.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Four sacked for lapses in MNREGS||LUCKNOW: The state government on Tuesday suspended divisional development officer of Ratanpura division in Mau Ramesh Yadav and terminated services of programme officer Satya Prakash Pandey, technical officer Satya Prakash Dubey, technical assistant Krihna Kant Mall and employment sewak Vivek Mishra on charges of gross irregularities and not providing employment to labourers under the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). TOI on Tuesday had reported about the rural development department receiving complaints about gross irregularities in providing employment to migrant labourers in the state. Principal secretary, rural development, Manoj Singh constituted an enquiry by joint divisional commissioner of Azamgarh division to probe charges against Yadav. The state government also decided to issue adverse entry to chief development officer of Mau Ram Singh Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-sacked-for-lapses-in-mnregs/articleshow/76292149.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Almost home: How Covid tests delayed returnees by 7 hrs||Visakhapatnam: Passengers on an IndiGo flight from Bengaluru were delayed by almost seven hours upon reaching Vizag city due to the Covid-19 test that is mandatory for all flyers to the state. The test usually takes around three hours. The flight landed at 6.55 am and by 8 am all passengers had reached the Sitharama Kalyana Mandapam near the port hospital for the test. By 8.30 am registration process was complete but the wait had just begun and would last till 1.30 pm. District health officials told TOI that the problem took place after a new swab collection team underwent training and joined duties on Tuesday. Members of earlier teams, who were working continuously, were sent to quarantine on Monday evening as per norms. “On Tuesday the newly-trained batch formed a few teams, each comprising two dental surgeons, two digital assistants and one paramedic and went to different testing centres. They took more time to assemble with their machinery and required kits from different places, as it was their first day. Four such teams were sent for testing the airport passengers. It was an unexpected delay. Food counters were, however, available at the test centre for the passengers,” special officer for Covid-19, Dr PV Sudhakar, told TOI. Passengers claimed that an elderly traveller fell ill on account of the delay. In spite of arrangements for breakfast, most, especially diabetic passengers, refused to eat food prepared elsewhere. “My daughter was travelling from Kochi and she reached Kochi airport at 4 pm on Monday afternoon. She took the connecting the flight at 5 am from Bengaluru and then upon reaching, was stranded for more than seven hours. Passengers who boarded from Bengaluru were also exhausted as they reached the airport before 3 am as reporting two hours prior to the departure time is now mandatory,” said Altaf Babjan, who was at the airport and then at the Kalyana Mandapam to receive his daughter Khushi. “Around 12.30 pm we noticed an ambulance with health officials and testing kits arriving at the centre. For the next half-an-hour the health officials put the name and details of passengers on the test kits and finally the process of collecting samples started,” added Babjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/almost-home-how-covid-tests-delayed-returnees-by-7-hrs/articleshow/76290557.cms||Arpit Basu
June 10, 2020||Kochi||Graphologists to join Anju death probe, dad questions handwriting||Kottayam: Experts will analyse the handwriting seen on the reverse of the Anju P Shaji’s hall ticket as part of the investigation into her death.Her father Shaji, on Tuesday, said the handwriting did not match with that of his daughter. The body of the 20-year-old final-year BCom student was fished out of the Meenachil River on Monday, two days after she had gone missing.Investigators will be comparing the handwriting with that of a notebook of the deceased woman. A special police team, under two circle inspectors, has been formed for this purpose.The authorities of Bishop Vayalil Memorial (BVM) Holy Cross College, Cherppunkal, where Anju had written the exam, had showed to the media her hall ticket, on which notes, related to the exam, were scribbled. The college also showed CCTV visuals to support its claim that Anju had cheated in the exam.Meanwhile, the autopsy report cited drowning as the cause of death. No other visible injuries were found in the decomposed body.The Mahatma Gandhi University, meanwhile, constituted a three-member panel to probe the allegations of cheating in the examinations and related issues. The panel appointed by the university vice chancellor includes the university syndicate members M S Murali, Aji S Panicker and V S Praveen Kumar.There were dramatic scenes after the autopsy was completed at the Medical College Hospital around 11.30am and the body was taken to her residence near Kanjirappally.Relatives of the deceased took to the streets, seeking action against those responsible for her death. They also alleged that the Anju’s father and uncle were expelled from the ambulance, and the cops took over the dead body from the relatives.Initially, several relatives blocked the ambulance in protest at Velloor. They asked the cops to wait for Anju's father and not to proceed without the relatives in the ambulance.The ambulance reached Anju's village, Podimattom, around 12.30pm. Several relatives, including women accompanied by BJP and SNDP activists, blocked the vehicle around a kilometre away from her house. Later P C George, MLA, pacified them.Anju had gone missing after attending a university examination. The deceased had attended her BCom sixth semester university examination held at the centre in BVM Holy Cross College, Cherppunkal, on Saturday.The college has been maintaining that the girl was caught cheating and denied allegations of mentally harassing or scolding the student.On Monday, the college authorities displayed the hall ticket carrying the handwritten notes before the media. Her father, Shaji, accused the college of editing the CCTV visuals.Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Shaji demanded charging the college authorities, including the principal and invigilator, for abetting his daughter’s suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/graphologists-to-join-anju-death-probe-dad-questions-handwriting/articleshow/76290573.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Mumbai||Pune varsity to go ahead with final semester exams||PUNE/MUMBAI: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to go ahead with the process of conducting exams for final-semester students based on the May 8 notification issued by the state government and the guidelines of the University Grants Commission. The CM had earlier announced that there would be no exams. Even final-semester students will be promoted, he had said. A management council meeting of the university held on Monday decided to continue with the exam preparation until a formal communication was received from the state government. A time-table has been drawn up and the manner of conducting exams redesigned, with focus on holding shorter-duration exams. SPPU pro-vice-chancellor N S Umrani told TOI, “We are going ahead with the examination, which involves collecting data from colleges and communicating with them as per the normal process. However, if the state government issues any formal order to pass even final-semester students without holding exams, then we will again rethink this decision.” A state government order issued on May 8 said that only final-semester students would have to appear for the exams, while all others would be promoted on the basis of their average marks. This sparked a massive outrage among final-semester students, who dubbed it “unfair”. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also wrote to the state government that college exams should be held. Meanwhile, the Architecture Council of India has written to the state government to exempt its candidates from the decision as only those examined would receive a registration number and a licence to practice. After the CM’s announcement, the governor sought to assert his right as chancellor of universities in the state. Invoking the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, Koshyari said the chancellor had the final say on matters related to universities. He said the decision to conduct exams for final-year students “shall be taken in consonance with provisions of the Act”. Fee hike stayed: The management council approved the proposal forwarded by the academic council to stay the fee hike for the current academic year. The decision would benefit thousands of students in colleges affiliated to the university in Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. Pune/Mumbai: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to go ahead with the process of conducting exams for final-semester students based on the May 8 notification issued by the state government and the guidelines of the University Grants Commission. The CM had earlier announced that there would be no exams. Even final-semester students will be promoted, he had said. A management council meeting of the university held on Monday decided to continue with the exam preparation until a formal communication was received from the state government. A time-table has been drawn up and the manner of conducting exams redesigned, with focus on holding shorter-duration exams. SPPU pro-vice-chancellor N S Umrani told TOI, “We are going ahead with the examination, which involves collecting data from colleges and communicating with them as per the normal process. However, if the state government issues any formal order to pass even final-semester students without holding exams, then we will again rethink this decision.” A state government order issued on May 8 said that only final-semester students would have to appear for the exams, while all others would be promoted on the basis of their average marks. This sparked a massive outrage among final-semester students, who dubbed it “unfair”. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also wrote to the state government that college exams should be held.The council stated during a discussion on Monday that as per the provisions of the Maharashtra University Act, the board of examinations has to prepare the schedule of the exams and the academic council is supposed to assess it and approve it. The same has to be presented before the management council following which the members will approve the time-table and the new procedure of conducting exams. “We have not heard from the government yet. There is no directive that exams should not be held,” said Rajesh Pande, chancellor’s nominee to the management council. “However, if we do hear from the state government and receive directive, we will once again take it through our decision-making bodies like the board of examinations, academic council and the management council. They will take a final decision,” added Pande. Management council member, Sanjay Chakne, also confirmed that the university had not stopped the process of conducting exams. “With no written letter from the state government on canellation of exams, the process cannot stop. Hence, it was decided at the council meeting to conduct the exams until government notification was issued.” Meanwhile, the Architecture Council of India has written to the state government to exempt its candidates from the decision as only those examined would receive a registration number and a licence to practice. After the CM’s announcement, the governor sought to assert his right as chancellor of universities in the state. Invoking the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, Koshyari said the chancellor had the final say on matters related to universities. He said the decision to conduct exams for final-year students “shall be taken in consonance with provisions of the Act”. Describing chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s announcement to cancel examinations as “unprecedented” and made “without any profound thinking on the legal repercussions”, the governor said the decision, if implemented, would jeopardise the future of students. Fee hike stayed: The management council approved the proposal forwarded by the academic council to stay the fee hike for the current academic year. The decision would benefit thousands of students in colleges affiliated to the university in Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. The fee hike was proposed after ten years, however, the decision was stayed due to the current lockdown situation, Umrani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-varsity-to-go-ahead-with-final-semester-exams/articleshow/76292159.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Green and safe commute to work helps me beat virus||I used to travel by bus. Now I am cycling to my workplace and I am feeling myself blessed, seeing the number of commuters stranded on roads while going to office and returning home. I love cycling. But I could not cycle to my office, thanks to restriction on bicycling on several roads of the city. I had to pay fines couple of times. But now, I think the government is also encouraging people to use cycles. I hope that the state government will ear-mark a bicycle lane for the safety of cyclists. Not I am travelling with an enviable ease and comfort, I am feeling healthier. Since I cycle 10km in one way, I have managed to shed extra weight. I used to take sleeping pill sometimes. Now I am having sound sleep throughout the night. If people do cycling, they can stay physically fit. (As told to Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-and-safe-commute-to-work-helps-me-beat-virus/articleshow/76291529.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad homes struggling to find tenants||HYDERABAD: Homes in the city are having a tough time finding takers, according to property brokers. They say that the flood of enquiries during what is usually their peak season — April to June — has been reduced to a trickle due to the coronavirus pandemic. Complicating matters further is the return of the city’s sizeable migrant workforce to their native places which have led many properties to put up their ‘to-let’ boards. “Our business is down to just 10% of what we otherwise register during this time,” said Rizwan Khan a Begumpet-based broker. “Most hirings happen between April and June so people move to the city either to join a new job or on transfer from their old job. That is the trend. Since hirings have almost come to a halt due to the lockdown, it has affected us immensely,” he added. Brokers said that while they would usually attend to as many as 40 calls per day for homes during this period, they are now receiving barely five to six calls. This has been the case for brokers even when it comes to the city’s most sought-after locations such as Madhapur, Jubilee Hills and Somajiguda. “We are getting some local enquiries but that is limited. Most of our business usually comes from the migrant workforce,” said Mohammed Ibrahim of Ideal Homes in Jubilee Hills. In fact, many have even reduced their commission from one month’s rent to half-a-month’s rent, to lure customers. However, takers have been few and far between. A broker who had cracked the deal for staffers at a popular city restaurant said: “The employer had rented out flats in two buildings in Kundanbagh to accommodate them. There were about a 100 people living in these houses. Now, they have vacated all but two flats as the workers have returned home. The employer was paying over Rs 1 lakh a month in rent.” But will this slowdown lead to cheaper rentals? “Not really. Though some property owners are willing to offer discounts, many others are in the wait-and-watch mode. Maybe if things don’t start looking up for another few months, they will consider a cut in rents,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-homes-struggling-to-find-tenants/articleshow/76292157.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 10, 2020||Varanasi||Job creation efforts pick up, training of migrants begins||Varanasi: Intensifying efforts for providing employment to the migrant labourers, skills training was started for 53 labourers of unorganised sector at 10 construction sites finalised by Varanasi Development Authority in association with builders’ association of the district. The labourers will be hired immediately after being trained as construction workers. The district administration also held a meeting with officials of employment, industries, skill development departments, District Urban Development Authority and others on Tuesday for implementing the plans discussed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath during his visit on Monday to generate employment for migrants and those rendered jobless during Covid-19 lockdown. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Tuesday, “Under skill mapping we compiled a database of 32,000 workers, mostly migrant labourers, in past two months and the process is still continuing. We are including all departments to ensure all registered labourers get jobs as per their skills.” “In past two months, we provided employment for 84,000 people under MNREGS, which is almost double of monthly target for employment generation in the district,” said Sharma. The focus has now shifted to imparting necessary skills to labourers for making them employable. VDA has taken a lead over by starting registration of labourers who wish to become skilled in construction sector. “In initial phase, VDA registered 53 labourers for training with help of builders’ association. After completing training, they will be hired while VDA will continue the skills training programme for others,” said Sharma. The requirement of skilled labourers for construction projects of Varanasi Development Authority, PWD and other agencies would also be fulfilled by utilising registered labourers. Training for other sectors will also start to employ registered migrants and jobless workers, and in second phase training for plumbers, electricians, carpenters will also started, said Sharma. Ways are also being explored to engage jobless people in street vending, he added. CM Yogi had asked officials to map all small, medium and heavy industrial units and sectors where job opportunities can be generated and ensure 1.50 lakh employment in big cities. He had directed officials to consider employment generation as the prime challenge for them and work in mission mode to achieve targets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/job-creation-efforts-pick-up-training-of-migrants-begins/articleshow/76289416.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,266 caught cheating||Ahmedabad: A total of 1,266 students were caught cheating during the SSC examination. Of these, 124 were caught cheating during the examination and 1,119 were caught on examining CCTV footage of the exams. Officials said this this year the number of students caught cheating during the exams was the highest in five years. Officials 109 students had been in caught in the 2015 exam. The number of student caught through CCTV footage in 2020 was nearly half of the number from 2019. In 2019, 2,165 students had been caught copying on examination of footage. Officials said that this year not many incidents of mass copying were reported. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1266-caught-cheating/articleshow/76291518.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: State portal for migrant IT professionals||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has launched a web portal — ‘Karmabhumi’ — for the IT professionals who have returned to the state following the Covid-19 outbreak to help them find jobs. The aspirants will be able to connect with the IT companies in Bengal on this platform. “We have launched web portal ‘Karmabhumi’ for IT professionals who have returned and are looking for a job change due to Covid-19. Connect to the IT companies in Bengal through karmabhumi.nltr.org,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee has tweeted. On behalf of GoWB, we launched Karmo Bhumi, web portal for IT professionals, returned & looking for job change due… https://t.co/IWBYnjbr7H— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) 1591691710000There were more than 1,000 hits on the first day and many have already registered themselves with the portal. “There are many people of Bengal who worked not only in other states but also in other countries. They are highly qualified and professionally equipped. The state government wants to rope in these people,” a Trinamool Congress leader said. There was a mixed reaction from IT professionals from the city. “It is a good move and I welcome the initiative. This portal will serve many purpose,” said Sector V Stakeholders’ Association vice-president Kalyan Kar. “I am not sure how it would benefit IT employees. The government should seek more clarity from the IT-BPM industry as to whether they are going to add numbers to their existing workforce,” said Suparno Moitra, board member of IT academic bureau of AICTE. “It is a good initiative by the government. However, it is to be seen how fruitful this portal would be as job options in Kolkata is low compared to some other cities," said Kaustav Dey, a senior cloud data architect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-portal-for-migrant-it-professionals/articleshow/76291565.cms||Saibal Gupta
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Migrants from outside Madhya Pradesh to get PDS benefit||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Tuesday inaugurated "one nation, one ration card" scheme for migrant workers, which shall enable migrant workers from other states to get ration from PDS outlets in Madhya Pradesh. Twenty-one states including MP are covered under the scheme announced by the Union govermment. All families eligible under the provisions of National Food Security Act, 2013, to get food grains from PDS shops would be able to get ration, where ever they are through biometrics. The chief minister after inaugurating the scheme through video conferencing also talked to some migrant workers from outside the state. Chouhan said that all the 24,980 PDS shops in the state have been automated with POS machines and through portability, migrant workers from 20 other states covered under the scheme would get ration in MP. Wheat at the rate of Rs 2 per kg, rice at the rate of Rs three per kg and coarse food grains at the rate of Rs one per kg would be provided to them. Migrant workers from MP in those 20 states would also get ration there under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/migrants-from-outside-mp-to-get-pds-benefit/articleshow/76290583.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Soon, 28 ambulances for Covid-19 patients in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: As the number of Covid-19 cases are seeing a constant rise, the district administration is regularly battling the lack of ambulances for Covid-19 patients. To address this issue, they have decided to add 20 more ambulances to its existing fleet. The department at present has 21 ambulances, of which four were procured through CSR initiative. In all, till now the city had only eight ambulances for Covid-19 patients and the rest for other patients. With this addition, there will be 28 ambulances dedicated to the Covid-19 patients. While talking about the new 20 ambulances that the district administration plans to buy, an official said, “Sixteen of them will be basic life support ambulances and four will be advanced life support ambulances. They will be bought at the rates prescribed by the National Health Mission.” “These additional ambulances are being arranged so that Covid-19 patients do not face any difficulty to reach hospitals. While the number of asymptomatic patients are higher, there are Covid-19 patients who are critical and require emergency services. These ambulances will help them. Taking into account the present situation, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri has decided to provide 20 more ambulances to the health department,” a district administration official said. The new ambulances will also have the provision of GPS tracking to help residents know their location. The health department has also strengthened its ambulance service helpline (108) and has increased the number of operators running the helpline to 12. Earlier there was only one operator. Meanwhile, CEO GMCBL Sonal Goel —who is also supervising government health facilities for bed and ventilator management — visited the ESI Hospital and Medeor hospital on Tuesday and had a detailed discussion with the authorities about the facilities at the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/soon-28-ambulances-for-covid-19-patients-in-gurgaon/articleshow/76292389.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Investment promotion agency to be set up in UP||Lucknow: The Cabinet on Tuesday approved the setting up of the UP Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency. The agency will work under Udyog Bandhu to bring in more investment in the state. The agency will have a governing board headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and a steering committee. It will not just coordinate between departments for investment, ease of doing business and investment management, but will also undertake works like investment promotion, market intelligence and research, branding and public relations. The Cabinet also gave clearance to amendments in the Incentive Scheme for Establishment of Private Industrial Park, UP Warehousing and Logistics Policy of 2018 and the UP Industrial Investment and Employment Promotion Policy of 2017. Under the Investment Promotion policy and the incentive scheme for industrial parks, the limit on land has been decreased to 20 acre or more in Bundelkhand and Purvanchal and to 30 acre or more in the remaining parts of the state. In the warehousing policy, the eligibility for setting up a logistics park has been reduced from 50 acres to 25 acres. The Cabinet cleared a proposal for setting up a standard operating procedure for reimbursement of SGST as incentive under the UP Industrial Investment and Employment Promotion Policy of 2017. This will help in simplifying the procedure and cut down on unnecessary delays. The maximum age for qualification as contractual teachers in a state medical colleges has been increased. From 50 years in reserved category and 45 years in general category, the limit has changed to 60 years for assistant professor and 68 years for professor. Due to shortage of teachers in polytechnics under the technical education department, the Cabinet has allowed for teachers who retired as principal, head of department and lecturer to be brought back for teaching. The period for signing concession agreement for Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar has been extended. Now, the time limit is set for August 17, 2020, or the date 45 days from starting of flights between India and Malaysia and India and Switzerland, along with period of mandatory quarantine in India, whichever is earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/investment-promotion-agency-to-be-set-up-in-up/articleshow/76292164.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Cops’ fresh SOP for Covid-time policing||Nagpur: The latest Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the state police headquarters, viewing the increased occurrence of the Covid infection in the force, have introduced several adaptions which will raise the hygiene standard and also transform many working methods including arrests. The current SOP, which would be circulated among city police stations through DCP, special branch and corona nodal officer, Shweta Khedkar soon, have guidelines right from the how a police personnel shall come to the police station to how must s/he carry out arrest, interrogate and investigate. IG, law and order, Milind Bharambhe, who issued the order from Mumbai, said the SOP contains the guidelines regarding working of police following Covid distancing and sanitization. “They have been issued in a generalized manner but one has to follow them as per the situation like where to wear gloves or PPE kits,” he said. It has been made specific for the cops to have a closer look at the accused for telltale signs like whether they are coughing or having temperature or any symptom of a Covid patient. “Arrests to be made where necessary after conducting medical test, particularly Covid screening. Every personnel should wear mask and frequently use sanitizer,” said the officer. “Interrogations should be conducted separately and if any accused is having symptoms then they must be kept separately,” he said. Earlier, anyone calling up ‘100’ for help had police personnel attending them. “ Now, if such calls to the control room originate from the containment zones then we first would ask the caller to opt for filing online complaint unless something requires immediate intervention,” the officer explained. City police chief BK Upadhyay said the latest SOP was more ‘systematically’ drafted. “Repeatedly, we have been reminding the force to wear masks during duties, faceshields at containment zones, use gloves, PPE kits at high risk places. We also ensured that everyone was supplied with adequate sanitizers,” he said. As per the new guidelines, the police are also required to sanitize their vehicles, especially the steering, gears, doors and also seats repeatedly. Even the handles, grills, side bars of the staircases, switches, gates, windows, chairs and restrooms are to be repeatedly sanitized. “There would be less crowding of complainants at the police stations dealing with only urgent matters. Everyone would sit at safe distance from each other. Vehicles should not be crowded. Some staffers can use own vehicles,” a senior officer said. The official said the guidelines also deal with personal behaviour too like repeatedly cleaning one’s sticks, weapons, belongings and minimal sharing. A senior cop said that following the guidelines would be tough especially when a dreaded criminal is needed to be nabbed from any place regardless of it being containment zones or hotspot. “There would be calculated risks and sometimes faults too but police duty cannot be so much regularized,” he added. Dos · Use reusable masks, carry own sanitizers, handkerchiefs and faceshields wherever required · Personal or official vehicles, especially the steering, doors, etc to be sanitized repeatedly · Maintain Covid distancing with colleagues, complainants, visitors and accused who should be also made to use masks and sanitizers repeatedly · Travel in less numbers in vehicles than before · Less crowding at police stations. Address only important and urgent matters Don’t · No personnel above 50 years of age to be deployed at containment zones or high risk places. Pregnant cops or ones with co-morbidities would not be allowed to work · Sharing of personal belongings or vehicles · Working at the crowded places until required or visiting high risk places without PPE · Arresting or nabbing someone without protections like gloves or masks or making arrests on trivial matters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-fresh-sop-for-covid-time-policing/articleshow/76291561.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 10, 2020||Mumbai||Reconsider pricing of N95 masks: Bombay HC to Centre||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to reconsider its N95 masks pricing ensure that it conforms with the drug pricing law. The Centre, represented by additional solicitor general Anil Singh, said it would do so in ten days. The development took place at a video-conference hearing before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde. The HC was hearing a PIL filed by Sucheta Dalal and former AAP member, Anjali Damania, who through their counsel Mihir Desai wanted the price of these essential masks to be capped by the Centre, at a time when their supply was falling short too. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA)—set up under the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers— had in its affidavit pointed to a May 15 meeting attended by the ministries where stakeholders were against any price capping but said they would do so in future, if required. The NPPA, however, said on its request the manufacturers had dropped the price by up to 47 %. Desai said masks were initially selling for Rs 40 and if the prices could fall to Rs 95, they ought to be reconsidered. N95 masks are notified as “drugs’’ and comes under Drugs (prices control) Order of 2013 which means the maximum retail price cannot increase by more than 10% of what it was in the preceding 12 months. This point is what the bench focused on. The Centre said that at a meeting held last month meeting it was felt that capping may prove to be a disincentive to domestic manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reconsider-pricing-of-n95-masks-bombay-hc-to-centre/articleshow/76292162.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Two held for hunting peahen in Bhuj||Rajkot: Two persons were arrested for hunting a peahen in Jadura village near Bhuj town of Kutch on Monday night. The accused were identified as Anwar Kasam Lohar (29), a resident of Anjalinagar in Bhuj; and Akram Azim Kheba (23) from Lal Tekri area of Bhuj.Bhuj local crime branch police sub-inspector S J Rana said that the accused were apprehended from near Nagori railway crossing in Bhuj on Monday night. “The accused were travelling in a car. On checking we found a peahen de-feathered carcass without head and limbs,” said Rana. The accused told police during questioning that they had hunted the peahen for eating it. They had hunted the peahen at Jadura village near Bhuj. Rana said that the duo was booked under arms act for illegal possession of weapons and have been handed over to the B Division police station of Bhuj. They will also be booked under the Wildlife Protection Act and other relevant acts, after the forest officials conduct the inquiry, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-for-hunting-peahen-in-bhuj/articleshow/76290594.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Green bench forms panel over Adyar pollution after TOI report||CHENNAI: The National Green Tribunal Southern Zone (SGT SZ) has taken suo motu cognizance of a TOI report on industrial pollution along Adyar river and constituted a committee to look into the issue. The news report which appeared on June 3 said that industries which were reopened after lockdown conditions were replaced pumped raw and untreated sewage into city’s water bodies. The first indication of pollution is the spread of water hyacinth. The invasive weed which breeds mosquitoes has now occupied a large stretch of the Adyar from near Saidapet bridge to Guindy bridge, the report added. This has affected the quality of water, reduced bio-chemical oxygen demand and chemical oxygen demand levels, thereby affecting the aquatic life in the river, said NGT SZ members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta. “Time and again the Hon’ble Supreme Court as well as this Tribunal had reminded the Government authorities of their responsibility to protect the environment especially the water bodies. In spite of that pollution continues in the water bodies. There is neglect on the part of the Government Departments as well,” they noted. So, they constituted a joint-committee consisting of Chennai district collector and representatives from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT) and the public works department (water resources organization) to inspect the area in question and submit a report within two months. The report will include launching of prosecution against violators if they are traced out and imposition of environment compensation and also provide recommendation for remedial measures to restore the water body and keep it pollution free. There are other cases also pending in respect of certain aspects regarding water bodies before the NGT. So, the committee has been allowed to consider this aspect as well while preparing the action plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/green-bench-forms-panel-over-adyar-pollution-after-toi-report/articleshow/76290598.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Covid spread slow, time to strengthen economy: CM||LUCKNOW: Days after UP won praise from Pakistan’s media for slow spread of coronavirus infection, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the situation should be used as an opportunity to strengthen the state’s economy and generate employment for lakhs of migrants who have returned home during lockdown. The government is preparing a software that will keep a check on the number of people getting employment through government’s measures during lockdown. It will also contain the record of the number of people to be employed in near future. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has said that as the rise of cases in UP is slow, it is a good opportunity for the state to take some strong measures to strengthen economy.” “The CM has said a comprehensive programme should be prepared to create employment opportunities for workers in various departments to provide work to street vendors and generate employment in MSMEs and big industries. Avenues for work should be found for carpenters, plumbers etc,” Awasthi said. The CM said a survey should be conducted on the current rate of employment in agriculture and allied sectors, MSMEs and big industries and the potential to increase jobs in these sectors. “In the survey, the number of people who can be provided employment for six consecutive months, and more, should be determined. The CM has said that the software which is being developed should contain information on how many people got jobs and how many can be employed in specific sectors,” Awasthi said. The state is also reaching out to street vendors, asking them to register with local bodies so that once a special scheme is developed for them, they can avail of facilities like subsidies and loans. The scheme is being prepared and will be implemented soon. The government has signed MoUs with industry bodies for generation of at least 11 lakh jobs in a year and has already received interest for about 1.5 lakh vacancies in real estate sector and about 2 lakh in readymade garment sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-spread-slow-time-to-strengthen-economy-cm/articleshow/76292181.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Mumbai||20 more Kerala nurses to land today, ‘200 had left city’||Twenty more nurses from Kerala will arrive in Mumbai on Wednesday to assist in treating Covid-19 patients. These nurses are part of the volunteer force from Kerala that landed in Mumbai more than 10 days ago. Currently, there are 40 doctors and 15 nurses working at the Seven Hills Covid hospital. Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), a health advocacy group, has questioned the decision to call for volunteer nurses from Kerala when 1,800 nurses who had cleared the state government’s qualifying exam in February 2018 are awaiting recruitment. A doctor on the state task force said one bed requires three nurses, and hospitals at present were working at 30% of their capacity. “Having a bed is not enough. We need doctors, nurses, specialists and sanitation workers. We need more nurses as the monsoon will bring its own diseases,” said the doctor. In a letter to municipal commissioner I S Chahal, JSA said nearly 200 nurses had left Mumbai for fear of getting infected. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said recruitment is on and BMC would need nurses for its field hospitals at BKC, NSCI and Nesco. “As for posting student nurses, they were being provided hands-on training. BSc nurses are being offered a better remuneration package than what they were drawing six months ago,” he said. — Clara Lewis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/20-more-kerala-nurses-to-land-today-200-had-left-city/articleshow/76289455.cms||Clara Lewis
June 10, 2020||Business||Nepal, Bangladesh growth to top India, China||NEW DELHI: Amid a sea of sharp contractions across economies around the globe, one country stands out: the tiny Caribbean nation of Guyana, which according to the World Bank’s latest Global Economic Prospects report, is forecast to grow by 51.1% in 2020-21 — fuelled by the beginning of oil production in an offshore field. Egypt, Benin, Ethiopia and Uganda are forecast to grow at 3% to 3.2%. Vietnam is likely to grow at 2.8%. Bangladesh 1.6%, Myanmar 1.5%, Nepal 1.8% and Bhutan 1.6% are seen remaining above the contraction level south Asia, as a whole, is expected to experience. China is projected to slow to 1% in 2020 — by far the lowest growth it has registered in more than four decades. It is estimated the Indian economy will contract by 3.2% due to the impact of the strict lockdown. China to grow 6.9%, India a modest 3.1%Guyana’s economy is projected to expand dramatically this year as phase-1 oil production of the offshore Liza oil field comes online and phase-2 development begins. The size of oil sector activity relative to the economy is quite large and thus we expect that the economy will expand by more than half (51.1 %) in 2020. In 2021, with the economy already substantially larger, the growth rate will not be as high, despite continued oil field development,” Dana Vorisek, senior economist, World Bank told TOI in an email when asked about Guyana’s high growth rate. In 2021-22, the growth rate is forecast to come down to 8.1%. A clutch of countries in Africa are also expected to grow in the 1% to 2.5% range. Egypt and Ethiopia have scripted a robust growth story. In 2021, the story is likely to change with growth expected to return to the large and emerging economies. China is forecast to grow by 6.9% while India is expected to expand by a modest 3.1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nepal-bangladesh-growth-to-top-india-china/articleshow/76293030.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Croc attacks man fishing in Hiran river||Rajkot: A 24-year-old man fishing in Hiran river near Galiyavad village of Gir Somnath was attacked by a crocodile on Tuesday. According to the forest department, the victim Farukh Karavat, is resident of Galiyavad village. Karavat was quick enough to save himself after the crocodile attacked him and started screaming for help, said forest officials. The villagers took him to hospital in Veraval, where his condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/croc-attacks-man-fishing-in-hiran-river/articleshow/76290622.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Found: Thriving nests of 160 vultures near Panna Tiger Reserve||BHOPAL: A new roosting site of threatened vultures has been spotted about 60km from Panna Tiger Reserve. The discovery has cheered wildlife officials and conservationists. What’s better, there are over 160 vultures, some of them of a rare species. The site is located about 1km from NH75 that connects the districts of Panna and Katni, say sources. The species sighted include white-rumped vulture, Egyptian vulture, king vulture and the long-billed or Indian vulture. Even the rare black vulture or cinereous vulture has been spotted. All these species have been dwindling and feared to be at the point of vanishing altogether. There are nests on big old pipal and Arjun trees on the cliffs of Chandaa Ghati, a hillock in Vindhya Range. A big nullah provides them water almost round the year, say sources. Deputy conservator of forests, Hemant Yadav, who has photographed them, recalled the say he spotted the nests: “It was a hot afternoon in the first week of April, but not very hot. The temperature was below 42 degrees Celsius, almost 6 degrees below normal, and this may be the reason for the sighting.” Yadav, who is posted in Panna south forest division, said the most positive aspect of the sighting was a “good number of juveniles, the number of species, and of course that there were over a hundred of them.” “It was a wonderful sight,” he added. DFO Mina Mishra said, “This is a protected forest but not a protected area, like a national park. Still, the sighting is a good news for the Greater Panna landscape. During field visits, we also spotted them on some other hilly areas, like Tendu Ghat.” Vultures vanished in large numbers in the ’90s mainly because of ingestion of residues of diclofenac, a veterinary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug in cattle carcasses. Vulture is a scavenging bird of prey and its presence is a healthy sign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/found-thriving-nests-of-160-vultures-near-panna-tiger-reserve/articleshow/76290623.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bus blues: Rush-hour demand-supply mismatch||KOLKATA: Commuters’ woes continued on Tuesday with both private and STU buses struggling to ferry them to their work places by maintaining social distancing norms. The demand-supply gap curve, which heightened during the morning and evening peak hours, flattened in the afternoon. People, who had left late in the afternoon to avoid the peak-hour rush, had been stranded for a long time with fewer buses plying on roads. Much to the relief of the transport department, more private buses hit the city roads on Tuesday. According to the PVD, 2,488 private buses and 316 mini buses plied on Tuesday. “Buses are returning to roads slowly due to various mechanical problems that the operators are facing. It took longer than usual to anticipate whether these buses were fit for moving on roads. Already under tremendous economic stress, each of us had to shell out Rs15,000 to Rs20,000 per bus for overhauling. Otherwise, buses could develop mechanical snags, which even could cause accident,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. However, the fare was not always in keeping with the approved fare chart. Bus operators claimed that they have urged the commuters to contribute a little above the approved fare so that buses can ply regularly. “Most of the passengers want us to ply at a regular interval and paid Rs 2 to 3 above the fare. We know this is not an authorised action, but without charging higher fare, we just cannot operate buses,” said an operator on the condition of anonymity. WBTC also changed its strategy. Instead of running buses on all its regular routes, it ran services on the routes where commuters’ demand was very high and private buses were fewer. “We have no competition with private buses. In this tough time, we tried to complement each other. We ran services more on the routes where private buses were less. Yet commuters’ demand was high. This eased the passengers’ woes and ensured best utilization of resources,” said a WBTC official. If the morning peak hours were somehow managed, the trauma of evening peak hours was hardly over even on Tuesday. Many passengers were found stranded for hours at Howrah Station, Dalhousie, Esplanade, Park Street, and Theatre Road crossing with J L Nehru Road. “Most of the buses refused to stop at these areas where only a few buses originate or terminate. Most of the buses got full at the point of origin. Thus, we had a trying time. Some empty WBTC buses came to our rescue. But they were few in number as compared to the demand,” said Ganesh Tiwari who runs a small shop on Theatre Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-blues-rush-hour-demand-supply-mismatch/articleshow/76291577.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Locusts in Pench, birds prey on pest||Nagpur: Swarms of locusts were spotted over the Maharashtra side of Pench Tiger Reserve on Tuesday. As the pests nibbled away at tender leaves of trees, they also made easy prey for the birds. Since it was in forest area, no chemical spraying was done and no noise made to shoo the locusts away. Pench field director Ravindra Govekar said the pests were seen in six of the seven forest ranges in an area of 741 square kilometres. “The locusts flew away after it rained,” he said. This was the first time in the current attack that the swarms had entered the Pench forest. The swarms have reported to have damaged crops in Fulzere village close to Pench. “There was no major damage to the vegetation in the forest, except that the pests tried to eat away the tender leaves of trees like palash and wild bamboo. Species like teak that had hard leaves were spared,” said Govekar. The field director added that it is normal for bird to feed on insects. “The pests were in millions as compared to the birds hunting down on them,” said Govekar. An official in the state’s agriculture department said the swarms were later spotted near Ramtek. “Teams have been tracking it and chemical spraying will be done once they settle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locusts-in-pench-birds-prey-on-pest/articleshow/76291581.cms||Shishir Arya
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Babri mosque demolitioncase: Special CBI court to record statements||LUCKNOW: The special CBI court, conducting Babri mosque demolition trial, on Tuesday directed the accused Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, Satish Pradhan and Pawan Kumar Pandey to appear before it on June 10 for recording of statement under Section 313 of CR P C. It further directed other accused Lallu Singh, Kamlesh Tripathi, Santosh Dubey and Ram Chandra Khatri to remain personally present at the court on June 11 for the same purpose. Similarly, accused Jai Bhagwan Goel, Om Prakash Pandey, Amar Nath Goel and Jai Bhan Singh Pawaiya have been directed to appear in person on June 12 for recording of statement . Special judge SK Yadav passed the order while allowing exemption applications of the accused for Tuesday. Dr Ram Vilas Vedanti appeared in the court on Tuesday and deposed under Section 313 of CrPC. Except him, no other accused were present in the court which exempted their personal presence on their applications. Dr Vedanti was the fifth accused whose statement was recorded. Earlier, the court had recorded statements of Vijai Bahadur Singh, Gandhi Yadav, Prakash Sharma and Ram Ji Gupta. There are total 32 accused facing trial in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spl-cbi-court-to-record-statements/articleshow/76292187.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 10, 2020||Trichy||Traffic violations on rise on Trichy roads as lockdown eases||Trichy: Vehicular movement on Trichy city’s arterial roads has returned to normalcy post the lockdown relaxation and so have the traffic violations. Residents feel that the number of traffic violations has gone up since the law enforcers have not acted tough against the violators. Even though Trichy police were not very strict with violations like overspeeding even before the lockdown, those violating the helmet rule were rigorously brought to book. This ensured that the residents largely fell in line and wore helmets. But post the lockdown many commuters have started violating the helmet rule too. The other traffic violations that largely went unpunished before the lockdown period have further intensified. “Police presence should be ensured at arterial roads and traffic signals. Overspeeding has become a menace post the lockdown relaxation and youngsters are terrorising city roads,” M Sekaran, member of road safety council added. Traffic signal jumping has surged at major signals like head post office signal, Major Saravanan roundabout signal and district Court signal. Although police constables are present at the junctions, they are being mere spectators to the violations, locals lamented. Commuters often ignored the no-entry boards during the lockdown period. But even after the relaxations were announced and more vehicles took to the roads, people continue to do violate the one-way rules. Acknowledging the surge in violations, Trichy city traffic police sources said that they have been suggesting RTOs to suspend the driving license of those committing traffic violations like traffic signal jumping using the e-challan system. “Helmetless riders are being penalised, so are the two-wheeler riders jumping traffic signals,” a police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traffic-violations-on-rise-on-trichy-roads-as-lockdown-eases/articleshow/76292186.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Bullock cart swept away in flooding drain, four drown||Rajkot: Four persons, including a woman and her two children, drowned after seven persons of a family got swept away in a flooded natural water drain in Amreli district on Tuesday. All the seven were travelling in a bullock cart which got swept away in the turbulent waters. The incident happened at around 4:30pm in Hamapur village of Bagasra taluka. Three other persons were rescued. The family was returning home from their farm. Due to incessant rains in the upstream over the last few days, water was flowing menacingly in the drain. “However, they couldn’t judge its turbulence and decided to cross it on the bullock cart,” said an officer of Bagasara police station. The deceased were identified as Manisha Hasmukh Thavani (32), her nine-year-old daughter Khushi, five-year-old son Yash and sister-in-law Rekha (45). Rekha’s husband Sharad, his father Nagji and son Ashwin survived as the knew swimming. The bodies of victims were fished out from Khijadiya village, 15km away from the place of incident. One of the bullocks also died in the incident. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rains at isolated places in Amreli, Bhavnagar, Porbandar, Devbhumi Dwarka, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch and Vadodara districts over the next five days. The rainfall is being caused by the upper air cyclonic circulation lying over Gujarat region and neighbourhood over South Gujarat. An IMD bulletin stated that thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with winds gusting up to 40kmph is very likely at many places districts of Gujarat region, Saurashtra and in Diu, Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli and at isolated places in Kutch district during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bullock-cart-swept-away-in-flooding-drain-four-drown/articleshow/76290652.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||All-pass likely to enhance demand for polytechnic and ITI admissions||Trichy: Cancellation of class X board examinations due to Covid-19 pandemic is likely to raise the number of enrolments in polytechnic and Industrial Training Institutes (ITI). Even the technical institutes located in rural areas anticipate a surge in the demand for admissions to the courses.A pass in class X makes students eligible for admissions to ITIs and polytechnics. While the average intake of an ITI is roughly around 700 a year, it is 300-350 for a polytechnic. Usually many the seats in the technical institutes lay vacant as students prefer to continue school education after class X. However, this year, with the all-pass announcement, there will be a significant increase in the number of enrolments to the technical institutes, say management officials of ITI and polytechnic institutes. “Students who are looking for a decent job in short notice will utilize the opportunity. The employment opportunities for diploma holders are improving as well,” Dr K Vijayakumar, principal (in-charge), Seshasayee Institute of Technology (SIT), Trichy, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-pass-likely-to-enhance-demand-for-polytechnic-and-iti-admissions/articleshow/76292195.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Govt: Lockdown caused delay in investigation||Lucknow: The UP government on Tuesday admitted that they missed out on timely investigation in the case of Anamika Shukla due to the lockdown. Shukla, a full-time science teacher, who worked at 25 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) simultaneously, allegedly swindled nearly Rs 1crore as salary within 13 months. In a press briefing called by UP’s basic education minister Satish Dwivedi, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “Is mamle me ek chook ye hai ki March me jab karyawahi honichahiye thi tab ho gai hoti (In this case action should have been initiated in March itself).” Awasthi added, “But the lockdown had come. These teachers are hired on one-year's contract and their appointment is done at district level. No one found guilty will be spared.” DG, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand said that on March 11, he wrote to assistant directors, basic education, of Ayodhya, Saharanpur, Meerut, Aligarh and Prayagraj divisions to investigate the case. “Due to the lockdown, records couldn’t be traced,” Anand said. Subsequently, a reminder was sent to the officials on May 26. According to the basic education minister, Rs 12,24,700 has been withdrawn as salary in the name ofAnamika Shukla in nine districts. He said that soon after assuming the power the Yogi government had launched a drive to end the practice of appointing proxy teachers in the state. Dwivedi accused the Opposition of politicising recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers with intention of holding it for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-lockdown-caused-delay-in-investigation/articleshow/76292196.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Cheaper than cabs, better than buses||I am a resident of Salt Lake. My wife is pregnant and we came to my in-laws’ place at Baruipur before the lockdown. After the state was forced into lockdown, we got stuck here. Since last month, I had to start going to office but considering my situation, I was allowed to join a local branch office in Baruipur, which was close to my in-laws’ place. But from last week I was asked to join my home branch office at Tiretti Bazar and I had no clue how to travel so far. I was extremely worried as I have a pregnant wife and elderly in-laws and couldn’t risk contracting the infection. I checked all possible options to reach office and found that bike taxis can be the only affordable option for me at this point of time. Hence, I have been cycling for around 5-km from my in-laws’ place till Kamalgazi on EM Bypass, from where I book a bike-taxi to reach office. It is not as comfortable as an app cab. But I can reach office without jostling with other passengers. I try to remain as cautious as possible riding the bike, by keeping my bag between the rider and me and wear full sleeves shirt, gloves and face mask to avoid any physical touch with the stranger. Given the present situation, bike taxis seem to be the best option to reach office for me. (Chatterjee, a Baruipur resident, spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cheaper-than-cabs-better-than-buses/articleshow/76291584.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four arrested for murder of 22-year-old, weapons seized||CHARMINAR: Officials of South Zone task force along with Rein Bazar police arrested four persons in connection with the murder of a 22-year-old on Zafar Road in Old City. Police have seized three knives and two bikes from the accused — Mohammed Mehtab Khan (25), Mohammed Taleb Khan (28), Mohd Arbaz Khan (19) from Yakutpura and Mohammed Amir (19) from Falaknuma. The fifth accused in the case, Mohd Ghouse Khan was said to be absconding. On June 5, 22-year-old Mohammad Imran Khan was waylaid at Zafar Road and stabbed in broad daylight. Police investigation revealed that this had been a result of a family dispute. According to them, the wives of late Mohammad Galib Khan, Habeebunnisa and Ruksana, had been residing separately with their children in Yakutpura. It is claimed that Habeebunnisa elder son was given Galib Khan’s government job which led Ruksana to hatch a plan against Habeebunnisa. As per the plan, Taleb, Ghouse and Mehtab were to target Habeebunnisa’s sons. When she along with her son Imran had left their house to have her phone topped-up, the accused attacked Imran in full public view and fled. Based on the complaint of the victim’s mother, South Zone task force officials and Rein Bazar police tracked down and arrested the four of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-arrested-for-murder-of-22-year-old-weapons-seized/articleshow/76292198.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar produced less waste in April, May||BHUBANESWAR: Garbage generation in the city in March, April and May decreased by 35 per cent, thanks to the lockdown. Waste production has started picking up in June, with many restrictions no longer in place. The city, which usually generates 650 metric tonne of garbage daily, produced only 16,000 metric tonne in March, around 3,500 metric tonne lower than normal. In April, this reduced to 10,000 metric tonne, about half the usual amount. In May, it came down by 2,900 metric tonne, BMC officials said. “There was not much change in the generation of household waste. The decrease was because hotels, malls, restaurants, roadside eateries, food kiosks and makeshift stalls selling fruits and vegetables were closed in April and May. There will be a marginal increase in waste collection in June as hotels and restaurants start opening,” said a BMC officer. Garbage collection was not affected as it was kept out of the purview of the lockdown. Manual and mechanical sweeping kept the city clean. However, the BMC failed to keep the micro composting centres running due to shortage of labour.  The BMC has engaged three garbage collecting agencies for daily lifting of waste and dumping at the designated site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-produced-less-waste-in-april-may/articleshow/76290662.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Varanasi||Covid cases cross 300 mark in Jaunpur as 41 test +ve||Varanasi: Jaunpur became the first district of east UP to cross the 300-mark of Covid-19 cases as 41 more persons were found infected on Tuesday. A physician of the district hospital in Jaunpur was also among the 41 patients who tested positive. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Tuesday, “The total tally of Covid-19 cases in Jaunpur district surged to 326 as 41 new ones were detected. These include 40 migrants and one doctor. As many as 152 patients have been cured till now, while three had died. So, total active cases in the district are 171 now. ” Over 1,270 test reports received by Jaunpur administration on Tuesday were negative. Most of the infected persons are migrants and belong to rural belts of the district, said officials. “A physician, who is consultant at Shahganj primary health centre and in district hospital has tested positive,” said chief medical superintendent of Jaunpur district hospital Dr Anil Sharma. More than 2.34 lakh migrants have returned to Jaunpur from Mumbai, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR, said commissioner. The return of migrants has alarmingly increased the number of Covid-19 cases in Jaunpur in just 25 days. Covid-19 menace in the district had started with the arrival of Tablighi Jamaat attendees. Till May 17, only 17 infected persons had been found in Jaunpur but, by Tuesday morning the Covid-19 cases crossed the 300- mark. The government machinery had already geared up preparations for the treatment of Covid-19 patients as the return of migrants was very high, said the commissioner. The positive aspect is that over 90% cases are in rural belts and have not led to community transmission among locals so far. A Covid-19 Level-1 hospital with 450 beds has been set up in Jaunpur, while Varanasi has 1,000 beds in L-1, L-2 and L-3 facilities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-cases-cross-300-mark-in-jaunpur-as-41-test-ve/articleshow/76289488.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Mask must during office time, violation to invite action: Odisha government||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has made it mandatory for its employees to wear mask during the entire period of their office stay and said wilful deviation will be construed as indiscipline and action will taken accordingly. The order, issued by Sanjeev Chopra, secretary of the general administration (GA) department, also stressed the need on maintaining a distance of at least two metres between persons while discussing, standing or waiting inside the office premises. While the order mentioned employees should be encouraged to use staircases as much as possible, it added that more than four persons should not be allowed inside the lift at any point of time. Those inside the lift should stand facing the walls and not each other, the order stated. “As the state government offices have started operating with full strength, all departments and offices have been asked to ensure strict observance of the preventive measures in view of increase in number of Covid-19 cases in the state,” a senior official said. The order stated that official meetings and gatherings should be restricted to a minimum and organized preferably through video-conference, while instructions have also been issued to prohibit unnecessary gathering, crowding in common passages and corridors. “In case a physical meeting is necessary, seating may be arranged with appropriate physical distance among the participants, keeping in view the size of the meeting hall,” read the order. Frequently touched surfaces like door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails, benches and washroom fixtures have to be cleaned and disinfected regularly using one per cent sodium hypochlorite, the order stated. Emphasis has also been placed on disinfection of the interior of vehicles and areas like steering wheel, door handles and keys. Drivers, employees engaged with watch and ward and security personnel should be alerted about social distancing norms, it added. Visitors from outside will be restricted to the bare minimum while they should be disposed of within a limited period of time following sanitation norms. Also, receipt and delivery of letters will be restricted to the entry point of the office only, the order stated. Government officials feeling physical discomfort and suffering can seek proper medical care while those having symptoms of fever/respiratory problem can seek leave. Similarly, instructions have been issued to ensure that older employees and those having underlying medical conditions and pregnant women employees should not be exposed to direct public contact. “Any officer and staff residing in a containment zone should inform the same to the supervisory officer and not attend office till containment zone is de-notified. Such staff should be permitted to work from home and it will not be counted as leave,” Chopra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mask-must-during-office-time-violation-to-invite-action-govt/articleshow/76290689.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 56 new cases in Punjab||Chandigarh: Covid-19 cases continued to mount in Punjab on Tuesday as 56 more people tested positive, taking the state’s tally to 2,719. Amritsar, which accounted for 20 of the new cases, became the first district to cross the 500-figure mark. Its count reached 502. The death toll continued to rise too as two people succumbed to the coronavirus infection, taking the state’s casualty count to 55. Among the new patients, 28 got the infection from contacts and 10 had influenza-like illness (ILI). In Amritsar, nine patients were contacts of positive cases and 6 had ILI. Ludhiana recorded 15 cases, while five cases each were reported from Mohali, Jalandhar and Sangrur. Also, three cases were from Pathankot. One case each was reported from Ropar, Tarn Taran and Patiala. A death each took place in Sangrur and Ludhiana. Also. 39 patients were discharged after they recovered. In Amritsar, 11 more cases were confirmed by district authorities. The new cases were reported from Garden Enclave, Varindavan Garden, Shashtri Nagar, Katra Khajana, Hall Gate and Rambagh. Some new patients were also contacts of positive cases from New Garden Colony and Sharma Colony. (With inputs from Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-deaths-56-new-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/76291590.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Varanasi||Low turnout at religious sites on reopening after 75-day lockdown||Varanasi: Kashi Vishwanath temple, which used to see over 10,000 footfall of devotees per day, witnessed a meagre turnout of around 150 people only to offer prayers on its reopening after 75-day Covid-19 lockdown on Tuesday. Though many prominent temples, mosque, gurudwara and other religious sites were opened, many temples including Sankat Mochan and Kaal Bhairo temple could not be opened as they were not ready as per the SOP prescribed by the state government. The doors of the temple were opened for the devotees after Mangla Aarti inside sanctum sanctorum of Kashi Vishwanath temple at wee hours. Temple’s chief executive officer Vishal Singh said that till late afternoon around 150 devotees had arrived the temple. As per the SOP for crowd management only the devotees wearing masks were allowed to enter through Chhattadwar (gate-4) and queue up by standing inside the circles drawn for maintaining social distancing. Before entering the main temple complex all the devotees were asked to sanitise hands. Singh said that number of devotees inside temple complex never exceeded the number of five at a time while devotees were allowed to offer prayers from outside the sanctum sanctorum by having darshan of the Jyotirlinga through its doors before leaving the temple through Dhundhiraj gate. No one was allowed to touch anything including bells inside the temple. Singh said that low turnout of people was expected as only locals came to the temple while in normal days KVT remains crowded with outstation pilgrims, he said adding, the average footfall of devotees in non-festive seasons remains around 10,000 while on special occasions the volume goes above 1.50 lakh. Similar, scene was evident at temple of Goddess Annapurna. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that low turnout at these temples was a good sign indicating the level of awareness of people about necessary precautions. Apart from KVT and Annapurna temple, the Nadesar mosque, Gurudwara near Chowk police station, Guru Brihaspati temple, Tilbhandeshwar temple, Baba Kinaram Ashram and temple, Gauri Kedareshwar temple and Shooltankeshwar Mahadev temple were also opened. ADM City VK Singh said that as per the check list prepared after going through the SOP forms furnished by the authorities of the religious sites these places were found ready to be opened. Kaal Bhairo temple could not open on Tuesday as the temple authorities could not finalise the SOP and crowd management plan in narrow streets leading to the temple. ADM City said that based on information provided in their SOP forms all the four multiplexes and 56 hotels were cross checked by the teams led by magistrates concerned after which they were permitted to reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/low-turnout-at-religious-sites-on-reopening-after-75-day-lockdown/articleshow/76289532.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath asks Madhya Pradesh CM to give financial aid to newly married couples||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Tuesday urged chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to give financial assistance of Rs51,000 under the Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Yojana to newly married couples from poor families, who tied the knot in the last three months amid the Covid-19 lockdown. In a letter to Chouhan, the senior Congress leader said, “I want to draw your attention to the marriages of daughters from poor families during the coronavirus lockdown period. In the last three months, there have been difficulties in conducting marriage ceremonies, but weddings were permitted with certain conditions.” The state Congress president said that many youths had registered under the Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah/Nikaah Yojana for government-organised mass marriage functions, but they could not be held. “These couples had their marriage ceremonies held with very limited resources”, Nath said. “Many couples wanted to register for mass marriage ceremonies on the auspicious Akshaya Tritiya day, but there were no registrations and they got married with their own limited resources. These newly wedded couples could not get the benefits of the scheme, whereas in ordinary circumstances, they are eligible as beneficiaries,” Nath wrote. “It is the government’s duty to give full financial assistance to the newly wedded couples. My government raised the Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah assistance grant from Rs28,000 to Rs51,000, which helped the young couples begin their married lives,” Nath wrote. He urged Chouhan to give instructions for financial aid to couples married in the lockdown phase with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-asks-cm-to-give-financial-aid-to-newly-married-couples/articleshow/76290670.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘PPE scam’: Congress threatens more protests||BHUBANESWAR: The Congress’s state unit on Tuesday said it would step up attack on the BJD government over the alleged irregularities in the purchase of masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and medical supplies for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “We will move the central vigilance commission and the Lokayukta to seek action against the government. Earlier, we had demanded a CBI probe or a judicial inquiry into the scam,” Congress state president Niranjan Patnaik said. Niranjan also took a dig at health minister Naba Das. “He has refused to respond to our questions. He said government officials will respond. I want to ask him, did people vote for bureaucrats or BJD? Chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s silence has also upset people,” he said. Niranjan alleged that the government had purchased masks and other lifesaving equipment at higher rates. The demand for an independent probe has grown louder following the removal of industries and MSME secretary Hemant Sharma from a panel supervising the purchase of pharmaceutical goods and medical equipment for Covid-19 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ppe-scam-cong-threatens-more-protests/articleshow/76290673.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 10, 2020||Surat||Surat tops in Gujarat with 350 A1 grade students||SURAT: In all, 350 students from Surat city and rural areas of the district secured A1 grade in Class X exam results of which were announced on Tuesday. Surat district is again on top in state with highest number of students securing A1 grade (91 to 100 marks). This is much higher than Ahmedabad city which had 113 and Ahmedabad rural where 104 students secured A1 grade. However, these numbers were much less compared to 1,233 in 2018 and 1,009 in 2019. The overall passing percentage of Surat city and district also came down significantly as 74.66% students cleared the exam, compared to 79.63% in 2019 and 80.06% in 2018. In 2019, Surat topped among all districts with highest percentage of students passing the exam in 2019 and the performance has remained the same this year. Blind students clear exam without disability benefits All 11 students from Andhajan Shikshan Mandal on Ghod Dod Road have cleared the Class X exam with flying colours. Interestingly, the students cleared the exam without taking any benefits available for disabled students. “For blind students, the passing marks are 20 but our students cleared the exams without the benefits. Except one, all students have secured above 50% marks except one,” said Manisha Gajjar, principal of the school. Some students have got 80 marks in language subjects which are considered toughest to score marks. Krish Naik is the school’s topper with 76.40%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-tops-in-state-with-350-a1-grade-students/articleshow/76290686.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC relief for farmhouses constructed in Aravalis||CHANDIGARH: Giving some respite to around 450 entities/persons who allegedly carried out illegal construction activities in eco-sensitive Aravalis in Sohna area of Gurugram district, the Haryana government has submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court that construction activities would not be demolished without hearing them. The HC has also asked the state government to issue notices within three days to persons who allegedly carried out illegal construction and give them seven days thereafter to reply. Till the issue is decided, no demolition is to be carried, it said. Most constructions are of farmhouses and owners had changed the nature of their land from gair mumkin pahad to farm houses in contravention of NGT orders passed in 2018. The municipal council of Sohna had recently served them demolition notices. Division bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Sanjay Mittal and others. They had challenged notices issued by state authorities in compliance of the order dated October 23, 2018, passed by NGT to demolish the constructions, especially farmhouses. Their plea was that they were not afforded an opportunity of hearing by the authorities before issuing them notices regarding demolition. Hearing their plea, the HC found that around 450 persons had carried out such construction activities, but all of them had not approached it. “Since, those similarly situated persons are not before this court to whom notices have to be given but in order to avoid a flood of litigation in this court at the instance of those persons, we further observe that three days’ notice be given to other similarly situated persons, their cases shall also be decided by affording an opportunity of hearing, within a period 7 days. In this regard, counsel for the state has submitted that construction raised by petitioners and similarly situated persons will not be demolished till the decision is taken as stated herein above,” observed the HC in its orders released on Tuesday. The bench, however, made it clear that neither petitioners nor persons similarly situated should try to delay proceedings which were now going to be initiated by the municipal council of Sohna for a decision on showcause notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-relief-for-farmhouses-constructed-in-aravalis/articleshow/76291592.cms||Ajay Sura
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Four-tier strategy helps to contain spread of coronavirus in Ramganj||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 outbreak in the low-income, densely populated locality of Ramganj in Walled City has taught many administrators the nuances of the task of containing the virus spread in the state. From facing initial resistance from community to building trust, from creating awareness to imposing curfew, from testing to saving lives, the outbreak in this socio-demographically challenging urban area was a herculean task for authorities. As of now, only 18 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in the area and the rest of them have been cured. However, in this battle, 21 persons lost their lives to Covid. In Ramganj police station jurisdiction, 645 persons have been found infected since March 26 after a 46-year-old man tested positive. In Ramganj, major challenge was to prevent Covid deathsOut of those, 606 have been cured. Following the success, the four-tier strategy implemented in Ramganj has become popular with district collectors who are responsible for containing the virus. However, health authorities and administrators say it’s not wise to use the same strategy in each Covid hotspot. “When Covid struck initially, it took everyone by surprise. The very nature of the pandemic had no precedence. Hence, all over the world, healthcare systems struggled with strategy and implementation,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health), who is spearheading the fight against coronavirus in the state. Before Jaipur’s Ramganj, Bhilwara had witnessed a Covid outbreak, with a private hospital being the epicentre. In the textile town, the health department imposed the ruthless containment strategy, which hogged limelight in the country. Even the Centre praised it. However, Ramganj, a socio-demographically challenging urban area, it was not wise for health authorities to implement the same strategy. “After the successful Bhilwara model that emphasises ruthless containment, we had to change our tactics in Ramganj due to the completely different ground conditions. Like in all governance, adapting to changing realities is always critical to success. This seems to have worked, for now,” said Singh. It is now clear to administrators that different districts require different strategies. “While we provide macro guidelines, each district collector is suitably empowered to customise the implementation plan as per the local conditions. This is the big lesson we have learnt — think macro, but implement micro,” said Singh. In Ramganj, the major challenge was to prevent deaths. Scientific evidence available, so far, indicated that early diagnosis of disease progression and complications help in averting deaths. Evidence from around the world also suggested that there were specific groups of people, like those above 60 years of age and people with comorbid conditions, are at a higher risk of developing complications and death. These helped health department to immediately roll out mission ‘Life Saving’ (LiSa) in Ramganj to identify high risk cases for early treatment. Watch How Jaipur's walled city area fought the battle against Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-tier-strategy-helps-to-contain-spread-of-coronavirus-in-ramganj/articleshow/76292199.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘19 online sessions on patient care’||Chandigarh: Punjab government organised 19 online sessions for Covid-19 patient management during the lockdown period falling between March 27 and June 4. The sessions were held with 1,914 medical professionals involved in Covid care services. They included medical specialists and anesthetists looking after mild to moderately sick Covid-19 patients and faculty of medical colleges as well as experts looking after critical patients. Doctors and faculty from various medical colleges of Punjab and specialists from AIIMS,Delhi; PGI, Chandigarh; USA, UK and Italy were brought together on the e-platform, said Punjab medical education minister O P Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-online-sessions-on-patient-care/articleshow/76291597.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 26 from one building in Walled City test Covid positive||JAIPUR: Fourteen women among 26 people living in one building at Pano Ka Dariba locality of the Walled City tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. All of them are from West Bengal and they work in the city as house maids or labourers. After their test results returned positive, they were shifted to the RUHS Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre in the city. One woman of the 26 had left for Kolkata before her report came in. Since she tested positive, state health authorities immediately informed their counterparts in Kolkata, where she was taken to a hospital straight from the railway station on Tuesday. “They have been staying in the same building on rent for the past few months,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). “The women work as house maids, while the men as labourers in factories,” said Dr Sharma. Another woman from the building had gone to a government dispensary with symptoms of Jinfluenza-like illness on June 1. Doctors sent her samples for Covid testing and her report returned positive on June 5. Health department teams rushed to her house in Pano Ka Dariba area. They found that she was staying in a congested building with 45 other people. This woman was sent to RUHS Hospital for treatment and samples of the 45 others were taken the same day. The test results of this lot came on Tuesday – 26 positive and 19 negative. Watch Jaipur: 26 people living in one building test positive for Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/26-from-one-buildingtest-covid-positive/articleshow/76292203.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad records 81 cases, 3 more deaths||AURANGABAD: The number of Covid-19 cases went up by 81 on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,150. So far, as many as 1,283 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital. As many as three deaths were also reported on Tuesday that took the death toll to 116. Out of the 116 deaths, 88 have occured at GMCH, while 27 have been reported at private hospitals and one at district civil hospital. The cases were detected on Tuesday from different areas of Aurangabad city, Waluj, Pandharpur, Bajajnagar and Wadgaon Kolhati. According to GMCH media coordinator Arvind Gaikwad, an 80-year-old from Jinsi area died due to Covid-19 at GMCH at 10.30 am on Tuesday. A 67-year-old man from Mujeeb Colony and 73-year-old man from Garkheda were the other two casualties. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said that of the 192 patients admitted at the hospital, 91 are in critical condition as on Tuesday evening. She also stated that a 30-year-old pregnant woman, a resident of Bhawani Nagar, was admitted to GMCH on June 8. “She was critical at the time of admission. The woman lost her baby in the womb. With the help of a C-section, the foetus and blood clot from her ovary was removed. Later, after she was tested positive for coronavirus, we moved her to the medical intensive care unit where she is undergoing treatment,” Yelikar said. The district administration stated that Aurangabad has so far tested 13,735 people for Covid-19 until Monday. Of these as many as 8,592 people were identified as high risk contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-records-81-cases-3-more-deaths/articleshow/76289549.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Monsoon session in July, focus on social distancing||BHOPAL: Monsoon session of Madhya Pradesh state assembly is likely to be convened by July end. The session, held amid the Covid-19 crisis, would focus on social distancing norms for the MLAs and assembly secretariat has already begun work on it. Assembly secretariat has also sought technical and expert advice for the purpose. In the House of 230 MLAs, the present strength is 206 and these members would be seated accordingly maintaining proper distance. There is no space crunch in the central hall of MP Assembly as it used to house 320 MLAs of undivided MP. Almost 100 seats are vacant and seating could be re-arranged accordingly, said sources. Government is yet to present the annual budget, as the Kamal Nath government fell in March this year and later lockdown happened. On March 27, Governor Lalji Tandon approved the MP Appropriation (Vote on Account) Ordinance-2020 for the expenditure to be incurred in the first four months of the financial year 2020-21. It ends in July. Among the options mulled for maintaining social distancing in house, the MLAs of the BJP and Congress can be made to sit in different small groups instead of sitting in lots on the majority and opposition benches. An all-party meeting can be called where MLAs of major parties can be given option to be present on different days instead of all MLAs of a party coming daily. The lobby of officials and speaker can also be used for the seating arrangement, officials added. Principal secretary of MP Vidhan Sabha Awadhesh Pratap Singh said date for the monsoon session of assembly is yet to be finalized. Technical assistance has been sought to maintain social distancing in the house due to corona crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/monsoon-session-in-july-focus-on-social-distancing/articleshow/76290688.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Monsoon may arrive tomorrow, IMD warns of rain in eight districts||BHUBANESWAR: The southwest monsoon is likely to hit the state in the next three days, the India Meteorology Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. The official date of arrival of the monsoon in Odisha is Thursday. A low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal triggered pre-monsoon showers across the state in the past few hours. The IMD said most parts of Odisha would see moderate to heavy rainfall in the next few days. “The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Odisha by Friday. The conditions are favourable for the advancement of the monsoon. The low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a well-marked low pressure and cause heavy to very heavy rain in the southern and northern parts of the state,” said H R Biswas, director of IMD’s regional centre in Bhubaneswar. “If the date of monsoon’s arrival varies between three and seven days of the official date, we call it normal,” he pointed out. The low pressure has made conditions favourable for the advance of the southwest monsoon into parts of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh, parts of Bay of Bengal, the northeastern states, Sikkim, some parts of Odisha and gangetic West Bengal in the next 48 hours, the IMD bulletin said. The IMD has issued yellow warning (asking for preparedness) of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Ganjam, Gajapati, Puri, Kandhamal and Kalahandi on Thursday and Friday. In the past 24 hours, Akhupada in Bhadrak district recorded the state’s highest rainfall of 76 mm, followed by Mundali in Cuttack (65.4 mm). In the wake of the formation of the low pressure over the Bay, and the subsequent rainfall warning, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena has asked all collectors to remain alert and closely monitor the situation. The collectors have been asked to keep the district administration alert and in readiness to meet any eventuality, the SRC said in an order. The IMD has also cautioned fishermen against venturing into the sea on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday as winds of speed 40-50 kmph are likely to blow off the state’s coast. “As per earlier predictions of the IMD, the monsoon will be normal (around 103%) in central India, under which Odisha falls. It will take a week to cover the whole state, starting from southern Odisha and moving towards Sundargarh and Jharsuguda, covering interior and coastal Odisha gradually,” Biswas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/monsoon-may-arrive-tomorrow-imd-warns-of-rain-in-eight-dists/articleshow/76290696.cms||Minati Singha
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||BJP to garner support through e-campaigns ahead of bypolls||Bhopal: With political rallies turning defunct amid the Covid-19 pandemic, BJP is all set to launch a new cyber war ahead of bypolls in 24 assembly seats. BJP leadership has already kicked off virtual rallies and video conferences in the state to commemorate one year of Modi 2.0 government. Now, the party believes that its time to switch on to digital platforms to reach out to the masses and also cut on heavy expenses incurred during massive political campaigns during elections. “We have moved to virtual rallies through digital platforms and prepared a separate plan for the bypolls. We have prepared Whats App groups on 65,000 booths and 230 Facebook pages for video conferencing and livestreaming. The digital campaign would be hi-tech and reachable to rural and urban segments,” BJP state chief V D Sharma told TOI. Sharma said digital platforms are far more cost-effective than real political campaigns. “Virtual political rallies cost next to nothing. For huge political gatherings, the parties used to spend huge money and manpower, including hiring aircraft and helicopters for star campaigners, publicity materials, furniture and decoration and even had to spend huge money on hotels and transport facilities apart from food. But, the virtual rallies and digital campaigns have cut short the expenses,” he said. BJP has planned 60 virtual rallies to commemorate one year of Modi 2.0. These rallies would eventually transform into political campaigns for the 24 seats immediately after the celebration programmes conclude. With an eye on the bypolls, which is likely to be held in September, the saffron party has a target to cover all the 24 constituencies through digital platforms. “We have internet connectivity all over the state. There is hardly any village or rural block where we will not be able to reach. In each constituency, we have plans to connect 5,000 users through dedicated links, which will be sent through WhatsApp or other digital platforms. We will also connect them with Facebook livestream,” BJP IT cell in-charge, Shivraj Sigh Dabi told TOI.Sharma said that on Tuesday, he addressed 600 participants of Indore-3 and 4 assembly constituencies and more were willing to join but the system could not accommodate. There are now plans to increase the reach and connectivity, he said.Bypolls in the 24 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh are crucial for the stability of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. BJP has named 22 senior leaders in its election management committee, including four central ministers, senior office-bearers, MPs, and even former rivals and critics of Jyotiraditya Scindia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-to-garner-support-through-e-campaigns-ahead-of-bypolls/articleshow/76290702.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||‘For Public use’ boards force hundreds to clean up their vacant plots||Trichy: The warning boards erected by Trichy Corporation at ill-maintained vacant sites have made at least 300 property owners to swing into action to clean their land. As the owners of the plots residing in other cities and countries fail to maintain their properties, people even from faraway localities have been making use of the sites to dump waste including construction debris. To curb this menace, Trichy corporation in November 2019 started placing “this site has been chosen for public use” boards at such unfenced sites. Subsequently, the property owners started directly or indirectly cleaning and fencing their sites. Out of the 426 plots where warning boards were placed so far, at least 300 properties were cleaned by the concerned owners. “All the 65 sanitary supervisors were provided with the warning boards. Once the owner cleans and puts a fence around his or her site, we will take back the boards and place it at other vacant sites,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. A majority of the property owners were found to be residing abroad.The enforcement has also helped the civic body collect the outstanding vacant land tax. There has been public criticism over the drive as well, aspeople opined that the civic body targets only the individuals but not the government lands that are equally dirty.  “Railway and defence lands were also poorly maintained but no such warning boards were placed there,” a vacant plot owner said. The civic body justified that defence and railway establishments in Ponmalai were also informed to clean their properties and fence the boundaries to avoid misuse of the vacant plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/for-public-use-boards-force-hundreds-to-clean-up-their-vacant-plots/articleshow/76292197.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Defunct wet well, sewage flows through open drain||TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mangaluru: With Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) officials preoccupied with Covid-19 pandemic, there’s none to give an ear to the grievances of residents in Hosabettu where sewage flows into an open storm water drain, posing a grave threat to the public. Due to the defunct machines, sewage collected in the wet well in the thickly populated area could not be pumped to the nearest sewage treatment plant (STP), resulting in the situation. Residents of Ward No. 8 have brought the issue to the notice of health officials through a memorandum. Residents said that the sewage from wet well No. 4 in Hosabettu flows through open drains. “There is a storm water drain (rajakaluve) that flows from Hosabettu to the sea. While only storm water flows during rainy season, the rajakaluve remains dry during summer. However, sewage from the wet well flows through the storm water drains now. There are more than 150 houses by the side of the drain and it is posing health hazards. While the stink emanating from the drain is unbearable, water in several wells in the neighbouring areas is also contaminated and rendering them unfit for drinking,” Abdul Muneer, a resident, told TOI. A memorandum in this regard was submitted to officials in the health section of MCC on May 30. However, nothing has been done to solve the problem, he added. MCC health officer Dr Manjayya Shetty said he will inform the authorities concerned in the engineering section to resolve the issue. “The complaint is related to the engineering section. Issues will looked into immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/defunct-wet-well-sewage-flows-through-open-drain/articleshow/76290707.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Accused infected, Julana police station staff put in quarantine||Jind: Several cops posted at Julana police station in Jind district have been quarantined after a man arrested for bestiality tested positive on Monday for Covid-19. The accused was arrested on June 7 for allegedly having unnatural sex with a calf. He was later remanded in judicial custody in district jail, where his sample was collected for Covid-19. He tested positive on Monday, following which Julana police station staff was put in quarantine. Julana station house officer (SHO) Surender Singh said, “The accused had stayed for 24 hours in the police station. I have issued orders over phone to my juniors. I am touch in with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accused-infected-julana-police-station-staff-put-in-quarantine/articleshow/76291596.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Varanasi||Two new Covid-19 cases in Varanasi||Varanasi: With the detection of two more infected persons, including a woman, the total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached 241 on Tuesday. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that on Tuesday, BHU lab released 217 test reports in which two were found positive. He said that now tally of positive cases has gone up to 241, of which 149 have been cured while five had died . Now, total active cases in the district are 87, he added. Among the two new cases one is a 60-year-old woman of Sadahi village in Cholapur area. She was admitted to a private hospital for treatment of her other ailments. On detecting symptoms of Covid-19, the doctors had sent her sample for lab testing, in which she was tested positive. After it she was referred to DDU district hospital’s isolation ward. Other one is a 50-year-old trader of Ishwargangi locality in Jaitpura area. With the detection of these two cases, Sadahi village and Ishwargangi were declared new hotspots. Total hotspot areas in the district has become 124 of which 60 have become green zones. Now, active hotspots are 64. Newborn, mother found negative in Chandauli: A 30-year-old woman, whose husband recently died of Covid-19, gave birth to a healthy baby on Sunday in Chandauli district. According to CMO Dr RK Mishra, both were tested negative for Covid-19. Presently they are at the Chandauli district hospital under observation of doctors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-varanasi/articleshow/76289576.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC’s waste management officials isolate selves as staffer tests positive for coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Several officials of the GHMC’s solid waste management wing (SVM) have quarantined themselves after a staffer tested positive for coronavirus. “The staffer who tested positive used to lunch with two of his colleagues working in the same wing. He would also visit other SWM engineers to take their signatures on files,” said a GHMC official. Several officials, whose workstations, are in the same wing have quarantined themselves. “There will no impact on work as the staffers and officials are working from home, the date of rejoining has not been decided yet,” said a GHMC official. The infected staffer had not been attending the duties since June 4 and was tested positive on June 7. “We instructed officials to quarantine themselves and report in case they show coronavirus symptoms. HODs are calling staffers who were in touch with the person to check for symptoms,” said the civic body official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmcs-waste-mgmt-officials-isolate-selves-as-staffer-tests-ve/articleshow/76291554.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man detained for raping nine-year-old step-daughter||Surat: Dumas police detained a 40-year-old security guard on Tuesday for allegedly raping his nine-year-old minor step-daughter multiple times. The survivor informed police that she had been sexually assaulted by the man on two previous occasions too. Police detained the accused, a security guard at ABG Shipyard, from his residence near Magdalla Port. The shipyard has been shut down for the past few months. According to cops, the minor was alone at home on Monday evening after her mother had gone to fetch drinking water. The accused then sexually assaulted the minor and then sat outside the residence till the mother returned. The traumatized minor didn’t speak till the mother consoled her for few minutes and encouraged her to reveal what had happened. After the girl narrated her ordeal, the mother approached police and lodged a complaint against her husband. Sans any bleeding, the police were initially not convinced about the rape allegations, but after medical examination the crime was confirmed and the accused was detained. Investigation has revealed that the accused is a father of three children and his family comprising wife and two daughters live in his native village in Jharkhand. His 19-year-old son lives with him. The accusedgot married to the complainant woman, a widow of Nandurbar in Maharashtra, five years ago in a temple. She was living with the accused and her three children including a son and two daughters aged 9 and 6 years, respectively. The accused has been booked for rape and sexual assault to minor under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-detained-for-raping-nine-year-old-step-daughter/articleshow/76290706.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Vadodara||Married woman harassed through WhatsApp||Vadodara: A married woman living in Chhani was allegedly harassed by an unidentified person who sent her obscene messages on WhatsApp. The woman lodged an offence of sexual harassment and under the Information Technology Act at Chhani police station. The woman told police that she had received several obscene messages from an unknown number between March 10-25. When the woman asked, the sender never revealed the identity. She also said that the sender would also call her on WhatsApp but would not speak when the calls were answered. “The woman did not receive any message after March 25, but due to the nationwide lockdown, she could not come to the police station,” said a police official. “We are investigating the case and are also suspecting that a person close to the woman could be involved,” the police official added. The woman lived in Gandhinagar with her husband, but due to marital issues, she has been living with her parents in Chhani for a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/married-woman-harassed-through-whatsapp/articleshow/76289896.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Mumbai||Patients can go to hosps in any vehicle, state tells HC||Mumbai: The state government on Tuesday told the Bombay high court that with easing of the Covid-19 lockdown, there is no ban on travel and people can use all available means of transport to reach hospitals in case of emergencies. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde, via videoconference, heard a PIL by former MP Kirit Somaiya on the shortage of ambulances in the state and Mumbai, and to compel private ambulances to render services to patients in distress. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the regional transport office has data of private ambulances and directions will be issued that contact numbers be displayed on thei r sites. He said if there is a complaint of an ambulance refusing to ply, action will be taken under Motor Vehicles Act, apart from requisitioning them for public service.  The judges inquired about ambulance charges. Somaiya’s advocate Gaurav Mehta referred to a news report of how an exorbitant Rs 8,000 was charged for a short distance. The AG said the government will work on the charges and it will be indicated on the site. The judges said they consider the state’s proposals as “fair and reasonable.” — Rosy Sequeira||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/patients-can-go-to-hosps-in-any-vehicle-state-tells-hc/articleshow/76289704.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 10, 2020||Trichy||40% of new barrage work at Kollidam over, says PWD||Trichy: Despite a section of guest workers returning to their home states, about 40% of the construction work of the barrage across the Kollidam river at Mukkombu has been completed, public works department officials said. As the date for releasing water from Mettur reservoir in Cauvery nears, the authorities have speeded up the work by engaging several local labourers. Apprehensions were raised as to whether the work would be affected once the water released reached Mukkombu. However, executive engineer (RC Division), R Baskar, said there would not be any disturbances. Kollidam branches out from Cauvery at Mukkombu and the water released would completely be diverted to Cauvery for irrigation. The new barrage across the Kollidam river is being constructed to replace the existing one, a portion of which collapsed during the flood that occurred in August 2018. It is being constructed at a site 75 metres away from the old structure. Built at an estimated cost of Rs 387.6 crore, the construction work has been going on for the last 8 months. Officials said that works including pile erection, pile cap, construction of diaphragm walls and paving the CC blocks have been completed. “To complete the ongoing construction work within the stipulated time, we have speeded up the process,” S Ramamoorthy, PWD chief engineer told TOI. “The entire foundation work will be completed by September. The work for the super structure will commence subsequently”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/40-of-new-barrage-work-at-kollidam-over-says-pwd/articleshow/76292207.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Errant outlets fined by Secunderabad Cantonment Board during raids||SECUNDERABAD: Officials of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) raided commercial establishments under its jurisdiction on Tuesday. Managements of several outlets were penalised for failing to adhere to preventive measures. The SCB’s health and sanitation wing, which has set up special teams to inspect establishments, reported several violations. In once instance, an outlet of a supermarket chain in Karkhana was sealed and fined Rs 5,000 for not ensuring social distancing norms inside the store. Officials had warned the store management last week too but no action had been taken. Meanwhile, a sweet shop was fined Rs 2,000 for not thermal-screening its customers. Another supermarket in Vikrampuri Colony was penalised for not using thermal scanners. It was also noticed that customers were not being provided gloves. The management was fined Rs 5,000, given a warning and told to initiate the safety mearsures with immediate effect. Officials also raided a well-known footwear store in Karkhana and found out that customers were not being provided sanitisers. “We conducted raids on 15 commercial units in Karkhana as coronavirus cases are increasing steadily. We observed that six commercial units violated major preventive measures like physical distancing, using sanitisers and hand gloves among others,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender told TOI. “Till date, we have conducted raids on 30 commercial establishments. The raids will continue and if shops are found to be violating norms they will be sealed,” the superintendent added. Meanwhile, officials also visited few shops in the area and asked them to follow all preventive norms. On Tuesday, visitors were not allowed to enter the SCB’s main office. The officials collected property tax through ePose machines at the visitors’ lawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/errant-outlets-fined-by-scb-during-raids/articleshow/76291496.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Refused relief by Punjab and Haryana high court, PTIs withdraw petition||CHANDIGARH: Around 2,000 physical training instructors (PTIs) of the Haryana education department, whose services were recently terminated on the directions of Supreme Court (SC), failed to find any relief from the Punjab and Haryana high court for continuance in service till completion of fresh selection process. As the HC declined to give any relief to these PTIs after hearing the reply filed by elementary education department director Pradeep Kumar, the PTIs withdrew their plea from the HC with liberty to approach the SC. The petition, filed by a large number of PTIs, had sought directions to quash the order dated May 27 and 28, 2020, through which the elementary education department had decided to dispense with their services from the post of PTIs within three days. It was also requested to allow the petitioners to continue in service till regular selection is made. The director’s affidavit indicates that all the petitioners were relieved from their services on June 1 and 2, 2020. “After arguing at length, counsel for the petitioners wishes to withdraw the present writ petition with liberty to move an appropriate application before the Supreme Court in civil appeal no 2103 of 2020 decided on April 8. Permitted to do so,” observed the HC. Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu passed these orders while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by several PTI teachers. Justice Sindhu also allowed the Haryana government to withdraw the “incorrect” assertions made by Hitesh Pandit, additional advocate general on June 5 that the PTIs were still serving. It was only after such assertions by the state counsel that the HC on June 5 ordered to maintain a status quo on the issue. A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court in September 2012 had set aside the appointment of 1983 PTIs selected through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) Haryana in 2010. On April 8, 2020, the SC court also upheld the decision and ordered the state to conduct a fresh selection process. In pursuance to the SC order, the Haryana government on May 15 released a fresh advertisement to start the selection process. The last date for submission of online applications is June 10. As per the SC verdict, the state has to complete the entire selection process within five months. Meanwhile, the education department had initiated the process to relieve the teachers in compliance of the SC verdict after which they had approached the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/refused-relief-by-high-court-ptis-withdraw-petition/articleshow/76291606.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||Private buses to hit the roads today, no change in fares||TRICHY: The Federation of Bus Operators’ Associations of Tamil Nadu (FOBTN), the apex body of private bus operators in the state, has announced that the private operators will resume bus services on Wednesday sticking to the precautionary measures set by the government. However, buses will not be operated in the Covid-19 hotspots of Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kanchipuram districts. The federation has asserted that private buses, both city and mofussil fleets, will be operated with the existing ticket fares. FOBTN representatives said there are 4,600 private buses in the state though they do not operate in Chennai, Madurai city, Nagercoil and Ooty. Since March 24, the buses were grounded due to the Covid-19 outbreak. To ensure social distancing, buses will be operated with less than 60% occupancy. Crew members will be provided with safety gear including face masks. Seats will be allotted to passengers ensuring social distancing. “We will operate our buses within the zones classified by the state government. In the case of the routes connecting destinations in other zones, we will end our service at the final major bus stop near the boundary of the other zone,” D R Dharmaraj, secretary, FOBTN, told TOI. The bus crew will sanitize the buses on their return to the bus stands. The district-level private bus operators associations will bear the expenses for sanitising the fleets. “Passengers have to wear facemasks. Our crew members were told not to overcrowd the fleets,” Dharmaraj said. Buses will be operated from 5 am to 9 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-buses-to-hit-the-roads-today-no-change-in-fares/articleshow/76292202.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Despite warnings, many still hesitant about wearing masks||HYDERABAD: With lockdown curbs relaxed, people are stepping out on to the streets but despite several warnings, many can be seen not wearing masks. However, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has levied penalties in only 500 cases since the lockdown began. “As of today, I do not have the list of penalties imposed,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar suggesting that the onus of penalising offenders lies with the police department. According to police figures, 10,441 mask violations have been recorded in the city between March 30 to June 8. Concerned locals said that the civic body has been turning a blind eye. In one instance, at an inauguration of a plastic bottle crushing plant, TRS corporator from Ameerpet, N Seshu Kumari, and two others were seen not wearing masks properly. No action was taken by GHMC despite Khairatabad zonal commissioner P Pravinya being present at the event. At another opening, this time of a basti dawakhana, AIMIM corporator Shaheen Begum’s husband was seen not wearing his mask properly. A fine of Rs 1,000 was imposed only after municipal minister KT Rama Rao intervened. In many cases, security guards at commercial establishments can be seen asking customers to wear masks as they enter but do not take any action when they remove it once inside. Such violations have become commonplace at jewellery and clothing outlets. When asked, many claimed that they were yet to incorporate wearing masks into their daily routine. “It is not possible to try out dresses and jewellery when your face is covered with a mask, we are still not used to it, ” said one shopper at a jewellery store in Banjara Hills Road Number 10. A motorist outside an eatery in Nanakramguda said that he was wearing his mask on his chin as he was feeling suffocated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-warnings-many-still-hesitant-about-wearing-masks/articleshow/76291511.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Wait for US green cards, work visas likely to get longer||HYDERABAD: Budget restrictions at the United States’ federal immigration agency have increased the likelihood of furloughs of visa processing officials. This has left many Telugus on tenterhooks as the already-long wait for work visas extensions and green cards is likely to increase even further. The US Citizens and Immigration Services (USCIS) is a self-funded agency which means it depends on revenues from applications to operate. Those in line for a green card say they have been waiting for years for processing and foresee being in limbo for much longer now. “The loss of jobs may mean a longer wait time for us to get a green card,” said an IT professional from the city, who is currently in Texas and did not want to be named. “Me and my wife have been waiting for this for over a decade now,” he added. Explaining the situation, Prashanthi Reddy, an immigration lawyer from a New York-based law office said: “The furloughs could impact the wait for H-1B renewals as well as those waiting for a green card. For the latter it could be by years.” She said that once the green card processing is in its final stages, one has to go for fingerprints, interviews, background checks, but all this could take longer and when this is completed, the applicant’s time slot may lapse. Every year around 85,000 work visas are granted, including renewals. “It even takes eight to 12 months for the USCIS to process H-1B cases. If the processing time increases, companies may not keep these positions open for that long,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wait-for-us-green-cards-work-visas-likely-to-get-longer/articleshow/76291538.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Pool cars safer than public transport||Prior to lockdown, I used to take a bus or a shuttle to reach my workplace from home. When my office reopened post lockdown, I was terrified at the sight of overcrowded buses and the queues of commuters. As I have two small kids and elderly parents at home, it made me more uncomfortable to even attempt taking a public transport. I realized that car pooling is the safest option for me and contacted a colleague who also lives in Behala and drives his own car to office. I coordinated with the colleague Meghmallar who agreed to pool the ride with me. However, since he too has elderly parents at home, he agreed to take only me in the car and none else to ensure proper maintenance of social distancing protocols. I have to tweak some of my practice and come over to Behala Manton from my home and wait there for my colleague to pick me up. My office hours end a little earlier than Meghmallar’s but I wait for him at office and once his shift ends, we return home together and share the cost of the rides. I believe those who can manage to spend a little extra time should opt for car pooling than going for public transports. In fact it is safer than booking a ride on an app cab where the driver is unknown to me. I can never be sure about his exact health status and kind of hygiene he maintains. But if one can pool a car with a colleague or someone known, one can always be sure of the other person’s health status. To me, car pooling will be the only mode of transport to survive this infection. (Kar, a Behala resident, spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pool-cars-safer-than-public-transport/articleshow/76291604.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Mystery shrouds death of 30-yr-old woman||Aurangabad: A 30-year-old woman from Sanjay Nagar area of the city, who did not have any pre-existing illnesses, was declared a Covid-19 suspect after her death. Her body was handed over to her family without a post-mortem. The brother-in-law of the deceased woman said, “My sister-in-law had developed cough since June 4. We consulted a private doctor who ruled out the possibility of Covid-19 as she did not show any major symptoms. However, later she developed weakness. Her condition worsened rapidly on Monday as she started feeling breathlessness and died on the way to the government hospital.” The woman’s death certificate mentions her to be a Covid-19 suspect. “Health authorities refused to do a post-mortem saying that existing norms did not allow them to conduct the procedure in suspected cases,” said the brother-in-law. The deceased woman has seven members in her family, including two women in their late 50s, none of whom have been quarantined or asked to give their throat swab samples for Covid-19 test. GMCH authorities said the health staff would visit the home of the deceased woman on Wednesday for health check-up of family members and other necessary procedures.-Prasad Joshi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mystery-shrouds-death-of-30-yr-old-woman/articleshow/76289570.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||HP Cong targets CM, seeks resignation||Shimla: The attacks and counter-attacks between Congress and ruling BJP have intensified over the alleged scam in the health department in which the director, health services, has already been arrested while BJP state president Dr Rajeev Bindal has resigned. While Congress leaders has demanded resignation of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on high moral ground like Bindal, education minister Suresh Bhardwaj has reminded Congress of its own corruption cases. He said those facing a CBI probe are levelling corruption allegations against the chief minister. Addressing mediapersons in Shimla, Bhardwaj said during the Covid-19 pandemic, BJP workers are out to help common people by distributing food packets and masks while Congress leaders and workers are nowhere to be seen. He said Congress leaders are busy in issuing baseless statements and playing politics. He said people of the state are with chief minister and by issuing baseless statements against him, Congress leaders are only trying to mislead people of the state. The minister said when irregularity in the purchase of sanitizers came into the notice, the CM had ordered vigilance probe and so far, one officer has been suspended while others have been charge-sheeted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-cong-targets-cm-seeks-resignation/articleshow/76291602.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: BJP’s virtual rally on August 14, Congress says bad timing||CHANDIGARH: Haryana BJP has planned its first virtual rally of the state on August 14 and it is going to be addressed by Union minister Narinder Tomar, BJP general secretary Anil Jain, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state unit president Subhash Barala. The rally is being called to highlight a year of the second term of Union government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, the Congress has criticised the move, saying the CM should concentrate on the task at hand, instead of working for political gains. The rally will be broadcast from Panchkula, where arrangements have been made for transmission, recording and other arrangements, BJP spokesperson Ranbir Ghanghas said. “The outbreak of Covid-19 has forced people to remain home and also affected working of political parties. Keeping in view the safety of the masses, we have planned this rally,” Barala said. Districts where workers will be joining the rally include Karnal, Panipat, Yamunanangar, Kaithal, Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Hisar, Jind and Fatehabad. Haryana Congress chief Selja Kumari said central and state governments should be making arrangements to deal with situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, but BJP leaders and CM were busy working for political gains. “The amount earmarked and efforts made for organising the rally should go toward the welfare of patients and affected working classes and farmers. But, unfortunately, they have other plans,’’ said Selja. NSUI Haryana President Divyanshu Budhiraja too advised the BJP and its leaders to work for people, not the party. “Today, everybody is observing and trying to understand contributions of those who have worked for people. This is no time to do politics. Make your anniversary more memorable with public-oriented works than wasteful expenditure on such rallies,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjps-virtual-rally-on-aug-14-cong-says-bad-timing/articleshow/76291611.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Hi-tech screening devices sought for Aurangabad rly stn||Aurangabad: Aurangabad and Nanded railway stations, which fall under the jurisdiction of South Central Railways (SCR), have been bereft of the automatic thermal scanners and bullet thermal image screening cameras that have been installed in Secunderabad and Hyderabad stations in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“Whenever a passenger enters into the camera focusing range, which is approximately six meters away from the entrance, the camera starts to screen the body temperature of the passengers. The body temperature of the passenger will be displayed on the LED monitor along with 30 thermal images within the coverage area followed by an alert audio alarm,” said an official release. The cameras installed at the stations can scan and record the temperature of the passengers standing in two different lines simultaneously. The data stored can also be retrieved, if needed. SCR authorities said the newly introduced advanced gadgets would cut down the time taken for screening each passenger as the device can simultaneously screen upto 30 passengers within its range.Railway activist Omprakash Varma said on Tuesday, “Both Aurangabad and Nanded are two important stations that has considerable footfall of passengers, including foreigners. Both these stations must get hi-tech devices for screening passengers on the lines of Secunderabad and Hyderabad,” he said.When contacted, chief public relations officer of SCR, Nanded division, Rajesh Shinde said more stations in the zone would be considered for installing the advanced devices for screening passengers in subsequent phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hi-tech-screening-devices-sought-for-aurangabad-rly-stn/articleshow/76289592.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 10, 2020||Hubballi||Parents in a catch over kids’ gadget, TV addiction||Hubballi: Many parents in the twin cities are now worried about their children’s screen time, which has become a norm of sorts given online classes in the time of Covid. With them not allowing their children to step out during the monthslong lockdown, they fear the latter have gotten addicted to gadgets. The pandemic has thrown the academic calendar of schools and colleges to a toss, leaving the parents uncertain about the possible date of school/ college reopening. Stuck in Catch-22 situation, the anxious parents are now making calls to psychiatrists in an attempt to make their children free of gadget/ TV addiction. The lockdown has also deprived young children their dose of outdoor games, leaving them with TV and smartphones, where they watch shows like cartoons and play games, respectively. The major worry of parents of such children is binge watching as it is making their children aggressive, restless and deprived of sleep. Dimhans director Dr Mahesh Desai said that parents are left with no option, but to allow their children to watch TV shows and play games on smartphones. “Parents working from home usually leave their children with TVs and gadgets to avoid being disturbed or distracted by them,” he said, adding the level of addiction can be known after the schools/ colleges reopen. Dr Alok V Kulkarni, consultant psychiatrist at Manasa Institute of Mental Health, said that parents struggled to manage their children during lockdown. “They should pay attention towards their wards whatever may be the work pressure,” he said, adding that he had recently counselled three children who were addicted to the screen. “One of the parents also said that their child is improving,” he said. Veteran psychiatrist Dr Anand Pandurangi said that most of the parents failed to understand their children. “If they do, most of the problems will be solved. If the child is addicted to gadgets, they should try and cut the screen time gradually. Of course, work is important for parents. What is equally important is how they raise the children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/parents-in-a-catch-over-kids-gadget-tv-addiction/articleshow/76290734.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi girl ends life after failing in SSC exam||Rajkot: A 15-year-old girl in Morbi district allegedly hanged herself to death on learning that she failed in two subjects in the SSC exam whose results were declared on Tuesday.The girl, Kirti Jadhav, was found hanging by the ceiling in her house in Pipaliya village at around 11am by her family members. The girl used to study at K P Hoti High School in neighbouring village Sarvad. Kirti was the only one to have studied till Class X in her family, said police. She was youngest among four siblings - three sisters and a brother.Kirti saw her Class X results online and got traumatized seeing that she had failed in mathematics and science subjects. Her parents and elder sisters had gone for their routine labour work.Her parents told police that Kirti was good at studies and had performed well throughout in the school. No suicide note was found in the house, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-girl-ends-life-after-failing-in-ssc-exam/articleshow/76290723.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-power official found hanging in Kukrail forest||LUCKNOW: The body of a 62-year-old retired officer from power corporation was found hanging from a tree under mysterious circumstances in Kukrail jungle under the jurisdiction of Indiranagar police station on Tuesday. Shrikant Singh, a resident of Manas enclave, told police that his father Rajkumar Singh had left house after a dispute with his mother at around 7.30pm on Monday. He believed that like always, his father would have gone to their other home in Indiranagar. However, on Tuesday morning, he received information from police about his father found hanging from a tree, inside the picnic spot close to Manas Enclave. “Locals informed police about the body hanging from a rope tied to a tree in a secluded area inside the forest. No injury marks were found on the body. The body has been sent for the post-mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death,” SHO Indiranagar Dhananjay Pandey said. However, what raised suspicion was the fact that the body was found about 500 metre deep in the forest and about 1.5km from the house. The spot is rarely visited by anyone. He also never mentioned to any of his family members or son about visiting the forest, said cops. In another incident, a 45-year-old man was found hanging from a tree near his house in Gomtinagar. The body of Bhuiyadeen (45), a fisherman who had recently undergone intestinal surgery, was found hanging from a tree about 50 meters from his house. The body has been sent for post-mortem. “The man was depressed over his health issue,” said Gomtinagar extension sub-inspector, Javed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-power-official-found-hanging-in-kukrail-forest/articleshow/76292215.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Home quarantine for HP DGP after visitor’s death||Shimla: After the death of a Delhi man on Tuesday who was Covid-19 positive and who had recently met Himachal Pradesh DGP Sanjay Kundu and some other officials, the state’s top cop has been home quarantined and the police headquarter in Shimla has been sealed for sanitization. Following inputs about the man’s death in Delhi on Tuesday, around 30 police officers and personnel have been quarantined. The report of the DGP’s first sample came out negative on Tuesday evening, but he will continue to be under home quarantine. Media officer of HP police headquarter in a statement said that a man had visited the police headquarter on June 1 and travelled to Delhi on the same day. He also said that it has been reliably learnt that the person had tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi on Monday and died on Tuesday. “By way of abundant precaution therefore, we are sanitizing and sealing the areas he had visited," he added. The media officer also said that officers and personnel who might have come into contact with the visitor were being tested, and they will remain in self-quarantine until their results come out to be negative. Kundu had recently assumed the charge of DGP Himachal Pradesh and the visitor had come to congratulate him lon June 1, his first day in office. The DGP, after assuming charge, had not only met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and other officers, but also attended several meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/home-quarantine-for-hp-dgp-after-visitors-death/articleshow/76291616.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Family of 3 consumes poison in Shahpura, 45-year-old man dead||AJMER: A family of three residing in Shahpura near Bhilwara consumed poison on Tuesday after they were allegedly harassed by loan sharks, police said. The man passed away, while his wife and minor son are at a hospital in Bhilwara, in critical condition, police said. Mohit Bilra, 45, was a businessman in Shahpura town dealing in textiles and had taken a loan for a new business but incurred losses owing to the nationwide lockdown. After the lockdown was relaxed, the moneylenders allegedly began hounding him to repay their loans. Police confirmed that Mohit had lost his business and had shifted to society flats in Shahpura from Bhilwara. On Tuesday, police got a call saying that Mohit, his wife Rinku Bilra, 42, and their son, Dev Bilra, 17, had consumed poison. The family was taken to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Bhilwara, where Mohit died while the condition of Rinku and Dev remains critical, police said. Police have recovered no suicide note from the house or from the possession of the deceased. Police have confiscated the mobile phone of the deceased and are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/family-of-3-consumes-poison-in-shahpura-45-year-old-man-dead/articleshow/76292212.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||18-month-old tiger dies at Jaipur’s ‘Death Zoo’||JAIPUR: The Nahargarh Biological Park has earned a new name for itself, the ‘Death Zoo’. On Tuesday, 18-month-old tiger Rudra died in mysterious circumstances around 11.20am at the park. This is the fourth big cat death in the past 10 months at the park, allegedly due to gross negligence of authorities. According to sources, the initial post-mortem report revealed that the tiger died due to leptospirosis. The blood samples will now be sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly, to know the exact cause. “For the last three days, the young tiger has not been eating. It was observed that the infection led to the enlargement of kidney and caused the animal’s death. Bacterial leptospira damages kidneys, liver, brain and lungs of an animal. All this indicate that the tiger died due to leptospirosis,” a source said. On September 27, 2019, a white tigress died here at the park. Earlier on September 19, 10-year-old Asiatic lioness Suzanne, which came to the park from Gujarat, died. Two days later, nine-month-old tiger cub Ridhi, born to tigress Rambha, died before the vets could attend to it.  “If the exact cause of death is not ascertained soon, it would jeopardise the Rs 4 crore safari project at the biological park, started with much fanfare two years ago,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/18-mth-old-tiger-diesat-citys-death-zoo/articleshow/76292216.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Cash, articles over Rs 2L stolen in 2 break-ins||Nashik: Cash and jewellery worth Rs 2.34 lakh was stolen in two seperate house break-ins registered in Krushna Nagar and Gulabwadi area on Monday. Articles worth Rs 2.19 lakh was stolen from a closed house in the Gulabwadi area of Nashik Road. The police said that the housebreaking took place sometime between Sunday at 11.30 pm and 5 am on Monday. In other incident, articles worth Rs 15,000 were stolen from a temple in the Krushna Nagar area of Panchavati on Monday. According to complainant Anil Belsare, some unidentified people entered his bungalow premises and stole various copper and brass articles kept inside the praying room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cash-articles-over-rs-2l-stolen-in-2-break-ins/articleshow/76289612.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for abduction, rape of minor||Rajkot: A 24-year-old married man was arrested for allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl in Rajkot city on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Umesh Malakhia, an imitation jewellery worker.According to police, Umesh had kidnapped the 17-year-old girl on June 1 and taken her to Bichari village near Rajkot and allegedly raped her there. Later he allegedly kidnapped the girl on Monday and took her to Somnath, where he raped her, stated the complaint filed by the girl’s mother with the B Division police station.Police said that Umesh and the girl had an alleged affair since one year, before Umesh had got married. However, even after marriage the duo continued the affair. Umesh has been charged for abduction, rape and under POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-abduction-rape-of-minor/articleshow/76290755.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Day after woman’s death, son’s body found in Gomti||LUCKNOW: A day after a 58-year-old woman suffering from kidney ailment dies in a hospital, body of her 27-year-old son was recovered from Gomti river on Tuesday. Sub-inspector at Gautampalli police station Rajesh Saroj said, “Injury marks by a sharp object were found on the left hand and throat of the deceased, identified as Sanjeev Chaudhary.” Ram Pharen of Aashiana informed police that his wife died due to kidney ailment at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday. Her body will be handed over to the family after Covid-19 test report is received. Sanjeev, a technician at an automobile factory in Chinhat, is the fourth among six siblings. He was deeply hurt due to his mother’s death. On Tuesday, he left home around 1am on motorcycle to see the body of his mother in mortuary but stopped at Gomti barrage and informed his younger brother that he cannot live without his mother and is going to commit suicide. The family found his bike and later spotted the body at around 8.30am. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination. Meanwhile, the body of an unidentified man, aged around 42, was found in Gomti river on Tuesday. “The man died about four days ago. We have sent the body for post-mortem,” said SHO, Mahanagar, Yash Kant Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/day-after-womans-death-sons-body-found-in-gomti/articleshow/76292222.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Aishbagh new hotspot with 92 Covid-19 cases||BHOPAL: Aishbagh now has more Covid cases than Jehangirabad — the area which was termed the coronavirus hotspot of the state capital. As of Monday morning, Aishbagh had 92 positive patients against 64 of Jehangirabad. As per the police station-wise list of district administration, the areas under Hanumanganj police station come third with 57 positive patients followed by Mangalwara at 42. Although areas on the outskirts of the city are far less affected by the deadly virus, Misrod is an exception with 34 coronavirus-infected persons. Out of 43 police stations in Bhopal and its periphery, 31 have coronavirus patients. Among new Bhopal areas, TT Nagar police station has 33 patients — the recent outbreak of infection in Ban Ganga slum area contributing much to the tally. Areas under Habibganj police station have just three patients, Shahpura two, Kolar three and MP Nagar only five. BHEL township and adjacent colonies have largely escaped the wrath of coronavirus with areas under Piplani police station having just three patients, Govindpura seven, Avadhpuri two and Katara Hills only one. Among areas under other police stations, Ashoka Garden has 27 patients, Tila Jamalpura 24, Nishatpura 16, Gautam Nagar 14, Shyamala Hills 6, Shahjanabad 21, Chhola Mandir six, Koh-e-Fiza two and Kamla Nagar 35. In fringe areas, except for Misrod, the coronavirus infection has been under control with Bairagarh having only 11 patients, Khajuri Sadak nine, Bajariya one, Ratibad one, Bagh Sevaniya two and Gandhi Nagar two. As of Monday morning, Bhopal has 154 “containment areas” according to the district administration list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/aishbagh-new-hotspot-with-92-cases/articleshow/76290748.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 70-year-old booked for husband’s death||HYDERABAD: A 70-year-old housewife was booked for culpable homicide after her husband died of a head injury when she pushed him away during an altercation. The deceased, M Narsaiah (75), was a butcher from Dharmaram village in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district. Police said the victim used to harass his wife M Lachamma for pension money. On Sunday afternoon, Narsaiah had an argument with wife Lachamma in their house. “As he was arguing, Lachamma pushed him away and went out of the house. She did not even turn back to check. Narsaiah fell on the edge of a wooden plank used for chopping meat. , She returned home after half an hour to find him dead in a pool of blood,” Bhuvanagiri DCP K Narayana Reddy said. Panicked, Lachamma called neighbours and shifted the body to the verandah. . A case was registered under Section 304(ii) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-year-old-booked-for-hubbys-death/articleshow/76291623.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||Debt-ridden auto driver ends life||Thanjavur: An auto driver, who was unable to pay his EMIs and loans due to the lockdown, allegedly committed suicide in Thanjavur, police sources said. In his suicide note, he appealed to the government to help his family by giving financial assistance. Police identified the deceased as M Ragupathy, 45, a resident of Srinagar Colony at Kumbakonam in the district. He hanged himself at his house on Monday when his family members were away, police said. He is survived by wife R Amutha, 35, and two children. In the suicide note recovered by police from his house, Ragupathy states that being only breadwinner of his family, he lost his income following the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak. He operated the auto from the stand in front of Kumbakonam railway station. “Since train service was grounded, I was not able to get passengers for the last two months. Monthly EMI of the auto, interest for my borrowings, loan due to Self Help Group are remaining unpaid. Since I have no way to settle my dues, I take an extreme step,” the letter said. Based on a complaint lodged by his family, Kumbakonam West police registered a case and an investigating is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/debt-ridden-auto-driver-ends-life/articleshow/76292218.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Got helping hand in Hyderabad, he now helps those hit by Amphan||HYDERABAD: A migrant worker who was stuck in the city for three months without work, is now back in Howrah, West Bengal, helping others in desperate situations. From living on others’ help, Sheik Tassauddin has now become a hero for many. Tassauddin, a zari worker working for a private boutique in Banjara Hills, had not been paid during the lockdown. Without his salary of Rs 10,000 a month, he could not meet his rent or expenses for food. He then called local volunteers for help. “There were hundreds of workers like me struggling in the city. Social workers provided us with food and arranged for our transport back home,” said the 24-year-old. At that time, there were at least 300 Bengali workers in Syed Nagar in Banjara Hills, the migrant said. After a two-day long bus ride, Tassauddin was finally in his village Sankrail in Howrah district on May 20. But what met his eyes was collapsed roofs and hungry locals. “I know what it is like to feel helpless and I could not just stand by,” he said. Penniless himself, he decided to once again lean on Hyderabadis. “I called the volunteers who helped me and they supported me once again. I would send them bills of provisions as well as photographs of locals I was helping with provisions, and they would raise money to meet the increasing demand.” Romila Gillela, part of the ‘Bharat Dekho’ team, a young volunteer-driven organisation based in Hyderabad, said: “We tried connecting them with local donors but it did not work. We are helping them with the money we raised through our network. At present, Rs 27,000 has been used to meet needs of 70 families, a list of whom was provided by Tassauddin. All of them have been through hardships due to cyclone Amphan and the lockdown.” He said efforts were on to raise money for another 100 families. Speaking to TOI over the phone, Sheik Shuhur, a Sankrail local, said he could not be more thankful for the work Tassauddin is doing. The makeshift roof of Shuhur’s house had collapsed during the cyclone, Tassauddin helped mend that and gave the family of four food as well. “He needn’t have done this. He could have looked out for himself, but he has gone out of his way to help us,” said the 55-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/got-helping-hand-in-hyd-he-now-helps-those-hit-by-amphan/articleshow/76291646.cms||Uttara Varma
June 10, 2020||Trichy||Conservatory sees two new butterfly species||Trichy: Bright Babul Blue and Common Shot Silver Line have become the 110th and 111th butterfly species to be spotted at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory Trichy (TBCT) at Srirangam. According to the forest department, Bright Babul Blue is common sighted in the plains, close to acacia plants on which they lay eggs. Its scientific name is Azanus Ubaldus and belongs to the Lycaenidae family. Common Shot Silver Line (Spindasis Ictis) is usually seen in dry areas. “Moderate rain and sunlight make a conducive atmosphere for the new species and the conservatory has such conditions,” said district forest officer (DFO) D Sujatha. Junior research fellow V Muthukrishnan at the butterfly park and forest guards G Predeepa, G S Reshma and P Linsy Felina were part of the team that spotted the two species. Muthukrishnan said they identified Bright Babul Blue on May 24 while Common Shot Silver Line was spotted on June 7. As many as 50 Babul and 10 Sliver Line are found in the conservatory as of now. “The number may increase as we explore further,” he said adding that Silver Line was previously spotted in Coimbatore, Satyamangalam tiger reserve, Yercaud, Shevaroy hills and Kalvarayan hills. Over 300 plant species — mostly host plants and nectar plants like curry leaves, lemon, custard apple, pungam tree — were the attractive point for the species, Muthukrishnan said. The location of TBCT, between Cauvery and Coleroon rivers, also played a major role in attracting the species. “The location ensures good environment for arrival of more butterfly and birds also,” he said. The team also spotted two birds in the conservatory — Mottled Wool Owl and Small Pratincole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/conservatory-sees-two-new-butterfly-species/articleshow/76292223.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||Cases in south TN inching towards 2k||Madurai/Trichy: Covid-19 cases in the ten southern districts of Tamil Nadu inched towards 2,000 with as many as 52 new cases reported on Tuesday, taking the regional total to 1,923. Cases continued to surge in the central region too with 34 new cases from seven of the eight districts taking the tally to 1,057. With as many as 16 cases, the highest count in the southern region during the day was reported from Madurai, which has been continuing to see a gradual rise in local cases. Three of these were cross-notified to Chennai and one to Tenkasi. Three people who had come from Chennai by air and a 28-year-old woman from Tenkasi who arrived for a surgery tested positive. With two more people at the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) camp also testing positive, the total number of cases related to the CISF unit line at Madurai airport is now four. The remaining ten cases were contacts of patients or those with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms from containment areas. The total active cases in Madurai is now 241. Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts each recorded nine local cases and one imported case. Tirunelveli became the first district in the region to touch 400 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cases-in-south-tn-inching-towards-2k/articleshow/76292228.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two IPS probationers test positive for Covid-19 at NPA, one is asymptomatic||HYDERABAD: Two Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers undergoing training at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The young officers, who returned to the academy recently after completion of their district practical training (DPT) in north India, are undergoing treatment at the Academy hospital as per new protocols. Over 130 IPS probationers of the 2018 batch (71 RR), who finished DPT in different states as per their allotted cadre, had returned to the academy between June 5 and June 7 for Phase-II training. As soon as they arrived at the academy, the probationers were put under quarantine at guest houses and hostels. “On June 8, samples of 131 probationers have been sent for testing. On Tuesday, we received results of 86 probationers. Two of them were positive,” Academy director Atul Karwal told TOI. The two probationers were immediately sent to Academy hospital for treatment. One of the probationers has mild fever, while the other was asymptomatic. A probationary officer of Punjab cadre had finished his DPT at Bhatinda, while the second officer of AGMUT cadre finished his DPT in Delhi. According to sources, he was attached to a DCP of Delhi, who recently tested positive for Covid-19. The test results of the remaining 45 probationers might come in by Wednesday. Apart from the 131 probationers of the 2018 batch, about 170 probationers of the 2019 batch were currently undergoing training at the academy. Authorities started contact tracing. They have informed officials of the two probationary officers’ parent cadre so that they could place the staff who were in close contact with the IPS probationers in Bhatinda and Delhi under isolation. “Put together, there are about 300 IPS trainees at the academy. Those who have returned from field training as part of DPT have been kept under quarantine for 10 days. We have taken all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” the director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-ips-probationers-test-ve-for-virus-at-npa-one-is-asymptomatic/articleshow/76292254.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 10, 2020||Hubballi||Govt yet to dig out truth in Haveri firing incident||Haveri: The infamous Haveri firing incident, that took place on June 10, 2008, still remains a mystery. Two farmers were killed in the golibar just a day after B S Yediyurappa’s installation as the chief minister. The tragic incident took place at Hosamani Siddappa Circle when farmers were protesting for seeds and fertilisers, giving a block spot to the first BJP government in Karnataka. Yediyurappa had ordered a judicial inquiry, and also set up a commission headed by Supreme Court former Justice K Jagannath Shetty for the purpose. However, the commission’s report was rejected by the Congress government led by former chief minister Siddaramaiah. The successive governments led by Siddaramaiah, H D Kumaraswamy (coalition government) and Yediyurappa (incumbent BJP government) — are yet to reconstitute another commission for a proper inquiry into the incident. There has been no update from the government still. This, despite Yediyurappa being the chief minister again, and two key ministers coming from Haveri district — home minister Basavaraj Bommai and agriculture minister B C Patil. Farmers and people are still waiting for action against the offenders. Mallikarjun Ballari, general secretary of Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene (Haveri district), said after the rejection of Justice Jagannath Shetty Commission Report, the incident has remained a mystery. “The government is yet to set up another inquiry agency to dig out the truth. Political parties Congress, JD(S) and BJP have politicising the incident for over a decade,” he said, adding: “Victims are still waiting for justice. The BJP government should decide on this at the earliest.” When contacted, Patil said this is a sensitive issue. “We will decide after discussing it with the chief minister and the home minister,” he added. Bommai was not available for a comment. Box Two farmers fell in firing line Two farmers — Siddalingappa Churi and Puttappa Honnati — were killed and some others injured in the police firing while they were demanding fertilisers. Eighteen months after the incident, the commission presented its report (in two volumes) to the then home minister, late V S Acharya. The report had given a clean chit to CM Yediyurappa. It had also mentioned that those killed were not farmers. “The violence was politically motivated, and did not occur owing to the fertiliser crises in the district,” the report observed. However, the dependents of the two deceased got compensation jobs and aid from the government. But the injured victims, some of whom have become disabled now, are yet to get appropriate compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-yet-to-dig-out-truth-in-haveri-firing-incident/articleshow/76290786.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Padegaon waste processing unit begins full-fleged ops||Aurangabad: The waste processing unit in Padegaon with a capacity to treat 150 tonne of waste per day has started full-fledged operations a year after its counterpart in Chikalthana had started functioning. The work of civil construction at Padegaon is nearly complete. Meanwhile, the processing of waste has started. According to head of the solid waste management cell of Auranagabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), Nandkishore Bhombe, the work of presorting i.e. segregating wet waste from dry waste and windrow process i.e. biological breakdown of waste has begun at Padegaon. “The unit now manages to take 150 tonne of waste through presorting and windrow process everyday. The process of mechanical breakdown of waste to produce compost will be initiated after the civil works are completed in a week’s time,” Bhombe said.The Kanchanwadi biogas plant with a capacity to treat 30 tonne of waste is far from completion despite the AMC awarding the work order an year ago. When asked, Bhombe said that the contractor cited lockdown for not being able to complete the work on time. “We will consider fining the contractor for delay. The contractor has stated that the work will begin soon,” he said.For the Harsul waste processing unit, the AMC had not been able to finalise the tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/padegaon-waste-processing-unit-begins-full-fleged-ops/articleshow/76289626.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Veggie prices head north as rainfall hits local produce||JAIPUR: The recent spell of dust storm and rainfall has damaged the local harvest of vegetables forcing the prices to shoot up as compared to May. Wholesale traders at the Muhana Mandi said that local harvest of some vegetables will exhaust in coming week prior to onset of monsoon, thus the prices will further go up. In May the wholesale and retail prices of the vegetables were low. However, in this month so far the prices of vegetables are gradually increasing due to increased demand and short supply. “In May the prices of bottle gourd, ladyfinger, round gourd, coriander, tomatoes and ginger were low to an extent that they were sold at cheaper prices compared to May 2019. However, since June 1 the prices are increasing, mainly because of short supply, damage to local harvest and increased demand,” said Radheyshyam Kumawat, a wholesale dealer of vegetables on Tuesday. Pappu Lal Prajapat, president of Rajasthan Phal Sabzi Thok Vyapaar Mahasangh said though vegetable supply has improved, the demand too has increased. “Since things are relaxed, the sale has gone up, so has demand for vegetables. Thus, the prices are increasing. Also, the local harvest was affected due to unexpected rainfall in the last week of May and first week of June,” Prajapat added. Vegetables like bottle gourd was sold between Rs 15 and Rs 20 per kg in May, now is is sold between Rs 22 and Rs 25 per kg. “Similarly, the prices of ladyfinger were Rs 14-Rs 20 per kg and have now gone up to Rs 25-Rs 30. Tomatoes that were sold at Rs 12-Rs 15 per kg are now at Rs 20-Rs 25 per kg,” said a retailer in Jhotwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggie-prices-head-north-as-rainfall-hits-local-produce/articleshow/76292225.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Wedding planners prepare for 50-guest ceremonies||Nagpur: Indian weddings are hallmarks of celebration, with hundreds of guests making it to the celebratory event to bless the couple. However, in line with the corona restrictions, wedding planners and hall owners have geared up to offer 50-person packages. Wedding planners, event managers, celebration hall and lawn owners are raring to get back to work after a wait of almost 80 days. They are looking forward to offering customized 50 guest packages, so the celebrations can happen smoothly, in an intimate yet exciting celebration. They are all prepared for this to be a part of the business for now and the foreseeable future. Gajanan Umredkar, who owns a hall, threw light on how the cost and budget of booking a hall would be affected if only 50 make it to the wedding. “We have three huge halls on our premises, for which we earlier used to charge around Rs1,75,000. Now, because of the new rules framed by the government, we will be charging only Rs50,000 to the wedding party,” he said. People in the wedding business want have many outstanding dues. “We will launch a package, which will have all the required costs and decoration expenses for 50 guests. At least the income will start flowing, so we can help our workers,” added Umredkar. Suhel Ramteke, a wedding planner, believes that dealing with 50 guests would be very different, as they are used to catering to a huge number of people. “Now, it all comes down to the budget, as we have to cut down our costs too. Also, families won’t spend so much on fancy decorations anymore. Dealing with 50 guests will be a part of the business for quite a while now. We will create packages accordingly, with everything within budget,” he said. Pramod Joshi, manager at a celebration lawn, says accommodating 50 guests with Covid distancing will not be a problem at all at their huge premises. “We are keenly interested in going back into business. We will have a scheme for 50 guest policy, all the norms would be followed, less costs will be the norm, and sanitization would be taken care of,” he said. Even caterers are preparing to incorporate the new 50 guest policy. “To be in the business certain changes will have to be done, like cutting down per plate cost. Earlier it was different, less guests meant higher per plate charge. But now, we will have to ensure that only 50 plates are available on the counter in the coming months,” said Akshay Khanjode, a caterer. Another caterer Praveen Jhattewar said, “We are looking forward to starting business again, as it will at least boost the market. The per plate cost will of course be a lot less,” he said. However, not all costs can be controlled. The rent of halls and lawns are fixed, hence the businesses are staring at a big problem. “We will have to plan the wedding and provide decorative material and props at much lesser cost. Yet, some work is better than no work,” said Roshan Wadekar, who provides wedding management services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wedding-planners-prepare-for-50-guest-ceremonies/articleshow/76291651.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Surge in Covid-19 cases to test Tamil Nadu’s medical mettle||CHENNAI: The state may need more beds to treat Covid-19 patients in the coming days, with projections by mathematicians showing the number of active cases at 30,000 by June 20, double the present number, and 40,000 by June 25. Medical experts said TN is in the ascending limb of the curve and would by mid-July reach the peak that will last a week. The numbers will then see a steady decline before touching the baseline in two months. Sitabhra Sinha of The Institute of Mathematical Sciences said the R value or the effective reproduction number is now 1.31 =/- 0.01, a drop from 1.99 =/-0.07 between April 30 an May 8, about two weeks after the Koyambedu cluster was identified. Earlier in April, it was at 1.44 =/- 0.02. The R value is the average number of secondary cases per infectious cases where there is some immunity, or some intervention in place. “If the present growth rate continues, the state will have around 20,000 (could vary between 17,000 and 23,000) active cases by June 13, 30,000 by June 20 and 40,000 by June 25,” he said. Sinha said flattening of the curve in the state depends on many factors including people’s response to lockdown relaxations. At present, around 74% of beds in the state besides 44% of ICU beds and 72 ventilators remain vacant. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the government has requested private hospitals to increase bed capacity to admit more patients as Covid cases “are increasing at lightning speed”. Virologists and public health experts said while Chennai has the most cases, the rest of districts, which are thickly populated and have so far seen fewer cases, will see a second wave with a rise in cases. T Sundararaman, former dean of TISS’s School of Health System Studies, said that amid the government trying to pacify those complaining about not enough beds, infected people searching for hospital beds may themselves be a major source of spread. “The single most important measure to prevent the spread is for the government to facilitate picking up a Covid patient in an ambulance and shift him/her to a hospital bed. The other measure is conducting a retrospective and prospective contact tracing. Geographical containment is a waste of time and is not the answer,” he said. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while the cases are now spreading to districts, 20% to 25% of the population will be infected before the curve begins to flatten. While the descent after the peak will be slower, Dr John warned that the number of people getting infected post the peak would be larger than pre-peak trend though the infection rate will be slow. “But the real problem is people were extremely careful in April and May but are now not wearing mask and are going around as if life is normal. If every person wears a mask, the epidemic will really slow down. We should block social interactions but make it safe by wearing a mask. What condom did for HIV, mask will do for coronavirus,” he added. Former DPH director Dr K Kolandaswamy said several districts including Vellore, Trichy, Thanjavur, Hosur, Salem, Erode, Coimbatore and Kanyakumari will have a second wave with more cases. “To prevent deaths, we should have our elderly and people with comorbidity confined to homes while the number of tests should increase, and people could also have immune boosting drinks like kabasura kudineer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/surge-in-covid-19-cases-to-test-tns-medical-mettle/articleshow/76291654.cms||U Tejonmayam
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Veggie markets cock a snook at safety norms||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 safety protocols were blatantly ignored in vegetable markets of the city, posing risk both to customers and vendors. The situation is worrisome since two main vegetable markets — Kaiserbagh and a part of Nishatganj — were declared containment zones after several vendors and their family members tested positive to coronavirus. Besides, some other positive persons residing in Telibagh, Top Khana, Nazarbagh and New Hyderabad, were suspected to have acquired infection while visiting these markets. As per the guidelines, vegetable sellers need to wear mask and draw circles outside their shops and stalls to ensure social distancing among buyers. But a TOI reality check found only handful a vegetable vendors adhering to safety norms in Jankipuram, Nishatganj, Yahiyaganj, Daliganj, Thakurganj, Indiranagar, Narhi and Alambagh Sakshi Rastogi, a customer at Nishatganj market, said, “Vendors are not wearing mask and there is no social distancing.” Recently, two persons of a family were found positive in New Hyderabad. One of them, said health officers, used to visit Nishatganj vegetable market regularly. In Daliganj, vendors were neither wearing masks nor circles were marked for customers. “When I asked a vendor to wear mask, he started arguing,” said Vinod Tiwari, a resident. In Yahiyaganj, Sarla, a vegetable vendor, said, “I sit in scorching heat and feel suffocated in mask. So, I use a scarf when a customer comes.” In Jankipuram, vegetable sellers were seen wearing mask, but they didn't mark circles for customers. “I made circles in front of my shop, but when customers did not following rules, I stopped after a few days,” said Mukul Kumar, a vendor. Joint commissioner of Police (law and order) Naveen Arora said, “We are penalising people, including vegetable vendors, for not following safety protocol. A fine is imposed on those caught for the first time, while repeat offenders are fined Rs 500.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/veggie-markets-cock-a-snook-at-safety-norms/articleshow/76292240.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Cleaning of drains in city delayed due to lockdown||Jaipur: With the monsoon just round the corner, 60% work of cleaning drains is still incomplete. This year, due to lockdown, the contract for drain cleaning was given by JMC only at the end of May. Last year, the contract was given in February. As the process has been delayed, Jaipur is likely to have choked drains this monsoon. According to the officials, there are about 890 drains in the city, of them 300 are being cleaned. Due to the lockdown, JMC officials were busy in ration distribution and sanitisation activities around the city. Lack of manpower is another reason for delay in the process. District collector Joga Ram had on Monday asked JMC for the report on the progress of drain cleaning in the city. JMC chief engineer Anil Singhal said, “We have sent the report and are expecting the work to be completed by June 30. Due to the lockdown, we initially had issues of getting labour which was resolved later. The work is in progress and will be completed soon.” The contract was tendered for Rs 2.5 crore in May. Drains which are more than 2.5ft deep are being desilted by the contractual workers. Other smaller drains are usually cleaned by the sanitation staff. Last year, JMC had started the work five months in advance. But this time, there have been complaints of water-logging in the city which have resulted in many accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cleaning-of-drains-in-city-delayed-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76292233.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||JDA gets closer to making the entire system digital||Jaipur: Taking a step towards making the entire system online, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Tuesday added options of sub-division and reconstitution of plots on its website. This would not only maintain transparency but would also benefit thousands of plot owners who are forced to make several trips to JDA for this tedious task. A senior JDA official said, apart from these services, six services were previously made online by JDA. “The applicants and senior officials can trace files, if they are pending for a long time. The concerned officers and employees will not unnecessarily delay the work and the disposal of the applications will also be expedited,” said an official. Applicants can apply for subdivision and reconstitution only on the plots after the service number is generated by the assistant town planner (ATP) of the zone. The ATP will ensure that all the documents are registered with the JDA. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-gets-closer-to-making-the-entire-system-digital/articleshow/76292230.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Road deaths go up with lockdown relaxation in May||Nashik: The number of road accident-related fatalities in the city shot up to 16 in May after a relatively sedate April, when only 5 road accident deaths were reported. It is to be noted, there was strict lockdown in place in April and the streets had a much-reduced volume of vehicular traffic movement. The phase-wise lockdown relaxation in May saw more and more vehicles plying on the comparatively empty city roads. This led to accidents mainly because of overspeeding and human error of the drivers. Police said that in April, there was a strict lockdown, and permissions were granted only to people with medical emergencies or other urgent work. Police personnel too were deployed at strategic junctions to check the movement of motorists. However, in May, some industries reopened and movement of people also started increasing. The police said that to reign in the speed of motorists on the roads, the traffic signals were also made operational a few days back. The signals at important junctions ensure that motorists stop and pedestrians get a chance to cross the road. Police said their action against erring motorists continued even during the lockdown period. Those who were found driving without valid documents and police permissions were challaned by the traffic police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-deaths-go-up-with-lockdown-relaxation-in-may/articleshow/76289649.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Grain mkts to get 75% of mandi fee||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to give 75% of the mandi fee to the newly declared private secondary grain markets operated by village service cooperative societies. This will encourage the cooperative societies to run more such private secondary markets to sell agricultural produce. The CM has approved the proposal received from the Agricultural Marketing Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/grain-mkts-to-get-75-of-mandi-fee/articleshow/76292256.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Pay three months’ rent or vacate room soon: Landlords to students in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Many students staying in rented accommodations in Jaipur are finding it difficult to pay rent after suffering economic losses in lockdown. But, the landlords have refused to lower the rent and are asking the students to pay three months’ amount or vacate room immediately. Sunil Yadav from Barmer who is studying in Maharaja College here has been asked by his landlord to pay the entire three months’ rent failing which he won’t be allowed to take his luggage. “I am still in Barmer and my landlord in Mahesh Nagar is demanding to pay the entire amount. My father has a cloth shop which was closed for three months in the lockdown. We are still facing economic losses so, I asked my landlord to reduce the amount as everyone is affected by the lockdown but he did not agree,” said Sunil. The government had earlier directed that landlords cannot force students to pay rent during the lockdown. But, now the students are in dire straits. Another students Shilpy Chaudhary studying in Rajasthan University says it is difficult for her to pay the entire rent in one go. “I asked my landlord in Ridhi Siddhi to let me pay the rent in installments. My father is a vegetable farmer and we faced severe losses during lockdown. My landlord has clearly told me to either pay Rs 15,000 for three months or vacate the room. If landlords of commercial buildings can reduce the rent amount then why aren’t these landlords doing so,” said Shilpy. The issue has been taken up by both the student political parties in Rajasthan University. NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Kumar Bhati says, “We are continuously getting calls from students who are in distress. NSUI is asking the government to make some policy for students and waive the rent. Everyone has faced immense economic losses during the lockdown including students.” Even ABVP is blaming the government for not devising any policy for the students. State secretary of ABVP Hushyaar Meena says, “CM Ashok Gehlot who made many false promises to students wasn’t able to give them unemployment allowance after coming into power. The pandemic has hit everyone hard and a policy is needed for students facing financial problems. Government must take some action against these landlords and they should be compelled to reduce the rent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-three-months-rent-or-vacate-room-soon-landlords-to-students/articleshow/76292251.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bhopal||211 more test positive for corona||Bhopal: With 211 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the tally of positive patients in the state reached 9,849. Apart from the new cases, six deaths were also reported in the state. The districts where these cases were reported includes, Indore (two deaths) and one death each from Bhopal, Burhanpur, Jabalpur and Shajapur districts. With these casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has reached 420. Of the 51 districts where infections have been reported, new cases were reported from 22 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures includes Bhopal (58 new cases), Indore (45 new cases), Ashok Nagar (16 new cases) and Burhanpur (14 new cases). On the brighter side, 193 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 6,729. Thus, 68.3% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from Covid-19. The number of people who have recovered in the state is double than the number of active patients in the state as of Tuesday — there are only 2,700 active patients in the state. Reports of more than 2.20 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 9,849 have tested positive. Meanwhile, administration has announced 1,112 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement in these zones is strictly prohibited. Madhya Pradesh government has established 1197 fever clinics in the state, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken, said sources. GFX District New Cases Total Cases Bhopal 58 1880 Indore 45 3830 Ashoknagar 16 32 Burhanpur 14 373 Jabalpur 9 281 Datia 9 20 Sagar 8 237 Khargone 7 205 Ujjain 6 743 Gwalior 5 216 Morena 5 131 Rajgarh 5 33 Dewas 4 136 Balaghat 4 11 Neemuch 3 343 Khandwa 3 274 Raisen 3 75 Sheopur 2 50 Rewa 2 38 Dhar 1 129 Bhind 1 105 Tikamgarh 1 16 New Cases Total Cases in MP 211 9849||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/211-more-test-positive-for-corona/articleshow/76290803.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Allahabad||Over 80% of Covid cases from trans-Ganga areas||Prayagraj: More than 80% of Covid positive patients in Prayagraj district are from Trans Ganga and and Trans Yamuna pockets. Releasing a statistics of infected patients, health officials stated that 105 out of the total 127 patients were reported from Trans Ganga and Yamuna areas of the district. Only 22 patients are from urban and semi-urban areas. Nodal officer and additional CMO, Dr. Rishi Sahai, said, “Health department has compiled a detailed record of Covid infected patients and found that over 80% of them were from Trans Ganga and Yamuna areas. Majority of these infected people had arrived from cities like Mumbai, Indore and Nasik, resulting in more villages turning hotspots. He further added that health department officials have uploaded the details of over one lakh migrants on the portal and screening of each and every migrant was being conducted. The department has also collected samples of suspected cases who have been either advised home quarantine or were taken to quarantine centres. Those who have been advised 21-day-home quarantine after arriving to Prayagraj, are getting their health status checked every third day by a team of health department. The tally of Covid-19 infected patients in Prayagraj has already reached the 127 mark. Meanwhile, around 80 patients have been recovered and discharged from Covid Level One and Level Three hospitals. While four of the patients have died of Covid infection, treatment of remaining 43 is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-80-of-covid-cases-from-trans-ganga-areas/articleshow/76289665.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Ten testing machines in Punjab soon: Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: To ramp up testing, the Punjab government is all set to establish 10 TrueNat machines at district hospitals, said state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday. He said ICMR had approved TrueNat machins for Covid-19 testing. Special chips would be made available in hospitals where machines would be set up. While five TrueNat machines have been installed at hospitals in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mansa, Barnala and Pathankot, the new 10 will be installed at hospitals in Bathinda, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Moga, Muktsar, Ropar and Sangrur. Sidhu said no AC or special bio-safety cabinet was required for TrueNat machines and they could be set up at primary health centres too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10-testing-machines-in-punjab-soon-min/articleshow/76291685.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||HC grants bail, orders man to pay for split trial||Madurai: Madras high court has granted bail to a murder accused who absconded during trial, and asked the Madurai District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to utilize the Rs 50,000 he offered as unconditional amount for the welfare of the government leprosy home inmates at Pudupatti. Justice G R Swaminathan passed the order while hearing the bail plea of Selvarasu who was arrested after a non-bailable warrant was issued in a murder case under trial before the first additional district and sessions court. A case was registered against the petitioner by the Melavalavu police in 2004 for offences under sections 147, 148, 114, 324 and 302 of IPC. The government advocate pointed out that another case under section 302 of IPC is also pending against him and he therefore opposed grant of bail. The judge said that on account of the abscondance of the petitioner, the case had to be split up and the first and second accused were separately tried and they had also been acquitted. The petitioner’s abscondence was cause for splitting up the said case.  The petitioner came forward to remit a sum of Rs 50,000 as an unconditional payment and also gave an undertaking that he will sign before the local police station everyday at 7pm, till both these cases are concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-bail-orders-man-to-pay-for-split-trial/articleshow/76292255.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Cycle sales hit top gear in Chennai as demand shoots up||CHENNAI: With reduced traffic, lack of public transport, and the work from home norm, the cycle is blazing new trails in the city in terms of sales. Cycle store owners say they are selling every model from premium to affordable since the lockdown was eased. Not just that, the lockdown has given stores newer profiles of buyers – the guest worker, for instance, in a rush to return to his home state. On the outskirts of Chennai, in places like Red Hills and Gummidipoondi, sales have been higher than in past Mays, says a staffer of a well-known cycle manufacturer in the city. “In several shops, mountain bike cycles in the Rs 5,000 range were sold out in May, most of them bought by guest workers,” says the staffer. “Some stores sold 40-50 cycles in a day. We are now replenishing stocks.” Within city limits, he says, children’s cycles have been best-sellers. “With checks on the way kids can spend their vacation, cycling seems to have become popular – especially in car parks and terraces. Parents too are at home and so can keep a watch,” says the staffer. Newer customer profiles too are opening up, says the staffer, who adds that this year, school and office managements have placed bulk orders for cycles for their housekeeping and security staff as public transport is unavailable. L B Suresh Kumar, who owns Balaji Cycle World and Pro-Bikers, says since May 4, when his two stores re-opened after the lockdown, he was surprised at the demand – he has sold more than 100 premium hybrid bikes in the past month, “the kind people prefer for both fitness and commuting”. “My customers tell me that with gyms closed they feel that cycling is a good way to keep fit,” he says. “The cycle ticks everything on the pandemic precaution checklist. You maintain physical distancing norms because you cannot get close to anyone else. It keeps you fit. And now with less traffic on the roads, it is safer than before,” says Subramanian Narayanan, who hasn’t touched his car since March 23. “In fact, I have clocked 8,000km on the cycle since then,” says the head of program management for Hella. Narayanan says cycling has also made his lifestyle more minimalist. “I cycle to the grocery store nowadays and realized it has made me reduce the number of things I buy because I cannot carry it all home. I don’t horde now. I buy just what I need,” he says. Inspired by him, ten of his friends have dusted off their cycles and hit the road as well during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cycle-sales-hit-top-gear-as-demand-shoots-up/articleshow/76291671.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||TATR tiger blamed for five human kills to be captured||Chandrapur: Park rangers of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) on Tuesday launched operation to capture the problem tiger KT-1 responsible for five human kills in the recent past.PCCF (wildlife) has issued orders to tranquillize and capture the problem tiger based on the recommendation made by local technical committee instituted to deal with tigers having aberrant behaviour as per standard operating procedure. The committee has inferred that the tiger has killed five people in villages in buffer zone of TATR during last four months. Three of the victims were from Kolara village on the outskirts of the core boundary of the park, while two were from Bamangaon and Satara villages. Mapping of camera trap pictures has confirmed that same tiger is involved in all five killings. Three swab samples of victims sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) lab in Hyderabad too have corroborated that same tiger was responsible for the human kills. The tiger has been found prowling close to villages namely Devri, Karbada, Madnavpur, Kolara, Satara, Bamangaon spanning in the range a few kilometres in buffer zone. TATR authorities, monitoring the movement of tiger, had in fact put 10km of solar fencing from Kolara-Kuti to Satara to curb the movement of problem tiger, but the attacks continued. With monsoon round the corner, farmers are eager to take up cultivation but are afraid to step out due to tiger fear. Hence, to curb further attacks on humans and avoid escalation in man-animal conflict, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar has issued orders to tranquillize and capture the tiger.CCF and field director, TATR, NR Pravin claimed that the tiger has been identified and authorities are closely monitoring its movement. A team of sharp shooter and technical experts is behind the tiger and they will soon sedate and capture the wildcat, he said. The VictimsFebruary 14 | Balaji Waghmare from KolaraApril 8 | Yamunabai Gaikwada from Satara May 19 | Lilabai Jiwtode from KoalaraJune 4 | Rajyapal Nagose from BamangaonJune 7 | Rajeshwar Dadmal from Kolara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tatr-tiger-blamed-for-five-human-kills-to-be-captured/articleshow/76291677.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||24 positive in HP, 8 linked to pharma firm||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday reported 24 more Covid-19 cases, including eight from Sirmaur district, six from Kangra, five from Una, two from Bilaspur, and one each from Shimla, Hamirpur and Mandi. The state’s tally has risen to 445 cases, of which 184 are active, 11 have migrated out of state, 245 have recovered, and five have died. In Sirmaur, all patients were from the same pharmaceutical company in Kala Amb, where a person tested positive recently. Among eight tested positive, seven were in Haryana, including the owner of company, his wife and son who were living in Panchkula, chief executive officer of unit was living in Yamunanagar, two in Sadoura, one in Narayangarh, while one person has shifted to Covid Care Centre at Trilokpur. In Mandi, a person from Maloh in Sundernagar tested positive. He returned from Mumbai on May 27. In Hamirpur, a 35-year-old man from Sujanpur, who returned from Jhansi on May 29, tested positive. Among Kangra’s six positive cases are: 31-year-old amn from Chovli, who had returned from Delhi on May 28; a 25-year-old man from Kharot Balla village, who had returned from Ludhiana on May 29; a 29-year-old man from Noura village, who had returned from Chandigarh on May 29; a 51-year-old man from Parchakiyan village, who had returned from Delhi on May June 1; a 40-year-old man from Bargram village, who had returned from Delhi on June 2; and a person from Salooni. A total of 47,052 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Tuesday, of them 27,008 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 20,044 are under active surveillance. So far, 47,655 people have been tested for Covid-19, of which 46,541 have been tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/24-positive-in-hp-8-linked-to-pharma-firm/articleshow/76291665.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Covid curbs trigger dismay: Lucknow zoo refuses entry to kids below 10 years||LUCKNOW: After being shut for more than two months due to the lockdown, Lucknow zoo was thrown open to the public, though with restrictions, on Tuesday. However, turnout remained low and those who came were a little disappointed as entry to kids below 10 years of age and to those above 65 years was not allowed. Many other services, too, had not been resumed. Visitors’ turnout remained low as Lucknow zoo reopened for animal lovers on TuesdayZoo authorities had not mentioned the age bar when the reopening was announced. On Tuesday, when people arrived, they saw a signboard announcing age-related entry restrictions at the gates. As a result, compared to the average 5,000 visitors that zoo usually saw every day, only 45 people visited till evening. Ajay and Anjana, siblings aged five and six years, were seen returning home disappointed with their parents. “The kids were going crazy after remaining isolated at home for so many days. I brought them here today thinking zoo would be safe, but found that kids are not allowed,” said Rakesh Chaudhary, a Hazratganj resident. As per new rules, against the average daily footfall of 5,000, only 1,500 visitors will be allowed per day in three slots with 500 people in each. The timings for the three batches are—8.30am to 10.30am, 11.30am to 1.30pm and 3pm to 5pm. The aquarium, nocturnal house, souvenir shops, food court, canteen and toy train have been temporarily shut for public. However, many people enjoyed their visit. “I have never seen so many butterflies in the Butterfly Park here. We clicked many photographs,” said Aditri Chaturvedi, a freelance photographer, who visited the zoo after five months. “I missed popcorn and snacks while strolling around and of course, the toy train and aquarium,” she added. “What can be better than taking a walk amid nature and wildlife. I missed my daily walks in the zoo during lockdown,” said Dheeraj Kumar, a morning walker from Narhi. Neelesh Dixit, who came with her 22-year-old daughter to take a stroll, said, “Staying cooped up in our house had taken a toll. This is not the best time to venture out but hearing the birds and monkey calls was exciting.” “Last June, we recorded footfall of 2 lakh over the month. We are hoping that footfall will increase gradually,” said zoo director RK Singh. Entry tickets can only be bought online on the zoo website. “There were some glitches on it which have been corrected,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-curbs-trigger-dismay-zoo-refuses-entry-to-kids-below-10-yrs/articleshow/76292262.cms||Aditi Singh
June 10, 2020||Madurai||Another urn reaffirms Konthagai was burial site||MADURAI: The excavation at Keeladi has unearthed one more burial urn at Konthagai near Keeladi, confirming the theory that the place was a burial site of the civilization. This is the second urn being unearthed from the site since the beginning of the sixth phase of excavation that started in February this year. Even before the beginning of the excavation at Keeladi, broken pieces of burial urns were found at Konthagai village, which is about 4km away from Keeladi. But in 2014, the ASI started excavation at Keeladi. Last week, a burial urn with a skeleton in a seated position was unearthed from a neighbouring land by a farmer near the Konthagai site, which will be analyzed by the experts from Madurai Kamaraj University. The second urn, unearthed from at the Konthagai site on Monday, also had skeletal remains in it. Archaeological department sources said that as Konthagai was included in the Keeladi excavation this year, it was in the sixth phase that human bones detected. It may be recalled that a burial urn was unearthed before the lockdown in March. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan who has been pushing for the excavation of what he calls the Keeladi cluster including Keeladi, Agaram, Manalur and Konthagai, said that the findings of human bones would go a long way in learning more about the ancient civilization. “We will get to know about the rituals performed by them, and the sixth phase would definitely be more interesting than the others, because it would bring out more details of the lifestyle of that era,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/another-urn-reaffirms-konthagai-was-burial-site/articleshow/76292278.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Musical exercises for Malegaon Covid patients||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has started a new initiative to de-stress the asymptomatic Covid-19 patients housed at the Covid care centre set up on the premises of MSG college. These asymptomatic patients are now taking part in an hour-long musical exercise every morning from 6.30 am under the guidance of well-known medical practitioner Ujjwal Kapadnis. “This is our effort to reduce the stress of the asymptomatic patients. We have also provided a TV at the facility so that they do not get bored during their stay there,” civic chief Dipak Kasar told TOI. At one point, Malegaon was reeling under the pandemic. However, the efforts of the district and civic administrations helped tackle the spread. Kapadnis said a 40-minute session features light aerobics, stretching exercises and yoga. “While we all do these exercises, devotional songs are played on music amplifiers. After that, we meditate for around 20 minutes,” added the doctor. While Kapadnis stands in the middle of the ground to conduct the exercises, patients do the exercises on the balconies of the college building. All social distancing norms are observed. “The feedback from the patients have been extremely encouraging. They have told me that they feel mentally and physically fresh after performing these tasks,” added Kapadnis. According to the municipal commissioner, he too started performing the exercises after he was tested positive last month. He too was asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/musical-exercises-for-malegaon-covid-patients/articleshow/76289677.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Address water issues: Minister||PHED minister B D Kalla has directed the additional chief engineers to visit the areas under their supervision and address people’s drinking water issues. He was holding a review meeting with officials on Tuesday through video conference. Kalla has instructed the additional chief engineers to spend at least two days and one night in the villages of the districts every week to improve drinking water management. They must assess the problems of the people on the spot and share their experience with the subordinate engineers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/address-water-issues-minister/articleshow/76292273.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Lottery for 2JDA schemes oversubscribed by 10 times||Jaipur: Having received 10 times more applications than the proposed number of plots, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Tuesday drew the lottery for its two housing schemes.As these schemes are not being developed in far-flung areas, many buyers showed interest to buy plots at these locations despite slowdown in the real estate market. The JDA has proposed to develop 359 plots both the schemes, Mohan Lal Sukhadia Residential Scheme and Priyadarshini Nagar Yojana. The reserve price for Mohan Lal Sukhadia Residential Scheme has been fixed at Rs 9,500 per square metre and the reserved rate of Priyadarshini Nagar Scheme is Rs 12,500 per square metre. Under the scheme, 10% employees of Central and state government departments and state undertakings, six per cent for scheduled tribes, nine per cent for scheduled castes, five per cent for disabled, two per cent for accredited journalists and 10 per cent for ex-servicemen along with their families have been reserved. In an attempt to fill its coffers, the JDA had planned to launch these schemes. ‘Priyadarshini’ scheme will be launched near Muhana village in zone 11. The civic body will develop 187 plots. The smallest plot size in this scheme will be 45 square metre. Plot size of 90 square metre and 50 square metre will also be developed in this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lottery-for-2jda-schemes-oversubscribed-by-10-times/articleshow/76292276.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||Teachers’ plea to extend retirement age dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday dismissed a batch of petitions filed by government teachers who retired before May seeking to grant them the benefit of state’s government order (GO) which had extended the retirement age from 58 to 59 years. The government on May 7 had increased the age of retirement of government servants from 58 to 59 years and the same was made applicable to all government servants who are due to retire on May 31. Subsequently, the government had issued a clarification letter dated May 14, stating that the GO is not applicable to government servants who had attained superannuation on 58 years on or before May 1. The petitioners, who retired prior to May were given re-employment till May 31. They said that on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, government servants were not allowed to retire and their pension proposals were not even forwarded. Since their services were required for the public examinations and were given re-employment till May 31, they sought to extend their benefit of the GO to them. Hearing the plea, justice C V Karthikeyan observed that extension was granted through a letter/agreement and it is not an extension of service. They have been granted an extension period only to teach the students till the academic year on a contractual basis. The judge further said that the relationship of employer and employee has been frustrated on the date of superannuation. The judge observed that the benefit of the GO by a conjoint reading will apply only to those who were in regular service as on May 31 and those who are due to retire on superannuation as on May 31. Observing that it is an executive decision and the court is not prepared to examine that aspect, the judge dismissed the petitions directing the state government to process the pension papers and pay the pensionary and retirement benefits to the petitioners on or before July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-plea-to-extend-retirement-age-dismissed/articleshow/76292274.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC raps Telangana on selective denial of Rs 1,500 dole||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the state government to explain how it can impose a new condition in the midst of lockdown, thereby denying the Rs 1,500 assistance to some of the white ration cardholders for not availing rice in the last three months. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by A Srujana of Hyderabad, who questioned the decision of the civil supplies authorities in this regard. The bench earlier appointed advocate Vasudha Nagaraj as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter. There are nearly 88 lakh white ration card holders in Telangana. Out of this, 8.25 lakh card holders were excluded by the authorities and denied Rs 1,500 aid extended by the government. The bench said that if the government had already put in place such a condition that those who are not availing rice would not be given other benefits, then one can understand. “But, introducing such a condition and implementing it during the pandemic period is not fair,” the bench said. “You cannot deprive a person of the financial assistance on the ground that he has not availed the rice. You should have put in place such a condition in your rule book,” the bench said. The bench also sought a reply from the government by June 18. The petitioner told the court that people who have not taken rice in the last three months must be natives of this area but may have migrated to other places for work. “Depositing Rs 1,500 in their accounts during this period would have helped them,” she said. “All of them are now coming back to our state. Their migration might be one of the reasons why they could not avail the rice,” she argued. Vasudha informed the court that there is an interim order from the high court to extend this financial assistance to those who have not availed rice. Advocate general BS Prasad told the court that the government has referred the matter to the Supreme Court challenging the HC order. The bench, however, made it clear that the HC order holds the ground till it is stayed by the apex court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-raps-t-on-selective-denial-of-rs-1500-dole/articleshow/76291917.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cop’s house sanitised a week after her death!||AHMEDABAD: A retired woman cop from Shahibaug, Noorbiwi Malek, had died at the dedicated Covid-19 facility on the Civil Hospital campus in Asarwa on June 1. One week later, her family got a call from someone who said he was a doctor, who then proceeded to tell them that Malek had Covid-19 and they should keep a safe distance from her. The man then asked the family for Malek’s address but the family did not give it out, considering the call to be from some fraudster. A team from the hospital and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) found the house themselves and sanitised it, one whole week after she had died. Noorbiwi, who had retired as constable, succumbed to Covid-19 at the facility on June 1. Her family members alleged that she had died at least 24 hours earlier, and that the ward staff kept showing them her back on video call for one day, claiming that she was asleep. Malek’s sister, Raeesa Shaikh told TOI, “A man called up my brother Yakub and first said that my sister had Covid-19. When he told the man that he already knew about our sister’s report, the man advised him to keep a safe distance from her. As my brother told him that she was already dead, then the man enquired if any one in the family had symptoms like cold and cough.” Annoyed with the prolonged inquiry, Malek’s brother told the caller that media reports had already carried stories about Malek and he should have read that. The man then told him that he got his number from the hospital and had been asked by authorities to inform the family about the patient. Malek’s relatives said four days ago they also received a call from an unknown number where a person wanted to speak to Noorbiwi and he was offering some Union government schemes for poor patients. Family alleged that their number might have leaked from hospital and such person kept rubbing salt to their injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-house-sanitized-a-week-after-her-death/articleshow/76291702.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Amid spike, Haryana rushes senior officials to districts||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has deputed senior officers to visit the districts for a minimum of two days and two consecutive nights to supervise and review the current arrangements and to plan out the future arrangements required to be put in place based on the analysis of the rate of spread of Covid-19 in the State. A state government spokesperson said these officers would carry out the audit of the actual implementation of all relevant instructions of the health department and of the respective district administration in every containment zone. He said the officers wouls also audit the actual implementation of the health department’s notifications regarding wearing masks in public places as well as various standard operating procedures (SOPs) on social distancing. They would conduct a physical inspection of all necessary facilities in every Covid Care Centre, as well as, every public and community quarantine facility and isolation ward in the district. All ventilators, ICU beds and oxygen beds in non-ICU wards in all private and public hospitals in the district would also be inspected. He said that the concerned officers would energise all the registered volunteers of the district and to make arrangement for their best deployment. They would prepare a complete inventory of all available resources for testing, isolation, and treatment of all Covid-19 patienst, he added. He said the officers would prepare an estimate of resources that would be needed if the current rate of spread of coronavirus goes on for the next couple of weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-spike-hry-rushes-senior-officials-to-districts/articleshow/76291698.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||155 fever clinics opened in Madurai||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation on Tuesday opened 155 temporary fever clinics throughout the city in order to effectively check fever cases and treat them. Medical staff will be made available in the clinics to check for symptoms of Covid-19. Patients will be given required medicines and asked to isolate themselves in their houses. They will be monitored regularly for development of other symptoms of Covid-19. Those who have severe symptoms will be sent to the Government Rajaji Hospital for testing and treatment, officials said. Corporation commissioner S Visakan told TOI that 10 clinics were opened in Sellur, a congested residential locality in the city, a few days ago. Since they proved to be effective, their success is being emulated throughout the city. “The door-to-door surveillance covering around 17 lakh lakh population will be completed in 10 days. Health workers from all the 31 urban primary health centres and sub-centres will be involved in the surveillance and treatment. Instruction has been given to stock adequate medicines so that no on will go without medicine,” he said. Free immunity boosters will also be distributed through the clinics. Around 1.5 lakh families, which come under notified and unnotified slums are being covered, he added. The commissioner said that handwashing is being intensively promoted, and all the commercial establishments, residential associations and hospitals have been mandated to keep water and soap for handwashing before letting people in. “Corporation has placed water and soap in a few public places. The number of handwashing facilities will be increased in the days to come,” he said. Although sanitisers are being used, washing has been proved to be the best way to contain the spread of covid-19. Those who flout the rule will be taken to task under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/155-fever-clinics-opened-in-madurai/articleshow/76292286.cms||V Devanathan
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hospitals warned, fined for refusing to admit patients||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on Bodyline Hospital Paldi and Aartham Hospital in Ambawadi for refusing to admit Covid-19 patients and even charging fee from the patients. The AMC has warned the management that if the AMC received any more complaint in this connection, both the hospitals will lose their registration. The officials said that in case of Bodyline, the AMC had issued a show-cause notice for charging Rs 4,500 as Covid test fee from a patient referred by the SVP Hospital. The AMC official said that the hospital had demanded the test charge from one more patient. The notice was issued on June 3. In case of Aartham, on June 4 an assistant professor found that the hospital had 51 patients and all were private patients. As per the MoU signed between the AMC and the hospital, 45 beds in the 90-bed hospital were reserved for patients referred by AMC. But when the officials checked, they found that six private patients were accommodated on the bed reserved for AMC. Also, the hospital management had refused to admit critical patients citing lack of facilities. AMC officials said that after getting the reply from the hospital, the AMC decided to impose a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on each of the hospital and it was decided that the money received would be used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Notice to service providerThe Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has issued notice to Updater Services Private Limited after the later sent email to its contractual staff of making changes in the service rules and reducing the salary of the staff. The Updater management had said that the salary would be reduced to Rs 22,000 from the existing Rs 35,000. The AMC in the notice has said that because of the service provider, about 300-odd staff had stayed away from their duties thus putting hardship to the hospital. The AMC has asked the management as to why action should not be taken against them under the Epidemic Act and also why the salary of the staff for the month of June and even the compensation money be not recovered as penalty from the management for putting the hospital in hardship?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hospitals-warned-fined-for-refusing-to-admit-patients/articleshow/76291700.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In a single day, 57 criminals land in the police net||NEW DELHI: In a citywide crackdown on street crime, Delhi Police arrested 57 criminals on Sunday alone for snatchings, burglaries and robberies that had suddenly spiked during the Covid lockdown period. Among them was a group that had stolen over a hundred mobile phones in a fortnight. Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said that most of the criminals who were caught during the crackdown were discovered to have been either released from jail on a 45-day parole to facilitate social distancing in jails or had entered the city after the restriction on cross-border movement were relaxed. According to the police data, 22 criminals were caught in north-east and south-east police districts, 10 in outer (north) district, seven each in south-west and outer Delhi, and the rest from the other parts of the capital. While interrogating them, cops found the desperate men even used arms to threaten or injure their victims during the robbery or snatching attempts. The three men who were caught for robbing a pilot on IIT flyover after stabbing him on his thigh were found to have indulged in other cases like stealing valuables after smashing car windows to quickly satisfy their craving for money. Police said that most of the nabbed hoodlums had travelled to locations some distance their known residences to commit the felonies, using to their advantage the roads emptied of normal traffic due to the lockdown. The men had also frequently gone after the easy targets of morning walkers and pedestrians. During the crackdown, cops also nabbed a few others who received the booty and recovered much of the stolen goods. However, many of the robbers were discovered to have stowed away the stolen items, being unable to sell them because the markets were still not fully geared for business. The cops have intensified patrolling at the hotspots in the city and have increased the dynamic deployment of policemen with a focus on such identified areas, identification of active criminals, arrest of notorious criminals and preparation of history sheets of notorious criminals to contain the movement of the crooks. The police patrol teams that were earlier deployed to enforce the Covid lockdown have now been asked to patrol colony roads and known haunts of criminals near parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-single-day-57-criminals-land-in-the-police-net/articleshow/76311241.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||HM’s word, SP’s Rs 25L plan give martyrs’ families hope||Nagpur: The state government is considering a proposal to increase the monetary benefits for parents of police martyrs from Rs5 lakh to Rs25 lakh, within the Rs1.08 crore comprehensive package already sanctioned by the state. State home minister Anil Deshmukh visited the Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district, and also agree to consider the proposal of SP Shailesh Balkawade, as a morale booster for the district police force in these turbulent times. Balkawade has sent a proposal to the home department to increase the compensatory benefits for the parents of martyrs in the Maoist-affected district to Rs25 lakh. At present, parents of martyrs are entitled to Rs5 lakh in the comprehensive package of Rs1.08 crore. The martyrs’ families were also assured all assistance and support by Deshmukh, who met some of them, including the kin of C-60 jawan Kishor Atram, who was killed recently. Atram and Sub-inspector Danaji Hodmane were martyred last month in a Maoist ambush in the forests of Poyerkothi-Koparshi at Abujhmadh. Deshmukh, who consoled Atram’s mother and wife, said he had assured the rest of the martyrs’s families also that the government would support them throughout. “We have assured all help and assistance to the families of the martyrs, and told them there would be no dearth of government initiatives for them,” he said. Deshmukh was accompanied by former minister and current NCP MLA Dharmaraobaba Atram and his daughter former ZP president Bhagyashree Atram, while meeting the martyrs’ families at the police headquarters at Gadchiroli. “I have also instructed the policemen to give the Maoists a harder fight now,” he said. Deshmukh also sounded positive about Balkawade’s proposal. “The proposal is under consideration,” he said. Balkawade had noticed the hardship faced by parents of several martyr families. “Many times, it was observed that parents were struggling to get the siblings of the martyrs educated or married. Sometimes, there were none to support themas their martyr son was the only bread earner of the family,” he said. “Widows are getting better support and also the salary of the martyr, and also pension benefits until they marry again. Such kind of elaborate support for parents was missing, and hence we sent the proposal,” he said. Balkawade sounded hopeful about his proposal materializing after fruitful discussions with Deshmukh during his visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hms-word-sps-rs-25l-plan-give-martyrs-families-hope/articleshow/76291691.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 10, 2020||Allahabad||2 Jamaatis of other states granted bail||Prayagraj: A local court on Tuesday granted bail to two members of Tablighi Jamaat of other states who were arrested during lockdown for hiding in a local mosque. Those granted bail are Nizammudin of Tamil Nadu and Rashid of Kerala. They were granted bail by judicial magistrate (4th) of Prayagraj. These persons were arrested on April 21, 2020 along with others, including 16 foreign participants on charges of taking part in Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. Earlier, on June 2, 2020, Prof Mohammed Shahid, professor of Political Science of Allahabad University, who had allegedly facilitated the stay of Jamaatis, was also granted bail. A total of 30 people were arrested from police station areas of Kareli, Shahganj and Shivkuti of Prayagraj district. The arrested Jamaatis were staying illegally in two mosques of city. It is alleged that in March, Prof Shahid had attended Tablighi Jamaat met at Nizamuddin in New Delhi along with many of these foreigners and had shielded this information from police, besides arranging for foreigners’ stay in local mosques. An FIR was registered against Professor Shahid and others on April 1, 2020 under the Epidemic Act in Shivkuti police station of Prayagraj and he was arrested on April 21. Later, he was suspended by university administration. However, he was released on bail by a local court on June 2, 2020. After investigation, police had submitted chargesheet against the professor and others applicants under sections of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Act and Foreigners Act. However, chargesheet was filed against Prof Shahid under section 120B (Conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. The court granted them bail under these sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-jamaatis-of-other-states-granted-bail/articleshow/76289694.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Road caves in near Hanuman Setu, traffic hit||LUCKNOW: A stretch on the busy Hanuman Setu Temple-IT College Crossing route became out of bounds for traffic after a part of the road caved in, forming a 3-foot deep pit. Officials of public works department said the road caved in on Monday after it got weakened following regular leakage of sewage water from a damaged manhole. The high drain flowing beneath the road falls under the jurisdiction of the LMC. TimesViewRoad cave-ins normally occur after waterlogging during monsoon. However, this time, one has occurred following rains and thundershowers in the past few days, posing a threat to citizens as well as stray cattle. Civic agencies need to treat it as an alarm bell and conduct a survey to identify all vulnerable points so that they can be fixed or precautionary measures taken before arrival of rainy season later this month.PWD executive engineer Arvind Kumar said a team of LMC and PWD has started repair work. It will take a day more to restore the stretch for public use, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/road-caves-in-near-hanuman-setu-traffic-hit/articleshow/76292296.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Workers walk to Chennai from AP hoping to board train home||CHENNAI: Unaware of the procedure to get back home, guest workers from Chhattisgarh who work in Tada in Andhra Pradesh walked till the Chennai Central railway station with hopes to find a train home. Though Tada is in Andhra Pradesh, its nearest city is Chennai. “We have decided to hire a bus through a private operator from here or walk all the way to Chhattisgarh,” said Siraj Khan. The 37-year-old from Korba district in Chhattisgarh had come to work at a tyre factory near Tada just three days before the lockdown was announced. While Khan had another co-worker with him, during the course of his journey to Chennai, he met several others from Chhattisgarh who had all walked or hired vehicles to reach the station. In all, about 34 people from Chhattisgarh, including seven women, are stranded near the station. They walked from Tada to Chennai for about 20km and then took different modes of transport to reach the station. “The auto drivers are fleecing us. We have already spent about Rs 2,000 for a journey of less than 10km,” said Khan. Another group from Odisha has arrived at the station, unaware of the red tape involved to get home. Among them was a young woman with a 17-day-old child. Some of them approached the Chennai collector’s office, only to be directed towards the corporation building near the station. “We are a small group. We know that a separate train will not be arranged for us. So we are requesting if a bus can be arranged by the authorities,” a worker told TOI. Khan said they were discussing with a private bus operator and have negotiated up to Rs 3,700 per person. A corporation official said those who arrived at the station were taken to a shelter in Chintadripet. So far, the civic body has facilitated travel of more than 1.1 lakh guest workers to different states and there are more than 3,000 guest workers in various shelters and relief centres of the civic body as on date, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workers-walk-to-city-from-ap-hoping-to-board-train-home/articleshow/76291686.cms||Srikkanth D
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Ruckus at Gandhi hospital as Covid victim’s kin attack doctor||HYDERABAD: Doctors on duty at the state-run Gandhi hospital's Covid-19 wards in Hyderabad are on a dharna after a colleague was assaulted by relatives of a Covid-19 patient who died late on Tuesday. Police rushed to the spot after the doctor was injured and since then nearly 100 junior doctors and residents are protesting and raising slogans of ‘we want justice’ till last reports. Witnesses said, attendants of the Covid-19 positive patient attacked a PG medico at the hospital during late evening hours, leading to protests, even as authorities said six persons died from coronavirus and 178 more tested positive on Tuesday. While the total coronavirus count now stands at 3,920, the death toll stood at 148 with the latest casualties. The incident happened after a 55-year-old male patient succumbed at the ward. “The patient had diabetes and hypertension and the poor prognosis was explained to the attendants. The patient was asked not to leave the bed but the patient went to the toilet where he collapsed and succumbed,” said Dr G Srinivas, president Resident Doctors Association (RDA). “The attendant got information about the death and hit the duty doctor first with a plastic stool and later with an iron stool which hit the doctor on the hip. There was not a single cop present in the 65-bed ward,” said Dr Srinivas. He said that to decrease the workload on doctors, it was necessary to decentralise treatment of patients from Gandhi hospital to other hospitals such as Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Niloufer Hospital and Osmania General Hospital. The junior and resident doctors have demanded immediate posting of special protection forces at every Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and all floors of the hospital. “Decentralise Covid-19 cases from Gandhi as it is unable to handle the immense caseload. Also, an FIR should be filed against the culprits,” demanded Telangana Junior Doctor Association (TJUDA). Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said that the accused has been arrested. “On hearing the commotion, our men stationed outside the ward swung into action and prevented further damage and the accused was arrested. We will be initiating stern legal action against the accused. We have 120 cops posted round the clock at the hospital. Anynone who disrupts medical services will be not be spared,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ruckus-at-gandhi-as-covid-victims-kin-attack-doctor/articleshow/76292636.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Worker fired for stealing supplies||Ahmedabad: The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital management has terminated the services of a woman patient care worker after she was allegedly caught stealing sanitizers, gloves, masks and medicines from the hospital. The woman was caught on camera with the hospital supplies in her bag. According to SVP Hospital, a video had gone viral recently showing a woman patient care worker being made to open her bag and security staff finding polythene bags full of gloves, mask, medicines and even bottles of hand sanitizer. The matter was immediately reported the hospital management who then fired the woman. Officials said she may have been selling the hospital supplies to some medical shop. Ramya Bhatt, assistant municipal commissioner, SVP, confirmed that the incident had taken place and the worker had been fired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/worker-fired-for-stealing-supplies/articleshow/76291705.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court notice over testing policy for asymptomatic workers||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notice to the state government in response to a petition filed by the Indian Medical Association, challenging the policy of requiring prior approval from the government authority to test asymptomatic frontline health workers for Covid-19. The policy has been questioned seeking RT-PCR tests for doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, pharmacists and other supporting staff of medical colleges, hospitals, clinics and working in containment or micro-containment zones. On June 2, the state government amended its policy and made prior approval from the medical authority mandatory for asymptomatic persons who want to get Covid-19 tests done, not in accord with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. Later, the government also introduced hospitalization as a pre-requisite for Covid-19 testing. A bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria issued notice to the state government and ICMR and sought their responses by June 19 to the association’s petition to scrap the June 2 government policy for frontline healthcare workers. The association’s advocate, Mitul Shelat submitted that not testing a doctor or frontline health workers without government approval could prove detrimental to the health of the doctor as well as patients. For proper functioning of a doctor in this time of pandemic, it is necessary for him and for others to know about his Covid-19 status. When Shelat pressed for urgency in the matter, the bench permitted him to mention it before the chief justice for early hearing. The bench of the chief justice and Justice J B Pardiwala while hearing the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and the lockdown had posed a pertinent question to the state government and sought its reply on June 19 on whether it is an Indian citizen’s fundamental right to get himself tested for Covid-19 or for any diagnosis. This question was asked when the state government insisted that it did not intend to deviate from ICMR guidelines restricting the testing of asymptomatic persons. Health workers are at higher risk of catching the infection. With the testing policy in place today, more than 200 doctors have been infected with Covid-19 and a few of them even succumbed to it. A very high number of nurses and paramedics are also infected with the virus, making them super spreaders. The insistence on quashing the testing policy for health workers is to minimize the risk to health workers and other persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-over-testing-policy-for-asymptomatic-workers/articleshow/76291701.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||Groom tests Covid +ve hours after wedding||Madurai: Hours after tying the knot, a groom from Chennai who had come to Virudhunagar for the occasion, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The man from Tambaram in Chennai, was betrothed to Banu of R R Nagar in Virudhunagar two months ago. As the lockdown was enforced, the families could not go ahead with the wedding. When the easing of lockdown began, they decided to conduct the wedding in Virudhunagar, as Chennai was witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. So, the groom and his family members came to Virudhunagar, a few days ago. They were screened at the checkpost in Virudhunagar district border and their swabs taken. Later, the families went about with their scheduled programme and conducted the marriage as a low-key affair on Sunday. Meanwhile, as the result of the groom came out positive, health workers from the Ammapatti public health centre went to their house and took him to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that contact tracing is being done in the area. People, who attended the marriage would also be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/groom-tests-covid-ve-hours-after-wedding/articleshow/76292303.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Govt attracts big European companies for investments||Jaipur: With an eye on companies operating out of China and looking to diversify their investments, and also catalyse fresh investments from European countries, RIICO in collaboration with European Business Group Federation (EBG Federation) on Tuesday held deliberations with diplomats from Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium and representatives from over 30 multinational companies.From the state government side, chief secretary DB Gupta, ACS industries Subodh Agarwal, RIICO managing director Ashutosh Pednekar and Industries commissioner Muktanand Agarwal highlighted the advantages that Rajasthan offers to investors and the competitive incentive packages that can be availed. Gupta in his address to diplomats and company representatives also elaborated on the ease doing business environment in the state that ensures time-bound approvals, single-window clearances and even facilitating land that has already been in government possession. Pro-active policy measures for hassle-free investment climate were explained by ACS Agarwal who dwelt on the much publicised piece of reform that requires no prior permission for three years for starting industrial projects. European Business and Technology Centre (EBTC) and European Economic Group (EEG) were also a part of the dialogue. The multinational companies that participated in the webinar spanned multiple sectors like pharmaceutical, agro products, fertiliser, cement, skill development, power, tourism sectors, etc.RIICO MD Pednekar said that the suggestions received in the webinar would help in giving direction to the industrial policy. He said the state government is looking at possibilities of entering into MoUs with trade bodies like EBG Federation to speed up investments from foreign investors. “Further interactions with foreign investors and diplomats are lined up in coming days, with next interaction being planned with French companies on June 12,” added Pednekar. In the past couple of months, the state government has written letters to diplomats of the US, Japan, and South Korea seeking investments from companies in the respective countries as investors are becoming wary of China following the trade war with the US and the coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-attracts-big-european-companies-for-investments/articleshow/76292302.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Surat||15 thalassaemic major foetus aborted amid lockdown in Gujarat||SURAT: Rachna Kakkad (name changed), pregnant with her second child, was extremely worried after the lockdown was announced in March. With the 40-year-old Jamnagar resident’s first child being a thalassaemia major, she was on tenterhooks fearing that the crucial prenatal tests would get suspended too. Not from a well-to-do background, the Kakkads have been through the wringer trying to keep their first born alive through regular blood transfusions and seeing the child suffer. The emboldened mother put a lid on her emotions as she didn’t want to take a second chance. Her prenatal diagnosis by the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS, Gujarat Branch) in Ahmedabad in April confirmed her worst fears — she was carrying another thalassaemia major foetus. After being counselled, Kakkad agreed to abort and end misery for both the unborn child as well as the parents. Like Kakkad, 14 other women, whose tests confirmed that their unborn children were thalassaemia majors, too decided to go for abortion. Preventing birth of such a foetus is also a major way to ‘delink’ the genetic blood disorder. Dr Bhavesh Acharya, chairman, IRCS, Gujarat, told TOI: “"We cannot afford to wait for long as abortion has to be carried out before 21 weeks of pregnancy according to the law. So, amid the lockdown, we continued with our prenatal diagnosis services at our laboratory in Ahmedabad. Also pregnancy-related services were exempted under essential medical services.” “Time is of essence here and we need to prevent any kid from being born with the disorder. We conducted 53 prenatal diagnosis tests of pregnant women, of whom 15 foetuses were found thallasaemic major while remaining normal, he said. According to an estimate, there are over 10,000 children are diagnosed as thalassaemia major, and every year, around 1,000 newborns are added to that list. ICRS vice-chairman Sumit Thakker said that 1,837 prenatal diagnosed of pregnant women were conducted under the thalassaemia Prevention Programme since 2010, of which 486 were found to be thalassaemic foetus’ which were aborted. “Of the 15 women found to be bearing thalassaemic major foetus’, nine were already mothers who have first-born’s with this blood disorder,” said Dr Prakash Parmar, general secretary of IRCS. Prevention programmeRed Cross with the support of the state government has been running the programme since 2010 under which thalassaemia tests were conducted of 6.46 lakh pregnant women till date. If a pregnant woman is found to be thalassaemia minor, then the husband is tested. If both are thalassaemia minors, a prenatal diagnosis is conducted to check the foetus. If it confirms thalassaemia, then the would-be parents are counselled for abortion. The programme is being implemented in eight districts at present and being expanded every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/15-thalassaemic-major-foetus-aborted-amid-lockdown-in-guj/articleshow/76290846.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||‘Recruit, train and depute’ job model for migrant workers||Jaipur: The labour department has adopted– recruit, train and depute model to provide jobs to the migrant labourers and human resource to the industries aiming to bring back the economy on track.Under the model, the department would provide assistance to an employer to recruit employees, provide them with skill training and depute them in their units. For the success of the model, the department will reach out to over 13 lakh such labourers through their mobile numbers in the coming days. They will send a text message informing them to register at the Raj Kaushal Employment Exchange Portal for jobs and to enrol for short term courses to enhance their employability in their desired sectors. Labour department secretary Neeraj K Pawan said the idea is to encourage all these migrants to take advantage of the exhaustive measures to provide a livelihood to these migrants. “Almost on a daily basis, industries are approaching us for placements. In the past few days alone, department has been approached by industries, manufacturing units and educational units for recruitment in over 5,000 positions. These efforts will provide jobs to lakhs of migrants,” said Pawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recruit-train-and-depute-job-model-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/76292300.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||28 fresh Covid cases, two deaths in rural Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The nine days of June saw 218 fresh Covid-19 cases registered in Ahmedabad district, excluding the municipal limits. Rural Ahmedabad reported 28 fresh cases and two deaths in the 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening. The most fresh cases were reported from Sanand taluka, which reported nine fresh cases followed by Bavla (7) and Dholka (5). One of the two deaths was that of a 68-year-old man from Dholka, who tested positive on Tuesday and he died soon after he was hospitalised, while the other death was that of a 49-year-old woman from Jetalpur in Daskroi taluka. She was admitted to hospital on Monday. Of the 28 fresh cases, 14 patients are below 40 years of age, of whom 10 are below 30. Officials said that about six patients each were in the 41-50 and older than 60 age groups while two were between 51 and 60 years old. The youngest patient is a 10-year-old girl from Dhobivas in Sanand. Twelve of the 28 fresh cases are females. Taluka-wise, of the 438 cases in the district excluding the city, 126 are from Dholka, 110 from Daskroi, 75 from Sanand, 30 from Viramgam, 56 from Bavla, 24 from Dhandhuka, 11 from Detroj, five from Mandal, and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-fresh-cases-2-deaths-in-rural-ahmedabad/articleshow/76291699.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||Minor among five arrested for murder in Madurai hosp||Madurai: The Madhichiyam police on Tuesday arrested five people, including a juvenile in conflict with law, in connection with the murder of a 40-year-old man at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), on Monday morning. The accused have been identified as Arun, Karan Raj, Salman and Jagadeeswaran from Karumbalai and nearby areas. A search is on for one more person, identified as Kannan. V Murugan who was undergoing treatment in ward number 101 of GRH was hacked to death at around 5.30am. Police confirmed that the murder was in retaliation to the murder of Rajasekaran. Murugan was one of the prime accused. A police officer said that two people had carried out a recce on Sunday night. The official said that vigilance has been increased both inside and outside the hospital building. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minor-among-five-arrested-for-murder-in-madurai-hosp/articleshow/76292301.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Malls pin turnaround hopes on high-value transactions||Kolkata: A Spanish fashion apparel brand clocked the third-highest sales at its Kolkata store in a south Kolkata mall. A customer bought gadgets worth Rs 1.9 lakh from an Apple store at a Salt Lake mall. At another mall off EM Bypass, a customer walked into an anchor store that sells apparel and walked out with shopping bags after spending Rs 30,000. A store operated by one of the largest online jewellery company in India did Rs 60,000 worth sales in an hour while a burger chain present in another mall raked up Rs 64,000 in sales during the day. A review of the first day's sales by retailers at city malls on Tuesday morning threw up stunning high-value transactions that several shops had registered despite the low footfall and near deserted look that malls presented on the day it reopened after a two-and-a-half-month shutdown. Though revenues were lower than what malls used to clock on a regular day before Covid, the per capita spend by shoppers on Monday was nearly twice than what they would register earlier. It is only during pre-festive shopping and end-of-season sale that malls clocked higher per capita spends. Though the mall operators had an inkling of high conversion rates with eight to nine out of every 10 persons who walked into South City, Quest, Acropolis, Mani Square or the twin City Centre malls in Salt Lake and New Town making purchases, the big-ticket transactions made on Monday were reflected in the spreadsheets that arrived at the offices on Tuesday morning. “It was clear that only those who were intent on shopping had come to malls on Monday. But we are zapped at the spends that some of them made. It is extremely encouraging for everyone and reflects the strong desire to spend,” said Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan. Quest Mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra said the anchor retail store had done great business despite low footfall. “It was heartwarming to see customers back, but not really estatic as only 2,795 people dropped in through the entire day. But what is very encouraging is the business they brought. I am confident that once customer confidence increases and they learn about the SOPs that we have put in place, footfall will go up,” he said. On Tuesday, an inter-ministerial central team visiting the city dropped in at Quest and South City malls to look at how business was being conducted. According to sources, they didn't have anything to complain about. The litmus test though will be ensuring SOPs are rigorous followed all the time, particularly when footfall goes up. South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree hopes the weekend will see an improved turnout. “The start has been promising. The mall will feel vibrant if more people drop in. That will happen once word gets around about the safety protocols followed in the mall,” he said. Ramesh Pandey of Ambuja Neotia Realty, the developer of City Centre I & II, agreed. “There is pent-up demand for goods. On Monday, laptos and cellphoes flew off the shelves with parents who were forced to make do with the device at home making a purchase for their children's online classes. Then there were parents who purchased apparel for their kids. These requirements will persist,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-pin-turnaround-hopes-on-high-value-transactions/articleshow/76290841.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Agra||People violating social distancing at govt offices||Agra: With growing footfall at government offices, the challenge to prevent Covid-19 from spreading has increased.Arrangements for thermal gun screening and sanitizer have been made at some of the government offices, but the social distancing protocol is not being followed. At Sadar sub-division office, people can be seen crowding around the benches of lawyers. At the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) and other offices, no one is present to manage the queue of the applicants.At the collectorate, no arrangements have been made to provide facilities for sanitization at different offices. People can be seen standing in groups -- some without a mask. At Vikas Bhavan, office of the chief development officer, no arrangements have been made for thermal screening of both staff and public.Member of Sadar Tehsil Bar Association Nishant Chaturvedi said, “No arrangements of sanitization have been made by the district administration. Proper cleaning is also not taking place on the campus even after repeated complaints with the authorities. We are keeping a sanitizer for clients and trying to follow the social distancing protocol. But the authorities are not concerned about the safety of lawyers and common people coming with their problems."Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “Officials have been directed to ensure social distancing is followed at public offices. Arrangement of screening and sanitization have been made at a majority of the offices. People need to follow the social distancing protocol to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Those found not wearing a face mask are being challaned”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/people-violating-social-distancing-at-govt-offices/articleshow/76289717.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Externed criminal booked for entering city sans permission||Nashik: A criminal externed from Nashik for a period of two years was booked and detained by the Crime branch Unit 1 personnel on Monday after their patrol team found him wandering on the city the streets without permission Identified as Akshay Deepak Kaloge, the criminal was detained and later handed over to the Sakharwada police station for further procedure. Personnel of the crime branch said that they received a tip-off that Kaloge was coming to the Thakkar Bazaar area of the city. Subsequently, a trap was laid and Kaloge was detained. Police said that they suspect many criminals who have been externed from city must have entered back illegally during lockdown. Therefore, they decided to check the residences of such people to find out if any of them have returned. During such checks, they came across 15 criminals who had entered the city without permission. POlice said that they have booked them under Section 142 of the Maharashtra Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/externed-criminal-booked-for-entering-city-sans-permission/articleshow/76289709.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer’s JLN hosp to conduct 2,000 Covid tests daily||Ajmer: With the installation of automated RN extension test machine, the JLN Medical College will be able to conduct 2,000 Covid-19 tests daily. The medical college will recruit 26 technicians after getting nod from the state government.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmers-jln-hosp-to-conduct-2000-covid-tests-daily/articleshow/76292307.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-rly officer Lucknow’s 7th Covid casualty||LUCKNOW: The test report of an 81-year-old retired railways employee who died on Sunday due to urinary infection came back positive for novel coronavirus infection on Monday night. He is the seventh victim of Covid-19 in the city. Six of them, including him, didn’t even know that they was suffering from the disease, an indication that infection is silently spreading its tentacles. A resident of Ruchi Khand in Shardanagar, the deceased had been admitted to Northern Railway hospital in Alambagh on Sunday for a urinary infection. He died within hours. He had no symptoms of Covid-19. However, since it is mandatory to test all those who come for treatment, his samples were sent for the test, doctors said. The body was handed over to the family for last rites as per Covid-19 protocol after the report arrived. All seven people who lost the battle with Covid-19 were elderly and had comorbidities. Two each died of brain haemorrhage and silent hypoxaemia (extremely low blood oxygen level), while acute respiratory syndrome, kidney ailment and urinary issue claimed one life each. The first death took place on April 16 and the remaining six within a span of 10 days from May 28 to June 7. “As soon as we came to know about the railway hospital case on Tuesday, samples of all seven family members, including his wife, two sons, a daughter-in-law and three granddaughters were sent for test on Tuesday, said additional chief medical officer A Raja. “The family was distraught hence not much information could be extracted about the source of infection and contact tracing. However, once the reports of their samples are received, we will talk to them again,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-rly-officer-citys-7th-covid-casualty/articleshow/76292308.cms||Yusra Husain
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Idols ready to set sail amid Covid gloom in Kumartuli||Kolkata: Fumigated and packed, four Durga idols will start their journey from Kumartuli to Australia, US, Germany and Canada this week. Even as the artisans’ hub is staring at unprecedented loss after large-scale cancellations from organizers abroad, 11 idols have been sold and are ready to be exported to various corners of the world. Some of them will be sent when international flights resume. Every year, the light-weight, fiberglass-made idols usually begin their overseas journeys in April. But with the lockdown that came into force in March started coming the bad news. Several organizers from various countries started informing that the festivities had been called off because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kaushik Ghosh, whose family is the largest exporter of Durga idols from Kumartuli, said: “We have been making idols exclusively for NRIs since 2006. But the virus has made this our worst year so far. I had 34 orders this year. After cancellations, I have 11 now.” Ghosh’s first overseas idol was scheduled to leave on Wednesday. It will take a month to reach Melbourne. The other three will travel to North Carolina, Frankfurt and Vancouver by the end of this week. The next batch of consignment will go to Detroit and Kansas City in the US and London in the UK. “We have been sanitizing the idols while making them. And then the courier company came and fumigated the idols, by drilling a hole in the crates,” said Ghosh, whose father and veteran artisan Amarnath Ghosh was a pioneer in exporting idols. A 6ft fiberglass idol, along with its wooden packing case and embellishments, weighs around 200-250kg and is easily transportable. It is wrapped carefully in bubble sheets and packed in the wooden crates that have “fragile” written on it. “We take the last order at least 45 days before Durga Puja. Hopefully, things will improve by August,” said Ghosh. Around 200 Durga idols are shipped abroad every year. Covid-19 has not only dealt a blow to the exports but has also affected the entire Kumartuli’s prospects. “By this time, clay idols are half done, but with no labourers during lockdown, not much work has started this year,” a member of Kumartuli Idolmakers’ Association said. Many Kolkata Puja organizers who had ordered verbally are reluctant to seal the deals, preferring to wait and watch before ordering idols. Only 15% puja committees have confirmed bookings so far, said A K Pal, an artisan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/idols-ready-to-set-sail-amid-covid-gloom-in-kumartuli/articleshow/76290849.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Will support BJP if Anil Vij becomes CM: Independent MLA Balraj Kundu||YAMUNANAGAR: Meham MLA Balraj Kundu said Manohar Lal Khattar was the most unsuccessful chief minister of Haryana. Addressing the media in Yamunanagar on Tuesday, the independent MLA said if Anil Vij became the Haryana CM, then he was ready to support the BJP as the level of corruption under the Khattar regime was at the top in the state. Speaking about his stand against the incumbent Haryana government, Kundu said Haryana home, health and urban local bodies minister Anil Vij is the most honest man in the present state government. Kundu said, “I did not take my support back from BJP, but I have taken it back from the CM who backs corruption. I had given a lot of facts and documents about massive corruption in departments of urban local bodies, corporation, and sugar mills but all the hard work is washed with a clean chit to these organisations.” “Anil Vij is the only honest minister in the state government who wants to act against corruption. If we talk about liquor scam, it is only Anil Vij who wants to act but he has been made helpless as the decisions taken by him when forwarded to CM office are changed by Khattar. The rest who are posing as honest developed a strong network and pushed the system of the state towards corruption, due to which the state is in a crisis”, said Balraj Kunda. Kundu said, “Khattar has been labeled as the most unsuccessful chief minister (CM) of the Haryana state. Even survey agencies have found that he has failed the state as its CM. Even if I talk about this region, Haryana government during Khattar rule de-notified the Dadupur-Nalvi canal project and now they are giving a lesson of saving water with a scheme like Mera Pani Meri Virasat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/will-support-bjp-if-vij-becomes-cm-ind-mla-kundu/articleshow/76291709.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 10, 2020||Trichy||Govt hopes desilting will end before water release||Trichy: State agriculture production commissioner and secretary to the government of Tamil Nadu, Gangandeep Singh Bedi has expressed hope that the entire process of desilting work undertaken in water bodies across the delta districts will be completed before water is released for kuruvai cultivation. To speed up the process, around 260 machinery including earthmovers have been engaged in Thanjavur district alone. Another 300 earthmovers would be added to complete the ongoing work, he further said. “It has been targeted to raise kuruvai paddy crop in 3.4 lakh acres during this season. To enable water to reach the tail end areas in Thanjavur district without any blocks, officials have been asked to speed up the process and to complete it without delay. So, desilting works are being undertaken in full swing,” Bedi said. The government has allotted Rs 500 crore to execute 1,392 kudimaramathu work and Rs 67 crore for desilting 392 channels in Thanjavur. Around 70% of these works have been completed. Main channels, which are all supplying irrigation water to major areas have been taken up for desilting, he added. Earlier, Bedi inspected the ongoing work in his capacity as monitoring officer of kudimaramathu works in Thanjavur along with district collector M Govinda Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-hopes-desilting-will-end-before-water-release/articleshow/76292306.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||Woman, 23, kills 2 kids, attempts suicide||Madurai: A 23-year-old woman murdered her two children by feeding them poison-laced food and attempted suicide by consuming the same in Theni district on Monday night. The woman is currently undergoing treatment. The incident took place in Kanniservapatti village near Chinnamanur. The victims have been identified as P Tharanish, 6, and his one and a half-year-old brother P Lakshan. The kids’ mother, P Pavithra, is admitted to Theni Medical College Hospital. Her condition is said to be critical. On Monday, Prabhu, her husband, had picked up a quarrel with Pavithra. After he left for work, she gave her children poison-laced food and later consumed it. A police officer said Prabhu, who is a truck driver, was an alcoholic and often fought with his wife after consuming alcohol. On Tuesday morning, as Pavithra did not come out of home, neighbours went to check on her. They found the three lying unconscious and alerted police officials. The Chinnamanur police have initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-23-kills-2-kids-attempts-suicide/articleshow/76292304.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Agra||Locals in Mathura area told to take prior nod for funerals||Agra: The Mathura district administration on Wednesday directed residents of Mahavan sub-division, with a population of around 50,000, to take prior permission for organising any funeral ceremony after scores of people attended the last rites of a person who tested Covid-19 positive after death. Police at Raya station have also registered a case against 72 persons, including 47 identified ones, in this regard under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and for violating prohibitory orders. Mahavan sub-divisional magistrate Jag Pravesh said that the fresh directive has been issued in the wake of locals violating the state government guidelines that only 20 people are allowed to take part in any funeral. “We assure you that permission will be granted within 30 minutes of submitting the application. We have given permission for over 200 weddings in the sub-division till date,” he added.According to sources, the 48-year-old who tested positive for the virus after death was a well-known businessman in Raya. He died at a Faridabad hospital on Saturday and was cremated the same day. However, he tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Pravesh said, “The family should have informed the district administration if the hospital had taken his samples for Covid testing. We are now facing issues in tracing his contacts as many of them are from other villages. Around 100 primary contacts, including 30 high risk ones who touched the body, have been quarantined.” Meanwhile, two more persons, including a doctor’s son in Raya town, have tested positive for the virus. The health department has started their contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/locals-in-mathura-area-told-to-take-prior-nod-for-funerals/articleshow/76289711.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 10, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan reports 369 positive cases, highest spike in a single day||JAIPUR: The state recorded the highest single-day spike with 369 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. It has surpassed the highest daily count, which was recorded on May 19 of 338 cases. With the new cases, the state’s total number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 11,200 mark, to reach 11,245 since the first case was reported on March 3. The state reported nine fatalities too, bringing the toll to 255 in the state. Deaths were reported from Jaipur (3), Jodhpur (2), Ajmer (2), Bharatpur (1), while one person died who belonged to other state. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (65), Bharatpur (51), Pali (39), Alwar (19), Jhunjhunu (12), Ajmer (9), Nagaur (9), Sikar (8), Churu (7), Kota (7), Barmer (5), Dausa (4), Karauli (4), Dholpur (3), Bikaner (3), Bhilwara (2), Jaisalmer (2), Jalore (2), Jhalawar (2), while one each was reported from Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi, Banswara, Baran, Bundi, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar and nine from other states. Jaipur reported 100 cases, taking its tally to 2,360. As many as 26 persons were found infected from the same building in Pano Ka Dariba in Subhash Chowk area. Besides, seven from a family residing in a house in Anand Badi in Suraj Pole Gate area have also tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, a family of five persons, residing at Bihari Marg in Bani Park have been diagnosed with Covid-19. In the city, there are 34 places, which reported the 100 cases. The areas which reported cases are Subhash Chowk (26), Ramganj (10), Chandpole (10), Bani Park (5), Govindgarh (4), Jhotwara (4), Bassi (4), Ghat Gate (3), Sitapura (3), Shastri Nagar (3), Station Road (2), SMS Hospital (2), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ajmer Road (2), while one case each was reported from Eidgah, Jaisinghpura Khor, Virat Nagar, Kotputli, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-369-ve-cases-highest-spike-in-a-single-day/articleshow/76293687.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Allahabad||AU moves a step further towards student union||Prayagraj: The six member committee, constituted by the officiating vice-chancellor of Allahabad University to suggest the modalities and guidelines for constituting the next student union, have finalised its report. Now the report would be tabled at the meeting of the deans and after incorporating their suggestions, the same would be submitted to the VC who would then constitute another high-powered committee for approving the suggestive modalities. In the academic session 2019-20 the then vice-chancellor Prof RL Hangloo had changed the constitution of student union on the campus and replaced the age-old student union with student council. However, after implementing the concept and holding the elections for the maiden student council on the campus, the student leaders did not participate in the said elections and student council never saw the light of the day on the campus along with on three other constituent colleges of AU. However, after taking over as the officiating VC of AU, Prof Tiwari held a meeting on the campus on February 27 and decided that AU should have student union on the campus. This was also included in agenda of the meeting of the Academic Council (AC). Later, Prof Tewari had constituted a committee, headed by dean student welfare (DSW) to suggest changes and reaching out on modalities that could be followed to constitute students union on the campus. “We have prepared the report and the same would be tabled in the meeting of all deans so that the opinion of the faculty members is also incorporated”, said AU’s DSW, Prof KP Singh. The DSW further added that the committee had mulled over all the recommendations of the Lyngdoh committee, based on, which all the elections since 2005 were held on the campus. “We have not suggested any major changes but yes those, which do not fit to the present scenario or those which seems impractical by the passage of time—for instance limit of poll expenditure of Rs 5000 (maximum)—should be changed”, said Prof Singh. Commenting on the issue, former vice president of AUSU and leader of NSUI (national student union of India), Akhilesh Yadav said, “This is a welcome step, which shows the commitment of the varsity authorities for giving back the student’s union to the student fraternity in place of impractical student council as suggested by the former VC”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-moves-a-step-further-towards-student-union/articleshow/76289732.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan reports 369 positive cases, highest spike in a single day||JAIPUR: The state recorded the highest single-day spike with 369 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. It has surpassed the highest daily count, which was recorded on May 19 of 338 cases. With the new cases, the state’s total number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 11,200 mark, to reach 11,245 since the first case was reported on March 3. The state reported nine fatalities too, bringing the toll to 255 in the state. Deaths were reported from Jaipur (3), Jodhpur (2), Ajmer (2), Bharatpur (1), while one person died who belonged to other state. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (65), Bharatpur (51), Pali (39), Alwar (19), Jhunjhunu (12), Ajmer (9), Nagaur (9), Sikar (8), Churu (7), Kota (7), Barmer (5), Dausa (4), Karauli (4), Dholpur (3), Bikaner (3), Bhilwara (2), Jaisalmer (2), Jalore (2), Jhalawar (2), while one each was reported from Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi, Banswara, Baran, Bundi, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar and nine from other states. Jaipur reported 100 cases, taking its tally to 2,360. As many as 26 persons were found infected from the same building in Pano Ka Dariba in Subhash Chowk area. Besides, seven from a family residing in a house in Anand Badi in Suraj Pole Gate area have also tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, a family of five persons, residing at Bihari Marg in Bani Park have been diagnosed with Covid-19. In the city, there are 34 places, which reported the 100 cases. The areas which reported cases are Subhash Chowk (26), Ramganj (10), Chandpole (10), Bani Park (5), Govindgarh (4), Jhotwara (4), Bassi (4), Ghat Gate (3), Sitapura (3), Shastri Nagar (3), Station Road (2), SMS Hospital (2), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ajmer Road (2), while one case each was reported from Eidgah, Jaisinghpura Khor, Virat Nagar, Kotputli, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-369-ve-cases-highest-spike-in-a-single-day/articleshow/76293690.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||A common gruel pot feeds weavers of Athoor union||Dindigul: Weavers’ associations in Athoor union in the district have come together to start a ‘kanji thotti’ or gruel pot to feed its members, who were going hungry due to lack of work, and also to prevent their exploitation by private players. There are eight weavers’ associations in the villages around Chinnalapatti in Athoor union, including Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society, Anjugam Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society, Kamala Nehru Society, Anna Society and Gandhi Society. Chinnalapatti and its surroundings have about 4,000 weavers of which around 1,500 are members of the societies mentioned above. Others weave for private players. As all of them were finding it difficult to get a proper meal, about 400 weavers residing at J Pudukottai Weavers Colony in Seevalsaragu panchayat joined hands with their neighbours in Kamala Nehru colony, J J Colony and Anjugam colony to cook in a common gruel pot in front of Valampuri temple in their village to feed all their members. All of them contribute towards preparation of this gruel. Shenbagaraman, a member of the Sowdeswari Society, said that the managers of their societies had failed to get them yarn for weaving and therefore were in danger of being exploited by private players. Many of the societies had to settle dues for sarees woven before the lockdown. G Sadaiyappan, of J Pudukottai, said that a weaver’s family would go hungry if they did not get yarn to weave for one week, but now there was a shortage in supply of yarn and hence the gruel pot scheme was started in their village. Selvaraj, another weaver, said that the societies were trying to reduce the price for a saree. “Usually, a weaver gets about Rs 600 to Rs 1,000 for a saree based on the fabric, quality and design of the product.” Textile control officer A Kavitha said that she was unaware of the common gruel pot. “We agree that there has been a delay in supply of yarn and thread to the weavers due to various issues including transportation during the lockdown period, but now that is being settled,” she said, adding they had not reduced the wages of members of the societies including Kamala Nehru, Gandhi and Anna societies coming under her control, but could not comment on private players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/a-common-gruel-pot-feeds-weavers-of-athoor-union/articleshow/76292323.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan reports 369 positive cases, highest spike in a single day||JAIPUR: The state recorded the highest single-day spike with 369 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. It has surpassed the highest daily count, which was recorded on May 19 of 338 cases. With the new cases, the state’s total number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 11,200 mark, to reach 11,245 since the first case was reported on March 3. The state reported nine fatalities too, bringing the toll to 255 in the state. Deaths were reported from Jaipur (3), Jodhpur (2), Ajmer (2), Bharatpur (1), while one person died who belonged to other state. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (65), Bharatpur (51), Pali (39), Alwar (19), Jhunjhunu (12), Ajmer (9), Nagaur (9), Sikar (8), Churu (7), Kota (7), Barmer (5), Dausa (4), Karauli (4), Dholpur (3), Bikaner (3), Bhilwara (2), Jaisalmer (2), Jalore (2), Jhalawar (2), while one each was reported from Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi, Banswara, Baran, Bundi, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar and nine from other states. Jaipur reported 100 cases, taking its tally to 2,360. As many as 26 persons were found infected from the same building in Pano Ka Dariba in Subhash Chowk area. Besides, seven from a family residing in a house in Anand Badi in Suraj Pole Gate area have also tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, a family of five persons, residing at Bihari Marg in Bani Park have been diagnosed with Covid-19. In the city, there are 34 places, which reported the 100 cases. The areas which reported cases are Subhash Chowk (26), Ramganj (10), Chandpole (10), Bani Park (5), Govindgarh (4), Jhotwara (4), Bassi (4), Ghat Gate (3), Sitapura (3), Shastri Nagar (3), Station Road (2), SMS Hospital (2), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ajmer Road (2), while one case each was reported from Eidgah, Jaisinghpura Khor, Virat Nagar, Kotputli, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-369-ve-cases-highest-spike-in-a-single-day/articleshow/76293688.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||5-yr-old down with Kawasaki syndrome treated successfully||Karur: Doctors at the government medical college hospital in Karur have successfully treated a five-year-old boy who was suffering from Kawasaki disease. The child, hailing from Thanthonimalai area in Karur town was admitted to the hospital on June 3 with severe fever, lip blast, swelling in hands and legs. Doctors conducted a thorough medical examination which revealed that he was affected by Kawasaki disease, a syndrome. The inflammation of blood vessels, peeling skin and rash were also consequences of the diseases. Dean of the hospital, Dr E Theranirajan told reporters on Tuesday that the parents brought the boy to the government hospital as there was no improvement in his health despite treating him for six days in private hospitals. After being diagnosed with Kawasaki, doctors also conducted Covid-19 testing on the boy but he tested negative. Later, a team of doctors comprising paediatricians Dr Kanimozhi, Dr Senthilkumar, Dr Vidya Sankari, Dr Shanthi, Dr Sasi Rekha, Dr Radhika and cardiologist Dr Sushilkumar provided treatment. Theranirajan said the five-year-old boy was administered intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) for 16 hours, following which he recovered. The treatment cost Rs 60,000 was claimed under the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS). The medicine was brought to Karur from Trichy. The dean also said that no other child was affected with Kawasaki. Doctors have advised the parents to follow their advice for six months for the child to recover completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-yr-old-down-with-kawasaki-syndrome-treated-successfully/articleshow/76292330.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||SHGs say lenders still harassing them||Trichy: Despite warnings from the district administration to micro finance companies not to harass the borrowers, members of women self-help groups have alleged harassment and forcing them to pay instalments with additional interest for the unpaid months. A group of women from SHGs in Crawford in the city took a rally towards the collector office on Monday after they faced verbal harassment from the staff of private financial institutions. S Podhumponnu, who led the group, was livid over the way collection agents of the micro finance companies were dealing them. “Most of us in our area are poverty-stricken depending on the daily wage work. Since the lockdown, our source of income has collapsed. Now, the lenders are forcing us to pay the instalments for loans against the advice of the government,” said Podhumponnu on Tuesday. The complaint came a few days after Trichy collector S Sivarasu issued a strict warning against all financial institutions not to harass borrowers in the name of collecting instalments. Quoting RBI guidelines, Sivarasu said the moratorium period has been extended to August 31. He also warned of strict action against the finance companies if they were found violating the norms. Caroline Gandhimathi from Padalur in Perambalur district expressed her fear over the warning given by a microfinance company in Mannachanallur in Trichy to pay the instalment on Wednesday. “I received the call from a staff of the company that I should pay the amount tomorrow. I have no idea how I will face the staff,” she said. SHG members in Trichy also felt that the warning from RBI and the collector office had no effect on finance companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shgs-say-lenders-still-harassing-them/articleshow/76292316.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bouquet of offers at Kolkata restaurants to compensate for liquor loss||KOLKATA: Stung by the ‘no liquor’ order, Kolkata’s restaurants and bars, which reopened to a low footfall on Monday after a two-and-half-month closure, are turning to complimentary dishes, music, mocktails and a ‘private dining’ experience to lure their patrons back. Even though food sales improved considerably on the second day of resumption, ‘incentives’ were a must to raise footfall in the absence of alcohol, they pointed out. Alcohol accounts for around 40% of the total sale volume at 90% of Kolkata’s restaurants. With the impact of lockdown still lingering and the virus threat persisting, it would be difficult for restaurants to drive sales without liquor, felt Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) secretary Sudesh Poddar. “Customers have started trickling back and footfall has gone up marginally on Tuesday. But since alcohol drives food sales, the latter is bound to remain low till bars remain shut. So, we must offer something new,” said Poddar, who owns Song-Hai in central Kolkata. What’sup! Café on Southern Avenue recorded a sharp rise in sales on Tuesday. The three-tier outlet has reopened just one of its three floors since it had been apprehensive about footfall in the absence of alcohol. On Tuesday evening, the cafe remained packed. The difference was made by its live music, apart from the fact that it’s an open-air café, felt co-owner Anirban Sengupta. “Liquor constitutes about half of our total sales in terms of money. But we are also known for our live music which is back and our guests are finding it an attraction apart from the food that has been always our strong point,” said Sengupta. Footfall, he added, had touched 60% on the first evening. Trincas on Park Street — which is yet to reopen — has added Thai cuisine to its menu. It resumed home delivery three weeks ago and Thai food has been a hit, said Anand Puri of Trincas. The only restaurant on Park Street that has live music, bands will be in action the day it reopens later this week. “New food and the music will be the attractions post-lockdown. I wish we could offer something more to compensate for the absence of alcohol. But the ambience and the music should be incentive enough for our patrons to come out of their homes and spend an evening here,” said Puri. He added that bands will now have fewer performers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bouquet-of-offers-at-restaurants-to-compensate-for-liquor-loss/articleshow/76290862.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Youth goes to drop injured man home, killed in attack||JIND: A 21-year-old man was killed in Jind and his father injured in an attack by the family of a man who got injured in an accident with the duo. Deceased Vikas and his father Rajesh Kumar were going in their car to their village, Nara in Panipat district, on Monday when a motorcycle rammed into their from behind and the man riding was injured. Police said the father-son duo offered to rush the biker to the hospital for treatment, but he asked them to take him to his home in Khera Khemawati village. When they reached the injured man’s house, the relatives of the motorcyclist got into an argument with Vikas and Rajesh, it has been alleged. The family the allegedly assaulted the duo with lathis and pitchforks. Both were injured and taken to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, where Vikas died. People from the village of deceased on Tuesday protested over inaction in the case. They blocked roads at different places. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Ajit Shekhawat rushed to the spot and pacified the villagers. Shekhawat said they had booked over five persons under sections 302 (murder) 148 ( rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/youth-goes-to-drop-injured-man-home-killed-in-attack/articleshow/76291733.cms||Vijender Kumar
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 369 positive cases, highest spike in a single day||JAIPUR: The state recorded the highest single-day spike with 369 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. It has surpassed the highest daily count, which was recorded on May 19 of 338 cases. With the new cases, the state’s total number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 11,200 mark, to reach 11,245 since the first case was reported on March 3. The state reported nine fatalities too, bringing the toll to 255 in the state. Deaths were reported from Jaipur (3), Jodhpur (2), Ajmer (2), Bharatpur (1), while one person died who belonged to other state. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (65), Bharatpur (51), Pali (39), Alwar (19), Jhunjhunu (12), Ajmer (9), Nagaur (9), Sikar (8), Churu (7), Kota (7), Barmer (5), Dausa (4), Karauli (4), Dholpur (3), Bikaner (3), Bhilwara (2), Jaisalmer (2), Jalore (2), Jhalawar (2), while one each was reported from Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi, Banswara, Baran, Bundi, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar and nine from other states. Jaipur reported 100 cases, taking its tally to 2,360. As many as 26 persons were found infected from the same building in Pano Ka Dariba in Subhash Chowk area. Besides, seven from a family residing in a house in Anand Badi in Suraj Pole Gate area have also tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, a family of five persons, residing at Bihari Marg in Bani Park have been diagnosed with Covid-19. In the city, there are 34 places, which reported the 100 cases. The areas which reported cases are Subhash Chowk (26), Ramganj (10), Chandpole (10), Bani Park (5), Govindgarh (4), Jhotwara (4), Bassi (4), Ghat Gate (3), Sitapura (3), Shastri Nagar (3), Station Road (2), SMS Hospital (2), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Ajmer Road (2), while one case each was reported from Eidgah, Jaisinghpura Khor, Virat Nagar, Kotputli, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-369-ve-cases-highest-spike-in-a-single-day/articleshow/76292314.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Greater health spending to spur pharma demand: IDMA||AHMEDABAD: The pharmaceutical industry is expecting medicine demand to surge in the near future with spending on healthcare as a percentage of GDP slated to increase, said a top official of Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA). “I am very sure about the statements from various ministers that the GDP spend on healthcare, which is hovering around 1.5%-2%, is going to go up, which means demand for pharmaceutical medicines is going to go up in the near future,” said Milan Patel, who has been appointed the new chairman of IDMA’s Gujarat State Board (GSB) for two years. Patel is joint managing director of Troikaa Pharmaceuticals Ltd. IDMA also appointed Dr Shrenik Shah senior vice-chairman, Sanchit Chaturvedi and Jay Patel vice-chairmen of the Gujarat State Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/greater-health-spending-to-spur-pharma-demand-idma/articleshow/76291710.cms||---
June 10, 2020||India||Massive fire at leaking OIL well in Assam||DIBRUGARH: A damaged Oil India Ltd well in Assam’s Tinsukia district that had been uncontrollably spewing gas for the past 14 days turned into a raging inferno on Tuesday. A PTI report said the fire could be seen from a distance of 30km and the billowing smoke was posing a danger to local biodiversities already ravaged following the May 27 blowout. The damaged well is located next to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. The spreading fire, the roaring sound of the gushing well and large explosions caused panic among locals. Nearly 1,600 families were evacuated but no casualties were reported. Huge swathes of vegetation as well as several houses were gutted. The fire broke out around 1.30pm while a team of specialists from Alert Disaster Control, which had been flown in from Singapore, was trying to stop the gas leak. An OIL spokesperson said, “A firefighter from ONGC sustained minor in juries. All officials of OIL and ONGC are being evacuated from nearby areas. Once the situation becomes normal, the experts from Alert and the staff of OIL and ONGC will move to the site.” Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and urged them to take urgent steps to douse the fire. He was assured of all kinds of assistance and was told the Air Force was on standby. Protests broke out as the fire started, threatening lives and livelihood of locals already facing the impact of the blowout. Following the gas leak, thousands had been moved out and housed at different camps where following social distancing norms remain difficult. Earlier, pictures of a river dolphin carcassand dead fishand vegetation in the area had gone viral. Activists blamed seepage of crude, condensate and other chemicals from the oilwell for the damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/massive-fire-at-leaking-oil-well-in-assam/articleshow/76293073.cms||Rajib Dutta
June 10, 2020||Delhi||NDMC adds four crematoria to Covid-19 list||NEW DELHI: With the rise in the number of Covid-19 hospitals and virus-related deaths, the city is feeling the need for more cremation grounds designated to handle bodies of infected patients. This has prompted North Delhi Municipal Corporation, the nodal agency for Covid-designated funeral facilities, to add four crematoria to cater to hospitals in North, West, Central and New Delhi districts. These facilities are located in Mangolpuri, Netaji Subhash Place, Inderpuri and Wazirpur, and will cater to two pools of hospitals. The three municipal corporations are currently running 16 Covid-designated funeral sites. However, the staff at the Inderpuri crematorium, the only directly corporation-run facility, aren’t ready to comply with the order yet. “We have four people in the wood section, two officers, one safai karamchari and one chowkidar. But there is no protective arrangement for Covid-19 funerals. We will not take part in it unless proper arrangement is made,” said one of them. Another staff member echoed the concern. “Even the area hasn’t been disinfected. We can’t take the risk of infecting our families,” he said. The north and south corporations recently issued show-cause notices to two NGO-run cremation facilities for objecting to wood cremations on safety grounds. Jai Prakash, the chairperson of the north corporation standing committee, said all necessary arrangements would be made to divert pressure and address concerns of all stakeholders. The south coropration’s standing committee chairperson, Bhupender Gupta, said the civic body had been receiving 60-65 Covid bodies every day and the move would reduce the burden on the Punjabi Bagh facility, which has already been made corona-exclusive. “People are calling us to intervene in getting a timely slot of cremation,” he added. The Covid bodies from the first pool comprising MD City Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital and isolation centres located in Central and New Delhi districts will be taken to the Inderpuri facility and the Wazirpur cremation ground near Kanhaiya Nagar metro station. The second pool will include Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Action Balaji Hospital, and Fortis and Max hospitals at Shalimar Bagh in North and West districts. “The bodies from this pool will be taken to either the Mangolpuri facility near Avantika Sector 1 Rohini or the Beriwala Bagh crematorium near Netaji Subhash Place,” said a senior civic official. The East Delhi Municipal Corporaion recently allowed the Ghazipur and Seemapuri facilities to handle Covid bodies to lessen the load on the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-adds-4-crematoria-to-covid-19-list/articleshow/76311301.cms||Paras Singh
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Monsoon likely to hit Kolkata later this week: Met||KOLKATA: The Met office is hopeful of the monsoon keeping its date with Kolkata between Thursday and Friday, given that all the weather systems that activate the onset of the rains are in place. A low pressure system, the most important development to usher in the monsoon, has already started developing over the Bay of Bengal. Keeping a close watch on this low-pressure system, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre G K Das said, “A low-pressure area has formed over east central Bay of Bengal. As this system starts moving towards the Odisha and Andhra coast, it will start bringing in pre-monsoon showers before the actual arrival of the southwest monsoon.” As predicted by the Met office, a cyclonic circulation over east-central Bay of Bengal transformed into a low-pressure area by Tuesday. This system is expected to intensify further into a depression, paving the way for the arrival of monsoon in many parts of Bengal as well as neighbouring Sikkim. “We can expect the monsoon to hit parts of both north and south Bengal, including Kolkata, between Thursday and Friday. The estimated date of monsoon’s arrival to Kolkata is June 11. We see no delay this year,” Das added. The city has been frequented by spells of thundershowers in the past few days. Currently, clouds formed over the Bay are reaching the land regularly to cause these thundershowers. Meteorologists said the estimated date of arrival of monsoon was allowed an error margin of three days. This year, monsoon hit the Kerala coast by June 1, right on time, and by Tuesday, it covered most parts of Tamil Nadu. Last year, monsoon was late at arriving on the Kerala coast. On reaching there on June 8, the rains arrived in Kolkata on June 21, around 10 days behind schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monsoon-likely-to-hit-city-later-this-week-met/articleshow/76291760.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University offers exam centre choice||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University students from rural areas may not have to come to the city of Ahmedabad, the corona hotspot, to appear in final exams that are beginning from June 2.  The university has given its students the option to choose any exam centre of their preference, as it declared 46 exam centres on Monday. It has kept it open for the students to choose the nearest centre from his/her home so that travel distance remains less, and also keeping in mind that the students do not have to come to the city areas, which have been witnessing maximum coronavirus transmission in Gujarat. The university has granted time till June 14 to the students to select their respective exam centres. Once this deadline is missed, the student will have to visit the centre provided by the university. The students will get general option in examinations this year, university officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/varsity-offers-exam-centre-choice/articleshow/76291729.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||ST quota: Telangana to file review plea||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has decided to file a review petition in the Supreme Court on providing 100% reservation in teachers’ posts for tribals in agency areas. The SC had dismissed the GO reserving the posts for the tribals. On Tuesday, government whip Rega Kantha Rao and MLA Athram Sakku met the CM at Pragathi Bhavan and submitted a memorandum stating that the SC’s verdict would do injustice to the tribals and urged KCR to wage a legal battle against the verdict. The CM responded positively and directed the officials to study legal and constitutional provisions and file a review petition in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/st-quota-t-to-file-review-plea/articleshow/76291725.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||CBD to charge Rs 100 per house towards water bill||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD), in order to overcome the losses being incurred in supplying drinking water, has decided to charge Rs 100 per house every month towards water bill. According to a senior CBD official, they are incurring more expenses from water distribution compared to the revenue they are generating from water tax. The official pegged the loss from water distribution to approximately Rs1.25 crore per annum. On this backdrop, they have decided to start implementing the system of Rs 100 flat per house. Chief executive officer of CBD Ajay Kumar said that the new system would be implemented on an experimental basis for six months. “There are 194 residential societies in the cantonment board area with around 5,500 houses. In many cases, the number of water connection were far too less compared to the flats and houses in the society,” he said. Bhagwan Kataria, vice-president of CBD, said that water supply being an essential service they are bound to provide water to the residents of the cantonment area. “On one hand where the expenses to the water section is roughly Rs 2.22 crore per annum, the revenue generation from the water tax is only Rs 1.28 lakh. Hence, the CBD is incurring huge losses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-to-charge-rs-100-per-house-towards-water-bill/articleshow/76289741.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||6-year-old stabbed to death by mother||Shahkot (Jalandhar): A 30 year old woman killed her six-year-old son at Sohal Jagir village by repeatedly stabbing him on Monday night. According to police, the woman did it in a fit of rage after quarreling with her mother-in-law. After stabbing the child, the woman jumped from roof of the house to commit suicide and is now admitted in a private hospital in Jalandhar. In his police complaint, accused Kulwinder Kaur’s father-in-law Avtar Singh said his son lives in Italy and had last come home around six months back. He said Kulwinder did not get along with her mother-in-law but the child was very fond of his grandmother, which irritated her. He said they heard screams from Kulwinder’s room on Monday night and when they there, they found that child bleeding profusely while she had a knife in her hand. She said she had killed the child and rushed up the staircase to the terrace, from where she jumped, he added. The child was taken to Nakodar Civil Hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries on the way. Shahkot SHO Surinder Kumar said they have booked Kulwinder for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-year-old-stabbed-to-death-by-mother/articleshow/76291744.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Madurai||Decision on Class X could have come earlier, say some parents||Madurai: Welcoming the move by the state government to scrap this year’s Class X and Class XI board exams and declare all pass, teachers said that the students will now be motivated to continue with their higher studies. Government school students and teachers had been worried being at a disadvantage compared to private schools if the exams were conducted as planned, especially since many students have not been able to concentrate on studies at home during the lockdown. “This is a huge relief for everyone. Students were not prepared enough and online learning has been a struggle so far. Prolonged postponement would only create unnecessary fear, so cancellation of the exams was ideal. Further, dropouts will not be there so all students would be motivated to do better in Class XI and XII,” said K Anand Raman, legal secretary of Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary School Headmasters’ Association. Though teachers, parents and students of both government and private schools alike expressed relief over scrapping the exams, some questioned the timing of the cancellation. Many schools had already started issuing hall tickets and teachers have also been working to keep exam centres ready. “Health always comes first. The cancellation could have been done earlier. In Madurai especially, in the last few days, there were few Covid-19 cases among children in containment areas. I was worried because I had to go out with my child to get her hall ticket,” said Jeyalakshmi D, a parent whose daughter studies in a private school. Looking ahead, teachers and parents are both hoping for clear instructions and guidelines when it comes to results and choosing groups for Class XI. Meanwhile, school headmasters said that the re-usable masks and thermal scanners given to them for conducting the exams will be put to use after schools reopen and hence would not go to waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/decision-on-class-x-could-have-come-earlier-say-some-parents/articleshow/76292347.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Six of a family among 13 new corona cases||LUCKNOW: Six members of a family in Phoolbagh including three children were among 12 people who tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Tuesday. This took the city’s tally to 479 so far. A 27-year-old nine-months-pregnant woman was also among those diagnosed with Covid-19 in Talab Gangni Shukl area, situated next to Phoolbagh, which has been notified as a containment zone. Infection was first detected in the Phoolbagh family on Sunday when a 65-year-old woman was diagnosed with the disease. Now, her 73-year-old husband and two daughters-in-law (37 and 38 years) have tested positive. Her two granddaughters—aged seven and two—and one-and-a-half-year-old grandson have also been infected. The 65-year-old woman had no symptoms but was tested when a doctor recommended surgery for a hip fracture she suffered after an accident at home. She was tested positive for Covid-19. She was then admitted to KGMU, while other family members have been sent to Lokbandhu hospital. The pregnant woman, due to deliver in three or four days, was admitted to Lokbandhu hospital after a routine check-up during which her sample was taken for Covid testing which came out positive. Two GRP personnel and two government ambulance staff have also tested positive. Meanwhile, 10 people were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/six-of-a-family-among-13-new-corona-cases/articleshow/76292359.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||Heatwave revives in Raj, Sriganganagar logs 43.3°C||Jaipur: After a week, many places in the state witnessed maximum temperatures above 40 degree Celsius on Tuesday. Since no rainfall activity took place and moisture disappeared, places including Churu, Barmer, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur witnessed scorching heat. Sriganganagar remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 43.3°C was recorded.Though many places witnessed partly cloudy sky yet there was a rise of almost 4-6°C in the minimum and maximum temperatures across the state.Attributing the rise in the mercury to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic, Jaipur meteorological office said that mercury will continue to rise in the state in the coming days. Many places in the state are likely to witness its maximum temperatures on or above 42°C. People in Jaipur woke up to a warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 29.6°C was recorded in the city. It was almost 4 degrees above the normal notch. It was followed by a sultry afternoon when a maximum temperature of 41°C as recorded. After almost a week, Jaipur witnessed its maximum temperature above 40°C. In the afternoon, roads wore an empty look especially there was hardly any traffic on the JLN Marg, Tonk Road and Sikar Road. In the evening, though partly cloudy sky was witnessed it did not convert into rainfall.Likewise many places in the state witnessed rise in their day temperatures. Rising temperatures brought a sigh of relief for the farmers in the Kota division who were worried with the abrupt rainfall due to which their cotton crop was partly damaged. Also the rainfall during last one week also delayed the sowing of the crops by the farmers and had also damaged the locally harvested vegetable crops.In its forecast, Jaipur meteorological office said that the temperatures will further rise in the state in the next couple of days. In Jaipur, a maximum temperature of 42°C is likely to be recorded on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heatwave-revives-in-raj-sriganganagar-logs-43-3c/articleshow/76292370.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University to hold exams of only 50 marks||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University will hold exams for only 50 marks instead of 100 for terminal semester undergraduate and second- and fourth-year postgraduate students, in July. The recent decision is expected to affect as many as 1 lakh students of GU-affiliated colleges in arts, commerce, science, and education courses. For students taking the law exam, the maximum marks will be 60 and the duration of the exam will be two hours. This decision comes after many students pressed for the cancellation of the annual examinations that were deferred for a long time due to the Covid-19 lockdown. More than 350 colleges are affiliated to Gujarat University. The varsity had earlier announced college-level exams of two-hour duration instead of three hours in line with UGC and state government guidelines. The exam paper will be set in a way that candidates can avail of 100% options in selection of the questions, the varsity announced. This will include law candidates also, it said. GU said that options like giving answers to any three of six questions or five out of ten questions will be given to the students. GU sources said that these steps will improve the overall performance of students. In all, 61 semester course exams will be held from July 2 while annual examinations for 15 semester courses will begin from July 13 at GU-affiliated colleges. The annual exams for colleges were deferred this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The exams will be conducted while following proper sanitization protocols and social distancing norms at the exam centres. Notice to service providerThe Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has issued notice to Updater Services Private Limited after the later sent email to its contractual staff of making changes in the service rules and reducing the salary of the staff. The Updater management had said that the salary would be reduced to Rs 22,000 from the existing Rs 35,000. The AMC in the notice has said that because of the service provider, about 300-odd staff had stayed away from their duties thus putting hardship to the hospital. The AMC has asked the management as to why action should not be taken against them under the Epidemic Act?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-hold-exams-of-only-50-marks/articleshow/76291731.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Atal Bihari medical univ VC without office, staff||LUCKNOW: Dr A K Singh, dean, plastic surgery department, KGMU, is facing a unique situation. He has been appointed the first vice-chancellor of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University (ABVMU), but he neither has an office nor any staff to run the show. The state government has appointed Dr Singh as the vice-chancellor of ABVMU for two years. At present, Dr Singh is working from the plastic surgery department of KGMU and is waiting for the state government to release budget for the varsity. The medical education department has asked him to start working from a makeshift office on the fourth floor of Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Gomtinagar, but even there work is still in progress and the office has yet to take a final shape. In a tribute to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had been Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow for five consecutive terms, on his birth anniversary last year, the state had government announced setting up a medical university in his name. Though the government did not acquire land for the varsity, it finalised the name of the vice-chancellor. ABVMU would have to be a non-residential university, giving affiliation to government and private medical, dental and paramedical colleges and would be conducting the examinations. In any state university, the government is empowered to appoint its first VC and the power of making appointment of subsequent vice-chancellors rests with the governor — chancellor of all state universities. Talking to TOI, a senior officer in the director general medical education (DGME) office said, “The VC office at Lohia institute is not ready. For the time being, Dr Singh can work from his office at KGMU.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/atal-bihari-medical-univ-vc-without-office-staff/articleshow/76292385.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist reports 3 imported, 2 indigenous cases||Coimbatore: Five people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Monday. While three of them are imported cases, the remaining two are indigenous cases without any travel history. All the five have been admitted to the ESI Hospital. Meanwhile, the ENT ward at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) was disinfected and closed for two days, after a patient kept in isolation there tested positive for the virus. Two of the three returnees from Chennai – 35-year-old woman and her 11-year-old son – reached the city by taking a bus to Katpadi and then boarding a train from there. They had no e-pass. The remaining one, a 27-year-old man, reached the city by road. The two indigenous cases comprise a 49-year-old cancer patient from Podanur and a 27-year-old woman from Kanuvai. While the woman had spent time with her brother, who tested positive for the virus after he returned from Mumbai, the cancer patient, who was admitted to CMCH, doesn’t have any known contact with any positive cases or travel history. A health department official said, “We had allowed the woman’s brother, who had flown down from Mumbai with an e-pass for Thoothukudi, to stay at her place till the results came. As he tested positive, he was shifted to hospital and was not allowed to proceed to Thoothukudi.” The health department also tested the family members and found his sister had also contracted the virus. CMCH authorities issued a press note stating that the 49-year-old man from Podanur had been suffering from throat cancer for the past eight months. “He came to us on Monday afternoon with breathing difficulties. Doctors were planning to intubate him. His swabs were collected through tracheostomy and he was moved to an isolated part of the ENT ward,” it said. He was shifted to the ESI Hospital after test results showed him positive for the virus. Subsequently, all the doctors and staff, who attended to the patient, were asked to remain in quarantine. The ENT ward was also disinfected. “His source of infection is not clear. We have sent our team to collect samples from his family, immediate neighbours and other contacts,” the health department official said. Meanwhile, two city residents tested positive for the virus in Chennai. They comprise a 58-year-old woman from Hindustan Avenue and an eight-year-old boy from L&T Avinashi apartment in Peelamedu. Both of them have been hospitalized in Chennai itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-reports-3-imported-2-indigenous-cases/articleshow/76291758.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Trichy||2 minors among 5 held for hatching dacoity plan||Trichy: A conspiracy being hatched by a five-member gang to commit dacoity to buy liqour in Trichy was blunted when the man who overheard their conversation informed the police. Five people, including two minor boys were arrested by the Palakkarai police on Monday. The accused have been identified as G Veera alias Veeramanesan alias Thowfiq alias Joseph, 25, of Mudaliyar Chathiram, P Chinnathambi alias Malaisamy, 24, from Ambedkar Nagar , P Thiruppathi, 28, of Dharmanathapuram and two 17-year-old boys from Palakkarai and Sangiliyandapuram. They were slapped with charge of attempt to commit dacoity under IPC. K Prabu, 33, of Kajapettai in the city is an employee of the Trichy Corporation’s graveyard at Manalvarithurai. He was involved in his work on Monday morning when he heard some discussion from behind a building near the graveyard. Prabu and two of his colleagues went closer to the building for eavesdropping. The trio heard the gang conspiring to commit dacoity from the daily wage labourers of a cement godown in the area. Upon hearing their plan, Prabu asked his colleagues to watch the gang carefully, while he rushed to the Palakkarai police station. In his compliant, Prabu claimed that Veera was telling the others that they should waylay someone for their liquor party. He also said that they had two machetes and three other weapons. Veera was found assigning the roles to the others. Police visited the graveyard and arrested all the five. They were remanded by the court. The minors were produced before the juvenile justice board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-minors-among-5-held-for-hatching-dacoity-plan/articleshow/76292378.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Month after reopening, businesses need a hand to stay operational||Chennai: It’s akin to running a race with one’s legs tied together. With production resuming across factories in the state a month ago, entrepreneurs and businessmen are trying to pull every rabbit out of the hat to keep the business wheels rolling. The problems are many, be it people or capital or demand. With this situation on the ground, businesses are looking up to the state government for support, some fiscal measures and on policies. But for fiscal compulsions, which is also not rocket science, a copy paste solution is available on use of electricity, labour laws, tech park rentals and removal of cess in some cases."Companies will incur fixed costs and little or no business in the months to come, as economic activity restarts. Supporting companies in the short term on meeting fixed costs and providing liquidity are essential to avoid further economic stress. It is imperative that the government support manufacturers to survive, overcome the current situation, put the economy back on the rails and thereby improve the business sentiment," S Murali Shankar, president of Association of Indian Forging Industry, wrote in a memorandum to the state government a few weeks ago. Power strugglesMaharashtra has given a moratorium on payment of fixed charges for the next three months since the lockdown. The state’s electricity commission has also approved a tariff reduction of 7% for 2020-21 and almost a flat tariff for the remaining four years. To boost the industrial sector, the Maharashtra commission has lowered tariffs by 10% to 15%. Telangana and Gujarat, too, have announced easing measures for business. However, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has moved the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel) against giving concessions to high tension power consumers. Aptel stayed an order of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) directing Tangedco to provide a 70% concession to high tension consumers on minimum demand charges as per existing norms, during the lockdown period from March 24 to May 3.Labour lawsRajasthan, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have extended working hours in manufacturing units to 12 hours from 8 hours. With guest workers not available, the existing workforce needs to work longer hours. "Present laws allow 8 hours plus 2 hours over time, that needs extension for willing workers," a textile entrepreneur said. Some other states including Uttar Pradesh have cleared an ordinance exempting businesses from the purview of most labour law provisions for the next three years. However, labour laws related to bonded labour, deployment of women and children and timely payment of salaries will not be relaxed under the ordinance. Madhya Pradesh and Odisha too have changed their labour laws to allow 12-hour shifts. Rentals at IT ParksKerala and West Bengal governments have announced three-month rental waiver for tenants in state promoted tech parks. The union ministry of electronics and information technology had announced rental waivers to the units housed in STPI premises in the country for four months from March 1. STPI, is an autonomous society of the government that has 60 centres across the country including Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, and Kolkata and smaller cities including Nagpur, Warangal, and Surat. "It will be a significant leg up for small tech companies which have cash flows strained," said a testing company CEO. Extra Cotton CessTamil Nadu is the only time state that charges a 1% cess on both cotton and waste cotton. The impact of the charges on cotton is directly felt by the farmer while that on waste cotton is felt by handloom mills. "The Central government has promulgated an ordinance against charging cotton cess. We hope the state government also removes this. Because of this, there is a 0.6% impact on profitability of companies, said N Selvaraj, secretary general, South India Mills Association. New-age startups They do businesses differently and cannot be bound by legacy rules, so long as their actions are bona fide and not ultra vires. Startups need a three-year freedom from various compliance related documentation that has an impact on profitability."A moratorium from inspections to check compliance on various regulations for a period of three years. Expect them to be fully compliant, pay taxes and GST as required by law and follow Factories Act, but let them not have the fear or feel, rightly or wrongly, that they will be subject to harassment. Post three years all startups should be in line as a grown up," said Lakshmi Narayan, former CEO of Cognizant and mentor for startups. "Build trust and integrity through freedom, flexibility and support, not through the rule book and fear of authority — only during the first three years."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/month-after-reopening-businesses-need-a-hand-to-stay-operational/articleshow/76291748.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||YAD joins gym owners’ protest||Ludhiana: Various gym owners staged a protest at Shivpuri Chowk on Tuesday with the support of Youth Akali Dal. The gym owners demanded that the government should allow gyms to open on the lines of liquor vends. The members claimed that the government became worried about its revenue in two months of lockdown but it did not think about gym owners. YAD district president Gurdeep Gosha said the government had opened everything except gym and health club. In the present situation, gym owners are forced to sell their medals and other assets to run their households. He said for the last 80 days, gyms have remained closed, following which they are not able to pay rent, salaries and other expenses. Even the children of gym owners are requesting the government for helping them as they are unable to pay electricity bills, school fee and purchase other necessary items. The government should announce special package for gym owners and also allow these to open with conditions of maintaining safety, said Gosha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yad-joins-gym-owners-protest/articleshow/76290914.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||In Telangana, few migrant workers avail one nation-one ration card facility||HYDERABAD: Not many migrant workers have availed the one-nation-one-ration card portability facility in the state before and during the lockdown. Officials attribute the lack of response to eating habits, lack of awareness and other factors. Also, many migrant workers leave their ration cards with their families back in their home states. The other drawback is that the state is offering only rice through the public distribution system (PDS). Officials said wheat is supplied to white card holders in select shops in old city. Though the previous Congress government used to distribute nine essential commodities through fair price shops at subsidised rates, the TRS government gradually stopped all items except rice. After the TRS came to power, oil, salt, sugar or chilli powder is not distributed through PDS. There are over 85 lakh card holders in the state. The Centre has formed clusters for implementation of the nation-wide scheme. There are 12 states in the Telangana cluster, which is decided based on migration of workers from one state to the other. Telangana cluster has AP, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Tripura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-t-few-migrant-workers-avail-one-nation-one-ration-card-facility/articleshow/76291738.cms||Roushan Ali
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||With migrants leaving, ‘vehras’ become livable for those behind||Ludhiana: In what can be termed as a breather for migrant workers living in various ‘vehras’ in the city, the present situation seems to have changed for good after a huge number of their companions living with them have left Ludhiana for their home states. On one side, with such a large number of rooms in ‘vehras’ now falling vacant, the number of occupants living in one room have come down. The number which was earlier five-six persons per room to two-three persons now. In addition to this, the rentals per room too have fallen down in the city. As earlier per room rental was close to Rs 1,500-Rs 1,600, it has now fallen to Rs 1,000-Rs 1,200 per room. According to Ram Khilawan, a migrant labourer living in a ‘vehra’ near Focal Point area, “There are six rooms in our ‘vehra’. Earlier, there were close to five-six persons living in each room here, but ever since the workers started going back home, now, on an average only two-three persons in one room are being allowed to live. In some rooms there are only one-two persons. The situation has changed the living conditions inside the ‘vehras’ as now with less occupants here the social distancing norms are being followed and the common facilities like washrooms, toilets are even more hygienic than before.” Speaking to TOI, Babu Lal, who lives in another ‘vehra’ at Dhandari Kalan, “Earlier, the rent per room was being charged at Rs 1,500-1,600 per month and power charges were being charged extra. But from the start of month of June, the owners have told us that they will give discount to us and now, we will have to pay Rs 1,000-1,200 per room and power charges will be extra like earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-migrants-leaving-vehras-become-livable-for-those-behind/articleshow/76290933.cms||Mohit Behl
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Births and deaths registry faces deluge of applications||AHMEDABAD: The civic body’s births and deaths registry is staring at a deluge of applications for death certificates, mainly from families in Covid-19 containment areas, after movement restrictions are eased.  These applications will be well past the mandatory 21-day period within which a family has to apply for a death certificate. Civic officials now claim that families of those who died 30 days ago, will now have to file affidavits about the delay, which will mean extra costs. Owing to the lockdown and movement restrictions within containment areas since March 23, many families of Covid-19 victims have not been able to approach civic centres or the department. What has compounded the worries of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is that a large number of victims are the elderly, most of whose birth records are in tatters or are missing from the central registry at the Danapith office. “Usually the registry is staffed to solve 20-odd queries a day but it will now see hundreds and even a couple of thousands of applications with mounting deaths,” said a senior AMC official. He added that the state government may have to ease the 30-day window for filing for applications. On the complexity of municipal record keeping, the AMC official said, “Ward boundaries have changed with each election delimitation, which is at the core of this complexity.” For instance, prior to 1953, the registers for Dariapur and Madhupura were one, then in the 1960s they were separated and later a new ward, Kazipur-Dariapur, came into existence. Many of the records from between 1932 and 1979, which are stacked together are in tatters, with pieces of paper strewn on the department’s floor, as they are repeatedly pulled out for verification purposes. The official explained that panchayat records of newly inducted areas such as Vastrapur, Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Mithakali, Sola and others have made ample mistakes in surnames and parents’ names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/births-deaths-registry-faces-deluge-of-applications/articleshow/76291753.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Power bill shocker even for those who stayed shut||HYDERABAD: Unusually high electricity bills continue to roil citizens across the city, especially those who kept their shutters down through the lockdown. Shocked at the sight of their due amount — in many cases upwards of Rs 20,000 — some are now wondering just how they’d clear the payment. Among them is 28-year-old Mohammed Wasir Ali who runs an ice-cream parlour in Gachibowli. His June bill: Rs 32,969. This, despite Ali choosing to keep this store shut for the last two months. “I had only refrigerator running to store the ice-cream. How is it then possible that my usage is so high? In fact, I paid Rs 2,300 in April and Rs 500 in May. I have no idea how my bill can be so high when there was hardly any electricity consumed during the last two months,” said Ali who has been hit by a double whammy — an exorbitant power bill and rent that’s also due soon. “I am wondering how I’ll raise the money,” he told TOI. Also left dumbfounded by his recent electricity bill is Dr Syed Faheem from Amberpet who decided to temporarily close his clinic, soon after the lockdown was announced. So, when he was handed out a bill of Rs 24,000 for clinic, he didn’t know how to react. And this was, Dr Faheem said, after adjusting the Rs 13,000 he paid in April and May. “My bill usually during the summer goes up Rs 6,000. But since the lockdown, my clinic has been shut. I had paid Rs 13,000 for April and May. Today, when I received the bill I was shocked to know after adjusting that amount I still have to pay Rs 24,000,” he said wondering how the authorities derived at this figure. After the lockdown was declared, the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) allowed Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) to issue electricity bills based on last year’s consumption. “They have now generated bills for the last three months in one go without taking into account the change in slabs. We now have been asked to pay a huge electricity bill,” Dr Faheem added. Speaking about the issue, Telangana’s energy minister G Jagadish Reddy reiterated: “We have charged as per the tariff approved by TSERC. Generally, there is high consumption of power in summer and this year it increased by another 10%-15% due to lockdown...In many cases, a category has slipped into higher slabs and as a result, many people got higher bills. We are setting up a help desk to help resolve the grievances.” He said if people want to pay in installments, “They are free to do so in offices”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-bill-shocker-even-for-those-who-stayed-shut/articleshow/76292415.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Wholesale onion price up 13%||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions increased by 13% on Tuesday at Lasalgaon APMC — from Rs 850 per quintal to Rs 960. An APMC official said there has been rise in demand in the domestic markets for the past few days which has led to rise in wholesale onion prices. The demand has started increasing after the end of Ramzan on May 24. The average wholesale onion price has increased by almost 33% in past one week from Rs 720 per quintal on June 2. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 551 and Rs 1,190 per quintal respectively on Tuesday wherein around 20,000 quintal of onions were auctioned. According to the APMC official, the average wholesale onion price is expected to cross the Rs 1,000-mark in the next couple of days. Currently, onions arriving in the market are summer onions harvested between March and April. The shelf life of summer onions is around five-six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesale-onion-price-up-13/articleshow/76289760.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 10, 2020||Jaipur||North Western Railway seeks direct rail connectivity with south India||JAIPUR: In the next phase of resumption of rail services, Jaipur and Jodhpur are likely to get rail connectivity to southern India including Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Ernakulum. North Western Railway (NWR) is in touch with the railway board and ministry in this regard. Presently, NWR is running 10 trains from Jaipur to Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi, however, Chennai is left out.  “In the next phase, we are looking at restoring train to Chennai. It could be once in a week, bi-weekly or tri-weekly. That would be decided soon,” said an officer on the condition of anonymity. The authorities said that railway ministry may give nod to more trains and NWR is looking at running trains to southern parts of India.  Railway authorities have received requests to start these trains since many people of Rajasthani community reside in southern India. “Likewise, we have many people from Rajasthan who had come prior to the lockdown and wish to return,” said an officer. Authorities said the trains would be resumed in phases and it is upto the ministry of railways. “It is their call to decide if they can allow the operations in a particular circuit or not. But we are hopeful to resume the services soon,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-seeks-direct-rail-connectivity-with-south-india/articleshow/76292375.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||No pay for 3 months, doctors at two Delhi hospitals ready to quit||NEW DELHI: The resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital have threatened to mass resign if their salary arrears for the past three months are not credited to them. The Resident Doctor’s Association of the Kasturba Hospital has written to the additional medical superintendent, stating that they have not been paid since March. “All the residents are working during the Covid-19 pandemic, putting their own and their families’ lives at risk. Over that, we are not getting our salaries,” the letter states. The letter goes on to add: “We are afraid that if we are not paid by June 16, we will have to move for mass resignation. We hope authorities concerned will take immediate action,” it states. The RDA at Hindu Rao, in their letter to the medical superintendent, urged the administration to release the salaries of three months by June 18, and to also ensure a monthly disbursement of salaries to all the health care workers. A north corporation official said that the civic body is facing acute financial crunch and salaries are paid in ascending order, with safai karamcharis being paid first and senior officials getting it last. Dr Sunil Kumar, who is the president of RDA at Kasturba Hospital, asked how could doctors be expected to work without any money in such testing times. “This is inhumane. Being frontline workers we should be paid our pending salaries as soon as possible and a regular salary pay out should be ensured,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-pay-for-3-mnths-docs-at-2-hospitals-ready-to-quit/articleshow/76311313.cms||Paras Singh
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: U-turn on intake in special schools after protests||AHMEDABAD: A notification by G N Nachiya, director of social justice & empowerment department, on Monday met with widespread protests. The notification, that asked the special schools for children with disabilities not to start admissions for the academic year till further orders and asking the parents to admit their disabled kids in a nearby school, was hastily removed by the department on Tuesday. The notification read, ‘This year all organizations under department of social justice & empowerment would not initiate admissions in class I to VIII till further orders. If any children come for admission in these schools, they would have to be admitted to nearby schools for education. If the admission is given by any of the organizations, all responsibility (of the children) would be of respective administrators.’ Labhubhai Sonani, president of Bhavnagar-based Andh Abhyuday Mandal, on Monday wrote to Nachiya and Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani, bringing to their notice the issues faced by about 12,000 children and students with disabilities in the state. Gujarat has 165-odd schools/organizations dedicated to special education, said disability sector experts. “The notification is wrong on the counts of the rights of persons with disabilities (PwD) and right to education. The children with one or multiple disabilities cannot be assimilated in general schools with one swift move without any planning on counts of the schools or students,” said Sonani. “The government can ask schools not to open on count of Covid-19 but how can they stop admission? Is it plan to systematically kill the institutions?” When contacted, Manoj Aggarwal, principal secretary (social justice & empowerment), told TOI that the notification was an oversight. “It was a mistake and the original status has been restored,” he said. Bhushan Punani, executive secretary of Ahmedabad-based Blind People’s Association (BPA), said that the revocation is a welcome move. “It would be great if the stakeholders are consulted before such decisions as hundreds of students get affected in each of the institutions of Gujarat that try to make the person with disabilities self-reliant and active member of the society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/u-turn-on-intake-in-special-schools-after-protests/articleshow/76291750.cms||Parth Shastri
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight Hyderabad seafarers return home from Spain||HYDERABAD: A group of Indian seafarers, who were stranded in Barcelona, Spain, when the lockdown was announced reached home finally. Among the 23 seafarers were eight sailors from Hyderabad. “We are greatly relieved that he is back,” said Vijay Krishna, brother-in-law of seafarer Sandeep Bhagwan Haarti, who reached his Yapral house. Among those who returned was one sailor from Nizamabad and two from Visakhapatnam in AP. “It was after 110 days of waiting that they could finally reach their home,” said Capt Sanjay Prashar, chairman, international maritime federation who also took up with the Indian government and embassy in Spain the issue of the stranded seafarers. Sandeep’s sister Sangeeta pursued with the ministry of external affairs and Indian embassy in Madrid to help the Indian seafarers who had found themselves in a difficult situation due to the lockdown. Because of the Covid-19 situation and the lockdown, Sangeeta said the Indian crew were off-boarded from their cruise ship at the port of Malaga, Spain, on March 21. Since there were no flights, the sailors travelled to Barcelona until they were evacuated. All the seafarers tested negative for Covid-19 after their arrival in India. From Mumbai, the sailors belonging to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh hired a bus and reached Nizamabad and Hyderabad on Tuesday morning. The two others are proceeding towards Vizag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-hyd-seafarers-return-home-from-spain/articleshow/76291749.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||Devasthanam Board allows seers, locals to visit Char Dham||Dehradun: The newly constituted Devasthanam Board on Tuesday issued fresh orders that maximum 1,200 people, mainly local priests and residents of the three districts where the shrines are located, will be allowed to visit the temples every day. In Badrinath, maximum 1,200 people will be allowed to visit the shrine every day, followed by 800 in Kedarnath, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri. The people will have to procure tokens before visiting the temples. As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) in Badrinath, which will open from 7 am to 7 pm, the authorities will give tokens to people in which time of their arrival, standing in line and darshan would be mentioned. The token could be procured from Neelkanth guest house or taxi stand and people will be allowed inside temple’s main sanctum only for 30 seconds. Also, after the Uttarakhand ‘Devasthanam’ board agreed to postpone Char Dham Yatra till June 30, the government said that seers from near by areas will be allowed to meditate in the four shrines. Ravinath Raman, CEO of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, said, "We are allowing local priests and people from within the districts to visit the shrines. But even they will have to take proper precautions like sanitising their hands and maintaining social distance among others."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/devasthanam-board-allows-seers-locals-to-visit-char-dham/articleshow/76289774.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||596 people traced through Arogya Setu app||Kolhapur: As many as 596 people from Kolhapur district, who have been in touch with Covid-19 positive patients, have been traced by the administration officials, district collector Daulat Desai said. All the traced people are high-risk contacts of the positive patients, health officials of the district administration have confirmed, adding that they have been traced through the Aarogya Setu mobile application. Desai has ordered monitoring of the health status of these 596 people. “Around 1.23 lakh people from Kolhapur district have downloaded the mobile application. According to the details generated by Aarogya Setu, about 36 Covid-19 positive people are using the app. These 36 people have, at some point, come in contact with 596 people, the database has prompted. We have asked the health officials to monitor the health status of all these contacts,” Desai said. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district reported three new Covid-19 patients in Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 689, of which, 153 are currently active, eight have succumbed while the rest have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Kolhapur city has reach 24. Of the three new cases detected, two are natives of Chandgad tehsil and have a travel history to Mumbai. They were placed in institutional quarantine. The third one is a resident of Kolahpur city’s Sane Guruji Vasahat. However, the area has not been marked as a containment zone as the man was already in institutional quarantine when he tested positive for the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/596-people-traced-through-arogya-setu-app/articleshow/76291763.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man kills wife, kin over refusal to return home||HYDERABAD: A cycle repair shop worker murdered his wife and father-in-law at the latter’s house in Doultabad in a fit of rage after she refused to come back to live with him in Champapet. The accused, Syed Kaleem, a cycle puncture shop worker in Champapet, murdered Haji Begum (32) and her father Mohammed Abbdul Gaffar, a farmer. According to the police, 13 years ago Kaleem married Haji Begum, a native of Balampet in Doultabad mandal of Vikarabad district. A year ago, Haji Begum along with her sons left Hyderabad to stay with her parents in Balampet.“Haji Begum had a problem with her husband as his income was insufficient to run the family. Upset, she returned to her parents’ house with their children,” Kodangal CI Nageswara Rao said. On Monday, Syed Kaleem came to his in-laws’ house to request Haji Begum to return with him to Champapet. “She did not agree and at around 5.30 am, Kaleem again asked Haji Begum to come with him. During an argument, Kaleem stabbed her multiple times. Whem her father tried to intervene, Kaleem stabbed him too. Both of them died on the spot,” the inspector said. The accused was taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-wife-kin-over-refusal-to-return-home/articleshow/76291755.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Institutional quarantine only for poor, homeless: Karnataka health minister||UDUPI: Health minister B Sriramulu on Tuesday indicated the state would no longer send returnees to institutional quarantine facilities and that these facilities would be reserved only for the poor and homeless. Sriramulu said the state “has closed institutional quarantine facilities from Tuesday” and people who come from other states will be directed to remain in home quarantine. “However, the poor, homeless, and those who stay in colonies will be kept in institutional facilities,” he said. Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojari said food kits will be provided to the poor who are in home quarantine. Sriramulu said district administrations have been given “complete authority” to seal residences of those in home quarantine. “Neighbours will be informed. Once the house is sealed, the person will have to remain at home for 14 days,” Sriramulu said. “Cases will be booked against those who violate the rule and they will be shifted to institutional quarantine.” The minister clarified that the entire apartment building or complex will not be sealed, but only the flat in which the infected person lives. He said 1,100 people, who were in institutional quarantine in Udupi were sent home on Tuesday. With cases rising in Udupi – it has 944 positive cases as on Tuesday – Sriramulu said the district hospital will be upgraded with 250 beds soon. Six specialized staffs have been provided to Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Haji Abdulla Government Mother and Child Hospital at Udupi, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/institutional-quarantine-only-for-poor-homeless-says-minister-sriramulu/articleshow/76290362.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||33-year-old missing man’s body found in Sudhar canal||LUDHIANA: A 33-year-old security guard, who was missing since May 29, was found murdered and his body was recovered by the police from Sudhar canal. The deceased has been identified as Boota Singh, a resident of Gill village. Boota Singh was in a relationship with a woman, a resident of Kila Raipur village. He was murdered by the woman’s brother, identified as Jagjeevan Singh, 26. The Dehlon police arrested the accused from his house on Tuesday. The accused had killed the man by hitting him with a brick on his head. When he got unconscious, he wrapped his belt around his neck and dragged him and threw his body into a canal. Jagmeet Singh, cousin of the deceased, said he was living with Boota and his family for the past 15 years. On May 29, his cousin left the house in his bike and did not return. A missing compliant was also lodged by Dehlon police in this matter. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said body of Boota Singh was recovered from the Sudhar canal by Jagroan police on June 6. The body had injury marks and a leather belt was also wrapped around his neck. The autopsy had also ascertained that the man was murdered. Therefore, the Dehlon police had registered a murder case against an unidentified accused in the matter. The ADCP said the police deceased was in a relationship with a woman of Kila Raipur village. In further investigation, the police also found that Boota had gone to meet the girl on May 29 and was missing since then. Sukhdev Singh, SHO, at Dehlon police station, said Boota wanted to marry the girl, but her parents did not agree. The girl also wanted to end her relation with Boota, but he was forcing her to marry him. On May 29, when Boota went to meet the girl, he was drunk. Meanwhile, Jagjeevan took him with him on the pretext of talking to him. The accused took him to Jasowal, where he hit him with a brick on his head. Thereafter, Jagjeevan wrapped a belt around his neck and dragged him near a canal in Jasowal and threw his body into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/33-year-old-missing-mans-body-found-in-sudhar-canal/articleshow/76289773.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Issue white paper on Covid strategy: Congress to Gujarat govt||GANDHINAGAR: With Covid-19 cases mounting to more than 21,000 in the state and the fatality count going past 1,300, the Gujarat Congress on Tuesday asked the BJP government to issue a white paper on its strategy to tackle the situation. State Congress unit president Amit Chavda said people have been suffering because of the “failure” of the BJP, which has been in power in the state for 25 years. He pointed out that the Covid-19 mortality rate of Gujarat is the highest, at 6.26%, in the country. Chavda questioned the steps taken by the state government to contain the virus spread and cited the warnings issued by the WHO as early as January this year. “Nearly 1,000 people have died in Ahmedabad where the BJP has been at the helm,” he said. “People are suffering because of the BJP’s inability to govern.” Contrary to the claims made by the government on the availability of beds for patients, people are dying as they are being turned away by hospital authorities, Chavda said. “We demand that the government issue a white paper, stating the measures taken so far to control the pandemic and its plans,” Chavda added. He suggested the creation of an online dashboard displaying real-time availability of beds in hospitals, especially in the worst-hit Ahmedabad. Chavda also accused the government of reducing the number of tests in a bid to “project a rosy picture” and alleged that an IAS officer who favoured more tests had been shunted out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/issue-white-paper-on-covid-strategy-congress-to-guj-govt/articleshow/76291752.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Man held for printing fake Rs 2k notes||Ludhiana: The Division number 8 police have arrested a computer mechanic for printing fake currency notes of Rs 2,000 denomination. The accused had depositied 15 such notes in his account through ATM. Later, the bank employees found the currency notes to be fake and registred a complaint with the police. The accused has been identified as Pawan Kumar, 46, a resuident of Laxmi Nagar in Haibowal. Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO, Division number 8 police station, said a case has been registered following the statement of Manoj Kumar Chaudhary, manager at State Bank of India, Tagore Nagar branch. The accused has a savings account in the branch. He printed 15 fake currency notes of Rs 2,000 denomination using a computer and a printer. He had deposited the amount in his account through ATM on March 17. The machine had identified the fake currency notes. Meanwhile, the lockdown had imposed in the state due to the coronavirus outbreak. When the banks reopened, the bank manager informed the police about the same. A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 489-B (using as genuine forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. He has also been arrested. The SHO said they were further investigating the case to check that how did the man learn the technique of printing fake currency notes and if he has used the same in the market too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-held-for-printing-fake-rs-2k-notes/articleshow/76289795.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 suspect dies in Roorkee||Roorkee: An 18-year-old boy, who was admitted to Roorkee's Civil Hospital after displaying coronavirus-like symptoms, died on Tuesday. According to Dr Sanjay Kansal, chief medical superintendent of the Civil Hospital, the victim, a resident of Prem Nagar locality, was put in the isolation ward of the hospital on Monday. The victim was suffering from throat infection and coughing for weeks. Prior to being admitted to the government facility, he had seen private doctors as well. “He was brought to our facility on Monday and we collected his samples for Covid-19 test the same day. However, he collapsed today. His report will likely come by Wednesday,” said Dr Kansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-suspect-dies-in-roorkee/articleshow/76289797.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand HC strikes down special facilities for ex-CMs, says provisions violate right to equality||Nainital: Holding that the provisions of the state government’s law giving sops to former chief ministers are ultra vires (beyond the power) of the state legislature and violates the Article 14 (right to equality) as well as the doctrine of separation of powers, the Uttarakhand high court struck it down on Tuesday. The division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe held that sections 4(a) as well as 4(c) and section 7 of the Act passed by the state assembly in December last year seeks to overrule the judicial decision of the “court of competent jurisdiction”. Section 4(a) of the Act permits recovery of the lesser amount from the allottee (former CMs) while 4(c) explains that the facilities provided to them include vehicles, driver, personal assistant as well as gardener, telephone attendants and security guard among others. Section 7, meanwhile, says that these provisions are beyond the judgment, decree or direction from the court or any other Act. The state government had first brought an ordinance with these provisions against the HC’s order last year directing the state to charge money for the facilities the former CMs have used after demitting office. After the order, Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Vijay Bahuguna had approached the HC arguing that they cannot afford to pay the money. The HC, however, rejected the argument and directed them to pay the amount to the government. The state government, however, later brought an ordinance. Though it said that these facilities will no longer be made available but the money that is already owed will also not be charged from the former CMs. Later, a bill to this effect was passed by the state assembly. First the ordinance and then the Act was challenged by Dehradun-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK). Speaking to TOI, Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel appearing for RLEK said that the court’s judgment striking down the provisions means that the CMs will have to pay the money that they owe to the government. “As an effect of the court’s judgment, all the respondents (CMs) are liable to pay the market rent and the state is liable to calculate the money spent for all other facilities given to them as ex-CMs of the state and recover the same,” Gupta said. When approached, the state government officials said that they have not received the court’s order. “We are yet to receive a copy of the order. As soon as we receive it, we will go through it and will act accordingly after taking proper legal advice,” said Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-strikes-down-special-facilities-for-ex-cms-says-provisions-violate-right-to-equality/articleshow/76289782.cms||Prashant Jha
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||No gadgets, no studies for kids of BPL families||Ludhiana: The education department had started to deliver education through online medium due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to a survey conducted by government teachers, only 20% students are getting online education. Students belonging to the BPL families are unable to avail the same due to no access to smartphones or laptops, and have to go for labour work to assist their families. Digvijay Pal Sharma, state president of the democratic teachers front, said, “Beyond the ground realities, the education department has imposed orders to promote online education. How will the BPL families purchase smartphones or laptops for their children?” Another government teacher Balvir Chand Longowal said, “The government had promised to give smart phones to every youngster, but there is nothing for students. Stress by the education department and the government’s ignorance had made students stressful. They are helpless. A student of GSSS, Bhamme Kalan, committed suicide because of non-availability of laptop. Her parents are labourers. They could not afford it.” Sunita Kumari, a student of class I at Government Primary School, said, “Earlier, the department had announced summer vacations, but now they have started online classes through Zoom because we cannot go to school. But I don’t have any way to take part in it. My mother doesn’t have a smartphone.” Since her father died two years ago, the family has been dependent on her mother’s earnings, which only is Rs 3,000. “Because of this lockdown, my family is also facing the financial hardship. I am worrying about their food and how can I afford to buy a smartphone,” said Sunita’s mother. DEO Secondary Swaranjit Kaur could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-gadgets-no-studies-for-kids-of-bpl-families/articleshow/76289786.cms||Mehak Jain
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||4 of corporator’s family test +ve in Solapur||Kolhapur: Four members of a corporator’s family tested positive for Covid-19 in Solpaur city on Tuesday. The collector, whose throat swab samples were tested for Covid-19 analysis, however, has tested negative. An officer from the Solapur Municipal Corporation has also tested positive for the contagion. Sources said that around 20 employees of the civic administration had been infected by Covid-19. (Total no. of cases update both in city and district required) Not a single case was reported from the rural areas of Solapur district on Tuesday. An official communication from the district administration stated throat swab samples of 87 suspects had been collected, all of which have returned negative. Of the 82 Covid-19 patients reported from the rural areas of Solapur district, 43 have been discharged and six people have succumbed to the infection. With 30 cases, south Solapur has reported maximum Covid-19 patients. Menwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Solapur, and the Hospital Owners Association came out with a joint press statement on Tuesday stating that the government was not taking the private hospitals into confidence despite a majority of the patients preferring to go to such establishments for treatment instead of the government hospitals. Citing the various difficulties faced by the doctors and the para-medical staff, the statement, undersigned by Sudhir Raychur from the IMA and Sudip Sarda from the association, said that various restrictions on movement had disturbed the medical service. The statement also raised the issue of the basic equipment required by the doctors to treat Covid-19 patients. “Doctors are facing shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) and N95 masks. Many people who do not need N95 masks have purchased them,” read the statement adding that the government could not regulate the supply and price of PPE kits and N95 masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-of-corporators-family-test-ve-in-solapur/articleshow/76291771.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Local trainees get a chance to practice with 2 int’l players||Ludhiana: After the imposition of several phases of lockdown in the past two months, different sports activities had been affected across the county. But for some it is proving to be a boon as local trainees at Shastri Badminton Hall of Guru Nanak Dev Stadium are getting an opportunity to share the badminton court with two local international shuttlers Pranav (Jerry) Chopra (27) and Dhruv Kapila (20), who were here after the Gopi Chand Sports Academy had closed in Hyderabad. After the ministry of home affairs decided to reopen sports stadium for conducting the sports activities in the country, both international players have started coming to this badminton hall to continue their training. After hearing the news about two international players training at the local stadium, several young badminton players have joined their early morning practice session. Pranav, who is at number 10 in world badminton ranking of double and mix double event, said, “I have been in the city for the past two months after the imposition of lockdown. Moreover, the Gopi Chand academy was also closed to check spread of Covid-19 among badminton players of different states.” “But after the governing bodies took the decision of reopen the sports stadium, I have started coming to this court after more than 12 years as I left the city coaching centre after getting selected for India team in 2008. It has been quite an interesting experience to return to my home town badminton court for sharing some important skills and techniques with to young players of the city as they were eager to learn more about advance coaching and training schedule being given to us at the GopiChand academy.” “One of most important advice which I have given to local players is that they should not leave the practice session by giving excuses of final or unit term exams as sports is not a part-time activity. It is a full time profession for those players who want to excel in sports world and bring laurels to the nation.” “I have to sacrifice a lot of things to secure my place in top 10 rankings of the world, and I have been telling these to the budding players here,” he further said. Local badminton coach Sandeep Sehgal said, “I have personally arranged such coaching sessions for local players by turning the lockdown situation into a golden opportunity to allow them to learn some extraordinary things from two international players. We are spending two hours in morning daily with these two players.” A budding badminton player, Tanmah Tomar (15), said, “It’s like dream come true to share the badminton court with two international badminton players because I have seen them on television play for India and now I am getting a chance to watch them play in front of us. We all are lucky to have some advance training sessions in such situation when players are struggling to attend daily practice sessions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/local-trainees-get-a-chance-to-practice-with-2-intl-players/articleshow/76290964.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||After 18 years’ wait, residents of SBS Nagar start construction of road in their area||Ludhiana: Members of the Samaj Sewa Society started construction of the road in their area on Tuesday. Residents in one of the streets of SBS Nagar at Dugri Dhandhran Road were facing a lot of problem due to the poor condition of the road from past many years. Therefore, members of the society decided to spend from their own pocket on the construction of the road. They will be installing interlocking tiles on this road. Residents claimed that around 3 years ago, sewerage pipeline was laid in the street and since then, residents have been facing the problem whenever it rains. They said they will get tiles installed after cleaning the road. A JCB machine was put on job to dig the road after which stones will be laid. It will take around 20 to 25 days to complete the road. Sanjay Tiwari, president of the society, said, “We have a panchayat in the area and we requested the members several times for the construction of the road. The members of the panchayat assured us of constructing it, but nothing could take place at the ground level.” He said they decided to do everything from the funds of the society and after getting the required permission, they hired a contractor, who told all the specifications about the road. “It is 650-feet long and 18-feet wide and almost Rs 8.5 lakh will be spent on installing interlocking tiles,” said Tiwari. Another member of the society Raghbir Singh said there is a private school in the locality and after the sewerage line was laid, no proper road was constructed. “Whenever it rains, the road gets muddy, creating trouble for residents. We have waited for at least 18 years for this road, but when nobody made it, we decided to do it on our own,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-18-years-wait-residents-of-sbs-nagar-start-construction-of-road-in-their-area/articleshow/76289780.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||18 patients discharged from hospital||Kolhapur: Satara district administration officials said that 18 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday and that no new patients have been reported so far. Earlier on Monday, 18 patients were reported from Satara district, taking the total number of active patients in the district to 244. A total of 376 patients have been discharged so far with 28 fatalities. Of the total number of positive patients, five were from Gighewadi village in Koregaon taluka. One of them had travel history to Mumbai, sources said. Other patients were found in Mahabaleshwar, Maan, Khatav and Jawli. Three patients were found in Wadjal village. The 18 patients, who were discharged on Tuesday, included a 3.5 month old girl from Asle village of Wai tehsil. 4 test positive for Covid-19 in Sangli Meanwhile in Sangli district, four new patients, including three men and a woman, tested positive for the contagion on Tuesday. While two of them belong to Atpadi tehsil, other two are residents of Shirala and Palus tehsils respectively. Sangli district currently has 75 active patients. It has recorded seven deaths while 100 people have been discharged so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/18-patients-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/76291767.cms||---
June 10, 2020||India||Demarche to Pakistan on demolition of Hindu homes||NEW DELHI: India issued a strong demarche to the Pakistani high commission on Tuesday over what sources here described as the systematic and targeted demolition of houses belonging to the minority Hindu community in Pakistan’s Punjab. India’s action followed serious concerns and anguish expressed by members of the civil society here at the targeted and continued persecution of religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan. “They have also strongly condemned the incident where in authorities targeted the minority Hindu community despite the occupants producing valid documents of ownership and legal relief granted against demolition,” said sources. India conveyed these concerns and requested the Pakistani high commission to inform relevant authorities in the Pakistan government for urgent remedial action. “We expressed that the Pakistan government will look after the safety, well-being and protection of rights and freedom of its citizens belonging to minority communities,” said a source. Last week, the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan had said local authorities in Yazman, Punjab, were responsible for demolishing homes of Hindus. Watch India sends strong demarche to Pakistan as Hindus hounded||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/demarche-to-pakistan-on-demolition-of-hindu-homes/articleshow/76293116.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Youths on way to relief camp rescue 13-year-old pregnant rape survivor||KOLKATA: A group of friends, who had gone to the Amphan-ravaged Patharpratima village in the Sunderbans with relief materials, helped rescue a 13-year-old mentally unstable girl who was eight month’s pregnant after allegedly being raped by unidentified men. The youths—film directors, script writers, writers and advertisement professionals—from Kolkata were on their way to a relief camp on Saturday, when they were shocked to see the heavily pregnant girl standing by the dirt road. They were reportedly told that regularly mistreated at home by her father, the girl would roam around, looking for food and shelter. Taking advantage of her poor mental health and that she had no one to look out for her, multiple men allegedly raped her a number of times, alluring her with food, chocolate or merely Rs 10. The group informed the matter to child rights commission and senior police officers in Kolkata who alerted their counterparts in the districts and the girl was rescued after two days’ effort on Monday. She is now at a government home in South 24 Parganas, under the supervision of the officials of the department of women and child development. “What the group of youths did was commendable. We alerted our officials in South 24 Parganas and rescued her,” said Ananya Chakraborti, chairperson of West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Following the intervention of the state child rights panel, Patharpratima Coastal police station officers started probing the alleged rape to track down the culprits. The friends had reached the Purba Sreepatinagar village crossing over the Thakuran river with relief material. “Three of us were travelling by a Toto to a relief camp when we spotted the girl. The driver said she had been abused by a number of men,” said Arkadeep Nath, a script writer, who led the rescue operation. They tried to speak to her and offered her money and clothes but she reportedly ran away. “We asked the Toto driver to look out for her while we got in touch the authorities. We returned to Kolkata but we kept in touch with the driver. He apparently visited her home on Sunday but she had again fled,” said Siddhanta Das, a film director. On Monday morning, child rights officials managed to locate her. They kept her in a house in the village before taking her away in the afternoon. “The Child Welfare Committee sent her to a government home. The department of women and child care will take care of her delivery and later, her child,” said Chakraborti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youths-on-way-to-relief-camp-rescue-13-year-old-pregnant-rape-survivor/articleshow/76291792.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Foundries begin ops gradually with locals||(done) Kolhapur: Crippled by the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic and the resultant exodus of migrant workers, the foundry sector in Kolhapur, the country’s second largest, is gradually trying to get back on its feet. Although the industry has hired locals and started work in single shifts, it is wooing back the migrant workers with attractive packages because of their skills and ability to work longer hours in tough conditions. Industrialists say they have received orders but lack of skilled workers, mostly migrants who have left, had paralysed the industry. “The migrant workers are expected to remain in their home states till the end of this year and the industrialists will have to somehow manage until then to come out of the lockdown losses,” said Sumeet Chougule, the chairman of Kolhapur zone of Institute of Indian Foundrymen. He said that locals can be employed in the foundry sector but they prefer eight-hour shifts and prefer clerical, machine shop, supervising and computer jobs. “Working in a foundry is a tough task as it has to be done in high-heat atmosphere and for 12 hours. Skilled workers will be required and we are hoping that the migrants return after four to five months,” added Chougule. Milind Mane, who owns a foundry in Gokul Shirgaon MIDC, said only 35-40% work is going on. “We produce automotive parts and have orders for BS-VI vehicle parts. Due to shortage of workers, only one 12-hour shift is being run,” he told TOI. Foundry owners said they tried to convince migrant workers to stay, back but they panicked and left. Chintamani Viroje, manager at a foundry in the Kagal MIDC, said, “We had assured the workers that food and accommodation would be arranged, yet they left. The local youths we are hiring are unskilled and it will take time to train them. We are trying to bring migrant workers back by making some attractive offers.” Kolhapur ranks second nationwide in foundry (metal casting) production after Coimbatore. Around 300 factories are located in the Kolhapur zone, comprising Kolhapur and Sangli districts, with production volume of almost 80 tonnes per month. Around 1.5 lakh people are dependent on the foundry industry in Kolhapur zone. According to industry estimates, around 40,000 migrant workers have left for their native places. “I work in one shift and get two days’ leave every week. The locals who have been recruited are unskilled and therefore the current work is largely on trial basis” said Sandip Patil, a local employed in a foundry in Shiroli MIDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/foundries-begin-ops-gradually-with-locals/articleshow/76291776.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Bring industrial areas, Focal Points under smart city plan’||Ludhiana: One of the directors of the Ludhiana smart city Limited-cum-chairman of the IIA Punjab chapter Sanjay Goel has written a letter to the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, requesting him to cover the existing industrial areas or Focal Points of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar, under the smart city mission. He claimed that a majority of these areas are highly neglected since decades. He said Ludhiana is known for it’s excellent industry, especially hosiery and cycle parts. Not only Punjabis visit the city from all over the globe, but businessmen from different parts of the world, also visit Punjab for their business requirements. The Focal Point areas can be made smarter under the smart city mission, area-based development (ABD) scheme or PAN city scheme. Goel said the government gets maximum taxes or generate income from the industrial areas of industrial cities, whereas these areas are highly neglected when it comes to development. “Smart city companies in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar can start re-carpeting the roads in the industrial areas or Focal Points on a par with the roads coming up in ABD areas or elsewhere. Smart roads in industrial areas will promote industries as well as income. The condition of majority of the roads are very poor,” he said. “More funds are spent on roads in the residential, commercial areas as compared to industrial areas. The industrial areas are the backbone of our cities and a major source of income for the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bring-industrial-areas-focal-points-under-smart-city-plan/articleshow/76289802.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||UPPCL unlikely to raise power tariff this year||LUCKNOW: In what may bring relief to over 3 crore electricity consumers in the state, UP energy department is mulling not to increase power tariff this year in view of economic slowdown triggered by coronavirus-induced lockdown. Top sources in the UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) said the utility has decided to keep tariff unchanged while filing the annual revenue requirement (ARR) with the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC), which would eventually take a final call. Tariff hike of around 12% was effected in September last year. Talking to TOI, state energy minister Srikant Sharma said, “Currently, the focus is on increasing billing efficiency and bringing down aggregated technical and commercial (AT&C) losses. The government is committed to providing cheap power supply to consumers but users will also have to contribute their bit.” He said the focus was on rural areas where line losses had to be brought down to less than 15% to ensure round-the-clock power supply. Significantly, average line losses have been between 25% and 30% in most of the districts. Only Noida accounts for less than 15% line losses and is qualified to get uninterrupted power supply. Sources in energy department said minimizing line losses was a must to get the much-needed financial backup. According to UPPCL officials, the utility is reeling under financial arrears of more than Rs 80,000 crore which needs to be recovered by controlling line losses and bringing in transparency in power distribution system. The development comes days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government would not impose any fresh tax on consumers. The UPPCL has submitted a fresh business plan to UPERC for the next five years. Sources said once the business plan is approved by the electricity regulator, the corporation would file a fresh ARR report. A senior official in UPERC confirmed that the Corporation has been asked to submit ARR as soon as possible. “It is only after ARR is submitted that UPPCL would be asked for the tariff plan,” he said. Ideally, ARR is proposed to be submitted by the end of every year after which the commission studies it and takes a decision on tariff by the beginning of a new financial year. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) also stressed on timely announcement of new tariff. This year, however, the ARR could not be filed timely due to coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uppcl-unlikely-to-raise-power-tariff-this-year/articleshow/76292409.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 10, 2020||Bengaluru||30 firms, institutes join N-BRIC on local innovation||BENGALURU: Within a month of being constituted, the National Biomedical Resources Indigenisation Consortium (N-BRIC) set up by the department of biotechnology in the wake of Covid-19 emergency in early May, has seen active engagement from stakeholders of biomedical resources innovation community. “At least 30 companies and academic/research institutes have come on board with the goal of furthering the boundaries of India’s present capabilities in biomedical resources towards greater self reliance and to cement our role as a key player in the global biotech domain,” N-BRIC told TOI. Seven NBRIC members — CoSara Diagnostics, DNAXperts, Genei Laboratories, Huwel Life Sciences, MyLab, Richcore Life Sciences and Syngene International — have either developed or inked strategic partnerships to leverage complementary strength in developing, manufacturing and deploying diagnostic kits and the required reagents and consumables, for Covid-19. The technologies include novel, low-cost, gold-standard RT-PCR test kits, Elisa rapid antibody testing kits, and also in-bench enzymes key to running these kits. Together, they are set to enhance India’s testing capacity and reduce dependence on imported kits and kit components. N-BRIC was envisioned as a collaborative public-private partnership to drive indigenous innovation with an initial focus on developing reagents, diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics for Covid-19 and thereafter, expanding to all biologics and biopharmaceuticals. It is being hosted and led by Bengaluru-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (CCAMP). DBT secretary Renu Swarup had earlier said: “To meet our biotech and biomedical needs, the country needs to be self reliant for product manufacturing and also the components, reagents, resources across the product development chain. N-BRIC brings together academia, industry, startups and MSME to serve not just the country but the world.” Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chair, governing council, N-BRIC, had said that this consortium is of immense national importance at a time of an unprecedented global health emergency. It would enable India to synergise and optimise latent capabilities it possesses across the pyramid of academic research labs, startups, MSMEs and large enterprises to deliver innovative solutions at scale for India and the world, she added. CCAMP CEO Taslimarif Saiyed, who is also the convener of N-BRIC governing council, had said at the launch: “...During these difficult times, we’ve realised the need of bio-medical resources for the healthcare system and research community.” Experts TOI spoke with said this could be a paradigm shift towards fostering high-end research and innovation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/30-firms-institutes-join-n-bric-on-local-innovation/articleshow/76290397.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 10, 2020||Bengaluru||North Karnataka, coastal district Covid cases cut state’s doubling rate by half||BENGALURU: Recording a large number of Covid-19 cases in a short span of time, coastal and North Karnataka districts like Udupi, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Haveri have reduced Karnataka’s doubling rate by half in just a month. As on May 4, it took about 18 days for cases to double in Karnataka. It now stands at nine. That the absolute numbers are much higher than those in May adds to the concern. Seven districts — Udupi, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Vijayapura, Yadgir, Haveri and Ramanagara — have doubling rates which are lower than the state average, ranging between two and eight days. On the other hand, rates in districts like Mysuru (53), Bagalkot (32) and Bengaluru Urban (20) are more than double of Karnataka’s average. Experts said the increasing number of cases — expected in the post-lockdown scenario — has caused a massive spike in some of the districts, affecting the state average. In fact, nationally, Karnataka is now among states with a doubling rate lower than the national average of 16. While Goa, Tripura, Assam, Haryana and Chhattisgarh fare worse than Karnataka, in Uttarakhand, Puducherry and Jharkhand, it takes the same number of days for cases to double as in Karnataka. However, barring Haryana and Uttarakhand, the total number of cases in these other states is much lower than in Karnataka. “But if you look at the positivity rate, Karnataka is still better than the national average, at just 1%,” a senior official said. Also, with the influx of people returning from different states, Karnataka is testing more samples than in May, which is resulting in a higher number of daily cases. As of June 8, Karnataka is conducting more than 6,000 tests per million (TPM), compared to about 1,000 as on May 4. Jammu and Kashmir, with 16,884 TPM has the best testing rate, followed by Delhi (14,736), Andhra Pradesh (9,158), Tamil Nadu (7,994) and Rajasthan (7,206). Karnataka is in the sixth place with 6,095 TPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/north-karnataka-coastal-dist-cases-cut-states-doubling-rate-by-half/articleshow/76290330.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab, Centre on teachers’ plea against salary reduction||Chandigarh: Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Punjab government, the department of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan and Union government on a petition filed by two retired elementary teacher training (ETT) teachers against reduction in their salaries prior to retirement from Rs 37,800 per month to Rs 15,000 per month. The bench headed by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat issued the notice on the petition filed by Hoshiar Singh and Baljinder Singh, two recently retired ETT teachers. In their writ petition, the teachers said they were getting salaries of Rs 37,800 per month when suddenly, vide notification dated January 23, 2019, their salaries were reduced drastically to Rs 15,000 per month retrospectively from June 1, 2018. The petitioners subsequently retired from service. According to the petitioners, the reason, although not stated in notification, was that they had not submitted an option seeking regularisation in the education department on the terms and conditions mentioned in the regularisation notification, since it entailed three-year probation, during which they were to get basic salary of Rs 10,300 per month only. They said they were not informed that if they did not opt for regularisation under the government notification dated October 9, 2018, their salaries would be reduced. Otherwise also, according to the petitioners, their salaries could not have been reduced without complying with the principles of natural justice i.e. without giving them any notice and good reason. The petitioners stated that the Sarv Sikhiya Abhiyan in which they were employed, was a partnership programme of the Union of India and state government, which were to jointly bear the burden of payment of salaries to teachers employed under the Sarva Sikhiya Abhiyan (now called Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan). They pointed out that the Punjab government has paid salary to petitioners from the share given by the Union government and had not contributed its own share, which is totally arbitrary and unjustified. They also said such a drastic reduction of salary is harsh and unjustified. The case will now come up for hearing on August 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-punjab-centre-on-teachers-plea-against-salary-reduction/articleshow/76291775.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||Four districts of U’khand to get Biomedical WasteTreatment facility||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) has decided to construct four more biomedical waste treatment facilities in the state. At the 11th Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)-UCOST online summit held on Tuesday, SP Subudhi, audience member secretary of UEPPCB, said, "We plan to have biomedical waste treatment facilities in Tehri, Almora, Pauri, and Dehradun districts. We have identified around 2,429 health care facilities across the state and found out that at least 5,169 kilograms of biomedical waste is generated every day in the state. The mounds of biomedical waste will only rise due to Covid-19 crisis and thus, there is a need for more treatment plants." At present, the state has bio-medical waste treatment facilities at Gadarpur and Roorkee. Besides, incinerators are operational in Haldwani, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and BHEL Haridwar, according to UEPPCB officials. TOI had reported on Monday how biomedical waste is being disposed of unscientifically in villages. The state has 13 districts and only two districts have biomedical waste disposal facilities. Meanwhile, Vipul Dawar, Vice-Chairman, CII Uttarakhand State Council, said that improper handling of Covid-19 waste is dangerous for mankind and the environment and the issue needs to be addressed collectively on priority by following the existing guidelines by Central Pollution Control Board & WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-districts-of-ukhand-to-get-biomedical-wastetreatment-facility/articleshow/76289806.cms||Shivani Azad
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents of Kitchlu Nagar oppose installation of gate||Ludhiana: Residents of F block of Kitchlu Nagar have registered a complaint against some persons for installing an iron gate on the main road leading to their block on June 7. The residents complained to mayor Balkar Sandhu, MC commissioner K P Brar and other officials. The residents rued that no permission was obtained from any competent authority to install the iron gate on the main road. Moreover, there is no necessity to install the huge gate on the main road. They rued that residents were not involved in any discussion regarding the installation of the gate. They said if a gate is installed on the main road leading to F block, which is between the wall of Holy Christ School, there would be difficulty for people to come and go outside the block. The residents have therefore, requested the mayor and MC commissioner to look into the matter and take immediate action against the installation of the iron gate in their area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-of-kitchlu-nagar-oppose-installation-of-gate/articleshow/76289808.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chennai||Spike in pvt hospital expenses marginal and unavoidable||Chennai: The public healthcare ecosystem in this part of the country cannot discount private participation. It becomes incumbent on private hospital managements to set records straight on the growing criticism about cost escalation for medical treatment — both for Covid-19 and other ailments —- during the present pandemic.There has, indeed, been an increase in expenses, especially towards protective gear such as N95 masks and PPE kits. Till four months ago, we used these only for hazardous procedures and areas, but now we are purchasing them in bulk and using it everywhere inside the hospital. Every patient is being treated by a team that includes specialist consultants, pulmonologists, nurses, and other support staff and they all have to wear the disposable protective gear.Hospitals had to upscale themselves in Covid testing by procuring RT-PCR kits and ensuring their labs are ICMR approved. Cost for testing has also increased, adding to the expenses. There has also been a spike in the procurement of disinfecting and cleaning solutions as well as deployment of more workers as each area has to be disinfected every two hours. Designing a uniform Covid-19 treatment package is difficult as treatment modalities for each patient are different. If the patient is admitted in ICU for critical care, there are other charges, including for ventilator. There was a perception that healthcare was the only sector unaffected. But it is not true because there has been a sharp drop in revenue with a 60% decline in outpatient volume and barring of elective surgeries during lockdown.Managing the cash flow is a major issue now. After the two-month lockdown operations have been slowly creeping up to 50%. The drop in revenue and delayed payment from central and state governments schemes, have adversely impacted earnings. Despite this, banks are not considerate when it comes to extending loans to hospitals. Under these circumstances, we have to pass on some of the cost of PPE kits and N95 masks to the customer. The direct cost passed on to patients is just 10% of the expenses. Though the overall cost incurred in treating patients has increased by around 40% due to the pandemic, and since patients can’t afford such a jump in their medical expenses, hospitals are absorbing these costs, hoping a turnaround soon.We are unsure how long Covid aftershocks will linger, but as of now we are concentrating on ramping up our operations without financially burdening patients. The Association of Healthcare Providers of India has written to the TN government seeking support and waiver of power bills and GST. Even as government hospitals are preoccupied with Covid patients, a bulk of the emergency cases like cancer and kidney ailments are being treated by private hospitals. Only if the government waives some bills at least for the next few months, could private hospitals stay afloat and complement the services of the government to the masses..(The writer is president of Association of Healthcare Providers of India, TN)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spike-in-pvt-hospital-expenses-marginal-and-unavoidable/articleshow/76291769.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Jammu||CSIR soon to start phase three clinical trials for drug against Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: In the course of the country’s first randomised control trial on an injectable drug for Covid-19, researchers found that the commercial drug used to treat gram negative sepsis, a severe blood infection, is safe. It also lowered the levels of inflammatory proteins responsible for severity in Covid-19. The study group is now moving from phase 2 to phase 3 of clinical trials. This is the first published preliminary observational study of the drug for Covid-19 in PGIMER, Chandigarh. Phase 2 of clinical trials for 50 patients is nearing completion at AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Bhopal and PGIMER. Phase 3 will include study of the drug as adjuvant for Covid vaccine (ingredient in a vaccine that makes it work better) for prevention. Tests will also be conducted on those who have recovered from the virus to ascertain if they can be re-infected. “This will include 10 to 15 centres across India. We have approval for phase 3 in two sets. We will study 500 patients to see if it works as a prophylactic and if it prevents the asymptomatic from progressing towards the severe form of Covid. We will study the 600 patients who have supposedly recovered from the virus to see if they will be reinfected or not,” said Dr Ram Vishwakarma, director, Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, CSIR, Jammu. The injectable drug is a non-specific immuno-modulator (regulates immune response during attack of any pathogen) which contains Mycobacterium w—a non pathogenic bacteria which is killed by heat. The safety study was conducted on four severely ill patients in PGI to evaluate the drug’s safety in Covid-19. No adverse effect was reported and the breathlessness patients suffered from showed clinical improvement after a week. “The observational study is done before we start with randomised control trials. Now, our dosage study is also nearing completion and we are soon going to submit the report and move on to the next phase,” said Dr Ram. “In another four to six months, we shall complete phase 3 trials. Cuba is also working on Mycobacterium w. We plan to collaborate with them and do a two- country based trial,” he added. Immuno-modulators are basically regulators of immune response and in a way can prevent excessive activation of immune response. They will help generate an appropriate immune response and help in faster clearance of virus and may even prevent the cytokine storm, which is associated with the progression to severe form of Covid-19. However, few scientists believe that having different mode of action, modulators of immune response may not prevent the infection as the vaccine would. “Besides, immuno-modulators would facilitate the generation of specific immune response by a vaccine. A vaccine is required to generate a specific information to the T cells. These T cells in the body help generate a specific immune response to kill the infected cells. Vaccines create a population of sensitised cells against a pathogen or virus, which is also called a memory generated against that virus, where the pre-sensitised cells can act fast to eliminate the virus on exposure," said Prof Sunil Arora, immunopathologist in PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/csir-soon-to-start-phase-3-clinical-trials-for-drug-against-covid-19/articleshow/76298866.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 10, 2020||Business||SBI looks for CFO in the market||Aseem.Gujar@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The country’s largest lender SBI has decided to cast a wide net for a chief financial officer (CFO) after the sudden exit of Prashant Kumar, who has taken over as CEO of Yes Bank. The public sector lender is also looking for a security specialist to fill in the new role of data protection officer that it has created. The CFO position in SBI is at the level of deputy managing director (DMD), a rank the public sector lender typically fills in internally. However, in case of specialist roles, SBI advertises to hire from the market. According to a notice on SBI’s website, chartered accountants with at least 15 years of overall experience, and 5 years of senior management experience in banks and financial companies, are eligible to apply for the position of CFO. The CFO will have a three-year contract with the bank and the annual compensation will be between Rs 75 lakh and Rs 1 crore. For the data protection officer role, which will have a two-year contract, SBI is seeking a data privacy specialist, who has worked in banks or financial institutions for at least 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-looks-for-cfo-in-the-market/articleshow/76288532.cms||Aseem Gujar
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Ticket checkers told to keep tab on on-train facilities; GPS tracker re-activated||Times News Network Ludhiana: At a time when Covid-19 cases are rising with each passing day, Northern Railway have given new directions to all ticket checking staff of long-route trains to remain in touch with health department team of the Railways and keep updating about the cleanliness of the trains passing through the city station. This has been done with a view to countering the suffering of the on-board passengers related to medical facilities, non-availability of water in toilets and poor food quality and non-functional air conditioning system. This development has taken place to counter all such issues in the best possible way during the hot weather conditions. Apart from this, to ensure the safety of passengers on all long-route trains passing through the city railway station and to improve the train operations, a GPS tracker device has been re-activated in these trains. The railway authorities have also issued several helpline numbers (139, 18001111-39) to make travelling more convenient for passengers. Besides, for fast redressing of their complaints. the authorities have begun the service of a train captain, who will resolve all issues as early as possible. After getting instruction from the higher authorities of the Northern Railway board, an awareness session was also carried out by the ticketing department officials for implementing the recent directions until the spread of Covid-19 is brought under control. While providing further information on this, Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said that, “The railway authorities are taking every possible step to deal with any untoward situation and has given related direction to all ticket checkers who have been designated as train captain on long-route trains. The authorities have given specific direction to the ticket checking staff to look after the other grievances of passengers.” “Earlier, this service was available in Southern Railway, but now the railway board has issued notice to all railway zones for starting this service in the trains here. A separate telephone line has been provided to the train captain, so that he does not face any problem while sending alerts to the control room,” Kumar added. A frequent travellers and a businessman, Shubash Sharma, said, “Keeping in mind Covid-19, the Railways should immediately adopt as many as preventive measures in terms of providing proper guidelines to ticker checkers because most of the times on-board passengers have to face inconvenience due to lack of inadequate service and they don’t even know whom to contact for the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ticket-checkers-told-to-keep-tab-on-on-train-facilities-gps-tracker-re-activated/articleshow/76290981.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Industrial workers demand daily passes||Kolhapur: The industrial workforce residing outside Kolhapur are demanding daily passes to commute to their workplace in the district to facilitate easy cross-border movement. Meanwhile, Sangli district administration has already started issuing daily passes to workers to facilitate movement to their workplace. However, the Kolhapur district administration is yet to grant such passes to the workers residing in Sangli district. Many of these workers from Sangli work at Shiroli MIDC and small industrial zones located in towns such as Ichalkaranji, Hatkanangle and Shirol located along the Sangli-Kolhapur border. Therefore, the Kolhapur district administration has asked the agricultural department to grant passes to farmers and workers so that they can reach their workplaces without any hindrance. Girish Shinde, a resident of Sangli’s Ashta town who works at Shiroli MIDC, said that he and his fellow workers have been granted travel passes for a limited period i.e. not more than three days. “We have to frequently apply for travel passes. Over 400 workers from my town are working at Shiroli MIDC. Till we get the pass approved, we are asked to stay wherever we are at that point. We are losing our workdays because of the restrictions levied on traveling. We have asked our industry management to get us daily passes so that we can commute to out workplace everyday without any hassle.” Meanwhile, the industries in Kolhapur district are grappling with the shortage of workforce as the workers have left for their hometowns in view of the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus outbreak. However, ever since the lockdown rules have been relaxed, around 800 industries have started their operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/industrial-workers-demand-daily-passes/articleshow/76291782.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||No home leave for passing out IMA cadets, to join Army straight from academy||Dehradun: In a break from tradition due to the circumstances arising out of the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the batch of 333 Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) that will pass out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) this Saturday after the passing out parade (POP) will not get leave to meet their families as they will have to join their batallions straight from the academy. The decision to not give a mid-term break to the newly-comissioned officers has been taken to safeguard the officers and their family members from possible Covid-19 infection, sources familiar with the decision, told TOI. Every year, the new officers, after passing out from IMA, used to get home leave before joining their respective battalions. This leave varied from case to case and from battalion to battalion and the duration usually ranged from a week to a month. Talking to TOI, the family of a cadet confirmed that their son has been asked to join duty soon after passing out and that no leave would be granted. A retired Colonel also confirmed that his grandson, who is passing out from IMA this term, won’t be coming home after the POP. Lt Colonel Amit Dagar, public relations officer at IMA, told TOI that the other GCs undergoing training at the academy "may get a term break in September but not now." As reported by TOI earlier, IMA is not inviting parents of the GCs and other visitors for the POP this time on account of the novel coronavirus threat. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commandant & Chief Instructor’s (DC&CI) parade was conducted on Tuesday at the historic Chetwode drill square in the academy. The parade was reviewed by Major General JS Mangat (DC&CI) of the IMA. During his address to the passing out course, Maj Gen Mangat said, “Indian troops are the best in the world, simple by heart, with unquestionable loyalty and hearts filled with patriotism. But then, as an officer you have to earn their (soldiers') respect and trust by your action, conduct and demeanour and above all, through truthfulness and purity of your intention and action. Once you have earned their trust and loyalty, they will follow you to every battle and win it for you.” He also complimented the Gentlemen Cadets from friendly foreign countries on successful completion of the training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-home-leave-for-passing-out-ima-cadets-to-join-army-straight-from-academy/articleshow/76289813.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Why is SGPC chief in SAD core panel?’||Bathinda: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has taken strong exception to the appointment of Gobind Singh Longowal, president of SGPC, an apex body of the Sikhs, as a member of the core committee of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), seeking his immediate resignation as SGPC chief. Speaking to mediapersons at Bathinda on Tuesday, MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby said by appointing Longowal as member of the core committee, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has virtually taken over reigns of the SGPC. It is not only violation of the Indian Constitution, but also an attempt to demeaning the honour and dignity of the entire Sikh community, as the office of SGPC president is above party lines.  Longowal said, “It is going on since long as SGPC presidents, in the past, had been members of the SAD core committee. The religion and politics go along in the SAD so there is nothing bad in it.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/why-is-sgpc-chief-in-sad-core-panel/articleshow/76291786.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fruit, veggie supplies at APMCs down 53 per cent||MUMBAI: The lockdown has resulted in the market arrivals of fruits and vegetables in the state’s wholesale APMC markets plummeting by almost 53% compared to 2019, shows data from the Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board (MSAMB). This reveals the extent of supply chain disruptions during the lockdown and the losses to farmers despite efforts by the government to streamline transport for essentials. Market arrivals for potatoes and onions declined by 49.4% (see box). Total arrivals fell by 35%. The data compared market arrivals from March 25 to May 29, 2020, to the same period in 2019 when the nationwide lockdown was implemented. Officials said transport to APMCs was impacted in the initial phases of the lockdown even as demand from traders fell and several key APMCs were closed after Covid-19 cases were detected. They also pointed out that since deregulation, besides APMCs, farmers have other options to sell their produce in the state. “After the deregulation of APMCs, supplying to these markets is not mandatory. A large quantity of agricultural produce has gone directly from farmers to groups in cities,” said an official. The data shows the least decline in foodgrains arrival (see box) because they are non-perishable and farmers could afford to wait. Also, several pulses can be sold to the government through a procurement scheme at a minimum support price. “Farmers growing perishables were worst affected by the lockdown. Many had to discard their produce,” said Kisan Sabha’s Ajit Navale. “Although APMCs have been deregulated, most farmers do not have the network to directly supply to private individuals or groups in cities,” he said. “In India, the most important outcome of supply chain disruptions was the sharp decline in the market arrival of crops,” said R Ramakumar, Nabard Chair of the School of Development Studies at TISS. “This was the combined result of the decline in private trade, shutting down of markets, shrinkage of retail trade and the different disorders felt in the supply networks. As a result, farmers suffered considerable economic losses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fruit-veggie-supplies-at-apmcs-down-53/articleshow/76292418.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
June 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC recruiting doctors as Covid-19 cases rise sharply||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started the process to recruit more doctors on a war footing as the number of Covid-19 cases are fast rising in the city. Civic officials said that 500 doctors — allopathic, ayurvedic and Unani — are being appointed and that they are already in the process to recruit 200. The remaining will be appointed in phases shortly. The civic body presently has 192 doctors. “We have 100 beds, including 50 ICU, in Zakir Hussain Hospital for Covid patients. We are increasing the capacity to 160 beds, which will include 50 ICUs,” said the officials. The NMC is also creating wards with 300 beds in the new Bytco hospital building. The officials said that infrastructure is in place to treat 1,000 patients at a time. “We have reserved around 70 beds in major hospitals and are in talks with three private hospitals where 125 beds may be reserved within two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-recruiting-doctors-as-covid-cases-rise-sharply/articleshow/76289810.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||CSIR soon to start phase three clinical trials for drug against Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: In the course of the country’s first randomised control trial on an injectable drug for Covid-19, researchers found that the commercial drug used to treat gram negative sepsis, a severe blood infection, is safe. It also lowered the levels of inflammatory proteins responsible for severity in Covid-19. The study group is now moving from phase 2 to phase 3 of clinical trials. This is the first published preliminary observational study of the drug for Covid-19 in PGIMER, Chandigarh. Phase 2 of clinical trials for 50 patients is nearing completion at AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Bhopal and PGIMER. Phase 3 will include study of the drug as adjuvant for Covid vaccine (ingredient in a vaccine that makes it work better) for prevention. Tests will also be conducted on those who have recovered from the virus to ascertain if they can be re-infected. “This will include 10 to 15 centres across India. We have approval for phase 3 in two sets. We will study 500 patients to see if it works as a prophylactic and if it prevents the asymptomatic from progressing towards the severe form of Covid. We will study the 600 patients who have supposedly recovered from the virus to see if they will be reinfected or not,” said Dr Ram Vishwakarma, director, Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, CSIR, Jammu. The injectable drug is a non-specific immuno-modulator (regulates immune response during attack of any pathogen) which contains Mycobacterium w—a non pathogenic bacteria which is killed by heat. The safety study was conducted on four severely ill patients in PGI to evaluate the drug’s safety in Covid-19. No adverse effect was reported and the breathlessness patients suffered from showed clinical improvement after a week. “The observational study is done before we start with randomised control trials. Now, our dosage study is also nearing completion and we are soon going to submit the report and move on to the next phase,” said Dr Ram. “In another four to six months, we shall complete phase 3 trials. Cuba is also working on Mycobacterium w. We plan to collaborate with them and do a two- country based trial,” he added. Immuno-modulators are basically regulators of immune response and in a way can prevent excessive activation of immune response. They will help generate an appropriate immune response and help in faster clearance of virus and may even prevent the cytokine storm, which is associated with the progression to severe form of Covid-19. However, few scientists believe that having different mode of action, modulators of immune response may not prevent the infection as the vaccine would. “Besides, immuno-modulators would facilitate the generation of specific immune response by a vaccine. A vaccine is required to generate a specific information to the T cells. These T cells in the body help generate a specific immune response to kill the infected cells. Vaccines create a population of sensitised cells against a pathogen or virus, which is also called a memory generated against that virus, where the pre-sensitised cells can act fast to eliminate the virus on exposure," said Prof Sunil Arora, immunopathologist in PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/csir-soon-to-start-phase-3-clinical-trials-for-drug-against-covid-19/articleshow/76291783.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Dairy farmers’ decision to hike milk rates gets thumbs down||Ludhiana: The Milk Consumer Association, one of the biggest body of milk suppliers from Ludhiana, has opened a front against the dairy farmers decision to hike the rates of milk by Rs 5-6 per litre from June 11. The milk consumers association led by its president N K Sharma organised a meeting of all members at Chander Nagar on Tuesday and it was decided to stage a protest on June 11 against the hike in prices of milk. According to milk suppliers, if the rates are hiked by the milk producers, then the entire business of the suppliers and even farmers will be wiped off because the hike will lead to a huge difference of rates between milk of Verka and that of private diary farmerss. Giving more information, Sharma, said, “Taking an illogical step, the Dairy Farmers Association, which comprises the milk producers, has decided to hike the rates per litre of milk by Rs 5-6, which is a huge setback for the end consumer and also for us. At this point of time when people are so fund starved and do not even have money to manage their day to day expenses, how will they be able to cope up with the rising rates of milk, which is essential and daily use commodity.” “On Tuesday, close to 300 milk suppliers joined our meeting and it was decided that we will strongly oppose this move of the dairy farmers and taking one step in this direction we have decided to meet the deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, on Wednesday and give him memorandum of our demands. We are also going to meet Ludhiana mayor and other stakeholders to make them understand about the sensitivity of this matter and seek their help in blocking the move of the dairy farmers. But if everything fails, we will protest against the dairy farmers’ decision on June 11, which is the deadline given by them to hike the rates,” he said. According to Krishan Kumar, a leading milk supplier of the city, “As of now, the rate of milk being sold by Verka is between Rs 50 per litre, while the milk being supplied by us to the consumers, which is being sourced from dairy farmers is being sold at Rs 58 per litre, which covers all our expenditure of delivery and little margin as well. If the dairy farmers go ahead with their decision to hike the rates of milk by Rs 5-6 per litre, then the rate per litre of milk for the consumer will reach Rs 63, which will be costlier by almost Rs. 12-13 per litre as compared to the milk being sold by Verka. If this situation occurs, then who will buy the milk being supplied by us. Moreover, at this juncture when even a single rupee matters in rising inflation, how will the end consumers be able to cope up with the increase.” Other office-bearers of the Milk Consumer Association who were present in the meeting included Pargat Singh, Jatin Sehgal, Harsh Grewal, Tejinder Singh, Pradeep Chawla and Ravinder Sehgal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dairy-farmers-decision-to-hike-milk-rates-gets-thumbs-down/articleshow/76290996.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: 11 held, 139 FIRs registered||Channdigarh: Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said 139 FIRs had been registered against those who had been sending people abroad by fraudulent means. The police have arrested 11 people, and seized a car and cash amounting to Rs 10.52 lakh from their possession. The action has come after a first batch of 73 deportees from the US reached Haryana on May 19. The second batch of deportees had returned last week. Vij said crimes like immigration fraud and “kabootarbazi” (human trafficking) will be eradicated and a special investigation team (SIT) had been constituted recently to monitor and investigate such cases at the state level. The team is headed by an inspector general of police and comprises six SP-rank officers. Vij said the team will investigate immigration fraudsters who dupe youngsters of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of sending them abroad. A similar issue came to light after some Indians were brought back from American jails, he added. SIT chief Bharti Arora added the team had been directed to take strict action. As a result, police have arrested 11 people by conducting raids, he added. Among them, Jagtar alias Jaggi has been arrested from Kaithal district and Rs 10, 000 cash was seized along with a car. The second accused is Somnath of Ismailabad. He has been arrested in two cases and Rs 7.5 lakh seized from him. Arora said Rajkumar alias Raju, resident of Dhand in Kaithal district, had been arrested along with Rs. 1.37 lakh; and Jagdish of Sitamai, Karnal, arrested with Rs 70,000. Other arrested men include Labh Singh of Patiala, Ravindra of Jundla, Deepak Narwal of Madlauda, Anil of Madhuban, Hardeep Singh of Assandh, Rajendra of Assandh and Om Prakash of Israna. Police seized Rs 85,000 in cash from them. Arora said cases had also been registered in Gharaunda, Nigdu, Indri and Assandh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-11-held-139-firs-registered/articleshow/76291797.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Four booked for assaulting Asha worker||KOLHAPUR: Four people, including a sitting member of a grampanchyat of Khatangle village, have been booked for allegedly assaulting an Asha worker after she refused to give them extra vials of a homeopathy medicine recommended by the Ayush ministry to improve immunity against Covid-19. While one of the four suspects, Eknath Patil, has been arrested, the grampanchayat member and two others are on the run. Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police, said, “We have deployed two teams to trace the suspects on the run. Attack on health workers will not be tolerated.” Shobha Ashok Talekar (52) was visiting every household and distributing the medicine. As per her complaint lodged at Karveer police station, Talekar said that the health workers were given a list of the senior citizens to whom the vials had to be given free of cost. While visiting the house of a gram panchayat member, the family members demanded additional vials. When Talekar refused to give in to their demand, they assaulted her. On learning about the incident, Asha workers from across Karveer taluka have stopped their work, which mainly includes delivering medicines and conducting door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 suspects. Netradipa Patil, district head of Asha workers association said, that Talekar was so badly assaulted that she bore beating marks on her body and scratches on her head. She was immediately taken to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital for treatment. “So far, there have been seven instances of misbehaviour with Asha workers. They were either abused or assaulted but no action has been taken so far. Considering past experiences, we have taken the decision to discontinue the work till all the accused are not arrested,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-booked-for-assaulting-asha-worker/articleshow/76291798.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Groups reach Sunderbans with help, look to rebuild wrecked lives||KOLKATA: Even as the Sunderbans struggled to get back on feet, several groups continued to visit the Amphan-wrecked villages, carrying essentials, medicines, tarpaulin sheets and money, looking to rebuild life on the islands. Among the groups was FREED, members of which took dry food, grocery, fruit juice, rubber shoes, tarpaulin rolls, medicines and matchboxes to 500 families living on Bali Island. They also gifted drawing materials and paper to the children, who had lost their books and stationery to the storm that had ripped through the island, especially in areas, such as Bijoynagar, Birajnagar, Bali IX and Bali X. Agricultural fields were still inundated and most mud houses had been flattened out. Somnath Pyne, secretary of FREED, said they would not stop at merely distributing relief materials. With an aim to rehabilitate the residents, Pyne said, they planned to launch a skill-development programme for young girls who constantly faced the danger of being trafficked. While a solar-powered unit was in the planning stage, the group would also plant saplings, in the village, compensating for the destroyed trees. They hoped to rope in kids as volunteers, he said. ‘Eksathe Bnachbo’, an initiative led by students and youths from different districts, also provided more than 2,000 families with foodgrain, tarpaulin sheets, masks, medicines and sanitary napkins. The youngsters visited Basanti, G-Plot, Chunakhali, Gosaba, Kochukhali and Dhuri in South 24 Parganas and Champapukur, Jeliakhali, Sulkani, Benipota in North 24 Parganas. they also visited Nandakumar, Dakshin Hatgechia, Chak Simultala, Rangibasan in East Midnapore as well as affected places in West Midnapore, Hooghly and Burdwan. “It’s our social responsibility to help out those who have lost almost everything to the storm. We will work for their long-term social and economic rehabilitation,” said Hindol Majumdar from the group. Citizens’ group ‘Purono Kolkatar Golpo’ also visited various places in the Sunderbans— Sagar Island, Chhoto Mollakhali, Namkhana, Hingalganj, Sandeshkhali and Ghoramara Island—where they distributed tarpaulin, essentials and medicines to around 1,500 affected families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/groups-reach-sunderbans-with-help-look-to-rebuild-wrecked-lives/articleshow/76291822.cms||Dipawali Mitra
June 10, 2020||Pune||13 deaths, 220 new patients take PMR tally close to 10,000||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) inched further close to the 10,000 mark with 220 more people testing positive for the contagion on Tuesday. Thirteen more coronavirus positive patients died in the region, taking the toll to 442. Health officials said 119 patients were discharged during the day after they were cured of the infection. The case count in the region has now gone up to 9,959. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported maximum new cases, 140, in the region during the last 24 hours. The Pimpri Chinchwad added 47 and the rural areas 33 cases. PMC health department officials said over 1,697 swabs were collected from various parts of the city on Tuesday. About 189 patients were critical and being treated at various hospitals. Of them, 37 were on ventilator support. An official said 119 patients were discharged after they were declared cured. The PMC limits on Tuesday had 2,498 active cases. An official said the number of senior citizens continued to be high among those succumbing to the infection. Of the 13 patients who died on Tuesday, 11 were aged above 60 years. Two patients — a 72-year-old man from Yerawada and a 73-year-old Navi Peth resident — died at Sassoon hospital. A 45-year-old woman from Bibvewadi, 70-year-old man from Kothurd, 78-year-old man from the Sinhagad Road area, 69-year-old man from Erandwane, 64-year-old woman from Sadashiv Peth, 75-year-old man from Parvati, 60-year-old woman from the Parvati Darshan area, 65-year-old woman from Kondhwa, 74-year-old man from Sahakarnagar, and a 67-year-old woman from Sahakarnagar died at various private hospitals. Sources in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) said the fresh cases were mostly from the Anandnagar, Kaspatewasti, Ajanthanagar, Khandobamal, Saibabanagar, Chinchwad, Dapodi, Gulabnagar (Dapodi), Old Sangvi, Siddharthnagar (Dapodi), Wakad, New Sangvi, Shahunagar (Chinchwad), Bopodi and Pimple Nilakh areas. A statement of the PCMC health department said nine people from Link road (Pimpri), Jay Bhavani Nagar Dapodi, Indiranagar (Chinchwad), Anandnagar (Chinchwad), Bhatnagar and New Sangvi were released from hospitals. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-deaths-220-new-patients-take-pmr-tally-close-to-10k/articleshow/76292427.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi ISBTs chart out new route: Fewer buses, all-night operations||NEW DELHI: All-night bus operations, fewer buses, staggered timings and thermal screenings. These are some of the changes passengers may witness at the three Inter-State Bus Terminals (ISBT) of Delhi which are likely to reopen soon. Online bookings will be encouraged. Before the national lockdown was announced, the three ISBTs at Kashmere Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan used to witness a total of three lakh passengers a day. Nearly 3,500 buses would arrive from neighbouring states. While the central government has allowed interstate bus transport from June 1 as part of Unlock 1.0, there is no clarity on when services to Delhi will start. “Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) doesn’t run any interstate services, apart from limited bus services in the national capital region. The reason is that DTC’s entire fleet is CNG-run and the fuel is not easily available in other states,” said a Delhi government official. “Buses from other states arrive at our ISBTs and without the concurrence of other states, these services won’t start. The final decision has to be taken at the highest level, but we are chalking out a strategy to prepare our ISBTs for the new normal,” the official explained. “With the number of Covid-19 cases higher in Delhi compared with towns and cities in Haryana or Uttar Pradesh, it is likely these states will be cautious and send a limited number of buses initially,” he said. “Though we are expecting a decision soon, it is difficult to say when exactly the ISBTs will reopen.” The official said that the number of buses arriving in Delhi would be heavily curtailed to maintain social distancing. “We will definitely not allow too many buses at the same time. However, we can’t gauge how many people will turn up at ISBTs when services restart and that is why reducing the number of buses can’t be the only solution,” he added. “That is why there are plans to stagger departure timings of buses and allow operations at night apart from leaving sufficient space between two parked buses. Thermal screening and sanitisation of passengers at entry points will be carried out and apart from face masks, Aarogya Setu application on mobile phones may also become mandatory.” While earlier, passengers could just arrive at ISBTs and book a bus ticket from the booking counters of different state transport corporations, pre-booking seats online might be encouraged or even made mandatory now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/isbts-chart-out-new-route-fewer-buses-all-night-ops/articleshow/76291801.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Panel seeks Pb’s reply on Dalits on key posts||Chandigarh: Taking up a representation highlighting that the Punjab government had ignored the competent officers from the scheduled castes (SC) community while making appointments to various important posts, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes has sought a detailed reply from chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh within 15 days. “Please take notice that in case the commission does not receive a reply from you within the stipulated time, the commission may exercise the powers of civil courts conferred on it under Article 338 of the Constitution of India and issue summons for your appearance in person or by a representative before the commission,” read the order passed by Raj Kumar Chhanana, director of the commission. The commission passed these orders on Monday. In his representation submitted on June 6, Paramjit Singh Kainth, president of National Scheduled Castes Alliance, said, “There is not even a single police commissioner as well as inspector general of police zonal belonging to the SC community in the state. Out of the above said total eight posts, none is filled by an able officer of the community.” He said the SC community has 35% population in the state and it is highly important that the community has adequate representation in the bureaucracy of the state. Kainth also submitted that in the recently announced posting or transfers in May by the Punjab government and also in the previous successive years, officers belonging to the SC community have been repeatedly ignored on various posts of administrative importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-seeks-pbs-reply-on-dalits-on-key-posts/articleshow/76291793.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmer held for poisoning 11 peafowls||Coimbatore: A 49-year-old farmer from Panchapatti village near Dharapuram in Tirupur district was arrested for poisoning 11 peafowls at his farm land on June 5. The forest department officials claimed that the farmer had sown raw rice mixed with substances to kill the birds. The arrested farmer was identified as M Semalaiappan, 49 and was booked under sections 9 and 51 of the Wild Life Protection Act. He was lodged at Avinashi sub-jail. Kangeyam forest range officer Praveenkumar and his team received information about the death of peafowls and rushed to Panchapatti village. They found 11 peafowls dead at the farm land belonging to Semalaiappan. He had been cultivating drumstick at his farm land. Due to peafowls menace, he decided to kill the birds. Samples taken from the dead peafowls have been sent to the laboratory in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmer-held-for-poisoning-11-peafowls/articleshow/76291821.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Chawni Mohalla a containment zone, but who cares||Ludhiana: Not only residents of containment zone in Chawni Mohalla, but the cops deployed there also seem to be mocking at the administration. On Tuesday, along with residents, even some cops on duty in the area were captured without masks. The Ludhiana district administration has declared Chawni Mohalla as a containment zone. The health department will now conduct random sample checking of symptomatic persons to avoid further spread. On Tuesday, the TOI took a round of the area and found that besides shops of essential commodities, a photo studio was also open. Further, except for some residents, even some cops deployed on duty there were seen moving around without masks. The residents of Chawni Mohalla were also seen roaming around freely in the area. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “As per the guidelines, the residents of containment zones cannot go outside the area, but they can move inside their area freely, however, with precautions. Further, shops of essential commodities can also open in containment zones. In Chawni Mohalla, we have three points for entry and exit of resident for essential and emergency services.” “A team of health department, along with cops, have been deployed there to maintain a register of each person entering and making an exit from the area. The record of persons, the place and purpose of going out is being maintained by the workers of the health department. Infrared thermometer is also used to check fever of people coming and going out,” added CMO Bagga. He further said though the guidelines allowed people to move within the area, they should be cautious to not get in touch with anyone. They should remain indoors and move out only when there was an urgency. When Ludhiana police was contacted to know about the cops and residents without masks, a senior police official said, “We will implement the guidelines strictly.” On June 5, Ludhiana district administration had declared Chawni Mohalla as a containment zone. In an official statement deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal had said ,“Because a total of 15 cases have come from Chawni Mohalla alone, the district administration and health department has declared it as a containment zone. Curfew like situation will be maintained in this area and no person will be allowed to leave or enter Chawni Mohalla.” He had added that this entire area had been sealed and only essential services would be allowed there. The area, which witnesses its first case on May 29, saw a rapid rise in spread of Covid-19 and by the first week of June, it became a cluster of infection, forcing the authorities to declare it a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chawni-mohalla-a-containment-zone-but-who-cares/articleshow/76291005.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Manufacturers oppose proposal to fix reflective tapes on bicycles||Ludhiana: City bicycle and parts manufacturers are up in arms against the Centre for the new proposal of affixing special adhesive tape on bicycles for safety of the rider. According to the bicycle and parts manufacturers the rate of bicycle will be dearer by Rs 20 and considering the current scenario, when already the industrialists have suffered huge losses in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, even a smallest hike in the rate of bicycles will deal a big blow to their business. Several office-bearers and members of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) met at its Gill Road office on Monday evening and condemned this proposal of affixing reflective tapes, which has been mooted by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Speaking on the occasion, Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, general secretary of association, said, “We strongly oppose the proposal to consider installing a special type of tape on bicycles in the name of safety for cyclists. If the central government really wants the safety of cyclists, it should build cycle lanes along all roads in the country, so that cyclists could ride bicycles safely without worrying about anything.” He added, “Moreover, the tape which is being proposed to be affixed on the bicycles is not even being manufactured in India and has to be imported from China. By affixing this tape on bicycle the rate of bicycle will become more dearer by Rs 20, which is nothing less than a burden on the industrialists as the customers will not agree to pay this additional charge to us and we will suffer further losses in addition to what we are already incurring in the wake of Covid.” Speaking on the issue, senior vice-president of UCPMA, Gurcharan Singh Gemco, said, “It’s really shocking that how does Union ministry has reached the conclusion that if a certain type of tape is affixed on the bicycle it will become more safe for the rider. When two wheelers and four wheelers, which even have headlights and reflective tapes as well, but even then they collide and cause huge accidents and deaths. The only realtime solution for ensuring safety of bicycle riders is by making separate bicycle lanes for them and also imposing quick and harsh punishment on people breaking the traffic laws. Whether we fix adhesive tape or provide helmets and knee guards to the bicycle riders, nothing is going to work.” Meanwhile other businessmen present on the occasion included Satnam Singh Makkar, Achhru Ram Gupta, Rajinder Singh Sarhali, Vilayti Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/manufacturers-oppose-proposal-to-fix-reflective-tapes-on-bicycles/articleshow/76291016.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Bagalkot man in Goa's Vasco tests positive, escapes with family in truck||VASCO: A man from Bagalkot residing at Khariawaddo, Vasco, got a message on Tuesday afternoon that he tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He promptly gathered his belongings in his truck, collected his family too, and drove off. Till late Tuesday night, authorities were none the wiser where the Covid-positive man had reached. As cases in Vasco move from being concentrated at Mangor Hill to various parts of the town, fear and panic continue to grip its residents. The Bagalkot man wasn’t Tuesday’s only case from Khariawaddo — a nurse working at the urban health centre also tested positive, the local councillor said. On Tuesday, an electricity department linesman, a resident of Bogda, Sada, tested positive for Covid-19. A department official said that other staffers have now also been asked to go for testing. Since electricity is an essential service, there are fears that more personnel testing positive might affect power in the port town. “We are so scared, we do not know how far the virus has been spread,” said Karim Mulla, an event manager from Chicalim. “Seeing the rising number of cases outside the containment zone gives us sleepless nights, as we have family at New Vaddem, which seems like it’s becoming the next hotspot.” Another positive case, a staffer of Mormugao Municipal Council, is a resident of Cansaulim. “We took 30 other staffers who came in contact with her to the sub-district hospital and got them tested,” said chairperson Nandadeep Raut. “Another 30 will be tested on Wednesday, and these include councillors.” The MMC building was shut on Tuesday and the premises sanitised. Meanwhile, New Vaddem, which previously recorded five cases, got six new positives on Tuesday, taking its count up to 11. In Shantinagar, a teenager, who played cricket with his friends, tested positive, as did his father. The area’s councillor, Yatin Kamurlekar, identified 21 persons who came in contact with the teen and referred them for testing. As the cases increased, Vasco PI Nilesh Rane, deputy collector, Mormugao, Sachin Dessai and others inspected the area and restricted residents’ movement by erecting barricades and deploying police. Since sources said that there’s a threat of local transmission here too, and many are waiting to get tested, residents have been asked to home quarantine. Buses too stayed off the roads at New Vaddem. A Kadamba conductor affiliated to the Vasco depot living at Mestawaddo too tested positive. In Baina, after one man tested positive, three of his family members also tested positive and were admitted to the Covid hospital on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bagalkot-man-in-vasco-tests-ve-escapes-with-family-in-truck/articleshow/76292685.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 10, 2020||Amritsar||Protect Punjabi youth: US activist||AMRITSAR: The North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) attributes the risk Punjabi youth face at the hands of fraudulent travel agents and human trafficking mafia to lapses in the implementation of Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act, 2012. NAPA executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said he has written to the Punjab chief minister saying that the Act should be enforced and violators should be prosecuted in accordance with law. “People in general and youth in particular need to be educated about immigration formalities to settle abroad and all aspiring emigrants are required to comply with visa requirements before undertaking any venture to go abroad,” he suggested. He said 15 youth had gone missing in about five years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/protect-punjabi-youth-us-activist/articleshow/76291805.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 10, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh Board Class X result out, 23 girls in merit list||DHARAMSHALA: Himachal Board of School Education declared the result of Class X on Tuesday. While 1,04,323 candidates appeared in the exam, 70,571 passed and 5,617 got compartment. The overall pass percentage stood at 68.11%, an increase of 7.32% than the previous year’s 60.79%. Board chairman Suresh Kumar Soni said the evaluation process was delayed due to lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, girls have outshone boys once again. “Thirty-seven students made it to the top-10 list, out of which 23 are girls. The pass percentage of girls was 71.5% while it was 64.9% among boys,” Soni said. Kumari Tanu of Ishan Public School, Har Samloti, Kangra district, topped the exam with 98.71% marks. The second position was bagged by Kshitiz Sharma of New Gurukul Public School, Gopal Nagar, Hamirpur who scored 98.57%. Vansh Gupta of Glory Public School, Bilaspur; Shagun Rana of Ishan Public School, Har Samloti, Kangra; and Anisha Sharma of Government High School, Pantehra, Bilsapur were joint third with 98.43% marks. Shreya Sharma of Minerva Senior Secondary School, Ghumarwin bagged the fourth position with 98.29%. Board had made 45 centres in this state which has 12 districts where examination papers were sent for the evaluation process. Students were awaiting the results from the past three months. They were in the middle of deciding their future streams of studies. Usually results come out by the end of March and in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-board-class-x-result-out-23-girls-in-merit-list/articleshow/76291816.cms||Shri Puri
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Hotels as Covid-19 facilities: Delhi high court seeks reply||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday asked AAP government to explain under what authority the decision to convert hotels into extended Covid-19 facilities was taken. Justice Navin Chawla sought the government’s stand on petitions filed by two such hotels challenging the decision. While one plea was filed last week by CHL Limited which owns Hotel Surya, another hotel named in the government order—Crown Plaza also approached the court. The matter will be heard on Wednesday. On Tuesday, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for AAP government, told HC that all actions have been taken from powers vested under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act and maintained there is no illegality in the official decision of May 29 order. The government said the purpose of converting them into extended Covid-19 hospitals is that medical services shall be provided by the attached private hospitals by admitting coronavirus positive patients as per their medical condition in the hotels. Hotel Surya was directed to be requisitioned and handed over to the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital for converting it into an extended Covid-19 hospital. The government had also decided the rates payable by each patient on each night stay. Seeking a stay on the Delhi government’s order, the plea said the government had fixed the fees without consulting it. “They should have discussed the future course of action with stakeholders, as it would affect the business,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hotels-as-covid-facilities-hc-seeks-reply/articleshow/76291814.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Former Union minister Ajay Maken wants 70% beds for Covid-19 patients||NEW DELHI: Former Union minister Ajay Maken on Tuesday moved the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) demanding that the Centre and Delhi government reserve 70% of the total hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Maken claimed that only 8% of the 57,194 available hospital beds in Delhi were being utilised for treatment of Covid patients. He added that only 12% of beds in Delhi government health facilities, 8% in central and 7% of the private hospital beds had currently been kept aside to treat coronavirus patients. He added that around 70% of the dedicated beds in Delhi were vacant while patients were struggling to get one. “I request NHRC to issue appropriate directions to Delhi government for ensuring that those suffering from coronavirus and in need of beds, must be given admission without any further hardship. At least 70% of the bed capacity should be prepared and reserved for Covid patients,” Maken said. The former Delhi Congress chief also said that as per the latest Delhi health bulletin, 27 of every 100 persons being tested were Covid-19 positive, while sources of more than 50% were untraceable. “Efforts should be made to test anyone coming in contact with a symptomatic patient without any delay and the city should not be opened up further unless the positivity rate comes down to less than 10%,” he added. He urged the commission to direct Delhi government to designate 70% hospitals under its jurisdiction as corona health facilities. Currently, five of 38 are designated Covid-19 hospitals. Further, he requested NHRC to augment CNG crematorium facilities across the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/maken-wants-70-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76291830.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||No random closure of industries, says collector||Pune: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday told his sub-divisional officers not to close industries and manufacturing units in containment zones without prior permission from his office. There were reports of such random closures. Ram told TOI that in case one or two Covid-19 cases are detected in the containment zones, such units should not be told to shut down. Instead, they should be directed to follow due precautions at work. Units outside housing societies with cases will have to be closed with the collector’s permission under the order issued under District Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act, 1897. Meanwhile, Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said the beds in private hospitals will be available as per the government rates as per the notification issued on May 21. They are not free of cost, he said on Tuesday. The state government had issued orders to procure beds from the private sector and managed through a dashboard for patients to check. The charges for Covid-19 patients in isolation wards cannot be more than Rs 4,000 a day, the maximum charge for an ICU is capped at Rs 7,500 a day and charges for a ventilator are capped at Rs 9,000 a day. Mhaisekar added that a web portal and a mobile application is in place listing the private hospitals and the number of beds available for both the administration and citizens. Nodal officers have been appointed to check for private hospital updates. Nodal officer Pavneet Kaur will coordinate with private hospitals to ensure that they update the figures, and Prerna Deshbhratrar will check for medical staff issues and PMPML CMD Nayana Gunde will monitor ambulance services. The commissioner told TOI that as of now they had enough oxygen, non-oxygen and ventilator beds.He said the medical staff was working under tremendous pressure for the last three months. “We will be ready to get staff from outside Maharashtra. We have already written to Kerala to provide their staff as they have done for Mumbai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-random-closure-of-industries-says-collector/articleshow/76292432.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolhapur||4 Satara civic officials arrested by ACB||Kolhapur: The deputy chief executive officer of Satara municipal council along with three other officials were arrested on Monday by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) while accepting a bribe of Rs 2.30 lakh. The ACB, in an official communication, said that the deputy CEO, Santosh Krishna Dhumal (32), was caught red-handed. He had allegedly asked the money from an individual who was given a contract by the municipal council. Three other employees — Ganesh Dattatreya Tope, Pravin Eaknath Yadav and Rajendra Kayangude — were arrested few hours later after Dhumal’s statement was recorded by the ACB. Teams from ACB later searched the houses of all the four suspects. According to an ACB official, the complainant was given the contract to clear garbage across the town by Satara municipal council. He had deposited an amount of Rs 15 lakh when the contract was given to him. After the work contract was over, the contractor was supposed to get back the deposit. “The contractor had approached the municipal council officials to get back his money. However, he was allegedly asked to pay Rs. 2.30 lakh in cash by the official. Following this, the contractor approached the ACB and lodged a complaint,” he added. The official said that after confirming the details of the complaint a trap was laid to arrest the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-satara-civic-officials-arrested-by-acb/articleshow/76291806.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Care and caution as Kerala moves to Unlock 1.0||KOZHIKODE/KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala slowly stepped out of a two-and-a-half-month lockdown as malls, religious places and restaurants opened across districts under strict conditions, limiting the number of people and ensuring sanitisation at all premises. It was a sight of spirituality and safety going hand in hand when Sreekanteswara Temple in Kozhikode opened its doors to the public on Tuesday. Adapting to Covid-19 times, temple authorities changed traditional timings (5am-12 noon) to 6.30am to 10.30am and barred the entry of devotees inside the sanctum sanctorum. Only 57 devotees visited on the first day as against the usual figure of over 200. “Temple entry was allowed in strict compliance to government SOP,” said Sheeba T, a staff at the temple. She added that an aged person was sent back in line with the guidelines. Major temples like Thali and temples under Kshethra Samrakshana Samiti remained closed. Malls in Kozhikode opened with below-normal footfalls. Instead of the soothing ambient mall music, Focus Mall had announcements about Covid-19 safety measures through ceiling speakers. Also, mall authorities put stickers on the floor to ensure that visitors followed social distancing norms. Hotel owners in Kozhikode decided not to allow dine-in facility for the moment. In Kochi, malls opened with elaborate sanitization and crowd-control measures but the footfalls were less. LuLu, the biggest mall in Kochi, said it witnessed a footfall of 20,000, a fraction of its normal crowd. Centre Square Mall officials said the crowd was 10% less than what they experienced on a normal week day. Visitors were asked to share their name, contact details and location to make contact tracing easier. Restaurants reopened with dine-in option but trade association office-bearers said people were not enthused. KHRA state general secretary G Jayapal said restaurants opened following 50% capacity norm. “Only a few turned up. Two persons were allowed to be seated at a table meant for four. Many restaurants didn’t open because it is not profitable,” he said. The only condition they could not adhere to was providing two separate doorways for entry and exit. Jacobite church officials said while some of their churches were open for sanitization on Tuesday, worship would be on Sundays. “We don’t expect over 50 people to attend holy mass. Some large churches may be open for worship on Saturday,” said Fr Sleeba Paul Vattavelil, priest trustee of Jacobite Church. Churches under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese decided not to reopen till June 30. Diocese of Latin Church, including Verapoly and Cochin, also had announced their decision to not open churches. The holy episcopal synod of the Orthodox Church on Tuesday decided not to open the churches for the faithful in haste.  The scene was no different in the capital, where footfalls at malls were low. Most customers who were dining at the mall’s food court were families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/care-caution-as-state-moves-to-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76299049.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Transport union members seek permission to ‘beg’||Coimbatore: Members of Coimbatore district road transport workers’ union staged a protest in front of the district collector’s office on Tuesday seeking permission to ‘beg’ in order to repay their vehicle loans. “RBI has allowed six months extension of loan moratorium. But even for these months, we were asked to pay interest which is equal to the EMI that we pay in two instalments. At a time when we have lost our business for about 2.5 months, how can we afford to pay such a huge sum. So we had requested the government to waive off the interest for six months after assuring them that the loan amount would be completely repaid,” said AM Rafi, general secretary of the union. “As both the state and central government have refused to respond to our requests to resume our business during the crisis period, we have no other options left than to beg,” they said. Pointing out that motor tax would be levied once in three months, he asked if it was fair to collect motor tax for vehicles which were not operated for 2.5 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/transport-union-members-seek-permission-to-beg/articleshow/76291839.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||Child rights panel sends notice to edu dept over alleged sexual abuse of 9-yr-old boy in boarding school||Dehradun: Three days after a boarding school warden in Dehradun was arrested for allegedly sexually abusing a nine-year-old student stranded there due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has sent a notice to the education department on Tuesday asking them to conduct an inquiry and present a detailed report within 15 days. Hailing from Noida, the boy is a class V student and was stranded at the school on Sahastradhara Road ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Though his mother tried to reach him, she couldn't. In a police complaint, the boy’s family has alleged that the warden stripped the boy and touched him inappropriately in an inebriated condition. The family said that they came to know about the crime only on June 4 when they reached the school to take the boy home. The boy’s mother, a former employee of an IT firm in Noida and a single parent, said, “My child has been studying in the school for the past three years. We decided to shift him to the hostel due to family problems. I can’t believe that the warden tried to exploit him. We wanted to pick him up from the school but were not able to do so due to travel curbs between states in the wake of the virus outbreak. We somehow reached Dehradun last week when the restrictions were eased.” She added: “We were shocked to hear about his ordeal. When we asked him why he did not inform us earlier, he told us that the warden used to be around whenever we called. Being a single parent, it was difficult for me to handle the school authorities and get an FIR registered. My son is still recovering from the trauma.” The school principal has refuted the charges. Investigating officer Malini Bamrada, meanwhile, said, “We have registered a case against the accused and sent him to jail. The child’s statement has also been recorded. We are now examining the evidence and further action will be taken in due course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/child-rights-panel-sends-notice-to-edu-dept-over-alleged-sexual-abuse-of-9-yr-old-boy-in-boarding-school/articleshow/76289881.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 10, 2020||Pune||Rise in coronavirus cases in slums worries PCMC||Pimpri Chinchwad: The steady rise in the number of Covid-19 patients from the slum areas is turning out to be a major worry for the civic officials. Over 300 Covid-19 cases have so far been reported from different slum pockets within the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. Officials said the narrow lanes, dense population and disregard for the social distancing and hygiene norms were leading to the fresh coronavirus cases from Anandnagar, Rupinagar, Bhat Nagar, and other slum pockets. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said there were around 76 slum pockets in the civic limits, of which at least 15 have reported Covid-19 cases so far. “Containment zone is the only option to restrict people’s movement to and from such areas. It is also necessary to break the infection chain. Considering the coming rainsy season, the citizens must exercise extra precautions and strictly adhere to the personal hygiene and social distancing norms,” he said. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said, “If citizens take precautionary steps, it will be quite easier to curb the spread of the contagion for the administration as well.” Over 50% of Covid-19 patients in the PCMC limits are in the age group of 13-39 years. Real-time data shared on the PCMC’s website on Monday revealed that 322 cases were in the age group of 22-39, while 97 cases were in the 13-21 years group. The data revealed that 92 cases were in the 0-12 years group, while there were 184 cases in the category of 40-59 years. Health department officials said 92 patients were in the senior citizen category. The officials said the senior citizens, especially those with comorbidities, needed to take extra care of themselves, while children aged below five needed to be looked after. Health department records revealed that around 472 patients have recovered from the contagion in the PCMC limits till Monday. Of the current active cases, 161 were asymptomatic and 108 symptomatic. Twenty patients were in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rise-in-coronavirus-cases-in-slums-worries-pcmc/articleshow/76292446.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Karnataka's Chamarajanagar district loses its green zone tag||MYSURU: Chamarajanagar’s fine run as the only coronavirus-free district in Karnataka, ended on Tuesday when it recorded its first case – that of a 22-year-old medical student who had travelled from Mumbai. The student was referred to the district Covid-19 hospital by a fever clinic in Kollegal. While district deputy commissioner MR Ravi insisted Chamarajanagar will remain a green district since the patient is not a native of the district, the state medical bulletin attributed the case to the district. Ravi told reporters that the patient and his elder brother, 24, had travelled to drop their mother, 45, off at Palimedu village near Martalli in Hanur taluk. The three had reached Palimedu on Friday evening. The family had travelled by train to Bengaluru and the woman’s brother had picked them up from the railway station, from where they continued their journey by road. “Since they had come from Maharashtra, they have been sent to the government institutional quarantine centre in Hanur,” Ravi said. “The woman was suffering from diabetes and a sample was taken on Saturday, but she tested negative. Her elder son also tested negative, but the younger son, a medical student, who developed Covid-19 symptoms including diarrhoea and stomach ache on Sunday, tested positive.” Ravi said the mother and elder son are primary contacts, while the patient’s maternal uncle and his family members are secondary contacts. “All have been moved to institutional quarantine,” he said. Ravi said neither the sons nor the mother had registered their names on the Seva Sindhu website. “They did not follow protocol. Since all their documents show a Mumbai address, they will be considered patients of Mumbai. Chamarajanagar continues to be a green district,” he said. Sources say the district administration learnt of three only when they visited a fever clinic in Kollegal on Saturday for testing. When the authorities at the clinic found that they had not registered on the Seva Sindhu portal, all are sent to institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, a positive case each was reported in Nanjanagud and Ittigegudu of Mysuru district. They include a 22-year-old man who returned to Nanjanagud from Delhi. The man had completed his stay in institutional quarantine, but tested positive while serving time in home quarantine. The entire colony comprising 20 houses in Neelakantanagar has been sealed. The Ittigegudu patient is a 60-year-old man who had returned from Tamil Nadu. The area has now been declared a containment zone. With this, the total positive cases in Mysuru district touched 99, but there are only five active cases in the district. “Three patients were discharged on Tuesday,” said DC Abhiram G Sankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-district-loses-its-green-zone-tag/articleshow/76290286.cms||Shrinivasa M
June 10, 2020||Mumbai||BMC lets shops stay open till 9pm, when 8-hour curfew begins||MUMBAI: The BMC has lifted time restrictions on shops and markets with an amendment in the circular on phase-wise relaxation of the Covid-19 lockdown on Tuesday. However, as the curfew from 9pm to 5am remains, shops will in effect have to close by 9pm. Till date, the BMC had allowed shops to remain open from 9am to 5pm. Malls have not been allowed to open at all. As before, shops on each side of a road will remain open for business on alternate days. All shops must remain closed every Sunday. Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, welcomed the move and said he had informed members that the ideal time to shut would be 7.30pm to 8pm so that staff going back home were not caught on the wrong side of the 9pm curfew. “Shopkeepers have been asked to ensure that they maintain social distance from customers, wear masks at all times and make use of sanitisers,” Shah said. The Maharashtra Shops and Establishments (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 2017, allows establishments to stay open all night, but a circular issued by the BMC on Tuesday last week prohibits the movement of individuals from 9pm to 5am except for essential activities. Bandra corporator Asif Zakeria said the circular in H-West ward allows shops on the two sides of a road to go for an odd-even date scheme. “It would be better if the civic ward-level circular mentions shops on which side shall remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and which side on the rest of the days,” he said. “When BMC says odd and even, a shop meant to operate on odd dates will remain open on June 13, which is Saturday, and can again be open on June 15, Monday, as it is also an odd date. While the shop allowed to operate on an even date will be open on June 12, Friday, and then be continuously shut from Saturday to Monday, starting business again only on June 16, Tuesday.” In another amendment, the BMC prohibited the use of parks and garden equipment like open air gym and play area equipment like swings while pursuing health-related outdoor physical activities, which are now allowed. Signed by municipal commissioner I S Chahal, the circular says that printing and distribution of newspapers, including home delivery, is allowed. “It shall be with the knowledge of the receiver and for the delivery of the newspaper. Personnel shall wear mask, use hand sanitiser and maintain social distancing,” the circular said. The circular allowed office staff of educational institutions like schools, colleges and universities to operate only for non-teaching purposes, such as development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-lets-shops-stay-open-till-9pm-when-8-hr-curfew-begins/articleshow/76292458.cms||Richa Pinto
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid patient’s body swap triggers row||HYDERABAD: A mix-up of bodies of Covid-19 victims caused mild tension at a graveyard in Begumpet on Tuesday. After a victim’s family discovered the goof-up, they protested and got into a verbal duel with civic staff. GHMC staff sent the body back to Gandhi Hospital and promised to complete the final rites on Wednesday morning. A 48-year-old Covid-19 patient from Begumpet, undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital, succumbed on Tuesday. As the GHMC staff brought the body for the last rites, the victim’s wife discovered that it was not her husband’s body and raised an alarm. An argument broke out between the family and the four GHMC employees responsible for handling the body. A GHMC source claimed the family members assaulted one of the staff. GHMC officials, however, denied the incident. “There was an argument, but they did not assault the staff,” a GHMC official said. As per norms after a relative of the person sees the body through a glass partition and identifies it in the presence of police, the body is sent from hospital. At the graveyard, the body is shown to five family members from a distance. However, the family is not allowed to touch the body. In the present case, the body was dispatched by Gandhi Hospital staff and police to Begumpet for the last rites. “The body was dispatched only after a relative of the deceased identified it. The relative in the presence of medical staff and police confirmed that the body belongs to his family member. After that it was sent for the last rites,” an official deployed on Covid-19 duty told TOI. “He failed to identify the body of his relative,” the officer added. After the confusion was cleared, the civic officials sent back the body to Gandhi Hospital with a promise that the last rites of the 48-year-old would be conducted on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patients-body-swap-triggers-row/articleshow/76292704.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 10, 2020||Shimla||Finish all projects in Himachal Pradesh quickly: CM Jai Ram Thakur||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed administrative secretaries and other officers to ensure time-bound completion of development works, as delays escalated costs and deprived people of benefits from projects. He said work on power projects, particularly 111MW Sawara Kuddu and 180MW Bajoli Holi, should be expedited. He added the 40MW Renuka hydro project, which was being constructed at a cost of Rs 6,0947 crore after being declared a national project, would be completed by this financial year’s end. He that all wooden power poles should be replaced with steel poles by the end of current financial year. Presiding over a review meeting of budget assurances for 2020-21 fiscal, Thakur said state government had launched Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cm-finish-all-projects-in-hp-quickly/articleshow/76291835.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Leopard rescued in Junnar taluka||Pimpri Chinchwad: A three-month-old leopard cub was rescued from a well in Pimplawandi village, while a five-year-old hyena was found dead in Kamundi village in Junnar taluka on Monday. Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, said, “We received information around 1pm that a leopard cub had fallen in a well on the farm of Vikas Sonawane in Chalakwadi area of Pimplawandi village. Our team reached the spot in 15 minutes and rescued the cub.” Meanwhile, a body of a hyena was recovered along the Kalyan-Ahmednagar highway in Khamundi village near Otur. VR Adagale, beat on-charge, Otur, said, "The hyena was hit by a speeding vehicle when it was crossing the highway.” — Siddharth Gaikwad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leopard-rescued-in-junnar-taluka/articleshow/76292450.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Accept demands of CAPF’||Chandigarh: Rajya Sabha MP and Congress working committee member Deepender Singh Hooda has come out in support of paramilitary forces. He said on Tuesday that there should be no delay in accepting the demands of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) officers. Praising their role, he said those defending the country deserved all respect and support. Deepender said officials of the BSF, CRPF, ITBP, CISF and SSB have been demanding non-functional financial upgradation (NFSSU) and organized group A services (OGAS) service benefits for long. Deepender said though the Union cabinet has already made an announcement in this regard, officials have not been given the benefit till now. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accept-demands-of-capf/articleshow/76291826.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Man burns wife, minor daughter||ROHTAK: A man set his wife and two minor daughters on fire in a locality under Old Sabzi Mandi police station here, in the wee hours of Tuesday. While Manju Devi (28) and Bharti (3) were charred to death, Radhika (2) is struggling with her life in hospital. Police have registered a case under the Indian Penal Code and arrested the accused. In his police complaint, Manju’s father Mahender Kumar said he had got his eldest daughter married to Rajesh Kumar seven years ago but he used to beat her very often. He said he got information on Tuesday morning that Rajesh had set his daughter and two minor daughters on fire and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-burns-wife-minor-daughter/articleshow/76291842.cms||Sat Singh
June 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Care and caution as Kerala moves to Unlock 1.0||KOZHIKODE/KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala slowly stepped out of a two-and-a-half-month lockdown as malls, religious places and restaurants opened across districts under strict conditions, limiting the number of people and ensuring sanitisation at all premises. It was a sight of spirituality and safety going hand in hand when Sreekanteswara Temple in Kozhikode opened its doors to the public on Tuesday. Adapting to Covid-19 times, temple authorities changed traditional timings (5am-12 noon) to 6.30am to 10.30am and barred the entry of devotees inside the sanctum sanctorum. Only 57 devotees visited on the first day as against the usual figure of over 200. “Temple entry was allowed in strict compliance to government SOP,” said Sheeba T, a staff at the temple. She added that an aged person was sent back in line with the guidelines. Major temples like Thali and temples under Kshethra Samrakshana Samiti remained closed. Malls in Kozhikode opened with below-normal footfalls. Instead of the soothing ambient mall music, Focus Mall had announcements about Covid-19 safety measures through ceiling speakers. Also, mall authorities put stickers on the floor to ensure that visitors followed social distancing norms. Hotel owners in Kozhikode decided not to allow dine-in facility for the moment. In Kochi, malls opened with elaborate sanitization and crowd-control measures but the footfalls were less. LuLu, the biggest mall in Kochi, said it witnessed a footfall of 20,000, a fraction of its normal crowd. Centre Square Mall officials said the crowd was 10% less than what they experienced on a normal week day. Visitors were asked to share their name, contact details and location to make contact tracing easier. Restaurants reopened with dine-in option but trade association office-bearers said people were not enthused. KHRA state general secretary G Jayapal said restaurants opened following 50% capacity norm. “Only a few turned up. Two persons were allowed to be seated at a table meant for four. Many restaurants didn’t open because it is not profitable,” he said. The only condition they could not adhere to was providing two separate doorways for entry and exit. Jacobite church officials said while some of their churches were open for sanitization on Tuesday, worship would be on Sundays. “We don’t expect over 50 people to attend holy mass. Some large churches may be open for worship on Saturday,” said Fr Sleeba Paul Vattavelil, priest trustee of Jacobite Church. Churches under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese decided not to reopen till June 30. Diocese of Latin Church, including Verapoly and Cochin, also had announced their decision to not open churches. The holy episcopal synod of the Orthodox Church on Tuesday decided not to open the churches for the faithful in haste.  The scene was no different in the capital, where footfalls at malls were low. Most customers who were dining at the mall’s food court were families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/care-caution-as-state-moves-to-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76299053.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kochi||Care and caution as Kerala moves to Unlock 1.0||KOZHIKODE/KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala slowly stepped out of a two-and-a-half-month lockdown as malls, religious places and restaurants opened across districts under strict conditions, limiting the number of people and ensuring sanitisation at all premises. It was a sight of spirituality and safety going hand in hand when Sreekanteswara Temple in Kozhikode opened its doors to the public on Tuesday. Adapting to Covid-19 times, temple authorities changed traditional timings (5am-12 noon) to 6.30am to 10.30am and barred the entry of devotees inside the sanctum sanctorum. Only 57 devotees visited on the first day as against the usual figure of over 200. “Temple entry was allowed in strict compliance to government SOP,” said Sheeba T, a staff at the temple. She added that an aged person was sent back in line with the guidelines. Major temples like Thali and temples under Kshethra Samrakshana Samiti remained closed. Malls in Kozhikode opened with below-normal footfalls. Instead of the soothing ambient mall music, Focus Mall had announcements about Covid-19 safety measures through ceiling speakers. Also, mall authorities put stickers on the floor to ensure that visitors followed social distancing norms. Hotel owners in Kozhikode decided not to allow dine-in facility for the moment. In Kochi, malls opened with elaborate sanitization and crowd-control measures but the footfalls were less. LuLu, the biggest mall in Kochi, said it witnessed a footfall of 20,000, a fraction of its normal crowd. Centre Square Mall officials said the crowd was 10% less than what they experienced on a normal week day. Visitors were asked to share their name, contact details and location to make contact tracing easier. Restaurants reopened with dine-in option but trade association office-bearers said people were not enthused. KHRA state general secretary G Jayapal said restaurants opened following 50% capacity norm. “Only a few turned up. Two persons were allowed to be seated at a table meant for four. Many restaurants didn’t open because it is not profitable,” he said. The only condition they could not adhere to was providing two separate doorways for entry and exit. Jacobite church officials said while some of their churches were open for sanitization on Tuesday, worship would be on Sundays. “We don’t expect over 50 people to attend holy mass. Some large churches may be open for worship on Saturday,” said Fr Sleeba Paul Vattavelil, priest trustee of Jacobite Church. Churches under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese decided not to reopen till June 30. Diocese of Latin Church, including Verapoly and Cochin, also had announced their decision to not open churches. The holy episcopal synod of the Orthodox Church on Tuesday decided not to open the churches for the faithful in haste.  The scene was no different in the capital, where footfalls at malls were low. Most customers who were dining at the mall’s food court were families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/care-caution-as-state-moves-to-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76289888.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Over 5 lakh register for CET, biology makes gains over engineering subjects||PUNE: As many as 5.13 lakh candidates will take the Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MH-CET) for professional courses, this year. At least one lakh more candidates will take this exam this year which will be held through the online mode between July 4 and August 6. The last day to apply for the entrance test was June 5. The computer-based test is conducted for admissions to first-year degree courses in engineering and technology, pharmacy, bachelor in planning and pharmacy courses. Last year, about 4.13 lakh students had filled up the form. The number of aspirants in the physics, chemistry and maths group in Pune, Mumbai and Thane has dropped significantly. Founder director of IIT Prashikshan Kendra, Durgesh Mangeshkar, said the drop in popularity of engineering as a professional field could be the reason as students are exploring other options. However, there is an increase in students taking the physics, chemistry and biology group. Mangeshkar said the uptick was due to the popularity of careers based on biology. A student preparing for the CET said engineering had lost its charm as a profession and with the current status of the economy many graduates were without jobs. Biology offered many choices in the healthcare field which any students can explore.  Students graduating this year have not had a full placement season leaving many without jobs. Every year there are more and more engineering seats going vacant and colleges shutting down branches after opening them . The rise in enrolments as against last year was attributed to more students opting for the pure science field. “There has been an economic slowdown in the past two years and job placements of engineering graduates have been dismal except in the top notch engineering colleges. It may have influenced the drop in preference towards engineering as a career,” he said. Overall, the numbers in the state have shown either a consistency or an increase. So rural or semi-urban Maharashtra perhaps is still fixated on engineering but the metros seem to think differently, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-5l-register-for-cet-biology-makes-gains-over-engg-subjects/articleshow/76292435.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Pleas to unlock hotels as business takes a beating in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Hoteliers in the capital represented by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National Tourism Committee have written to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, demanding reopening of hotels in the city as suggested by the Union ministry of home affairs guidelines to let them restart their businesses gradually. The hoteliers have also expressed their concerns at the ‘sudden’ requisition of hotels for the purpose of treatment of Covid-19 patients. The letter, written by veteran hotelier and advisor to the CII committee Dipak Haksar, requested the Delhi government to allow opening of the sector as it would serve as a catalyst to kick-start business activity and act as a lifeline in these times of hardship. With the opening of domestic flights in the country and malls and hotels in Haryana, the letter stated that it was important to open hotels in Delhi to prevent revenue loss and facilitate a path of faster recovery. The letter also expressed ‘surprise’ at the notice over requisition of hotels for the purpose of hospitalisation of Covid-19 positive cases as no notice was sent or any inspection carried out before issuance of such a letter. Haksar, in the letter, argued that the decision be reconsidered as hotels are neither designed or equipped to deal with cases of this nature where ailing patients would need careful supervision in a sanitised environment. Speaking with TOI, Haksar said only special facilities such as turning stadiums or indoor exhibition halls would be a better option as hotels do not have the right size of elevators for patient transport, right beds, oxygen support in rooms and professional knowledge of handling and treating patients suffering from the viral infection. Ankur Bhatia of Roseate Hotels and chairman of Northern India Tourism Chapter of CII said the lack of coordination between the Centre and state governments is causing difficulties for the hospitality sector. He said that aviation, transport and stay complete the tourism industry and one sector could not work in isolation while others remain closed. Bhatia said since malls and airlines are functional, hotels should also be allowed to reopen. More so, as hotels in Haryana are open, it would attract visitors to their state causing a revenue loss to businesses in Delhi. He also stressed that requisition of hotels as Covid-19 facilities made no sense as the interiors, construction, air conditioning, carpeting and even paneling, across the rooms do not qualify it to be a treatment facility. Both Haksar and Bhatia opine that the way forward for Delhi government to restart hotels and generate revenues is to hold consultation with the industry, take their suggestions and yet follow strong protocols in fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pleas-to-unlock-hotels-as-biz-takes-a-beating/articleshow/76291847.cms||Amin Ali
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 1 crore fraud: ‘Real’ Anamika Shukla is jobless||LUCKNOW: The hunt for Anamika Shukla, the science teacher who said to have worked at 25 KGB Vidyalayas simultaneously and earned Rs 1 crore in 13 months, seems to have ended on Tuesday. And she turns out to be unemployed. A native of UP’s Gonda district, a woman claiming herself to be Anamika Shukla, met basic shiksha adhikari, Gonda, and lodged a complaint with him regarding misuse of her academic records by multiple persons for employment in KGBVs. According to her complaint, she had applied for the job of science teacher in KGBV in five districts – Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Lucknow, Basti and Mirzapur - in 2017 but never appeared for the counselling for final selection. She claims that as she didn't take back her documents, these are being misused by frauds. She says she has not worked in any KGBV ever. Anamika visited BSA office in Gonda after reports in TOI and other papers highlighting the case. She has been a housewife: BSATOI reported in its June 4 issues about one woman named Anamika Shukla being found working in 25 KGBVs across the state as full-time science teacher. Repeated attempts to contact Shukla proved futile as her mobile number mentioned in her complaint letter was switched off. UP has 746 KGBVs, practically one in each block of the state, which hires teachers on yearly contract. The department, despite getting details on the case in March, swung into action when TOI blew the lid off the scam. According to BSA Gonda, Indrajit Prajapati, the woman claiming herself to be Anamika Shukla visited him on Tuesday. She carried her original documents and its photocopy. In her application, she stated that she had never worked in a KGBV. In fact, she never been a working professional ever. “She has been a housewife. As per her records, she is born and married in Gonda. All her education, from high school to graduation is from Gonda. As per her complaint of forging her documents, I have applied online for the FIR,” Prajapati said. As per one of the 9 FIRs filed in the case, while the academic records show that she did her studies in Gonda, she has been shown as a resident of Mainpuri. DGl school education, Vijay Kiran Anand, said, “Her statements on how her records reached proxy teachers will be recorded before the district magistrate and SSP. Based on her statement, further investigation will be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-1-crore-fraud-real-anamika-shukla-is-jobless/articleshow/76292454.cms||Isha Jain
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Civic chief warns of closing shops if norms are not followed||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Tuesday warned the shop owners to strictly comply with the odd-even and physical distancing norm, failing to which he will have not shut down the shops. The warning came after reports started emerging that the odd-even and physical distancing norms are not being followed in some market places. After relaxation in lockdown by the state government, the municipal commissioner had issued a circular for opening of shops on Friday. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had agreed to implement the odd-even formula from Saturday. Permission were given to all standalone shops, except malls and commercial complexes, across the city to resume operations by following the new set of rules. The municipal commissioner had held meetings with various trade associations to inform them about the new norms. He had also held talks with office-bearers of associations like Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MACCIA), various associations of grain merchants, cloth merchants, jewellers, among others. All the associations had assured the civic chief to strictly follow the odd-even formula to open the shops and maintain physical distancing. But all these norms are being flouted in most markets of the city. “The number of positive cases are increasing in the city and there is need to maintain social distancing and following the odd-even rule in opening of shops. We have decided to close the market and shops where the rules are not being followed,” Game said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-warns-of-closing-shops-if-norms-are-not-followed/articleshow/76289884.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||SDRF trains 447 Covid-19 care volunteers||Dehradun: The State Disaster Response Force concluded its nine-day training session for as many as 447 Covid-19 care volunteers in the state on Tuesday. The training was imparted at 93 camps set up across the state. The session, which commenced on June 1, was attended by teachers, civic officials, and NGO staff members. SDRF Commandant Tripti Bhatt had appointed Nodal Officers for the purpose and the camps were operated under their guidance. The purpose of the drive was to create awareness among people so that they can help others in the fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sdrf-trains-447-covid-19-care-volunteers/articleshow/76289899.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 10, 2020||Hubballi||Bathymetric survey: Unkal Lake has high value of nitrogen, phosphorus and heavy metals||Hubballi: The fact that the Unkal Lake, spread on 250acres land in the heart of Hubballi-Dharwad, is polluted due to increased inflow of sewage water was known to everyone. But what was not known is the extent of pollution. Now, the recently concluded bathymetric survey has shed light on this. The survey was done to study the carrying capacity and granulometric analysis of the lake bed sediments to understand the sediment characteristics. It was also to analyse and understand heavy metal and nutrient loading in the surface sediments in the lake. According to the report of the survey, conducted between May 24 and June 4, the entire lake bed is covered with silty clay sediments with particle size less than 62.5 microns. Heavy metals are well within the permissible limits, but for chromium which is in 27-80 ppm range in the 12 samples tested. The study also found that the water of the lake has excess level of nitrogen (more than 50 ppm). Environmentalists have raised their concern over the increased level of nitrogen in the water, saying it will spell doom for fishes, insects and some kind of algae. “But as of now, due to water hyacinth and other factors, the aquatic life has not been affected,” said one of the environmentalists. The samples collected from the lake bed were analysed for heavy metal content lead, cadmium, arsenic, mercury, chromium and for excessive nutrient contents like nitrogen and phosphorous. ‘Heavy metals entering soil’ The study also found that there is a good amount of heavy metal entering into the soil. This is attributed to industrial and domestic effluents entering the drainage system. S H Naregal, special officer of Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd , which has funded the survey, said that last year’s flood-like situation necessitated the exercise. “We are building a green corridor along the stormwater drains in Hubballi. Water from Unkal Lake is the major contributor for the flooding,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bathymetric-survey-unkal-lake-has-high-value-of-nitrogen-phosphorus-and-heavy-metals/articleshow/76286573.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 10, 2020||Goa||In one week, Covid-19 positive cases go from Mangor Hill to Goa’s remote corners||PANAJI: As Covid-19 cases continued to spike in the state, it has now become evident that the spread of the virus has not been restricted to Vasco’s Mangor Hill, which accounted for 22 of the 29 fresh cases reported on Tuesday. From a remote ward of Canacona in the south to Sattari taluka in the north, people have been tested positive for Covid-19. If the state government and the health secretary are to be believed, they are all linked to Mangor Hill. Though the government has not made available any official data, TOI put together the spread of Covid-19 in the state (see map), with some of the villages going in for a self-imposed lockdown. From Keri and Morle in Sattari taluka to Usgao-Ganjem panchayat in Ponda, residents have decided to shut shops and houses and stay indoors, some for as many as 14 days to secure themselves from the virus. Besides the health workers, a doctor from Mangor Hill, who had treated the fisherman and his wife—the first cases of Covid positive from Mangor Hill and had tested negative initially—was among the day’s positives. “He and his family were in quarantine since he was tested on the first day. We wanted to repeat his test, and today, he tested positive,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said. Even as the virus spread from the containment zone to other areas of port town such as Shantinagar, New Vaddem, Baina, Mestawaddo, Khariawada, Bogda, Orulem and even up to Cansaulim, Mohanan said the focus of the government continues to be Mangor Hill. To prove her point, she said a high-level team of bureaucrats led by chief secretary Parimal Rai carried out an inspection of the containment zone. “We inspected the arrangements in place and received their feedback,” she said, adding that as per people’s demands, the government has decided to extend the out-patient department (OPD) from two to three hours a day. The people of the area also requested the supply of some routine medication. She said that volunteers in the area have been asked to draw up lists and share it with the local administration. She also said that while the requirement of essentials is taken care off, some people wanted grocery shops to open. “We didn’t find any logic in their request,” she said. “They were told that they should share details of essential requirements with the local administration. The collector assured them that rations would be provided at 4pm, and it was done. But some people refused to accept it.” Apart from Mangor Hill, the day’s tally also included seven travellers—five arrived in Goa by road, four from Maharashtra and one from Karnataka. The other two, from Delhi and Aurangabad, came by train, Mohanan said. Meanwhile, reacting to apprehensions about the changed standard operating procedure (SOP), Mohanan said there is no need for concern about the government doing away with mandatory testing. The changed SOP, she said, is a strategic move by the government, adding that the removal of mandatory testing doesn’t mean the state is less cautious. “We see it as a strategic and sustainable move,” she said. “We need to have a very focused approach towards testing. We are losing focus of the area within Goa that needs to be looked at, while we take samples of all those who are coming in from across the borders. A case in point is Mangor Hill.” She said the health department has constantly been screening people at Mangor Hill, and on Tuesday itself, over 200 persons were screened. Similarly, she said there are other focal points where the health department “needs to strategise and ensure that there is no outbreak”. Mohanan also said the department needs to ensure that suspected cases are tested and results are made available on time. “We need to have a very focused approach from now on,” she said. “The more we load our laboratories with samples of each and every person entering the state, the less will we be able to focus on mitigation of the virus in the state,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-one-week-covid-ve-cases-go-from-mangor-hill-to-states-remote-corners/articleshow/76292691.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Punjabi Bagh becomes capital’s first Covid-only crematorium||NEW DELHI: With the number of deaths due to the novel coronavirus rising, west Delhi’s biggest crematorium in Punjabi Bagh has become the capital’s first corona-exclusive cremation ground. The decision to bar non-Covid cremations at this site has been taken to prevent any crowding and mixing of people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients, a senior official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation said. Punjabi Bagh alone is now receiving 40-50 bodies daily for corona-protocol funerals, he added. It has 71 platforms for wood-based funerals and four CNG furnaces. Relatives of other deceased will have to look for smaller facilities for the time being. “People who want to carry out a non-Covid funeral can go to the Keshopur facility, which has 24 platforms, Subhash Nagar with 40 platforms or Bindapur Pankha Road with 12 platforms,” the official added. To handle the pressure of more corona-protocol funerals, the municipal corporations are carrying out various changes in the management of the Covid-19 designated crematoria. To reduce the rush at the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, the cremation grounds in east Delhi’s Seemapuri and Ghazipur have been allowed to handle Covid-19 bodies. The spokesperson of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Arun Kumar, said the north corporation had requested them to identify some sites in addition to Karkardooma to handle Covid-19 bodies as its facilities were getting overloaded. “The sites in Ghazipur and Seempauri have been notified and will be attached to specific hospitals,” Kumar added. Jai Prakash, the standing committee chairperson of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said the Nigambodh facility was receiving corona bodies from the entire east and north Delhi. Hence, the corporation has requested both east and south corporations to ramp up arrangements. The north corporation has, however, clarified no body would be refused. “An order has been issued by the east corporation and endorsed by the north just to avoid clustering of bodies, delay in cremation and inconvenience to the mourners as all bodies from the trans-Yamuna area were coming to Nigambodh Ghat,” an official said. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation is now focusing on building three compressed natural gas crematoria, proposed in last year’s budget in Dwarka Sector 24, Green Park and Subhash Nagar. Watch Punjabi Bagh becomes Delhi’s first Covid-only crematorium||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/punjabi-bagh-becomes-capitals-first-covid-only-burning-ghat/articleshow/76291855.cms||Paras Singh
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman held for conning flower seller of Rs 2L & gold||Coimbatore: A 34-year-old woman was arrested for impersonating as a bank officer to con a flower seller of Rs 2 lakh and six sovereign of gold jewellery. The accused was identified as Sonia, 34, a native of Tiruvarur district. She was booked under IPC Sections 170(impersonating a public servant) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property). Tirupur North police said Sonia recently befriended Surya, 29, a flower seller from Sulur in the district. She told Surya that she was a branch manager of a public sector bank which was auctioning gold at a discounted rate. She told the Surya that she help her buy gold at a discounted rate from her bank during the auction. Believed her words, Surya gave her Rs 2 lakh in cash and six sovereigns of gold ornaments on March 16 near the Tirupur railway station, police said. After receiving the cash and gold ornaments, Sonia went missing. The flower seller lodged a complaint with Tirupur police. Sonia was arrested near Pushpa Theatre junction on Sunday evening and was remanded to judicial custody on Monday. She has been lodged at the special prison for women at the Coimbatore central prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-held-for-conning-flower-seller-of-rs-2l-gold/articleshow/76291848.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nodal Covid-19 hospitals stop admitting asymptomatic patients in Telangana||HYDERABAD: While the state government slowly shifts the burden of existing Covid-19 patients to individuals and private sector, nodal Covid-19 hospitals of the government have stopped taking in asymptomatic patients. Hospitals like Gandhi Hospital, Chest Hospital and Fever Hospital are only admitting symptomatic Covid-19 positive patients now. With the selective admissions, the total number of new admissions have reduced drastically in government hospitals. The state health authorities had already announced that patients with mild to moderate symptoms will be kept in home quarantine only and a chunk of patients admitted in Gandhi Hospital were discharged on Monday. Continuing the discharges, 23 more patients were discharged on Tuesday, bringing down the total of Covid-19 positive patients at the facility to around 300. Meanwhile, due to the selective admission process at the state-run Gandhi Hospital, less than 10 patients were admitted on Tuesday. At the remaining designated Covid-19 hospitals too, new admissions were low. “On Tuesday, less than 25 patients were admitted across the designated hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Suspected patients are being sent back after taking their samples. Also, since most of the positive patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, the patients who are less than 50 years of age are not being admitted,” said an official from the state health department. With the new admissions as well as already admitted patients both decreasing drastically, the previous plan to house Covid-19 patients in the Gachibowli hospital, which was previously planned to be used as an exclusive Covid-19 hospital and later renamed Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) is not likely to be pressed into Covid-19 service. A formal order was issued designating the 1,500 bedded hospital as a medical and research institute last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nodal-covid-19-hospitals-stop-admitting-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76292466.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||CRS inspection of Phoolbagan East-West station on Friday||KOLKATA: The Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) will inspect the East-West Metro’s 6km stretch from Sector V to Phoolbagan underground station on Friday. After the CRS gives the nod, services will be extended till Phoolbagan. CRS, under the ministry of civil aviation, grants safety clearance to any new Metro line in India. Officials of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), which is implementing the 16km Sector V-Howrah Maidan East-West Metro, said Abhay Kumar Rai, CRS, eastern circle, would start his inspection around 9am. “Social distancing norms will be maintained during the inspection. Only bare minimum staff members will be present, wearing masks and following the Covid-19 protocol,” KMRC managing director Manas Sarkar said. The underground tracks till the Sealdah crossover beyond Phoolbagan station, train movement and speed, and the Phoolbagan station will come under the CRS’s scanner. After he grants the nod, the extended stretch should be ready for launch by the time the lockdown ended, an official said. “The formal inauguration can take place only after the lockdown is over,” he added. The first phase of Kolkata’s second Metro network—a 5km elevatedstretch between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium—was unveiled on February 13. But a substantial number of passengers is expected only after trains start plying till Phoolbagan. From the Stadium station, a ramp at Subhas Sarovar leads the tracks to the underground Phoolbagan station, this line’s first underground station from the Salt Lake-end. Metro Railway, which operates the north-south line, and has taken over the East-West Metro’s functioning, had sought CRS inspection for the underground stretch in March but the lockdown deferred the exercise and the launch in May. Trial runs have been on from Sector V till the Sealdah crossover for the past two weeks to check the signalling software. East-West Metro’s signalling system, executed by Italy-based company Ansaldo STS, matches that of the Paris and Shanghai undergrounds, allowing trains to run at every two-and-a-half minutes. The software migration from Sector V-Salt Lake Stadium to Sector V-Phoolbagan was done in February. The end-to-end trials were held to check for glitches in the software migration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crs-inspection-of-phoolbagan-e-w-station-on-friday/articleshow/76291860.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reorts 126 fresh Covid cases, tally reaches 1,537||Dehradun: With 126 fresh Covid cases reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday, state’s tally reached 1,537. In the biggest jump of new novel coronavirus cases in a hill district in the state till now, Tehri reported 72 fresh cases on June 9. Besides, one death of a Covid patient was also reported from a private hospital in Dehradun. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that 43 new Covid cases were reported from Tehri on Tuesday morning while 29 more were reported in the evening taking the district’s tally to 127. "Of the 127 new cases in Tehri, 123 are active. This is the only hill district where Covid cases have touched triple digit," said Pant, adding that with 41 people getting recovered on Tuesday, the total recoveries in the state has reached 755. Meanwhile, an 89-year-old woman from Saharanpur, who was brought to Sri Mahant Indiresh Hospital last week, died on Tuesday morning. She had tested Covid positive on Monday. Bhupendra Raturi, PRO of Mahant Indiresh hospital, said, "The woman had complained of breathlessness and her test was conducted at the private lab in Dehradun."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reorts-126-fresh-covid-cases-tally-reaches-1537/articleshow/76289902.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 10, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Paddy transplantation starts 3 days before official date||BATHINDA: Not waiting for the official date for start of the paddy transplantation, several farmers have started transplantation in many villages in Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, at least three days ahead of the schedule. At some places the activists of farmer organisations are making farmers to transplant paddy without any fear of agriculture department officials. The farmers in village Phool in Bathinda, Bhainibagha in Mansa and other places started transplanting paddy on Sunday. The state government has announced to allow transplantation from June 10. The direct seeding of rice (DSR) had started from June 1. Paddy is expected to be transplanted in 27 lakh hectares, out of which basmati rice is expected in 7 lakh hectares. Nearly, 6 lakh hectares is to come under DSR. The Punjab government had enacted a law in 2009 regarding notifying a date to start transplanting of paddy. As per the Punjab Preservation of Subsoil Water Act, 2009, the agriculture department officials are authorised to destroy the paddy transplanted before the notified date and impose penalty of Rs 10,000 on violating farmer. Activists of Krantikari Kisan Union assembled at Phool village, whereas activists of Punjab Kisan Union assembled at Bhainibagha village in Mansa to transplant paddy on Sunday and Monday. They have also started demanding 12 hours electricity supply to farm sector so that farmers could easily transplant the crop. “As there is huge shortage of labour for paddy transplantation, there farmers need longer window. As more and more farmers will soon start transplanting paddy necessitating more labourers, we decided to make farmers to start transplanting 3-4 days in advance,” Krantikari Kisan Union president Surjit Singh Phool said trying to justifying breaking the law. Punjab Kisan Union vice president Gora Singh Bhainibagha said, “We are on the vigil so that no official from state agriculture department dares to reach at the fields to plough it.” Punjab agriculture department director Sutantar Kumar said field officers have been asked to ensure no farmer transplanted paddy before the cut-off date. “Actions are being taken against violations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/paddy-transplantation-starts-3-days-before-official-date/articleshow/76282869.cms||Neel Kamal
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Cotton acreage crosses 7-year high in Punjab||Bathinda: The area under cotton in Punjab, which is the state’s second biggest kharif (summer sown) crop, has touched a seven-year high this season. According to the Punjab agriculture and farmers welfare department, cotton acreage stood at about 4.80 lakh hectares till Monday, surpassing the seven-year high of 4.45 lakh hectares in 2013-14. Data compiled by the state agriculture department suggests that cotton sowing was recorded at over 4,80,751 hectares in Punjab till Monday evening, up from 3.23 lakh hectares in 2019-20 with a growth of over 22%. In 2014-15, cotton was sown over 4.21 lakh hectares. In 2015-16, area under the crop went down to 3.35 lakh hectares and over 60% of the crop was damaged due to the whitefly attack. In 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19, cotton was sown over 2.85 lakh hectares, 2.91 lakh hectares and 2.83 lakh hectares respectively. In 2012-13, cotton acreage stood at 4.81 lakh hectares in Punjab. The fibre crop has been sown in three more districts this year, taking the number of districts under cotton to 11 in the state. Earlier, cotton was being sown in eight districts. Over 95% of the area under cotton in Punjab falls in the districts of Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Muktsar. This year, cotton has been sown in Ludhiana, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, though in smaller acreage. The farm department hopes to touch the target area of 5 lakh hectares as cotton sowing may continue till June 10. Last year, the area under cotton was 3.92 lakh hectares. Officials attributed higher area under the crop in Punjab to increase in the minimum support price (MSP) of cotton, Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) making purchases in the ongoing season after four years and efforts of the state government to reduce the area under paddy. “The state government was worried about achieving the target of sowing cotton on 5 lakh hectares. For that, the department made a lot of efforts to prevail upon farmers to shift from paddy to cotton. Farmers got good returns from cotton in the last few years and decided to bring more area under it this year from paddy. These efforts will continue in the years to come,” Punjab agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said. Cotton sowing in Punjab till June 8 District Area under cotton (hectares) Bathinda 1,62,806 Fazilka 1,20,011 Muktsar 98,015 Mansa 89,021 Sangrur 5,128 Faridkot 3,220 Barnala 1,736 Moga 749 Ludhiana 40 Patiala 13 Fatehgarh Sahib 12 Total 4,80,751 Area under cotton in Punjab since 2010 Crop year Area (in lakh hectares) MSP (Rs per quintal)# 2010-11 4.84 2,900 2011-12 5.16 3,200 2012-13 4.81 3,800 2013-14 4.45 3,900 2014-15 4.21 3,950 2015-16 3.35 4,000 2016-17 2.85 4,060 2017-18 2.91 4,220 2018-19 2.83 5,350 2019-20 3.92 5,450 * 2020-21 4.80 5,825 * Till June 8 # For medium staple crop (excluding 2020-21) Cotton arrivals up in 3 states According to the trade body, Indian Cotton Association Limited (ICAL), 66 lakh bales (1 bale=170 kg) arrived in markets in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan till May 31. This is an improvement from 61.22 lakh bales in the 2018-19 season. ICAL said arrival of 9.38 lakh bales were recorded in Punjab, 24.12 lakh bales in Haryana and 32.64 lakh bales in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cotton-acreage-crosses-7-year-high-in-punjab/articleshow/76282886.cms||Neel Kamal
June 10, 2020||Lucknow||'Crorepati' Anamika surfaces, claims fraud||LUCKNOW: The hunt for the "real" Anamika Shukla, the science teacher said to have simultaneously worked at 25 KGB Vidyalayas and earned Rs 1 crore in 13 months, seemed to have ended on Tuesday and to the surprise of the officials, she turned out to be an unemployed homemaker. A native of UP's Gonda district, a woman claiming herself to be Anamika Shukla, met the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) and lodged a complaint with him regarding misuse of her academic records by multiple persons for getting employment in KGBVs.  According to her complaint, Shukla in 2017 had applied for the job of science teacher in KGBV in five districts - Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Lucknow, Basti and Mirzapur - but never appeared for the counselling for the final selection. She claimed she did not take back her documents and they had been repeatedly misused by fraudsters. Shukla also said she had never worked in any KGBV. Repeated attempts to contact Shukla proved futile as her mobile number mentioned in her complaint letter was switched off. She visited the BSA office in Gonda after reports in TOI and other papers highlighting the case. TOI reported in its June 4 edition about one woman named 'Anamika Shukla' being found working in 25 KGBVs across the state as full-time science teacher.  BSA (Gonda) Indrajit Prajapati said, "She has been a housewife. As per her records, she's born and married in Gonda. All her education is from Gonda. As per her complaint of forging her documents, I have applied online for the FIR."  Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crorepati-anamika-surfaces-claims-fraud/articleshow/76293121.cms||Isha Jain
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for raping 17-yr-old lover||Coimbatore: A 20-year-old man was arrested for eloping with his 17-year-old lover and raping her at his friend’s house in Thalavadi in Erode district. Police identified the accused as R Karuppasamy, of Avinashi in Tirupur district. A daily wage labourer, he met the girl, a Class XII student, at Karamadai a few months ago when he went there to attend a function at his relative’s house. A police officer said, “They fell in love and he promised to marry her. On June 5, he picked the girl up from her house and went to his friend’s house at Thalavadi in Erode district.” When the girl’s parents came to know about this, they lodged a complaint with the Karamadai police, who registered a case and advised Karuppasamy to bring the minor girl to the police station. On Monday, Karuppasamy took the girl to Karamadai police station, from where they were sent to Thudiyalur all-woman police station. Karuppasamy was booked under Section 5(i)(l) and read with 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and lodged in jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-raping-17-yr-old-lover/articleshow/76291865.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal seeks probe by ACB into TDR scam||Nashik: State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal has written to state urban development minister Eknath Shinde, asking for an inquiry into the alleged Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) scam worth Rs 100 crore in Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Bhujbal has written similar letters to director general of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) and municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. While the land in Deolali was expected to be acquired free of cost by the civic body as per the directive of the then state revenue minister in 2014, the NMC had allegedly given TDR worth Rs 100 crore to the owner of the land concerned. Former NMC corporator Shivaji Sahane and others recently met Bhujbal, who is also the district guardian minister, and brought the scam to his notice. They had also submitted a memorandum to Bhujbal, seeking probe by ACB into the alleged scam. Accordingly, Bhujbal has written a letter to Shinde, seeking thorough probe into the case. While the ready reckoner (RR) rate of the land was Rs 6,900 per sq metre, the TDR had been given to the land owner at the rate of Rs 25,100 per sq metre. Sahane has alleged corruption worth Rs 100 crore in the scam as TDR had been given to the land owner by NMC officials even though there was no need of giving it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-seeks-probe-by-acb-into-tdr-scam/articleshow/76289915.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 10, 2020||Goa||At 214 cases/million, Goa’s Covid-19 rate higher than national average||PANAJI: For every 1 million or 10 lakh persons, Goa has 214 positive cases, higher than the national average of 200 confirmed cases per million, data shows. Ever since the first cases were detected at Mangor Hill, Goa has seen a spike in the number of new infections, with a 45% average growth in the past one week. Despite the jump in cases, Goa’s mortality rate remains zero. As on Tuesday morning, of the total 330 confirmed cases, Goa had 263 active cases, of which authorities say around 90% are asymptomatic and 67 persons or 20% of the cases have recovered. Data published in the directorate of health services’ (DHS) bulletin on Monday evening showed that 31,455 tests have been conducted in the state since January 29, indicating that 20,425 individuals have been tested for every million or 10 lakh residents. This number is way higher than the national average of 3,291 tests per million. From April 26 to June 8 alone, Goa conducted 19,830 tests on individuals. “You need to increase the capacity of testing, there is no doubt about that,” said a doctor with the DHS. “They have got machines to enhance testing, but the manpower in the labs also needs to be increased. The staff is stretched.” He chose to remain anonymous since the state government has prohibited personnel from speaking to the media. According to the UIDAI website, Goa has 16.6 lakh registered unique Aadhar numbers generated for the state. The National Commission on Population pegs Goa’s population at 15.4 lakh for 2019-end. However, authorities point out that most individuals who have tested positive arrived from other states, mainly Maharashtra and Delhi. The state’s earlier standard operating procedure made it mandatory for people arriving by train or road to undergo mandatory testing, but as the numbers began to swell, the state diluted its stance. From Wednesday onwards, people will no longer have to undergo mandatory TrueNat Covid-19 tests and could instead opt for home quarantine. The stringent testing regimen followed by the DHS helped the state post high testing figures, but also put a strain on the state’s medical infrastructure. “They were making rules but finding it difficult to comply with the rules,” said the DHS doctor. “The government said test everybody, but at the end of the day it’s the doctors who have to test. If you have just one entry point and a limited number of people, you can have 100% testing, but with the borders open and trains coming in, it was becoming very difficult to test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-214-cases/mn-goas-covid-rate-higher-than-national-avg/articleshow/76292695.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 10, 2020||Mysuru||People support Mysuru zoo activities by adtoping animals, birds||Mysuru: The monthslong lockdown and the subsequent dip in revenue had threatened the conservation activities at Mysuru zoo. But people from across the world chipped in and adopted animals and birds, giving a booster dose for the conservation. The zoo, which had a footfall of over 30 lakh visitors and an annual earning of over Rs 16 crore, was closed on March 15 due to the coronavirus scare. Accordingly, the gates were closed to visitors. With no revenue, the authorities sought financial help from the government for continuing the conservation activities at the century-old zoo. But the zoo authorities were in for a pleasant surprise when people from across India and abroad voluntarily started adopting the zoo animals, supporting the facility in the hour of crisis. Mysuru Zoo executive director Ajit M Kulkarni told TOI that there has been a good response from the public in adopting the animals and birds during the lockdown. “District minister S T Somashekar, who showed great interest in animal conservation, mobilised Rs 3 crore. The zoo which once had the highest revenue of Rs 63 lakh through adoption, managed to generate over Rs 3 crore this year. Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty donated Rs 20 lakh, while the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (AKKA) donated Rs 25 lakh. Many people are voluntarily coming forward to support the zoo,” he said. Kannada actor Darshan Thoogudeepa has adopted a tiger, giraffe and green anaconda, while actor Devaraj and comedian Chikkanna have adopted a leopard each. Mahendra Singh Kalappa from Bannur town, who has adopted a tiger for the past two years, told TOI that people should come forward to adopt animals/ birds to protect wildlife. “The zoo authorities have created a WhatsApp group ‘Mysuru Zoo Animal Adoption’, and 135 of its members have done the needful. The authorities regularly encourage the members in this regard, by sharing details on their conservation activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/people-support-mysuru-zoo-activities-by-adtoping-animals-birds/articleshow/76285379.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Doc dies in fire at medical store||Aurangabad: A 38-year-old homeopathy doctor succumbed to the burn injuries after a pharmacy store adjacent to his clinic caught fire in Gevrai area of Beed on Monday. The compounder too sustained serious burn injuries but is stable. The deceased doctor has been identified as Sudhakar Bhausaheb Chormale, while the injured compounder as Sunil Mali, who is being treated at civil hospital, Beed. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said, “A pharmacy shop in the jurisdiction of Gevrai police station caught fire last night around 2 am. A doctor who had his practice in the same complex died from burn injuries, while his compounder suffered burn injuries. We are investigating if it was a deliberate or accidental fire.” The incident, which took place at 1.30 am, has attracted the attention of senior police officers to ascertain the cause of the fire as well as the reason for his staffer to be present at the pharmacy store at such late hours. Police suspect that presence of a huge amount of sanitizer in the pharmacy store clubbed with the presence of refrigerator might have resulted in to reducing the pharmacy store to ashes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doc-dies-in-fire-at-medical-store/articleshow/76269270.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Panel: Jalgaon’s high death rate due to late detection||Nashik: Late detection of cases coupled with pre-existing health issues of sizeable number of patients are apparently leading to high Covid-19 fatalities in North Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district, revealed a committee formed on the instructions of state health minister Rajesh Tope. The minister recently reviewed the Covid-19 scenario of Jalgaon and directed the administration to form a panel to ascertain the reasons for high death rate. The initial findings of the five-member death audit committee that the Jalgaon administration has formed stated that Jalgaon has earned the dubious distinction of having the worst Covid-19 fatality rate in the state. While the fatality rate of the district is 10.4%, the state average is 3.6% and national average is 2.8%. The panel, comprising well known medical practitioners, is led by Dr Deepak Patil. Sources within the death audit committee told TOI that so far the panel members have examined 75 files of deceased Covid-19 patients. A total of 126 Covid-19 patients have died so far in the district. The remaining 51 files would be scrutinized within the next few days before the report is handed to the district collector Avinash Dhakne. The committee is examining patients files to find out details such as age, underlying health issue, line of treatment by doctors at the hospital, etc. The panelists are also speaking with the bereaved families to understand for how long the patients had Covid-like symptoms and skipped undergoing tests. “There is certainly late detection of positive cases that is leading to many patients dying in the district. The health conditions of such patients deteriorated to such an extent that it became virtually impossible for their recoveries,” said a panel member requesting anonymity. The committee found out that 50% of the patients whose files they have examined were over 60 years of age. “The lives of many of these Covid-19 victims could have been saved had they come forward to be tested for the infection,” added panel sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/panel-jalgaons-high-death-rate-due-to-late-detection/articleshow/76303046.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
June 10, 2020||Goa||30 hotels tell Goa govt they are willing to restart operations||PANAJI: As the state begins the process to assess the state’s readiness to restart tourism activities, as many as 30 hotels have applied to the tourism department stating their willingness to begin operations. These hotels, however, will only be permitted to reopen if they meet the government’s protocol and on submission of a self-declaration form to that effect. “The hotels willing to operate must comply with guidelines, and will also have to seek permission from the tourism department before re-opening,” tourism director Menino D’Souza told reporters on Tuesday. This measure, D’Souza said, has been initiated following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). He also said that hotel managements have been asked to suggest the date from when they will be ready to resume operations. “If the government is satisfied, they will be permitted to resume operations,” he said, adding that the applications received so far are being scrutinised. The data collected will then be submitted to the government for evaluation. He also said that random checking of hotels will be carried out to see if they’re following the set protocol. However, he admitted that it won’t be possible to check each and every hotel. Meanwhile, responding to a question on whether Goa will have visitors at this stage, D’Souza said, “Domestic tourists will definitely come”. Reacting to apprehensions about the impact tourism may have on rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) managing director Nikhil Desai said that the final call on reopening of hotels will be taken by the government. He said that the fact that the government has opened the application process doesn’t mean hotels will randomly be permitted to start operations. He also said hotels are facing problems in terms of manpower, and some of them are not fully ready to start operations. “It is a call the government has to take,” Desai said. “Right now, we are ascertaining the preparedness of hotels.” He added that the assessment will help decide how to reopen tourism in a staggered manner. He said that due to the closure of tourism, the state is going through a massive financial crunch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/30-hotels-tells-govt-theyre-willing-to-restart/articleshow/76292698.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Rationalise expenses to sustain Covid fight: Amarinder Singh to departments||CHANDIGARH: Expressing apprehensions of prolonged impact of Covid-19, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed all departments to further rationalise their expenses in order to ensure there is no shortage of funds for fighting the pandemic at all costs. With studies and reports from around the world presenting a grim picture on the Covid outlook, the projections were not good, Amarinder said at a meeting of the empowered committee of cabinet on fiscal management via video conferencing. He said capital expenditure in essential sectors such as health, education and infrastructure would be retained at Rs 5,000 crore, notwithstanding the economic crisis facing the state, which was expecting a shortfall of nearly 30% in the total revenue receipts (TRR) in FY 2020-21 on account of Covid-19 and lockdown. Capt Amarinder said the focus of his government was on ensuring that salaries and pensions continue to be paid on time, along with power subsidy to PSPCL. No compromise could be made to ensure funding for all frontline departments, such as health, police and the local bodies, which were battling the disaster, he added. “In spite of its strained finances, the state has successfully paid all grants to local bodies and PRIs, ensuring that they do not face problems in disbursement of salaries. Further, he said, up to date releases have been made for medical bills,” he said. As per the finance department’s estimates, assuming zero nominal growth of GSDP this year from the GSDP (RE) of Rs 5,74,760 crore during FY 2019-20 and the past trends of average TRR/GSDP growth, Punjab can expect TRR of around Rs 62,246 crore during FY 2020-21, a shortfall of around Rs 25,758 crore or a 29.26% dip in TRR. He reiterated that power subsidy to the farmers would continue and there was no question of the state government accepting the condition to replace it with direct cash transfer for availing the additional borrowing limit allowed by the Centre. This so-called power reform was violative of the country’s federal structure, he said, adding that he would write to the Prime Minister on this issue as the Central government could not put conditions on states for availing loans. Pointing out that this, and the recent ordinance on agricultural reforms, could further pave the way for elimination of the MSP regime, Capt Amarinder said he would convey Punjab’s opposition to the Centre very strongly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rationalise-expenses-to-sustain-covid-fight-capt-to-depts/articleshow/76282902.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kozhikode||BJP chief flays govt on reopening temples||Kozhikode: BJP state president K Surendran has asked the state government not to put the onus of reopening temples on the Centre. Addressing a news conference on Tuesday, he said the state government had not followed Centre’s directions on many important issues. “State unheeded Centre’s suggestion to introduce 14-day institutional quarantine for non-resident Keralites (NRKs). Can the government say that it allowed crowding in buses and big queues in front of Bevco outlets on Centre’s direction?” Welcoming the Muslim and Christian leadership’s decision not to open their places of worship, Surendran said the right to decide on the matters of temples should be given to Hindu leaders. “The government had not invited Hindu religious outfits such as Hindu Aikya Vedi for discussions,” he said. While the matters regarding places of worship of other religions are decided by respective religious leaders, it is people like devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran who take decisions on temples, he said. The BJP leader said the LDF government always take decisions that are against the wish of the public. He also added that the decision to withdraw institutional quarantine and introduce home quarantine for NRKs is unwise and have far-reaching consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/bjp-chief-flays-govt-on-reopening-temples/articleshow/76289955.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana decides on no hike in power tariff||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (HSERC) has decided not to raise the electricity tariff for any category of consumers. While releasing the tariff orders for the state on Monday, HERC chief D S Dhesi and members Naresh Sardana and Pravinder Singh Chauhan also gave go ahead for prepaid electricity metering in the state and lower tariff for agro industries. An official release said that the zero increase has been done in the wake of losses suffered due to outbreak of Covid-19. In addition, the work of installation of 10 lakh smart meters is already in progress and is expected to be completed in next six months. This year, HERC has allowed the average revenue requirement (ARR) of Rs 27,836 crore, against Rs 28,805 for the year last financial year. The regulator has also denied Rs 850 crore annual equity to be charged from the commercial consumers or bulk supplies consumers, like the railways. Now, agro-based industries will be charged Rs 4.75 per kilowatt against the rate of Rs 7.05 per kW for the connection up to 20 kW. Similarly, the regulator recommended the rebate of 5% for the consumers availing the prepaid electricity meters. This will give total benefit of over Rs 42 crore to consumers. Haryana has already ordered 10,000 such meters through the two distribution companies — Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam. The meters are supposed to be used for the prepaid concept. HERC has also asked the distribution companies to allow certain categories, especially the senior citizens to make the payment up to Rs 25,000 at cash counters of the collection centres. For general consumers, the limit of making case payment was Rs 5,000. Much ahead of lockdown, the two distribution companies had presented the ARR before the regulator and the hearing was conducted and the regulator had to take decision on the same. The domestic consumers using electricity up to 150 units per month will be given subsidised electricity. Special 10% rebate has also been allowed for the people having consumption up to 800 units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-decides-on-no-hike-in-power-tariff/articleshow/76282919.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||UKD chief slams BJP, Cong over Gairsain||Pithoragarh: Attacking both the BJP and Congress, Uttarakhand Kranti Dal chief Kashi Singh on Tuesday said that both the parties have made a mockery of the statehood struggle by declaring Garisain as a summer capital. He added that Gairsain should be the undisputed capital as the statehood agitators fought for the same but the national parties are cheating the people in the name of capital commission. "When the state doesn’t have a permanent capital, how can there be another capital?" he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukd-chief-slams-bjp-cong-over-gairsain/articleshow/76289960.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||SHO Jaspur, 2 SIs sent to police lines for dereliction of duty||Rudrapur: Station house officer (SHO) of Jaspur police station Ummed Singh Daanu and two sub-inspectors — Patrampur police outpost incharge Basant Pant and Barhaini police outpost incharge Sandeep Pilkhwal — were sent to police lines by district SSP for their "lax and unsatisfactory work approach". Meanwhile, inspector NB Bhatt was made SHO Jaspur and sub-inspectors Deewan Singh Bisht and Rajesh Pandey were given charge of Patrampur and Barhaini police outposts respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sho-jaspur-2-sis-sent-to-police-lines-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/76289940.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, private schools mulling online classes for Class XI||Coimbatore: With the state declaring all Class X students promoted and calling off the board exams on Tuesday, it is now expected to give guidelines for procedures such as admissions into Class XI and offering groups to students. K R Nandhakumar, state general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary and CBSE Schools Association, said, as the state has directed, they would give 20% marks for attendance for all students, and would award them the rest 80% marks based on their quarterly and half-yearly performance. "For now, we would complete this work, prepare the mark lists of the students, and wait for further instruction from the state before we proceed," he said. When contacted, director of school education S Kannappan said as on Tuesday, decision regarding calling off the exam only had been taken, and further procedures were yet to be decided. Officials of the directorate of matriculation schools said the state was expected to give detailed guidelines on how to conduct admissions for Class XI, and only based on that schools can proceed with the same. R Visalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association, said if Class X students of a school were joining the same school in Class XI, there would be no issues, as the schools would already know of their performance and can admit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-private-schools-mulling-online-classes-for-class-xi/articleshow/76291872.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Goa||Don’t reopen till Covid-19 is controlled: Parents to schools||PANAJI: Parents of students across the state have told institutes that their wards shouldn’t be called to school for physical classes till the Covid-19 situation is brought under control. The directorate of education (DoE) had told schools to collect feedback from parents about the reopening of schools and the conduct of classes online. On Tuesday, they began compiling data to submit to the directorate before the June 10 deadline. Education officials themselves held two separate meetings online with parent teacher associations (PTAs) of around 95 primary and 53 secondary schools. Here too, most representatives said that since Covid-19 cases are rising in Goa, the reopening of schools in July should be avoided. “Most PTAs of primary schools said that they cannot risk sending such young children to school in the current circumstances,” said a PTA representative present at the meeting. “They said that as per new guidelines from the central government, reopening of schools should only be considered after August 15. Parents suggested that some portion of the syllabus can be trimmed if and when possible.” PTA representatives also said that parents of both primary and high school students agreed that Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali and other holidays could be cut down later so that the syllabus can be completed. “Most PTAs said that even once physical classes start, they should start with students of Class IX and X first,” a parent said. “Depending on how things work out, lower classes can later be started one by one. Also, though teachers have been trained by the DoE in online teaching methods, most complained about network issues. Parents were worried that while syllabus for lower classes can be trimmed, this cannot be done with Class IX and X, as it forms the base for higher classes.” The head of a Margao school said that in the feedback they received from parents, some agreed to send Class IX and X students to school for classes even before schools reopen, provided the students of the two classes are called on alternate days to maintain social distancing. “Network issues are being experienced in many areas, and students are having trouble accessing online classes,” the school head said. “This is the only reason some parents are willing to send students of Class IX and X to school out of anxiety that they may miss out on the syllabus.” At the meeting with deputy director of education Shailesh Zingade, parents also expressed concerns over cyber-bullying and the misuse of devices by students once they are in possession of a device for online classes without the supervision of parents who are now gradually returning to work. Rahul Deshpande, trustee of People’s High School, Panaji, said, “We sent out a detailed questionnaire via Google forms for parents to fill up, and most parents are of the view that physical classes should not be held till Covid-19 cases in Goa are under control or a vaccine is found. Eighty-six percent of parents of primary students said that physical classes should not be started, 79% at the high school level and 75% at the higher secondary level said the same. They are overwhelmingly in favour of continuing with teaching online (82% at primary level, 86% at high school and 92% at higher secondary level) as students of our school are not facing network issues and all have the required devices.” Vice-president of PTA for Don Bosco school, Panaji’s higher secondary section, Sintia Da Costa Fernandes, said that she has suggested that Goa sticks to central government guidelines and considers opening schools only after August 15. “Cases in Goa are currently on the rise, and it would be better to hold a review on whether schools can reopen by the last week of July or in the first week of August.” Meanwhile, PTA head of Utkarsh Vidyamandir High School, Ponda, Dattatraya Naik, said, “We have three to four doctors as PTA members, and parents are not ready to send their children to school, even for students of Class IX and X. They were of the view that schools should not reopen till the situation in Goa is safe. They want classes to be managed online only, and asked us to conduct them in whatever way possible. However, many are facing network issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-reopen-schools-till-covid-19-under-control-parents-to-schools-doe/articleshow/76292702.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 10, 2020||Hubballi||Two killed as car rams median in Chitradurga||Davanagere: Two persons were killed when their car hit a median near Hiriyur town of Chitradurga district in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased are Andanappa, 45, an agriculturist from Malavi village in HB Halli taluk of Ballari district, and the car driver Imam Basha, 30, a resident of Itagi village in Huvina Hadagali taluk in the district. Andanappa’s daughter and son-in-law had hired Basha’s car on Monday evening to travel from Uttangi village to Bengaluru. The accident happened when Andanappa was returning to the village after dropping the couple in Bengaluru. Reckless driving by Basha ended up in the car hitting the median on NH-4 in front of Industrial Area of Hiriyur town at 4.30am on Tuesday. Due to the impact, the car toppled, killing the two on the spot, police said. Hiriyur town police rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to Hiriyur Government Hospital. The bodies were handed over to their relatives after the postmortem. A case has been booked, and further investigation is on, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-killed-as-car-rams-median-in-chitradurga/articleshow/76285427.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to lose Rs 3,600 cr under ‘one-market’ agri regime||Chandigarh: The Centre’s ordinances aimed at enabling a seamless national agriculture market will burn a hole of Rs 3,600 crore annually in Punjab Mandi Board’s pocket, which, in turn, will affect the development of rural infrastructure in the state. Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh told TOI that while Rs 1,813 crore was collected as marketing fee, and an equal amount of rural development fund was generated by Punjab last year for providing its yards for sale of crops like wheat, paddy and cotton at the rate of 3% each. The fund is generated in form of cess from buying agencies and not the farmers. "This was spent on laying and maintenance of 71,000 km of roads in the state. The revenue collected by the Mandi Board is crucial for rural development," he said. He added that under the new ‘one country, one market’ regime, the Mandi Board system will have no role and even if the minimum support price (MSP) system is continued, it will be of no relevance. "No licence will be required by farmers to sell produce and the Mandi system will have no role," he said. Over the years, the Mandi Board has created infrastructure spread over 12,000 acres of land in the state, which includes 153 principal yards and 1443 purchase centres. He pointed out that the new system will have a direct impact on farm-related activities. "There are over 36,000 Arhtiyas (commission agents) in the state who have an income of Rs 1,600 crore from sale of crops. Then, the labour too earns Rs 1,100 crore. When there will be no Mandi system, they too will be directly affected. The Centre has found an easy way out by pulling out of the entire exercise, but the economy of an agriculture-dominated state like Punjab will be badly hit," he said. The state also collects marketing fee from vegetables, timber, seeds, basmati, cotton, maize and wheat. As it is, he said, agriculture was a state subject and the Centre had no business to bring in the ordinance at a time when the entire focus is on fighting coronavirus. "They are trying to push the new system through the back door in a bid to wash their hands of the marketing exercise," he said. ‘Won’t take it lying down’ Lal Singh, who is a former food minister of Punjab, recalled that chief minister Amarinder Singh had decided to hold a protest against the Centre’s move to freeze MSP in 2002 and eventually the then Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had to intervene. "BJP has always been anti-farmer. The Congress government will go to any extent to oppose this and if need be move court," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-lose-rs-3600-cr-under-one-market-agri-regime/articleshow/76282943.cms||Vibhor Mohan
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Connaught Place: Delhi’s heart skips a beat, but hoping for revival soon||NEW DELHI: Resting on his motorbike that was serviced just moments earlier, Kamla Nagar resident Aamir Khan, 35, gently pulled his mask down to bite into a choco-bar as he awaited his friends in the inner circle of Connaught Place. “I have been dreaming of this moment for more than two months,” the ice cream aficionado said. It is not that he cannot get ice cream in his north Delhi colony, but the unique old-world charm of Connaught Place makes a choco-bar special. “There is something very languid and relaxing about this area. It truly is Delhi’s heart, and no matter where you live or work in the National Capital Region, CP always appears central and accessible,” Khan said. The heritage shopping complex, recently cleaned and sanitised, is looking as unblemished and sparkling as perhaps when it was first opened to the public in 1933. New Delhi, designed by Edwin Lutyens, was built to impress, and its prime shopping plaza — named after Prince Arthur, the Duke of Connaught, who visited the city in 1921 — did not lack in grandeur. While the nearby Gole Market catered to the daily needs of government employees who moved in after its transformation into British India’s capital in 1912, Connaught Place was meant for the city’s elite. It is said that Connaught Place’s architect, Robert Tor Russell, was inspired by the Royal Crescent in Bath, England, and though it is not known if the then recent Spanish flu pandemic played on his mind, the idea of a sprawling plaza with huge open spaces, a central park, wide roads and an arcade with wide corridors and spacious shops now seems almost prescient in the post-Covid-19 world that demands social distancing from its visitors. It is this unique character of design and architecture that will help CP bounce back, believe the shop owners. “Where else in Delhi do you find an open plaza with a green sprawl and covered corridors leading to shops that measure 1,500-2,000 square feet?” asked Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders’ Association. “Connaught Place is a lifestyle destination, and at this moment, the safest place to shop. The stores are spacious enough to ensure social distancing and the corridors are commodious if the nearly 300 illegal hawkers are evicted.” At the moment, though the usual buzz is missing, the handful of customers when the market reopened has turned into a steady flow, most of the people gathering at fast food joints for coffee and burgers. “Working from home is stressful and we were eager to just step out. Though you can’t watch a movie or eat at a restaurant at the moment, a stroll in Connaught Place seemed like our best bet,” said Vijay Sharma, an IT professional, who was in a queue at a burger place with his wife Aditi. “Though we only planned to window-shop, I couldn’t resist buying a new pair of sneakers.” Manoj Aggarwal of Mohanlal Sons, a fabled apparels store, said, “We opened on June 1 and business is not even 5% of what it should have been at the moment. In fact, it is costlier to open the shop than keep it closed.” But he hoped that by November, things will be back to normal. “For this, we need restaurants and cinema halls to reopen because they attract the crowds,” he added. CP’s four cinema halls are still closed. Because shoppers aren’t buying clothes, he said, instead of sherwanis and fashionable wear, “our machines are making masks”. Masks, in fact, are selling like hot cakes at another popular shopping destination not very far away. Apart from the eateries, it is here that there is a semblance of a rush. The double-layered cotton khadi mask with tricolour piping is a coveted item at the flagship store of Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), whose chairman, Vinai Kumar Saxena, said the outlet was selling products worth Rs. 5 lakh a day, mainly masks but also khadi kurtas, saris, honey, mustard oil and some other items. “The masks are washable, reusable, bio-degradable and affordable at Rs 25 apiece,” said Saxena. The popular Janpath market, usually crowded with college students and tourists, is now almost deserted. “The only customers we now get are office goers. Tourists are our primary clientele, but they won’t be here soon,” said stall owner Ravinder Kumar. “Also, till Delhi Metro resumes services, Janpath will be empty.” The enduring toy shop — Ram Chander and Sons — is getting customers, but it’s not the same for its effusive, ‘83-year-young’ owner Satish Sundra. “I can’t see the smiles of customers behind their mask and neither can they see mine,” he said. “Whoever now comes is in a hurry, buys what is necessary and leaves. There is no pleasure of opening up everything we have on offer because people aren’t browsing.” The vintage United Coffee House is gearing up to tide the Covid-19 crisis. “In our 80 years, we have experimented and welcomed change and survived,” said Akash Kalra, the third-generation owner of the restaurant. “We will now have to adopt new methods of containing crowds, while ensuring the dining experience isn’t akin to being in a hospital.” As he prepared to wait out a challenging period, he added, “This new normal will be visible from July.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/connaught-place-delhis-heart-skips-a-beat-but-hoping-for-revival-soon/articleshow/76291877.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 10, 2020||Pune||Voices against collection of toll on Pune-Satara highway||PUNE: Citizens of Pune and Satara, who have been demanding the condition of the Pune Satara highway be improved, will approach the collectors of both districts seeking suspension of toll on the stretch. While the citizens and elected representatives from these areas have been demanding toll suspension for several months, the notice of intent served by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to terminate concession agreement with Reliance Infrastructure on May 21, has provided impetus to the demand. “We are demanding complete toll suspension on this stretch till work is complete. We started demanding for road repairs and completion of the highway last year when the road’s condition had deteriorated during the monsoon. An entire year has been wasted in giving extensions. The contractor has to be changed so that work can be completed,” Virat Ghadge, a resident of Satara, said. Jay Shedge, a regular commuter, said citizens did not have faith in the company to complete the project. “The notice provided 15 days for response, but company officials are citing Covid-19 as a reason for delay. Soon, rain will start and that will become another reason,” he said. Pavanjit Mane, a Pune resident who is from Satara, said, “We are collecting all information and will draft letters to the Pune and Satara collectors. A 15-day period was provided to Reliance Infrastructure to make a representation on why the agreement must not be terminated.” The Bhor MLA, Sangram Thopte, who has been seeking completion and improvement of the highway, said, “While the notice has been issued in pursuance of clause 37.1.2 of the concession agreement and a 15-day period was granted for response, the said period is already over and toll collection should have been suspended automatically. I am making a representation to the Pune collector to stop the collection of toll.” Construction of bridges at Nasrapur, Varve and other locations remains incomplete, despite deadlines given by Pune and Satara collectors in December last year. Sources working on the project said Covid-19 is being given as a reason for incomplete work. “Deadline for completion of work was March 31 and lockdown was announced on March 22. Substantial work should have been completed till the lockdown started, but that was not the case. Over 90% of the work is still pending,” the source said. The source added that even after 15 days of serving the notice, NHAI had failed to take further action. Suspension of toll collection, which is a decision of the NHAI, has not been taken yet either. Satara collector Shekhar Singh told TOI that a decision on toll suspension could be taken by the NHAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/voices-against-collection-of-toll-on-pune-satara-highway/articleshow/76292469.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Hack-for-hire’ firm attacking targets globally?||NEW DELHI: A small office in a cramped bylane of Shakurpur in New Delhi could be home to a hack-for-hire group that has targeted non-profits, journalists, government officials and industries across six continents for seven years, a report by Canadian cybersecurity research unit Citizen Lab said on Tuesday. Citizen Lab, based at the Munk School of Global Affairs & Public Policy at the University of Toronto, started an investigation in 2017, after a tip-off from a journalist who had been targeted by a phishing attack. After three years of research, it published the first part of its findings on Tuesday. The cluster identified on Tuesday includes American nonprofits — Rockefeller Family Fund, Greenpeace, Climate Investigations Center and Conservation Law Foundation, among others. Then there are media outlets, hedge funds, international banking firms, lawyers, energy sector, eastern Europe and Russia, and government officials in the other clusters. “In future reports, we will provide more details about specific clusters of targets.” The phishing attacks targeting the journalist, the researchers found, were disguised by URL shorteners. There were many, all operated by a single group which Citizen Lab calls the Dark Basin. Many of the shortening services had Indian names: Holi and Rongali (Bihu). These shorteners created links with sequential shortcodes (small code for repetitive functions), so Citizen Lab identified the sequence and got 28,000 additional links with emails IDs of targets. These IDs would be bombarded with phishing emails, sent during working hours in India. Besides posing as people the targets knew, Dark Basin would also send news updates, Twitter DMs and other correspondence to draw the target to the malicious link. “We link Dark Basin with high confidence to an Indian company … and related entities,” the report states, naming the company. The company is, depending on where you look, a “medical transcription company”, a “web development company” and a “provider of solutions for government and corporate intelligence arrays”. On a freelance project site, an employee listed the services on offer: capture of IP addresses, triangulation of names based on IP addresses and criminal/stalking investigation. The company’s registration information says it was set up in 2013. The mail ID used for the registration turns up as the ID for another company, based in Gwalior. On December 9 last year, the mail ID for the original company was changed, to that of the owner. The owner, the Citizen Lab report said, had been “indicted in California in 2015 for his role in a similar hack-for-hire scheme.” On Tuesday, hours after the report was out, the website was suspended, mails to the registered ID bounced. The phone number “does not exist” any more. Acting against such groups, the report notes, is usually tricky. “Hack-for-hire groups enable companies to outsource activities like those described in this report, which muddies the waters and can hamper legal investigations.” A German scambaiter, who has often tried reporting phishing attempts by Indian hackers, acknowledged the problem: “Criminal investigation gets very difficult when the targets and perpetrators are in two different countries. Sometimes, victims don’t even know they have been targeted. So it’s perfect for hackers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hack-for-hire-firm-attacking-targets-globally/articleshow/76291881.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Waive off power bills for poor, says Congress||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Tuesday demanded that the state government stop extortion of money in the name of non-telescopic tariff plans and immediately withdraw this method of billing, which has become a burden for the consumers. The party also called for waiver of electricity bills for the lockdown period for the poor. All India Congress Committee secretary and ex-MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy said the TRS government should waive off electricity bill payments of March, April and May to those consuming less than 200 units per month.  “The government should at least provide six months of moratorium on payment of electricity bills for March, April and May as people have gone without salaries and income. Once the market picks up, they will be able to pay the bill amount and it should be without any penal interest on it,” Vamshi Chand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-off-power-bills-for-poor-says-cong/articleshow/76292478.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE exams to now take place from June 22-25||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) has decided to shift the dates of the remaining board exams for Classes X and XII. The exams were earlier supposed to be held from June 20 to June 23 but now they will be held from June 22 to June 25. Also, the evaluation of the answer sheets will start from June 13 and will take place in two phases. In the first phase, the evaluation of those subjects will take place whose exams have already been conducted. Meanwhile, Chief education officer (Dehradun) Asha Rani Painuly has asked the block-level education officers to shortlist those teachers who have performed well in teaching the students through online class mode. The education department will honour such teachers for their efforts during the lockdown period. Painuly also asked the block-level officers to pass on important information through Whatsapp groups comprising of local school principals, teachers and representatives of local parent associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-exams-to-now-take-place-from-june-22-25/articleshow/76289972.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||Students of SSJ Campus Almora start hunger strike against conducting exams||Almora: Several students of SSJ Campus Almora started an indefinite hunger strike from Tuesday against conducting examination. They say that many students who live in remote areas couldn't attend online classes started by the university administration due to logistical and internet network issues. Meanwhile, the college administration has said that they have discussed the issue and they will soon take a decision in keeping with the interest of the students. “The campus administration has conducted online classes and distributed online study material but students from remote areas do not have internet access. In such conditions, how can students keep up with their studies,” asks Deepak Tiwari, Joint Secretary, Student Union SSJ Campus. “Either the university should conduct offline classes before taking examinations or the students should be promoted without exams,” he added Students have also demanded a fee exemption for this session. “The livelihood of people has been badly affected due to the lockdown. So, fees should be waived off for this semester,” Vipul Karki, District Secretary NSUI told TOI. Reacting on the matter, Professor Jagat Singh Bisht, Director of SSJ Campus Almora told TOI, “There was a meeting held today (June 9) with university officials in which the demands of students were discussed. We will follow the instructions of the university. Soon a decision will be taken in the interest of students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/students-of-ssj-campus-almora-start-hunger-strike-against-conducting-exams/articleshow/76289974.cms||Rohit Joshi
June 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP MLA case witness alleges attack||NEW DELHI: A witness in the extortion case against Devli MLA Prakash Jarwal was allegedly beaten up and threatened by a group of men on Monday night for appearing before the cops. The witness has filed a police complaint. A city court has rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Jarwal’s aide, Kapil, on the basis of the witness’ statement. Police are conducting an inquiry on the basis of the complaint filed at the Neb Sarai police station. The witness has claimed that around 8pm on Monday, he was standing outside his house in Sangam Vihar when a man, calling from an unknown mobile phone number, asked him where he was. “I blurted out that I was standing outside my house. Soon a group of 10-15 youths approached me and warned me against being a witness,” he alleged. As the witness reportedly got into an argument with them, he was allegedly pushed to the ground and kicked and punched. After sometime, they left saying that they would return if he stood as a witness, he claimed. The witness could identify two of the attackers, said police. After a PCR call, the cops took him to hospital. Jarwal and Kapil were jailed in May for allegedly abetting the suicide of a doctor. The accused reportedly asked him to pay them for running a water tanker in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mla-case-witness-alleges-attack/articleshow/76291887.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Dehradun||Suspend all tourist activities till July 31, demand Uttarkashi villagers||Uttarkashi: The hoteliers, homestay owners, and village heads of eight villages in Uttarkashi's Harsil Valley have demanded to suspend all tourist activities in the region till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 threat. In a panchayat meeting held on Monday evening, villagers expressed concern over the risk of Covid-19 transmission among locals due to tourist activities and so, it was decided that the locals won't entertain any tourists before the pandemic threat subsides. “Harsil Valley, renowned for its picturesque landscape and apple orchids, is a popular tourist destination among those visiting Gangotri shrine, Nelang Valley, or Gangotri National Park. Most of the villagers earn their livelihood from tourism activities in the area. However, villagers are scared to welcome any tourist due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Outsiders may spread contamination in the region,” said Dinesh Rawat, gram pradhan of Harsil village. “Despite a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases all over the country, remote villages have managed to stay safe from the virus due to lockdown. Therefore, locals of Harsil, Jaspur, Sukki, Purali, Bagori, Dharali, Jhala and Mukhba villages have demanded the administration to continue the ban on any kind of tourist activity in the region till July 31,” said Sarita Rawat, gram pradhan of Bagori village. Echoing the sentiment, Madhvendra Rawat, hotelier from Harsil Valley region, told TOI, “All the hotel, homestay, and restaurant owners of the region have decided that they will not provide outsiders with room, food, or any other facility before 31 July.” He also demanded the state government to not start the Char Dham Yatra before the situation gets better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/suspend-all-tourist-activities-till-july-31-demand-uttarkashi-villagers/articleshow/76289978.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 10, 2020||Pune||Man booked in Pune for harassing friend’s wife||PUNE: The Chinchwad police on Monday booked a Pimpri resident on the charge of sending obscene photographs and lewd messages to his friend’s wife and demanding sexual favours from her. The action was taken following the complaint of the 47-year-old woman who stated that the suspect had sent similar messages and photographs to her niece as well. An officer from the Chinchwad police told TOI that the woman received the photos and messages on her cellphone on June 7. She, however, deleted it. “On Monday, when the suspect again sent the obscene photographs and messages demanding sexual favours, the woman immediately alerted her husband,” the officer said. The officer said the woman, after confirming that it was her husband’s friend, filed a complaint. “We have booked him for stalking and also under the relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act,” the officer added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-harassing-friends-wife/articleshow/76292471.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Can run Shramik specials, but state not seeking them, SCR tells Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Even as the migrant workers’ waiting period to go back home is getting longer, the South Central Railway on Tuesday informed the Telangana high court that none of the district collectors had sent it any requests for arranging Shramik special trains since June 1 though it was ready to organise the trains. Taking a serious view of this, a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy faulted the collectors for failing in their duties and for not making efforts to send the stranded labourers to their native places. At one point, the CJ ticked off the collectors for not following the court’s previous orders on shifting the labourers and wondered where would the hapless migrants go if the officials do not help them. Appearing for SCR, advocate Pushpender Kaur said: “We have resumed our services partially. We are ready to arrange Shramik trains within 24 hours of any such requests from the state or the district collectors. We have not received any such request from the collectors since June 1.” Collectors failing in their duties: Telangana HCThe bench recalled that it issued a direction on June 2 that they (workers) should be sent to their destinations either through Shramik specials or special trains. “We read in newspapers that they were being shifted in Shramik trains. We do not understand why this has stopped thereafter,” the bench said while hearing a PIL filed by S Jeevan Kumar of the Human Rights Forum (HRF). The bench further said: “In fact, the district collectors are failing in their duties. They do not need our orders to identify the stranded labourers and request for trains. The irony is that they are not moving even after our orders,” Going a step further, the CJ said: “I am beginning to get a strange feeling that our orders are falling on their deaf ears. It is not difficult for a district collector to get a picture of what is happening at Secunderabad railway station.” He wondered, “There are no Shramik trains. And there are no shelters. Where do these poor migrants go.” At this point, advocate general BS Prasad furnished a report filed by the labour department and sought time to put forward the case. The bench gave him 24 hours and posted the case to Wednesday to explain the inaction on the part of the civil administration. “Large crowds at the Secunderabad station will further jeopardise the health of other passengers,” the CJ said. He also reminded the government that the apex court had directed the government and railways to take care of the migrants by arranging food, shelter and transport. The case will be heard again on Wednesday. The Supreme Court had also made it mandatory for states and railways to arrange Shramik trains for transporting the workers to their destinations. Earlier, Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel for the HRF leader, said the workers are stranded in various parts of Secunderabad and Medchal. “There are no shelters near Secunderabad station where the workers are forced to take shelter under transformers or near congested roadsides,” she informed the bench. The labour department has also agreed that there are 16,000 brick kiln workers waiting to be shifted to their destinations in Odisha, she said. Jeeven Reddy was questioning the inaction of the labour and revenue departments for failing to help 60,000 Odisha labourers working in 1,218 brick kilns in Telangana. Later, the CJ allowed Vasudha’s plea to implead SCR as a party to the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-run-shramik-spls-but-state-not-seeking-them-scr-tells-hc/articleshow/76292727.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Move to reopen temples not hasty, says minister||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government made the decision to open places of worship not with undue haste but after having discussions with religious heads, devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said on Tuesday. The decision was in line with the Union government’s directives, he added. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan had earlier said the state’s decision was hasty. “They wanted to capitalize on the situation and repeat what Sabarimala had witnessed earlier,” said the minister.  “These people had once asked why is the state government not opening the temples if it could open beverage outlets and shopping malls,” he said. The Union government had on May 30 released standard operating procedures for opening places of worship as part of easing lockdown restrictions. Instead of making a hasty decision, the state held discussions with heads of socio-religious leaders. While SNDP Yogam general secretary pledged his support to the government’s decision, NSS general secretary did not attend the meeting. “One can understand if a minister of state does not attend a cabinet meeting. But he could have asked his ministerial colleagues on the decisions taken at the cabinet meeting,” said Surendran. Several religious institutions took the decision not to open institutions under their jurisdictions for now considering the sensitiveness of the situation prevailing in the state and in the country, he added. Meanwhile, all the 1,248 temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board opened on Tuesday under strict measures of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/move-to-reopen-temples-not-hasty-says-minister/articleshow/76289987.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Congress team to visit pending projects||HYDERABAD: The Congress has constituted a 12-member committee to take up agitations and expose the failure of the TRS government in stopping the Andhra Pradesh government from enhancing the capacity of Pothireddypadu project. The committee would be headed by former minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy, while former MLA T Ram Mohan Reddy its convenor. Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, who constituted the committee, also announced on Tuesday that senior leaders would visit irrigation project sites started by the previous Congress government on Godavari river but not completed by TRS government on June 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cong-team-to-visit-pending-projects/articleshow/76291891.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Salem||Salem farmers protest against green corridor expressway||Salem: Farmers protested with their cattle across Salem district on Tuesday, condemning the central and state governments for green corridor expressway. Farmers in Kuppanur, Poolavari, Nalikkalpatty, Vattakadu and Ramalingapuram villages in Salem district, protested in their agriculture lands with their cattle.  One of the protestors S Ganesan, 32, of Kuppanur village said that, the farmers across Tamil Nadu, are at the fifth day of their protest. “We will not allow the Central and state governments to bring the green corridor expressway project,” he said. He stressed that farmers from five villages will continue their protest until this project gets dropped. Government had approached the Supreme court urging it to give verdict for the green corridor expressway case. To prevent its implementation, farmers across the district began protesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-farmers-protest-against-green-corridor-expressway/articleshow/76291906.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nashik||Skoda employees pool in money to donate PPE kits, ventilators to GMCH||Aurangabad: Employees of automobile company Skoda Auto Volkswagen, India, which runs a plant in Aurangabad, contributed a day’s salary and raised Rs 1.2 crore. The corpus was used to donate 1,388 personal protective equipment (PPE), five ventilators and five multi-paramonitors to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for Covid-19 management. GMCH Aurangabad is the only state-run dedicated covid hospital (DCH) in Aurangabad division, which gets patients from Jalna, Parbhani, Hingoli and Aurangabad districts. Moreover, at any given time, 70% of the Covid-19 patients admitted at the hospital are in a critical condition as the Covid care centres and the dedicated Covid health centres attend to only asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. In such a situation, it is important that the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff are properly protected while treating the patients. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said, “The PPE kits provided by the company have ensured sufficient stock for atleast a week.” Head of Skoda’s Aurangabad plant Uma Rao, medical officer Abhay Kulkarni, Ved Jahagirdar (CSR head), chief of workers’ union Prakash Tayade and others handed over the articles to the GMCH administration on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/skoda-employees-pool-in-money-to-donate-ppe-kits-ventilators-to-gmch/articleshow/76290001.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 10, 2020||Pune||9-metre roads get approval with BJP’s majority vote||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s standing committee approved a proposal to call for suggestions and objections for widening of roads in civic limits. Barring the BJP, which has a majority in the committee, all other parties have opposed the proposal. As per the civic corporation’s proposal, width of 323 roads, which are currently less than 6m-wide, will be increased. The roads will be widened to 9m. The increased usage of transfer of development rights (TDR) and floor space index in Peth areas will encourage construction as well as redevelopments. Roads with 103km length will be widened. “The actual widening will be done after assessing the ground reality and locals’ opinions. If many oppose widening in their localities, it’ll be cancelled,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee. Chetan Tupe, the NCP MLA, said, “The PMC should come up with a policy. The proposal seems to have been tabled for serving the interests of some people, so we have opposed it.” Congress corporator Aba Bagul said, “The decision to widen roads as a blanket decision will affect the city and also pose a threat to environment.”Activists too have raised questions about its implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-metre-roads-get-approval-with-bjps-majority-vote/articleshow/76292479.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Girl hangs to death in Patna over scolding||Patna: A Class-VIII girl student allegedly hanged herself in Patna on Tuesday after being scolded by her parents over her studies, police said. The deceased identified as Khushi Kumari lived with her parents and a younger brother at a rented accommodation in Lodipur under Gandhi Maidan police station area in the state capital around 2pm. Gandhi Maidan SHO Sunil Kumar said the 15-year-old hanged herself from a hook in the ceiling of her room using a piece of cloth. “The deceased’s father had submitted a written application that she committed suicide after being scolded for her studies. A case of unnatural death was being under process of being registered in connection with the case,” he said. The SHO said the body was sent for post-mortem at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). “However, it could not be performed on Tuesday as it was late. It would be done on Wednesday,” Kumar said. Sub-inspector Krishna Kumar, who had gone to the spot with a team after receiving information about the incident, said the girl had locked herself inside the room. “The girl was regularly scolded for studies. She was scolded on Tuesday too. However, she had cooked food for the family as well and had her lunch after which she committed suicide,” he said, adding, the family got suspicious after she didn’t respond for a few hours. SI Kumar said the girl’s father works as conductor with the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation and the family is originally from Nawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-hangs-to-death-in-patna-over-scolding/articleshow/76291134.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Pedda Amberpet municipal chief arrested for graft||Hyderabad: Pedda Amberpet municipal commissioner L Venkata Ravinder Rao and a private person were arrested while accepting alleged bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh from a property owner on Tuesday. Based on the complaint of S Venkat Reddy of Kuntloor village in Rangareddy district, ACB sleuths laid a trap and caught Pedda Amberpet municipality commissioner Ravinder Rao when he allegedly demanded and accepted Rs 1.5 lakh bribe from the complainant at his office. The ACB team recovered Rs 1 lakh bribe amount from the possession of the commissioner. “His hands and trousers tested positive when subjected to chemical test. The bribe was demanded not to stop house construction of the complainant,” an ACB official said. The team also arrested G Adinarayana, 42, a building planner, working at Aadivenkata Associates in Hayathnagar, in possession of Rs 50,000 of the bribe amount at the municipal commissioner’s office. “The commissioner gave the amount to Adinarayana as his share for mediating the deal,” an ACB official said. Adinarayana’s both hands too tested positive in the chemical test. The two have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pedda-amberpet-municipal-chief-arrested-for-graft/articleshow/76291900.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||Four land in cops’ net for rioting in Anandnagar slum||Pune: The Chinchwad police on Tuesday arrested four persons, including a minor, and registered an offence against 40 others for creating ruckus on Monday in the sealed area of Anandnagar slums in Chinchwad in support of their demand for relaxation in containment restrictions. On Monday, the residents of Anandnagar came out on the road alleging that Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had failed to provide them adequate facilities inside the containment zone as promised. They demanded that they be allowed to go out to work. The residents went berserk and pelted stones, ransacked police booths, barricades and also damaged police vehicles. One of the policemen at the bandobast duty sustained minor injuries. Nandkumar Kadam, sub-inspector, Chinchwad police, who is probing the case, told TOI that with the help of CCTV cameras and photographs taken by different people at the spot, police ascertained the identities of 23 people involved in the rampage on Monday. "We have arrested four of them. We have sent one minor to the correction home," he said.The suspects have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Damage to the Public Property Act, Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-land-in-cops-net-for-rioting-in-anandnagar-slum/articleshow/76292486.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Varanasi||Corona graph continues to rise in Jaunpur, crosses 350 mark||Varanasi: After Tuesday’s figure of 44, Jaunpur witnessed detection of 24 more Covid-19 positive cases till Wednesday afternoon. The newly detected cases took the total figure of Covid-19 cases in the district up to 353 by Wednesday afternoon. Chief medical officer Jaunpur Dr Ramji Pandey the reports of lab test received by the district administration till Wednesday afternoon confirmed 24 new Covid-19 positive cases. Earlier, on Tuesday a total of 44 persons were reported Covid-19 positive in a single day in Jaunpur, he added. The total tally of Jaunpur has reached to 353 of which 154 have become cured so far while three had died in past. The CMO said that currently 166 patients are in active category of which 163 are being treated in Jaunpur while three are admitted in Varanasi. Among 24 positive cases which came to light on Wednesday, he said, 17 are from Barsathi area only. All the persons tested corona positive on Wednesday are migrants. Jaunpur had become the first east UP district to cross the mark of 300 in Covid-19 tally followed by Varanasi with 246 Covid tally. There were only 17 cases detected from March till May 17 in Jaunpur but the numbers started rising after that and in past 23 days the figures reached over 350. Officials claim that return of above 2.34 lakh migrants in Jaunpur from Mumbai, Gujarat, Delhi, NCR and Gulf countries is the reason behind the sharp increasing graph of the epidemic in the district as majority of infected persons came to light in past three weeks are migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/corona-graph-continues-to-rise-in-jaunpur-crosses-350-mark/articleshow/76307769.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Cases cross 850-mark in Akola, administration takes over 2 private hospitals||NAGPUR: The district collector of Akola has taken over two leading private hospitals in the city after the number of Covid-19 positive patients crossed 850-mark on Tuesday. Even after a good recovery rate of 63%, Akola still has 279 positive patients admitted in isolation ward of GMCH. Looking at the high number of Covid-19 positive patients reported from Akola every day, the administration decided to take over the private hospitals. Akola is the first district in Vidarbha region to take such a step. Now, these two hospitals — along with all infrastructure and staff — will be handed over to the civil surgeon to treat Covid-19 patients. Acquisition of private hospitals is permissible by the local administration as per ICMR rules as well as under the Epidemic Act. Directives issued by Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar said the two private hospitals must ensure that qualified doctors, trained staff, and technicians will remain present at the hospital 24X7. Both hospitals will be reimbursed as per government rates. Government authorities will ensure proper electricity and water supply to these hospitals, and soon appoint nodal officers. “As per the legal provisions, these two hospitals will now treat Covid-19 patients. District civil surgeon will send or shift patients from GMCH,” said resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse. GMCH Akola has already been converted into a dedicated Covid hospital but beds here are falling short for ever-increasing Covid-19 patients in Akola. GMCH Covid Hospital has 150 beds, 30 ICU beds, 12 ventilator-beds and a dedicated Covid Operation Theatre. On Tuesday, Akola recorded 43 new cases from 14 localities. A 71-yr-old man, admitted in the isolation ward from May 26, died during treatment. This was the 40th death in Akola and 83rd in Vidarbha region. Nagpur recorded 45 new cases, most of them from Naik Talao — the new hot spot in city. Five new positive cases were reported from Wardha, all close contacts of earlier positive patients. In Washim, two close contacts of a woman positive patient admitted in the isolation ward tested positive, while in Yavatmal, another close contact of a positive patient from Mahagon tested positive. Amravati also recorded 1 new case — taking the total number of Vidarbha Covid-19 cases to 2,417. Recoveries also continued in Vidarbha. In a welcome change, Amravati saw 14 patients being discharged as against a solitary new case. Nagpur discharged 28 patients — 17 from GMCH and 11 from IGGMCH. Eight from Buldhana recovered from Covid-19, taking total active cases in district to 25. While one new case was reported in Yavatmal, one person was discharged too. Gondia and Bhandara reported no new patients but discharged one patient each. With this, Gondia has only one active case out of 69 total cases. Among the 14 discharged from Amravati, a two-year-old baby boy from Frazerpura locality was the youngest. With this, the number of discharged persons has crossed the 200-mark and settled at 205 at the end of the day. The only positive patient of the day came from Vilas Nagar locality, where a 52-year-old woman tested positive. This has taken Amravati’s Covid count to 285. As of Tuesday, there are only 63 active cases including four referred to Nagpur. The district has recorded 17 deaths to date. No Covid-19 patient was found in Chandrapur on June 9, for the second consecutive day. Total still stands at 39, out of which 17 are active. All active patients are stable. A close contact of a patient from Mahagon tested positive on June 9 in Yavatmal. The hospital has received 86 reports, of which one tested positive and he has been shifted to the GMC. Also, 113 swab samples have been referred to the lab and reports are awaited, said dean Dr Ramesh Singh. Three more positive were registered on Tuesday in Wardha. These three patients are close contacts of patients at Vardhmaneri and Sindhi (Railway). The 59-year-old man’s contact in Vardhmaneri, his 45-year-old wife and 21-year-old daughter have reported Covid-19 positive. Also, a 59-year-old male resident of Ram Nagar, who was working with Covid positive railway employee at Sindhi (Railway), was found to be infected with coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-cross-850-mark-in-akola-admin-takes-over-2-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76291911.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 10, 2020||Pune||7 arrested for attacking one over dispute||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Monday arrested seven people, including two women, for brutally assaulting a man with sharp weapons for intervening in an eve-teasing dispute concerning a minor girl and boy. The incident occurred near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue at Wanowrie gaonthan on the night of June 7. Shakti Bidlan, who was seriously injured in the incident, is recuperating in a private hospital. The suspects and injured are relatives. Police said the son of one of the assailants had allegedly harassed the girl a fortnight ago, but the dispute between the two families was settled amicably. On June 7 around 8.30pm, the girl’s mother, her daughter and grandmother were chatting outside their house when two women reached the spot and picked up a quarrel with them. Five men also reached there, police said. Inspector Salim Chaus of Wanowrie police said, “Shakti Bidlan, a relative of the girl, intervened in the dispute when the two groups decided to visit the nearby police chowkey. The suspects assaulted him with sharp weapons and took to heels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-arrested-for-attacking-one-over-dispute/articleshow/76292492.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Patna||Sandesh RJD MLA’s land attached in rape case||Ara: Police attached around 5.66 acres of land belonging to RJD MLA from Sandesh, Arun Yadav, on the order of Ara Pocso court in a rape case, Bhojpur SP Sushil Kumar said on Tuesday. The MLA has been absconding since the victim, a minor girl, lodged a rape case against him and four others in July last year. The four other accused were arrested and a chargesheet in the case was submitted in February this year. The attached plots are situated in Agiyaon, Dhobahan, Ishwarpura, Chasi and Kharaicha villages in the district. “The court had ordered the attachment of about 15 acres of land belonging to the MLA and the 5.66 acres of land was part of that. The value of the total land to be attached is about Rs4.90 crore, though the actual market value could be much higher,” the SP told reporters. The SP said the Pocso court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the MLA on September 13 last year. “On the court’s order, his movable property was attached on September 22 last year. On January 6 this year, the court passed another order to attach his immovable property,” the SP said. The MLA’s four bank accounts with a total balance of Rs14,80,439 have already been frozen. The SP said the Economic Offences Unit of Bihar Police was informed to take appropriate action in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sandesh-rjd-mlas-land-attached-in-rape-case/articleshow/76291180.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Pune||PMC won’t pay for new flyover, says civic panel||Pune: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday gave the go-ahead to demolish two flyovers near Savitribai Phule Pune University chowk and E-Square with a rider that the civic body will not bear the expenses of the demolition or the new construction. The proposal was tabled before the committee by the administration for approval. The standing committee’s nod came after the state government permitted the demolition last week. The proposal will go to the PMC’s general body. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “We have given permission with two clauses, a detailed transportation plan and estimates of the new bridge should be submitted by the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority or the state government, whoever is constructing it.” Rasne said the transportation plan was essential as the demolition and construction may go on for a long time. The demolition is proposed to pave the way for the Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi metro rail project. A new 1.5 km long flyover at the cost of Rs 240 crore will come up. The state government has suggested that the PMC share 50% of the expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-wont-pay-for-new-flyover-says-civic-panel/articleshow/76292488.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Agra||Two arrested in Etah with 50 kg ganja worth Rs 5 lakh||AGRA: Two men were arrested with 50 kg ganja by a team of Dehat Kotwali police station in Etah district, late night on Monday. Identified as Ballu and Nafroz of Jaithra village, the two accused were heading towards Pilua with the contraband, along with three other men — Rizwan, Saleem and Mukim — when the police party waylaid their two cars and seized the consignment. According to SP (Etah) Sunil Kumar Singh, “Taking advantage of the darkness, three of the accused managed to flee. The seized contraband is worth Rs 5 lakh. Further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-arrested-in-etah-with-50-kg-ganja-worth-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/76290033.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC dismisses plea on Telangana’s lockdown lift move||HYDERABAD: The high court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation filed by social activist Sunita Krishnan who questioned the wisdom behind lifting the lockdown when Covid-19 cases are on the rise. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy heard senior counsel L Ravichander said, “Their data shows one thing and their decision says another,” he said.  A few days ago, the HC refused to grant permission to hold SSC exams in Hyderabad due to a spurt in Covid-19 cases. The HC too has not yet opened for the very same reason, he added. The bench said that there is a distinction between imposing people to go out and people voluntarily going out. In case of SSC exams and reopening of HC, there is an element of compulsion. “Once you hold exams or courts, there is a compulsion for students and lawyers to be there. But the state is not forcing people to go out because it lifted lockdown,” the bench said while dismissing the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-dismisses-plea-on-ts-lockdown-lift-move/articleshow/76291909.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kozhikode||IUML, Samastha rift comes to the fore||Kozhikode: The rift between Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema and the IUML has come to the fore with the opening of a number of mosques in Malappuram district on Tuesday. Muslim coordination committee led by IUML Malappuram district president Panakkad Syed Sadique Ali Shihab Thangal had declared on Sunday that no mosques in Malappuram will be opened in view of the increased threat of Covid-19 spread. But Samastha’s decision, after discussions at various levels, was to open the mosques if the respective mahal committees can ensure strict adherance to government’s stipulations. Sadique Ali Thangal’s unilateral announcement with the concurrence of some IUML leadership embarrassed the Samastha leadership which issued another statement minutes after Thangal’s statement. The names of Samastha president Syed Muhammad Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal, general secretary K Alikutty Musaliyar figured in the statement besides IUML president Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal, who is also vice-president of Samastha. The decision not to open any mosque in Malappuram was taken by Sadique Ali Thangal without any consultation, sources said. They say the Muslim coordination committee does not even exist and IUML is disturbed to see chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan interacting with Muslim organizations directly. Many mosques in Malappuram were opened for public on Tuesday and others will be opened in the coming days, sources added. Qazi Association in Kalikavu met on Tuesday and decided to open mosques in 33 mahals. Other committees are working on modus operandi of organizing Juma on Fridays with limited number of believers. However, Samastha leader Abdusamad Pookkottur said that the coordination committee didn’t want to open mosques that could not follow restrictions. “Majority of mosques in Malappuram opened partially. Our mosque at Pookkottur didn’t have any problem in following restrictions as it is situated in a remote place. We will sit on Thursday to decide on how to organize Friday prayers because the attendance will be high,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-samastha-rift-comes-to-the-fore/articleshow/76290069.cms||Prashanth M P
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Gen 1.5x: Youngsters speeding up videos to finish them faster||Nagpur: When academician Panini Telang’s teenage son passed the smartphone and asked him to listen to an interesting lecture on YouTube, he wondered why the audio was incomprehensible. “Oh, I forgot to change it to normal speed,” replied his son Kanad. Many teenagers, like Kanad, have now shifted to watching lecture videos at minimum 1.5X speed, which saves time without compromising on the audio quality. This ‘fast-mo’ (opposite of slow motion) is now a trend, which is gaining traction rapidly among youngsters as they consume more and more online content. “I increase the playback speed setting on YouTube to 1.5X and am very comfortable with the audio too,” said Kanad explaining how the ‘1.5X’ generation watches videos. “For majority of the videos we keep speed at 1.5 thus saving time,” he said.Another teen, Dayanand Kalse, said shifting playback speed has multiple benefits. “Majority of speakers on YouTube unnecessarily drag the video to increase air time. Some speakers are extremely slow or pause often. Increasing the playback speed takes care of these issues without hurting the quality,” said Kalse.TOI too listened to a video at 1.5X speed and the speech of an instructional video was perfectly comprehensible. Both Kanad and Kalse, however, stressed that they revert to ‘normal’ speed for important lecture videos, where new concepts are being taught.Rajnikant Bondre, a parent and an academician, said the speed watching concept has in fact become ‘very common’. “I have observed my child using the technique often. My students do it too. This has not only become the new normal but it is considered as the best tool for revision of topics,” said Bondre.Academician Anmol Badjatia agrees that higher playback speed system works when the topic is not new. “For students of Std X and above, almost 60% of the topics have been taught in lower classes. So, if the lecture is related to this part, then speed watching is fine,” she said.Academician Sameer Phale says watching educational videos related to complex scientific concepts is not advisable. “Listening and comprehending are two different things. I believe science lectures are not ideal for higher playback speed,” said Phale.Jagdish Agrawal, another academician, says we are now seeing an inflection point in technology and learning. “It’s like a mini-evolution happening here, where students are keeping pace with technology. They will keep increasing the rate of their ability to absorb the unlimited content available out there,” said Agrawal.Mala Singh, a veteran in teaching psychology to varsity students, said this new normal will accelerate. She said, “After a decade or so you will find these abilities becoming better. The nervous system, neurons are making new connections faster than before, because the young generation was literally born into the digital age.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gen-1-5x-youngsters-speeding-up-videos-to-finish-them-faster/articleshow/76291915.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Ward boy held for blackmailing nurse in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A youth from Warangal was arrested for allegedly stalking a nurse, blackmailing her and demanding that she send her nude photograph to him. Nalgonda police arrested the accused, a ward boy who created a fake Facebook account on her name and befriended her friends too. The nurse, a native of Khammam district and was providing home care to a patient in Nalgonda. “The victim was on the verge of committing suicide because of the harassment. Before she could take the extreme step, she sent a WhatsApp message to SHE Teams, who acted quickly on her complaint. As she gave the mobile number of her harasser, he was traced in Nalgonda,” Nalgonda superintendent of police (SP) A V Ranganath said on Tuesday. The accused hails from Chennaraopeta Warangal was working as a ward boy for a home care giving organisation at Addagutta in Secunderabad and came in contact with nurses. He would take their numbers and also of their friends to contact them. In the case of the girl, he first sent her a WhatsApp message saying that she should call back and there would be a surprise in store for her. The nurse ignored the message as it was from an unknown person. After repeated requests, he himself made a WhatsApp video call. According to the SP, the man showed himself nude in the video call even as the shocked girl disconnected the call. He saved a video and threatened her that he would circulate the video of she looking at him nude. Police, said there were several other cases against as the accused as he had resorted to the same modus operandi with about 30 other girls too. However, many did not come forward to lodge a complaint. Those instances would also be probed and he would be prosecuted, the SP added. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ward-boy-held-for-blackmailing-nurse/articleshow/76291926.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Most weekly farmers’ markets resume operations, home delivery orders rise||PUNE: Most of the weekly farmers’ markets in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are getting back to business and are expecting to function at full capacity in the next few days, barring those in or near micro-containment zones. The farmers’ groups are also expecting more footfall in the markets. Over 66% markets operate in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad on a weekly-basis, said coordinators of the farmers’ markets. The markets played a vital role in doorstep delivery of vegetables and fruits when the local mandis were closed in many parts of the city during the last two months. “Even though farmers faced a lot of challenges while ensuring supply of farm produce in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad during the lockdown, they are now expecting an increase in the footfall. The demand for home deliveries had increased during the lockdown and it was likely people would continue to make purchases within their vicinity,” the coordinators of the farmers’ markets said. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the farmers’ groups had identified over 65 places for vegetable supply during the lockdown. Now, the farmers’ groups are back to the weekly market format with the beginning of the unlocking phase. “We will still continue with home deliveries. For those who want to purchase at the counters, we are holding weekly markets. We have told the farmers’ groups to continue with social distancing and other measures as the Covid-19 threat is still there,” the coordinators said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-weekly-farmers-markets-resume-operations-home-delivery-orders-rise/articleshow/76292499.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 10, 2020||Salem||Lovers kill self by consuming pesticide in Dharmapuri dist||Dharmapuri: Lovers committed suicide by consuming pesticide near Harur in Dharmapuri district on late Monday evening. Harur police officials retrieved the bodies from a reserve forest area on Tuesday morning.The deceased have been identified as R Anandha Raj, 22, of Anna Nagar in Harur and his lover S Shobika, 21 of the same area. Of them, the former was a painter while the latter had completed her graduation this year.On Tuesday morning, Harur police got to know about two dead bodies in the reserve forest in Thandakuppam area. In the post-mortem, it was confirmed that the lovers had consumed pesticide. During inquiry, they came to know that the bodies were Anandha Raj and Shobika. “Both were relatives and were in love for more than four years,” said, a police official from Harur police station.The police also came to know that, when the parents learned about this, they gave their consent for their marriage. “They also assured that they will get them married after the lockdown,” the official said.The lovers who did not believe their words and argued with their parents to perform the marriage at the earliest. “Before they could do so, the lovers took the extreme step,” the official said.Harur police have registered a case and initiated inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/lovers-kill-self-by-consuming-pesticide-in-dharmapuri-dist/articleshow/76291920.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Pamper your sweet tooth: bakers, confectioners now mean business||KOLKATA: Your favourite almond jam tart and sponge cake are back at Nahoum’s, just as the walnut cakes at Saldanha’s, the ram bonde and paradise sandesh at Naba Krishna Guin or the khasta kachuri and kumkum at Mithai are. After a gap of two-and a half months, the city’s favourite sweets and snacks have re-appeared on the shelves, bringing back smiles to thousands of loyal customers. Though New Market re-opened last week, Nahoum’s was able to restart only on Monday, after eight of its 25 workers managed to return over the weekend. “We have started with the heart, sponge, light plum cakes, almond jam tart, almond pastry, bread roll, burger, white, brown and garlic bread and brownies. These are some of our most-selling items,” said Jagadish Chandra Haldar, the manager of the store for 40 years. Another old cake shop, Saldanha’s, has managed to bring back its entire range after a long gap. Its hottest selling items like the walnut cakes, coconut macaroons, chicken patties and envelopes moved fast on Monday as customers inquired and dropped by to pick up. “Some customers have been buying from us for generations and it made us so happy to tell them that all their favourite items were back,” said owner Debbie Saldanha. On Monday, Cookie Jar re-started its two stores in malls. Its two high street stores have also re-opened and the brand has once again started taking orders for birthday cakes, said proprietor Lovey Burman. Flury’s has not only brought back its cakes, pastries, sandwiches and a range of breads to the shelves, it opened its restaurant section popularly called tea room, on Monday. Many sweet shops said that despite the easing of the lockdown, their workers could not come back. So they sent hired vehicles to fetch them back. Some who live in South 24 parganas cycled back to work. “With 30 workers back, we are working at double the pace to bring back the old favourites,” said Nilanjan Ghosh, owner of Mithai. At Naba Krishna Guin, 30 workers are back and owner Suprobhat Dey is working alongside to bring back chhanar murki, Ram bonde and paradise sandesh. For KC Das, it was a double whammy after Amphan damaged the factory at Bagbazar. Finally, the factory has been repaired and 25 of the 40 workers are back, that helped the Esplanade store re-start on Tuesday, said proprietor Dhiman Das. Banchharam has managed to open 10 stores and has brought back its jive gaja, baked sandesh and mihidana tart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pamper-your-sweet-tooth-bakers-confectioners-now-mean-business/articleshow/76291200.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 10, 2020||Nagpur||Naik Talao-Bangladesh 3rd zone to breach 100-mark||Nagpur: Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone in East Nagpur has become the third zone in the city to report over 100 Covid-19 cases after Mominpura and Satranjipura. In fact, the zone has registered 138 cases in just 14 days, fastest compared to earlier two zones.The number of cases in this zone touched 100 on Monday after reporting 14 new cases. On Tuesday, 38 more Covid positive cases were reported. Among the 38 is an attendant working with NMC’s Binaki dispensary and his family. He is the fourth attendant of the civic body to test Covid positive from this zone.A team of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai, Dr Praveen Gantawar and Dr Minakshi Mane had focused on mass quarantine and testing drive in Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone which led to detection of 138 cases.Taking note of the effectiveness of NMC model, the central government’s Rapid Response Team had also appreciated the effort. Early detection of corona patients means treatment from initial stage which helps in preventing mortality, breaking the virus chain and containing transmission of the disease to other parts of the city.Dr Mane told TOI, “Till June 7, 726 persons have been quarantined in this zone. Reports of around 150 persons are pending.”“People here cooperated for mass quarantine and testing. Initially, we had notified a smaller containment zone. Our preliminary investigation revealed a large number of contacts of one of the two first corona positive persons. Being a slum, the area is congested. Therefore, we expanded the containment zone and also went for mass quarantining. After alerted by us, people used to be ready and board buses for quarantining and testing. It helped a lot,” she said.Dr Mane also said, “Contacts of latest cases will be traced on Wednesday and more people will be quarantined. We will be able to end the virus chain in this zone if people continue to cooperate as happened till now.”TOI on June 8 had highlighted NMC’s preliminary investigation which revealed how a group’s fondness for Mominpura biryani emerged as a major reason for contracting the virus and its massive spread in the area.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner on Tuesday exempted three areas from Mominpura containment zone after a span of 67 days. Area known as Guard Line situated towards IGGMCH was excluded from the restrictions. Also, a big locality situated between Naalsahab Chowk, Sharda Chowk, Golibar Chowk and Ganjakhet Chowk was also removed from the containment zone. A smaller area situated between Central Avenue and Hansapuri Road was also freed.Now, the NMC will notify areas situated between Bhagwaghar Chowk to Mominpura Chowk to Sharda Chowk to Naalsahab Chowk to Bhagwaghar Chowk as one containment zone. The civic body has decided to also mark 11 smaller zones which had reported cases in the last 28 days.Mominpura containment zone was the biggest among all in the city. Despite being a containment zone for 67 days, 315 cases had emerged from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naik-talao-bangladesh-3rd-zone-to-breach-100-mark/articleshow/76291922.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 10, 2020||Kochi||Covid patient’s burial delayed as church objects||Thrissur: The last rites of Dinny Chacko from Chalakkudy who died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, are getting delayed following objections from the local church. Chacko returned from Maldives by ship on May 16, and was under treatment at the Thrissur medical college hospital (TMCH), where he breathed his last According to the Chalakkudy tahsildar E N Raju, relatives of Chacko approached St Sebastian Church, Thachudaparambu, his parish church, requesting permission to bury his body. The church was currently using burial vaults and health authorities said they cannot be used for burying Covid-19 patients, the tahsildar said. Chacko’s relatives and health and revenue officials requested the church authorities to allocate land in the cemetery for deep burying as per Covid-19 protocol. The church authorities denied citing floods in 2018 and 2019 inundating the area. Covid patients’ bodies have to be buried in 10-12ft pits and here a 5-6ft pit would be full of water, Raju said. Subsequently, a proposal to cremate the body at Chalakkudy municipal crematorium and bring the ashes to the church for last rites was put forward, municipal councillor Shiji Valippan said. However, the relatives turned down the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-patients-burial-delayed-as-church-objects/articleshow/76290108.cms||T Ramavarman
June 10, 2020||Erode||Three-year-old girl dies after compound wall falls on her||Erode: A three-year-old girl died after her house compound wall fell on her on Tuesday morning. The incident took place at Kakkan Nagar in Karungalpalayam area in Erode.The deceased was identified as P Rudra Priya, daughter of Prem Kumar, 32, and Ragini, 30. The couple had two children including Rudra Priya and a six-year-old son Jeevith Kumar.Erode municipal corporation (EMC) was constructing underground drainage system in the city. S Balamurugan, inspector from Karungalpalayam police station informed that EMC workers dug up the pit close to the compound wall of Prem Kumar’s house.On Tuesday , Jeevith Kumar and Priya were playing close to the compound wall. Jeevith’s condition is said to be stable. Karungalpalayam police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/three-year-old-girl-dies-after-compound-wall-falls-on-her/articleshow/76291928.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||910 micro-containment zones, south overtakes north in Kolkata case count||KOLKATA: The latest list of micro-containment zones released by the state government on Tuesday showed that the city has 910 such areas. While the number was bound to increase, given each patient’s house is now individually being treated as a containment zone, there were certain worrying trends, especially in south Kolkata. While all these zones were nearly two weeks old and were added in the post-Amphan phase, as many 153 containment zones were added over the past 48 hours. Nearly 523 such micro zones were added in the last seven days when the city was trying to come to terms with the ‘new normal’ amid relaxations in lockdown restrictions. Institutes, like Police Training School and a portion of the National Library, are part of the containment zones, along with police stations like Garfa and areas between Tollygunge-Charu Market-Hazra-Bhowanipore and Ballygunge in south Kolkata that witnessed the maximum spike in micro-containment zones. Thus, in a reversal of sorts, the north (with the exception of the Phoolbagan-Beliaghata area) reported fewer cases than the south. Yet again, the number of cases at apartments and standalone buildings were more than those in slums, especially in the past 48 hours. In comparison, pockets — like Belgachhia, Narkeldanga and Mukundapur — that had initially reported multiple cases, are faring better now. Similarly, the belt between Mominpore and Kidderpore fared worse in the past two weeks than the Garden Reach and Metiabruz areas. KMC had earlier stated “Where an affected person resides in a flat, the flat is the affected area. If it is a standalone house, then the house itself is the affected area. In case of a bustee, the adjacent common passage of the affected hut, including common toilets and water sources, is the affected area.” A look at the micro-level statistics helps drive home the point. While the Hazra-Lansdowne-Bhowanipore area recorded 11 cases in the past two days, the past week saw 28 new cases. Similarly, the area between Kalighat and Alipore saw a rise of over 25 new cases in the past week and Tollygunge saw 13. This included multiple cases from Harish Chatterjee Street, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee lives. However, with rapid KMC intervention and strict containment norms being implemented, the rise has been contained. Among the areas now part of the containment map are Marquees Street, Block D in New Alipore, Chowringhee Terrace, Mandeville Gardens, Lake Terrace, Sarat Bose Road, Dover Lane and the Turf View area. Cases were also reported from middle-class neighbourhoods like Naktala, Bijoygarh, Roy Bahadur Road and Monoharpukur. KMC said its response in each case will be similar to how it controlled Covid in large areas of Belgachhia or Burrabazar — more testing and distribution of hydroxychloroquine. In addition, a conservancy programme has been started in the affected areas. KMC conceded that they were struggling to contain the pandemic in large areas of Alipore, Tollygunge, Bhowanipore and Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi. KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim had earlier said that the civic body was witnessing a spurt in fresh cases from high-rises and apartments. But Hakim felt markets in the areas could be the origins. The KMC and police said the meeting on Tuesday had led them to run strong drives at the affected apartments. “The moment KMC sends us the patients’ list, we reach out to their homes and find out who had come in contact with him/her,” an officer from south division said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/910-micro-containment-zones-south-overtakes-north-in-city-case-count/articleshow/76291212.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 10, 2020||Goa||Sobbing woman’s video goes viral, Kamat slams govt||Panaji: A viral video of a woman crying outside the transport department office, complaining of apathy, prompted opposition leader Digambar Kamat to question the insensitive nature of the government. Kamat sought chief minister Pramod Sawant’s intervention and asked him to direct government personnel to be sensitive towards people’s needs. In the video, which has been widely shared on social media platforms, the woman is seen on the ground outside the transport department office crying and claiming that her application has not been cleared for more than six months. While the exact details of her application are not mentioned, she does say that she had submitted it on December 23 last year. She also alleged that those with connections and with as many as 40 commercial vehicles just walk in and get their works done while she is made to wait. “The viral video of a lady crying at one of the government office complaining of non-cooperative approach by the staff there is extremely shocking,” said Kamat. The former chief minister said that government officials and staff need to be sensitive towards people who come to departments from far off areas. Kamat pointed out that due to the pandemic, the marginalised sector finds it very difficult to manage their day to day expensesand thus, the government needs to provide whatever assistance is sought from departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sobbing-womans-video-goes-viral-kamat-slams-govt/articleshow/76291942.cms||---
June 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Green zones in New Town, Salt Lake turn into hotspots||KOLKATA: Buildings under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) from where fresh Covid cases, which are on the rise in Salt Lake and New Town, are being demarcated as containment zones. From about 90 cases three weeks ago, the number has crossed 180, with fresh cases being reported from new localities. Wards earlier in green zones a fortnight ago have now become new Covid hotspots. Now, instead of closing a particular lane or a stretch inside a locality and declaring the area as a containment zone, only the particular building or house from where a Covid case has emerged is being fenced off. Two wards — 30 and 31 in Salt Lake — that were earlier identified as green zones, have now become Covid hotspots after new cases were reported. In Ward 30, Covid cases were reported from AH Block, Sarat Abason, AG Block and Baisakhi abason. Two cases were reported from BE and BF blocks in Ward 31. Besides, fresh cases have come up in localities in BA, FC, FD and parts of Duttabad and Laboni in wards 33, 35, 38, 39 and 40. Civic authorities are more worried about Rajarhat where there has been a sudden rise in Covid cases in the last 10 days. There was a single-day spike of over 30 cases a few days ago in Baguiati, Tegharia, Raghunathpur, Narayanpur and Kaikhali. The Bidhannagar civic authority has been conducting regular sanitization and swab collection drives along with health surveys in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. In the neighbouring New Town, two localities — one in Action Area I and another in Action Area III — were within containment zones a fortnight ago. However, the number of zones has risen with fresh cases being reported in Action Area I. Civic officials attributed the rise in cases over the last week to workers returning from outside as establishments gradually started to open. “We are urging everyone to wear masks, maintain social distancing and practice hygiene at all times,” said Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-zones-in-new-town-salt-lake-turn-into-hotspots/articleshow/76291231.cms||Suman Chakraborti
June 10, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid threat upsets Haj plans, Ranchiites pin hope on getting preference next year||RANCHI: The Haj Committee of India (HCI) recently decided to refund the advance amount paid by pilgrims who want to cancel their Haj trip in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The HCI took this decision after it received no assurance from the Saudi Arabian government regarding the annual pilgrimage. A letter in this regard was issued by HCI on June 5 directing the executive officers of Haj committees of all state and Union territories to take the necessary steps. Chaudhry Hassanuzzaman, a retired engineer who was supposed to take the pilgrimage along with his wife this year, said: “Haj has always been an emotional matter and not about money. I would request the government to give us preference while drawing up the list for next year, if Haj gets cancelled this year owing to the corona threat.” Many others who registered themselves for the pilgrimage said they would wait for some more time before taking any decision on their trip. Shamim Ansari, a 61-year-old resident of Irba, said: “We cannot blame the government if the pilgrimage gets cancelled this year. I will be disappointed for sure if it happens, but then one can only make the pilgrimage if the Almighty is willing.” Professor M H Ansari, who has also registered for the annual pilgrimage, said: “I do not have any information on cancellation of Haj 2020, but the situation is such that I won’t be surprised if the trip gets shelved this time.” Several others said they do not want a refund but would prefer to go on Haj once the situation returns to normal. The Haj flights from India to Saudi Arabia were scheduled to commence from June 25 and the 40-day pilgrimage would have ended by August 2. The state Haj committee officials said that till now they have received 36 cancellation requests. “A total of 2,281 people had registered from the state for Haj 2020,” Khurshid Anwar, PRO of the state Haj Committee, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/covid-threat-upsets-haj-plans-ranchiites-pin-hope-on-getting-preference-next-year/articleshow/76300188.cms||Gaurav Pandey
