June 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Dealing with cyber crimes in the time of Work From Home||With the increased time that everyone has been spending indoors, the only place people end up ‘hanging out’, is online. It is no wonder then, that Bengaluru saw a rise in cases of cyber crime and cyberbullying during the lockdown. Now, with the Work From Home model continuing through Unlock 1.0, Bangalore Times sat down with cyber experts to discuss the way forward. On our panel were Pawan Duggal, one among the top cyber lawyers in the world, Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, professor clinical psychology and founder Service for Healthy Use of Technology clinic, NIMHANS, Rahul Sasi, founder and CTO CloudSEK, which deals with cyber security and Shwetha R Prasad, actress. Here’s what they had to say... Pawan Duggal, cyber crime lawyer‘Newer criminal behaviour and exploitation has emerged globally’The lockdowns in various countries have shown us how newer criminal behaviour and exploitations have emerged globally. But, when it comes to Indian cyber laws, there aren’t effective remedies that are provided. There is a big gap between what should be and what actually is. The lockdown has heralded the golden period of cyber crime. Only you can help yourself. So share information on a need to know basis to protect yourself. Rahul Sasi, founder and CTO of CloudSEK‘Be aware of what’s happening and check if your info can be leaked’Exposing cyberbullying and educating people that what they are doing is wrong, is the first step. One needs to do this in a positive way. Celebrity information is always in demand. What if the company that makes one of the apps on your phone is hacked? The information becomes public and people will seek that. It is always advisable to be aware of the things happening and check if anything can be leaked. Check for information regularly. Shwetha R Prasad, television and film actress‘Actors face moral policing and threats from personal grudges’There are two threats that actors get – moral policing over being yourself and threats based on personal grudges which talk about hacking and other personal malice. At times, the best way is restricting what you post. Posting only what is needed and not revealing too much is the best option until there is a proper solution to this problem. Dr Manoj K Sharma, advocate specialized in the field of Cyberlaw‘Some of what people do online can end up causing distress to others’People are experiencing loneliness and boredom during these times. And when they come online, there is no social control. When they engage in online activities during this time, some of what they do can end up causing distress to others. While boredom might get them to do certain activities seeking a thrill, it can affect the victim in a cognitive manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dealing-with-cyber-crimes-in-the-time-of-work-from-home/articleshow/76308711.cms||Sunayana Suresh
June 11, 2020||Bengaluru||A day at a Bengaluru mall in the new normal has some hits and misses too||It’s been three days since malls and eateries opened again since the lockdown, enough time for them to get their act together and adapt to the new normal. So, we decided to go to a popular mall and do a spot check. Staff was still getting used to monitoring patrons, and there were mistakes, but there is an increased sense of awareness regarding safety during the pandemic, with sanitisation priority for entry into any store. Here are our findings.... EntranceThere is a sanitation tunnel, automatic sanitisers and scanning of bags. When we first entered during non-peak hours, the tunnel wasn’t switched on, even though we passed through it thrice. At 5 pm, though, it was functional. The conveyor belt for bag screening was not cleaned at frequent intervals. Clothing storesYou can touch items with your bare hands. Trial of clothes, including lingerie, is allowed. Clothes are steamed, but without sanitiser. Book storesThere is norestriction when it comes to touching books, toys or CDs in the store. These items are not cleaned after being touched. Food courtThere’s strict emphasis on social distancing right from the entrance. Instructions for sanitiser and face mask use are in place. In case of a cash transaction, you are given sanitiser again. Tables are cleaned before and after use. A supervisor ensures social distancing. Sports and footwear storesYou have to sanitise hands before and after trying on shoes. After determining shoe size, one is given options. There’s no contact with staff and you have to try the shoes yourself. The shoes are not cleaned thereafter and returned to their boxes. No use of restrooms and no water dispensersWe tried to check on the restrooms, but all of them were locked. The water dispensers were sealed in the mall too. ParkingThis was most disappointing. There were no visible measures in place. Staff at the parking fee collection booth wore masks, but no gloves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-day-at-the-mall-in-the-new-normal-has-some-hits-and-misses-too/articleshow/76307795.cms||Hansy Sanctis
June 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19: Families of Puri temple servitors to get Rs 5,000 again||BHUBANESWAR: The Shree Jagannath temple administration (SJTA) in Puri on Wednesday announced another financial package for servitors whose livelihood has been adversely affected by the closure of the shrine since March 20 following the Covid-19 pandemic. On April 17, the shrine body had given Rs 5,000 each to the families of 2,130 servitors. “We will provide another Rs 5,000 each to the same beneficiaries. The temple administration is committed to the well-being of the servitors as they are an inseparable part of the shrine and the rituals,” SJTA’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar said. The succour for servitors assumes significance as the state government has decided to extend the closure of all religious institutions, including the Jagannath Temple, till June 30. The Jagannath temple managing committee had on its own recently moved the state government and recommended closure of the shrine for devotees till July 4. Although the temple has been out of bounds to devotees since March 20, the daily rituals are being performed by servitors with precautions. While some servitors expressed happiness at receiving financial assistance, others said the amount should have been increased in the second phase. “My brother and I render our service near the deities. But both of us belong to the same family and will get Rs 5,000 together. We expected more,” a servitor said, requesting anonymity. Some servitors offer daily services near the deities whereas others carry out duties on specific days of the year. Every day, nearly 80 servitors are required to perform around 20 or 22 rituals in the shrine. Servitors are paid according to the number of days they are assigned to perform rituals. Sources said servitors are paid between Rs 500 and Rs 2,500 remuneration each day. The servitors said their income had been declining since 2014, when the temple administration banned the access of pilgrims to the chariots during Rath. Several servitors would earn money by escorting devotees to the chariots and performing puja for them. Then, in 2018, the administration imposed a ban on the collection of dakshina from devotees. “Many servitor families now find it difficult to make ends meet,” Binayak Das Mohapatra, a servitor, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/families-of-puri-temple-servitors-to-get-rs-5000-again/articleshow/76309546.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 11, 2020||Goa||Not worried about departures, players come and go, says new FC Goa coach Juan Ferrando||Since being confirmed as the new coach of FC Goa, Juan Ferrando has been busy. Everyday he picks up the phone and stays in touch with the staff and players. He’s watched about 50 matches in the Indian Super League (ISL) so far and believes he can improve a team eager to pick up its first title. Excerpts from an exclusive interview with TOI… You could have opted to stay in Europe, why choose FC Goa?Yes, it’s true I had offers elsewhere, but the most attractive offer was from FC Goa. This is a beautiful project. I had lot of meetings with president (Akshay Tandon), (director of football) Ravi (Puskur) and the coaching staff. They are nice people, working hard and we want to take this team to the next level. Was FC Goa’s qualification to the AFC Champions League one of the deciding factor?Of course. When you play in the Champions League, you play against the best teams and best players in Asia. It’s a good opportunity for Indian football. Lot of people’s eyes will be on FC Goa. They will watch our games. We will represent India in Asia and we hope to do well. We understand you have watched FC Goa play most of its matches, not just last season but previously too. What is your assessment of this team?It’s a successful team, they won a lot of games. During our discussion, we spoke about the style of play and the way forward. For us in the coaching staff, it’s important to continue what is already built here. The philosophy of how we want this team to play will remain unchanged. I watched a lot of games. It was good. But we are starting a new chapter. I will change some details, try and help players and get the best out of everyone. For three seasons, FC Goa stuck to the same formation and same style, whoever the opponents…The aim now is to play according to what is presented to us. Of course, there is a basic style of football. But we go on to change the details. If the team is pressing high, I would look for how the team can exploit the open spaces behind the defence. If I see the opposition playing with 10 people behind the ball, we have to think more in terms of position-based attacks. Lot of influential players have left the club this season. Captain Mandar Rao Desai, Jackichand Singh, Ahmed Jahouh and Mourtada Fall are all on their way out. Does this worry you?No, am not worried, because I say this again emphatically, we have a good squad for the season. We are working to strengthen the players (that we have). I am not worried about departures, it’s normal in football. Some players always decide to move on. It’s difficult to have the same set of players for six or eight years, unless you have Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo or Wayne Rooney. In Europe, for example, the team takes a whole new shape every two or three seasons. So, I feel it's a natural process. What we have to focus is getting the team ready to play the brand of football we want to play. The pre-season is going to be vital for us for that very reason. A few new faces will of course take some time to assimilate, but it's not something that's worrisome. You started coaching when you were just 18. Is that an advantage because you got an early start, or a disadvantage because you missed out on knowing the mindset of a footballer?I think this is advantageous. I have so much more experience (at age 39). This opens up your mind, helps you stay positive and get better. I have had so many wonderful moments in my coaching career. Greece (with Volos FC since 2017 when the club won back-to-back promotions from the third division to reach the top tier, the Greek Super League) was a great experience, but there were memorable moments all through. With Tiraspol, we came close to the knockout stages of the Europa League (falling short of qualification by two points behind Tottenham Hotspur and Anzhi Makhachkala). Then there was a good spell in Spain. Different countries have provided me with different experiences. How soon are you expected here?As soon as international flights resume. I will take the first available flight to Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-worried-about-departures-players-come-and-go-says-new-fc-goa-coach-juan-ferrando/articleshow/76310289.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 11, 2020||Agra||Covid-19: UP makes registration must for all pet shops||AGRA: In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Uttar Pradesh government has made it mandatory for all pet shops and dog breeding centres to register themselves with the state animal welfare board to prevent cruelty to animals and curb the spread of any disease. The order was issued to all district magistrates in the state on Tuesday. Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) ex-secretary and UP state animal welfare board veterinary officer Neelam Bala said that the Union ministry of animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries had recently issued a circular stating that all pet shops and dog breeding centres should ensure that they are registered with the state animal welfare board concerned before resuming business after the Covid-induced lockdown. "Registered shops have to maintain a proper and healthy environment for animals and send detailed reports to the board every month. This will prevent cruelty to animals and illegal breeding apart from curbing diseases. Compulsory registration will also ensure that pet lovers take home healthy animals," she added. Bala also said that there are at least 600 pet shops and dog breeding centres across Uttar Pradesh and the number could be more as only 45 districts have submitted their data so far. According to the UP government's order, pet shop owners would be charged Rs 5,000 as fees for registration, which has to be renewed every five years. The same fees would be charged for dog breeding centres too but they would have to renew the registration every two years. The order also states that any pet shop or centre that fails to register with the state animal welfare board within 60 days would be sealed. The veterinary officer said that the state government's directive is to ensure strict implementation of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017 and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shops) Rules, 2018. Welcoming the move, Ramavtar Singh, manager of People For Animals (PFA), Agra, said, "Registration will prove to be an effective way to crack the whip on errant dog breeders and pet shop owners thereby preventing cruelty to animals."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-up-makes-registration-must-for-all-pet-shops/articleshow/76310293.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 11, 2020||Goa||Not worried about departures, players come and go, says FC Goa new coach Ferrando||Panaji: Since being confirmed as the new coach of FC Goa, Juan Ferrando has been busy. Everyday he picks up the phone and stays in touch with the staff and players. He’s watched about 50 matches in the Indian Super League (ISL) so far and believes he can improve a team eager to pick up its first title. Excerpts from an exclusive interview with TOI…You could have opted to stay in Europe, why choose FC Goa?Yes, it’s true I had offers elsewhere, but the most attractive offer was from FC Goa. This is a beautiful project. I had lot of meetings with president (Akshay Tandon), (director of football) Ravi (Puskur) and the coaching staff. They are nice people, working hard and we want to take this team to the next level. Was FC Goa’s qualification to the AFC Champions League one of the deciding factor?Of course. When you play in the Champions League, you play against the best teams and best players in Asia. It’s a good opportunity for Indian football. Lot of people’s eyes will be on FC Goa. They will watch our games. We will represent India in Asia and we hope to do well. We understand you have watched FC Goa play most of its matches, not just last season but previously too. What is your assessment of this team?It’s a successful team, they won a lot of games. During our discussion, we spoke about the style of play and the way forward. For us in the coaching staff, it’s important to continue what is already built here. The philosophy of how we want this team to play will remain unchanged. I watched a lot of games. It was good. But we are starting a new chapter. I will change some details, try and help players and get the best out of everyone. For three seasons, FC Goa stuck to the same formation and same style, whoever the opponents… The aim now is to play according to what is presented to us. Of course, there is a basic style of football. But we go on to change the details. If the team is pressing high, I would look for how the team can exploit the open spaces behind the defence. If I see the opposition playing with 10 people behind the ball, we have to think more in terms of position-based attacks. Lot of influential players have left the club this season. Captain Mandar Rao Desai, Jackichand Singh, Ahmed Jahouh and Mourtada Fall are all on their way out. Does this worry you?No, am not worried, because I say this again emphatically, we have a good squad for the season. We are working to strengthen the players (that we have). I am not worried about departures, it’s normal in football. Some players always decide to move on. It’s difficult to have the same set of players for six or eight years, unless you have Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo or Wayne Rooney. In Europe, for example, the team takes a whole new shape every two or three seasons. So, I feel it's a natural process. What we have to focus is getting the team ready to play the brand of football we want to play. The pre-season is going to be vital for us for that very reason. A few new faces will of course take some time to assimilate, but it's not something that's worrisome. You started coaching when you were just 18. Is that an advantage because you got an early start, or a disadvantage because you missed out on knowing the mindset of a footballer?I think this is advantageous. I have so much more experience (at age 39). This opens up your mind, helps you stay positive and get better. I have had so many wonderful moments in my coaching career. Greece (with Volos FC since 2017 when the club won back-to-back promotions from the third division to reach the top tier, the Greek Super League) was a great experience, but there were memorable moments all through. With Tiraspol, we came close to the knockout stages of the Europa League (falling short of qualification by two points behind Tottenham Hotspur and Anzhi Makhachkala). Then there was a good spell in Spain. Different countries have provided me with different experiences. How soon are you expected here? As soon as international flights resume. I will take the first available flight to Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-worried-about-departures-players-come-and-go-says-fc-goa-new-coach-ferrando/articleshow/76310700.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 11, 2020||Goa||Competition for kids is must, says GFDC's new chairman Brahmanand||Panaji: The Goa Football Development Council’s (GFDC) newly-elected chairman Brahmanand Shankhwalkar has a tough task ahead of him. But knowing what he has achieved all through his career, Goa’s first Arjuna Award winner could be trusted to get the body back on track. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar created GFDC when he declared football as the state sport in his budget speech in 2012. He appointed Rufino Monteiro as the chairman with the sole purpose of focusing on grassroots development. The flurry of GFDC centres that were opened, starting with the first one in Valpoi, were meant to give grassroots the much needed boost. Monteiro started earnestly, but since his resignation in November, 2018, GFDC has been without a chairman. Brahmanand has been a member of the council committee since inception and his long association will now prove useful as he streamlines GFDC which gets an annual grant of Rs 5 crore. “We have to get back on the right track because many footballers are there. We are right there to help kids, nothing else. It is not just training programs. Unless they won’t play more among themselves, they will not know where they stand. We have to be close to the kids and their parents to guide them,” said the former India captain. The former goalkeeper is open for discussion and seeking advice from experts in the field such as AIFF head of coach education Savio Medeira, FC Goa technical director Derrick Pereira, among others. Brahmanand has been a mentor for Sesa Football Academy for 12 years and his understanding with young footballers will help. GFDC has 39 centres across the state with boys and girls enrolled in the U-10 and U-13 age groups. The last centre was opened two months ago at Zuarinagar, Vasco, and is one of the biggest with over 400 trainees. Besides, GFDC also operates a residential academy in Margao, which houses over 30 trainees. They conduct intra-centre and inter-centre tournaments annually. There is also a long-standing rift between GFDC and the Goa Football Association (GFA), which has not allowed the former to field their teams in official state competitions. “I don’t want to raise that issue, but we can have a healthy relationship as GFA members are also there. Something will come up on this and there will be participation with the support of GFA. We have to sort this out, once and for all. Every child is playing at schools and other places, but competition is a must as it helps evolve your mind,” said the 66-year-old. For the last two years, no GFDC council committee meeting has been held and Brahmanand will have to put things in order. They will also need to appoint a new technical director following the departure of Derryl D’Souza. “It is a very important post and we want the right person there who will give 100 percent,” said Brahmanand. Currently, there is no sporting activity in India due to the nationwide lockdown, but Brahmanand can’t wait to lead by example once again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/competition-for-kids-is-must-says-gfdcs-new-chairman-brahmanand/articleshow/76310725.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
June 11, 2020||Noida||Disregarding social distancing in Unlock 1.0 might land you in legal trouble||On Monday evening, during a surprise check at a restaurant, the Delhi Police found that 35 persons were partying without following social distancing norms. Even as state governments are relaxing restrictions and allowing restaurants, malls and markets to open, it doesn't mean you can forget about social distancing norms. Not wearing a mask, gathering for a party or exceeding occupancy limit in vehicles can result in a fine and might even land you in jail. Planning to step out without mask?If you are stepping out without a mask, be ready to pay the penalty. The penalty can be from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000, depending on where in NCR you are. No spitting in publicGiven the highly contagious nature of COVID-19, spitting in public is also an offence now, for which you might have to pay Rs 100-1,000, depending on the area you are in. The Delhi Metro has planned to impose a penalty of Rs 1,000 on spitting in its premises once it resumes operations. IPC Sections you can be charged withNot the time to partyAs per the guidelines issued by the MHA for Unlock 1.0, restaurants have to keep occupancy to 50% for dine-in and encourage takeaways. No private gathering apart from marriages or funerals are allowed. Even in these cases prior permissions have to be sought. Police officials point out that the night curfew also ensures that there’s no partying. Social distancing in cars tooAs per the MHA order, those travelling in four-wheelers are allowed to have "maximum two passengers besides the vehicle driver". Anyone who is violating this can be penalised. No gatherings allowed: Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/disregarding-social-distancing-in-unlock-1-0-might-land-you-in-legal-trouble/articleshow/76308919.cms||Niharika Lal
June 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Disregarding social distancing in Unlock 1.0 might land you in legal trouble||On Monday evening, during a surprise check at a restaurant, the Delhi Police found that 35 persons were partying without following social distancing norms. Even as state governments are relaxing restrictions and allowing restaurants, malls and markets to open, it doesn't mean you can forget about social distancing norms. Not wearing a mask, gathering for a party or exceeding occupancy limit in vehicles can result in a fine and might even land you in jail. Planning to step out without mask?If you are stepping out without a mask, be ready to pay the penalty. The penalty can be from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000, depending on where in NCR you are. No spitting in publicGiven the highly contagious nature of COVID-19, spitting in public is also an offence now, for which you might have to pay Rs 100-1,000, depending on the area you are in. The Delhi Metro has planned to impose a penalty of Rs 1,000 on spitting in its premises once it resumes operations. IPC Sections you can be charged withNot the time to partyAs per the guidelines issued by the MHA for Unlock 1.0, restaurants have to keep occupancy to 50% for dine-in and encourage takeaways. No private gathering apart from marriages or funerals are allowed. Even in these cases prior permissions have to be sought. Police officials point out that the night curfew also ensures that there’s no partying. Social distancing in cars tooAs per the MHA order, those travelling in four-wheelers are allowed to have "maximum two passengers besides the vehicle driver". Anyone who is violating this can be penalised. No gatherings allowed: Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/disregarding-social-distancing-in-unlock-1-0-might-land-you-in-legal-trouble/articleshow/76308915.cms||Niharika Lal
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Disregarding social distancing in Unlock 1.0 might land you in legal trouble||On Monday evening, during a surprise check at a restaurant, the Delhi Police found that 35 persons were partying without following social distancing norms. Even as state governments are relaxing restrictions and allowing restaurants, malls and markets to open, it doesn't mean you can forget about social distancing norms. Not wearing a mask, gathering for a party or exceeding occupancy limit in vehicles can result in a fine and might even land you in jail. Planning to step out without mask?If you are stepping out without a mask, be ready to pay the penalty. The penalty can be from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000, depending on where in NCR you are. No spitting in publicGiven the highly contagious nature of COVID-19, spitting in public is also an offence now, for which you might have to pay Rs 100-1,000, depending on the area you are in. The Delhi Metro has planned to impose a penalty of Rs 1,000 on spitting in its premises once it resumes operations. IPC Sections you can be charged withNot the time to partyAs per the guidelines issued by the MHA for Unlock 1.0, restaurants have to keep occupancy to 50% for dine-in and encourage takeaways. No private gathering apart from marriages or funerals are allowed. Even in these cases prior permissions have to be sought. Police officials point out that the night curfew also ensures that there’s no partying. Social distancing in cars tooAs per the MHA order, those travelling in four-wheelers are allowed to have "maximum two passengers besides the vehicle driver". Anyone who is violating this can be penalised. No gatherings allowed: Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/disregarding-social-distancing-in-unlock-1-0-might-land-you-in-legal-trouble/articleshow/76308095.cms||Niharika Lal
June 11, 2020||India||Covid-19: If govt hospitals are 70% empty, why can’t people get beds?||NEW DELHI: Delhi is battling a surge in Covid-19 cases and there are numerous accounts of people being sent from one hospital to another in search of that elusive bed. This, when seven out of every 10 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in Delhi government hospitals are lying vacant. Doctors and public health experts believe this is an outcome of the general perception that government hospitals may not have good infrastructure and hygiene and shortage of staff could lead to patients being neglected. The Delhi government has reserved 4,360 beds in six hospitals, namely Lok Nayak (2,000), Guru Tegh Bahadur (1,500), Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty (500), Deep Chand Bandhu (176), Raja Harish Chandra (168) and Jag Pravesh Chandra (16), according to real-time data shared on the Delhi Corona app Of these, as on Wednesday, 61% beds were vacant in Lok Nayak Hospital, which is the largest health facility run by the state. Guru Tegh Bahadur (89%), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (49%), Deep Chand Bandhu (53%), Raja Harish Chandra (87%) and Jag Pravesh Chandra (100%) too had enough beds to accommodate the rising number of cases. Hospitals run by the Centre have 1,470 Covid-19 beds. Of these, 84% were occupied on Wednesday. Lady Hardinge Medical College had no vacant beds while Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung, AIIMS-Delhi and AIIMS-Jhajjar had 2, 6, 63 and 164 beds available, respectively. There are 3,349 beds in private hospitals — excluding the 2,000 that are to be added according to the Delhi government’s order on Tuesday — and only 29% beds were vacant. So, despite a total of over 9,000 beds being available for Covid-19 patients in the city, there is a sense of crisis. Lawyer and public health activist Ashok Agarwal says people do not want to go to government hospitals for reasons of infrastructure and hygiene. "I come across patients who are willing to wait to get a bed in a private hospital but don’t want to get admitted to agovernment hospital because they feel that the care offered to them there won’t be good enough," he said. Agarwal pointed out that unlike private hospitals, most government hospitals do not have single rooms. Also, patients baulk at the thought of having to share the toilet with many others. "Sanitation and lack of hygiene are definitely serious concerns," said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. "Government hospitals have a common bathroom. Patients are admitted mostly in the general ward which have eight to 10 patients in one hall," he added. This, he said, was despite the fact that medical and surgical interventions at the government hospitals were often better or on a par with private facilities. Asenior doctor of a government hospital was recently quoted as saying that patients can indeed feel neglected without an attendant and when the staff, in the current circumstances, are themselves scared. State-run hospitals are also plagued by staff shortage because of which some also choose to make admissions cautiously, sources said. "We have 500 Covid beds but we cannot operate at 100% capacity with the current strength," said a doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in east Delhi, which is run by the Delhi government. "Our hospital is facing an acute shortage of staff and the issue has been raised with the government several times." At Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, where 89% beds are vacant, an official said they were designated for Covid treatment recently and the number would go up in the coming days. AIIMS director Randeep Guleria says government hospitals have to improve infrastructure to win people’s trust. Covid facilities need centralised oxygen supply and an adequate number of ventilators. "We are managing Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms at the trauma facility while those with mild symptoms are being treated at the Jhajjar facility," he said. Dr S K Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, however, feels there is a misconception among people about government hospitals, which needs to change. Watch No beds for Covid-19 patients even as govt hospitals stay 70% empty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-if-govt-hospitals-are-70-empty-why-cant-people-get-beds/articleshow/76311420.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 11, 2020||India||Rajasthan Congress sniffs plot to ‘destabilise govt’, corrals its MLAs in a resort||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Congress on Wednesday shifted its MLAs as well as independents supporting it to a resort on the outskirts of Jaipur, ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls even as it expressed apprehensions of a plot to “destabilise the popularly elected government in the state.” Sources in the Congress said the move came after the party received information that Congress MLAs were being “approached with attractive offers.” The legislators will be kept at the resort till June 18. RS polls are due on June 19. Congress central leaders, including chief party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, reached Jaipur. Earlier, Congress chief whip in the assembly Mahesh Joshi approached the anti-corruption bureau seeking a probe into charges of inducements being offered to his party MLAs. He, however, did not say who was behind the alleged move. In an assembly of 200, Congress has 107 MLAs, including six who defected to the party from BSP in 2019. Congress enjoys support of 13 Independent MLAs. Watch Rajasthan Congress shifts MLAs to Jaipur resort ahead of Rajya Sabha polls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-congress-smells-plot-to-destabilise-govt-in-state/articleshow/76311484.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||Nirav Modi-Choksi jewels worth Rs 1,350cr land in ED’s hands||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has received 108 consignments of diamonds, pearls and other valuables worth Rs 1,350 crore on Wednesday from Hong Kong which were seized in the Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi money laundering case. Both Nirav and Choksi are currently absconding and are located in foreign countries. Out of 108 consignments, 32 belonged to entities controlled by Nirav Modi and rest are controlled by Mehul Choksi. The ED had earlier brought back 33 consignments of similar seizures valued at Rs 137 crore from Dubai and Hong Kong in this case. These valuables belonged to companies associated with fugitive diamond traders Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi and were attached by the ED in Hong Kong. Choksi and Nirav Modi are accused of swindling Rs 13,500 crore of Punjab National Bank by fraudulently issuing letters of credits. “These valuables include polished diamonds, pearls, pearl and silver jewellery etc and were kept in a godown of a logistics company in Hong Kong. These consignments were brought back to Mumbai on Wednesday,” the ED said. The agency claimed that these high-value consignments were sent by the accused to Hong Kong from Dubai in early 2018 to evade their seizure in Dubai. However, based on an intelligence input, ED officials approached the Hong Kong authorities in July-August 2018 and attached them. “The ED officers were continuously engaged in discussion with various authorities in Hong Kong to bring these valuables back to India. Various modalities were finalised and after completing all the legal formalities, these consignments have now been brought back to India,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nirav-modi-choksi-jewels-worth-rs-1350cr-land-in-eds-hands/articleshow/76311537.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Covid-19: Govt moves to speed up clinical trial process||NEW DELHI: Taking advantage of the opportunity provided by the Covid-19 pandemic to boost the healthcare system, the government has pushed through critical reforms to cut down the regulatory maze for faster clinical trials and boost research and innovation in vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics. The efforts, led by Niti Aayog, has ensured that Punebased CDAC will develop a common platform for regulatory approvals for clinical trials. A decision on such trials will have to be taken within 90 days and the platform will bring together all regulators on a real-time basis. A series of meetings between the cabinet secretary and ministries deliberated on the Niti proposals and took steps with timelines to ensure India regains market share in pharma, biomedicine and diagnostics. We had 16% share and now it is down to almost 1%. Over the years, stringent laws and regulations have killed the sector. Now, we have re-engineered the processes. We want to foster innovation and regain our market share,” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant told TOI. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news To cut down the regulatory maze, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation will be the point of contact for all clinical trials and a panel headed by the health secretary and involving regulatory entities will meet once in 15 days or one month to decide on proposals. “The platform will have all information and the panel will have to decide or give reasons for rejection. It will be on realtime basis and integrate the workflow of all regulators,” an official said, adding that the idea was to cut down the time for approvals from the current 4-5 years to about 90 days. Officials said stringent controls on the sector had driven the industry out of the country and firms had to go to Brazil and the US for clinical trails. The department of biotechnology will explore the option of setting up institutions for large animal testing while CDSCO has been asked to consider regulating clinical research organisations. “At this point, we will work within existing laws to see how much can be improved within the current regulatory norms,” an official said. Watch Govt moves to speed up COVID-19 clinical trial process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-moves-to-speed-up-clinical-trial-process/articleshow/76311586.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 11, 2020||India||Govt justifies visa denial to members of US body||NEW DELHI: Hardening its stand against United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), the government has justified denying visa to members of the bipartisan US body to visit India last year and questioned its locus standi to comment on Indian citizens’ fundamental right to religion. In a letter to BJP’s LS member Nishikant Dubey, external affairs minister S Jaishankar attacked the USCIRF, whose members include US lawmakers, for categorising India as a ‘Country of Particular Concern’ (CPC) in its 2020 report which said the country was “engaging in and tolerating systematic, ongoing and egregious religious freedom violations”. Jaishankar said the government denied visas to USCIRF teams in connection with issues related to religious freedom after the Citizenship Amendment Bill was introduced in Parliament last year. During the winter session of Parliament, Dubey had raised the issue of USCIRF seeking sanctions against home minister Amit Shah for the Citizenship Amendment Bill. The USCIRF has been known to make prejudiced, inaccurate, and misleading observations regarding the state of religious freedom in India, the minister said. “We do not take cognizance of these pronouncements and have repudiated such attempts to misrepresent information related to India,” he said. He said the MEA had rejected the body’s remarks in this regard as inaccurate and unwarranted. “We have also denied visa to USCIRF teams that have sought to visit India in connection with issues related to religious freedom, as we do not see the locus standi of a foreign entity like USCIRF to pronounce on the state of Indian citizens constitutionally protected rights,” he said. He also assured the BJP MP that India will not accept any external interference or pronouncement on its sovereignty and fundamental rights of its citizens. Last year, the USCIRF had said the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2019 would be a “dangerous turn in wrong direction” and sought American sanctions against Shah if the bill is passed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-justifies-visa-denial-to-members-of-us-body/articleshow/76311649.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Roaring success: Population of Asiatic lions in India up 29% in 5 years||NEW DELHI: Wildlife conservationists have something to cheer about as India has recorded a 29% increase in the population of Asiatic lions, living in Gujarat’s Gir forests, in the past five years, with their population going up from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. The period also saw a 36% increase in the distribution area of the lions from 22,000 sq km in 2015 to 30,000 sq km in 2020. Currently, Asiatic lions are found in the protected areas and agro-pastoral landscape of Saurashtra, covering nine districts in Gujarat. “Over the last several years, the lion population in Gujarat has been steadily rising. This is powered by community participation, emphasis on technology, wildlife healthcare, proper habitat management and steps to minimise human-lion conflict. Hope this positive trend continues,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi while sharing details of the lion count on Wednesday. Two very good news:Population of the majestic Asiatic Lion, living in Gujarat’s Gir Forest, is up by almost 29%.… https://t.co/HdZDqL0z4i— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1591790558000Over the last several years, the Lion population in Gujarat has been steadily rising. This is powered by community… https://t.co/RpZLNBhGfV— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1591790600000The increase in the lion count this year shows one of the highest growth rates so far. Last year, India had reported similar encouraging figures on tiger population. The co untry had recorded the highest ever increase, 33%, in its tiger population — from 2,226 in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018. The data on the population of Asiatic lions has been compiled under “Poonam Avlokan of Asiatic Lions” — an exercise conducted by the Gujarat forest department on June 5-6 using block count method in the cluster of villages. The forest department deployed 1,400 personnel for the exercise. They used GPS location, number of individual identification marks, radio-collar numbers and statistical software to arrive at the figures. The population estimation of Asiatic lions is conducted at an interval of five years. The last population estimation was done in May 2015, which pegged the lion numbers at 523 — an increase of 27% over the estimation of 2010. The latest figures on lion population structure show 309 females, 206 males, 137 cubs and 22 unidentified lions in the population of 674. India had in 1968 recorded only 177 lions. The numbers have, however, been increasing consistently with the help of multiple conser vation measures since then. “Multiple strategies and interventions have been implemented in the Asiatic lion landscape that have contributed to the current conservation success viz people’s participation, use of modern technology, wildlife health care including import of ca nine distemper virus vaccine, habitat management, increase in prey base, human-lion conflict mitigation etc,” said Gujarat’s chief wildlife warden in a note which was shared by the PM on Twitter. The state saw a CDV outbreak that resulted in death of 36 lions in 2018. Watch Population of Asiatic lions increases in Gujarat’s Gir forest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/roaring-success-population-of-asiatic-lions-in-india-up-29-in-5-years/articleshow/76311768.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Amid stand-off, PM Modi calls two of China's close allies||NEW DELHI: Amid the coronavirus pandemic, India and Israel are going to work together in developing vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics for Covid-19. PM Narendra Modi spoke to his Israeli counterpart over the phone on Wednesday and discussed areas in which the two countries can expand their cooperation. The phone call was preceded by Modi talking to Cambodian President Hun Sen. In the past couple of days, as India and China have been locked in a tense stand-off in Ladakh, Modi has spoken to two of China’s close allies in southeast Asia — Cambodia and the Philippines. With Hun Sen, Modi emphasised India’s Act East policy and “reviewed the robust development partnership between both countries, including capacity building programmes under the ITEC scheme and Quick Impact Projects under the Mekong-Ganga Cooperation framework”, said an official readout. India considers Philippines a “vital” security partner in the Indo-Pacific region, Modi told Rodrigo Duterte, president of Philippines on Tuesday, the readout said. Modi assured President Duterte of India’s commitment to support the Philippines in its fight against the pandemic, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-stand-off-pm-modi-calls-two-of-chinas-close-allies/articleshow/76311780.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hunt for temporary Covid-19 facilities||NEW DELHI: Come Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will go out and look for facilities — hotels, stadiums and banquet halls — that can be converted into temporary hospitals to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. A day after testing negative for Covid-19, Kejriwal on Wednesday sought to put up a united front in fighting the pandemic and said the lieutenant-governor’s directives would be implemented in letter and spirit. “I want to give the message to everyone that this is not the time for a standoff between the Delhi government and the Centre,” he said when asked about the rift between the AAP government and the L-G after his announcement that only city residents could avail treatment at Delhi hospitals and Anil Baijal turning it down. “It is not the time for political differences. If we keep fighting, then the coronavirus will win,” Kejriwal said at a press conference. In the Delhi Disaster Management Authority meeting, aprojection of Covid-19 cases was submitted. It noted that there will be 44,000 cases and 6,600 beds will be required by June 15. We will have one lakh cases and need 15,000 beds by June 30. By July 15, there will be 2.25 lakh cases and 33,000 beds will be required. By July 31, 5.5 lakh cases are expected and 80,000 beds will be required,” Kejriwal said. An estimated 80,000 people from outside the city would come to Delhi hospitals for treatment and the government will need 1.5 lakh beds to handle the crisis, he said. “We do not know how many patients might come from outside the city. However, before the pandemic, nearly 50% of patients in Delhi hospitals used to come from outside the city. We will need around 1.5 lakh beds if patients from outside come to the city for treatment by July 31,” he added. Kejriwal urged neighbouring states to create facilities to lessen burden on Delhi hospitals. “This is not to blame anyone, and I am confident that all the states are trying their best.” When asked about his health, Kejriwal said: “I was suffering from mild sore throat and fever. Doctors suggested that I should go for a Covid-19 test. I isolated myself at home.” Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called upon Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday and discussed the Covid-19 situation in the capital. The home minister assured all cooperation to the state government in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “Met home minister Amit Shah. Discussed the situation on coronavirus in Delhi in detail. He has assured of all cooperation (sic),” Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting. It was the first meeting between the two since the virus outbreak in the city. According to sources, the CM also raised the demand for central assistance for the capital, as the finances of the state government has been severely hampered by the viral outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arvind-kejriwal-to-hunt-for-temp-covid-facilities/articleshow/76311785.cms||Alok KN Mishra
June 11, 2020||Patna||55-year-old man in distress commits suicide in Patna||PATNA: A 55-year-old man allegedly committed suicide in his rented accommodation in Patna on Wednesday. Financial crisis seems to be the reason behind the suicide, police said. This was the second incident of suicide in the city in the last 24 hours. The landlord found the body hanging from the ceiling fan in his room at CID Colony under Jakkanpur police station around 11am. Jakkanpur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar Verma said the landlord informed him that the man was working as a dishwasher in a restaurant. “He was living there for the last four months. The landlord said the deceased worked in a restaurant,” the SHO said and added: “The man went to his room on Tuesday night, but didn’t come out in the morning. When the landlord went to check on him, his body was found hanging.” According to the SHO, the landlord did not know his name and family background. “We have found one identification card of Roshan Kumar Malick without any photograph. Based on the address given in the card, we have contacted Masuarhi police station to know the whereabouts of the deceased,” Verma said. No suicide note was found in the room. The body was sent for autopsy. “Prima facie it appears that the man committed suicide due to financial crisis as he had been out of job for the last three months. However, we are investigating the matter,” the SHO said. Earlier on Tuesday, a class VIII student allegedly committed suicide in Lodipur area after her parents scolded her for skipping studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/55-year-old-man-commits-suicide/articleshow/76307809.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Surat||Planning a trip to Daman? Book a hotel first||SURAT: While the union territory of Daman is yet to reopen its gates for people from others states, Bacchus have found a loophole to enter Gujarat’s favourite watering hole. Book a room in a Daman hotel online and get an e-pass to enter the union territory hassel-free. In its latest order issued on Tuesday, Daman administration stated that online booking of the hotel rooms with pre-payment is mandatory for the issuance of e-passes to travellers. The details of arrival and check-out of the guests booking the hotels will be shared by the hotel management to the UT administration two days in advance for the issuance of entry passes from the check post. Talking with TOI, Daman collector, Rakesh Minhas said, “We are issuing passes from the check posts to those having valid reason to enter the union territory. We are yet to open up for leisure travellers. However, travellers can book hotels online to get valid passes from the administration.” For travellers, the Aarogya Setu mobile application has been made mandatory. While booking the hotels, the travellers will have to provide the details regarding the Aarogya setu application, aadhar card and his health status. Harish Thangal, secretary of Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA) told TOI, “The rules for entering Daman are very strict. An outsider entering Daman should have a valid reason to get access into the territory. The only way travellers can enter the territory is through the hotels.” “After the central government allowed the reopening of the hospitality sector, the hotels in Daman were flooded with inquiries. But, due to the restrictions, the hoteliers were not entertaining the inquiries. After more than 75 days of lockdown, we are anticipating good business in the coming days,” he added. About the staff, Thangal said, “Majority of the hotels have 50% staff at their facilities. They have taken care of the staff since the first day of lockdown.” There are about 100 big and small hotels in Daman having combined capacity of about 2,000 rooms. The monthly turnover of the hotel industry is pegged at about Rs 75 lakh. Pramod Tandel, a hotelier and wine shop owner in Daman told TOI, “While the bars in the restaurants and hotels are not allowed to open, the wine shops in Daman are open from 8 am to 4 pm. There are no restrictions for the traveller on the beaches as well.” However, Daman hoteliers said that the tourists from Maharashtra have been banned. Thangal said, “We had a meeting with the administration on Wednesday and have received clear instruction not to entertain bookings from the travellers visiting from Maharashtra. Only the travellers from Gujarat will be entertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/planning-a-trip-to-daman-book-a-hotel-first/articleshow/76309373.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Surat||Bharuch doc, engineer, Asha worker infected with Covid-19||BHARUCH: Dr Mayank Pittaliya, a leading paediatrician of Bharuch, along with deputy engineer at Dakshin Gujarat Vij Nigam Vinod Shah, Asha worker Halimaben Patel of Amod, Sumitra Parmar of Alankar Row Houses and Umesh Prajapati of Sardar Nagar have been tested positive with Covid-19 in the last two days. Surprisingly out of five, three do not have any recent travel history. With the addition of these cases, the total cases at Bharuch reached 61, out of which four lost their lives, 36 were discharged and twenty people are taking treatment at Special Covid-19 Jayaben Modi Hospital at Ankleshwar. In a week's time, 20 new coronavirus-infected patients have been reported. Dr Pittalia has been practising in Bharuch for the past 30 years. ‘‘I do not have any recent travel history thus it seems that my case may be due to local transmission either through patients or friends and relatives with whom I was in contact in the past few days. My health is better but I am surprised that I was so conscious and had taken all the necessary precautions.After all it is all fate,’’ he told TOI. "The condition of all the 20 patients who are under the treatment at Covid-19 Jayaben Modi hospital are stable,’’ said Dr Nilesh Patel, district epidemic officer, Bharuch. “A sudden increase in the cases is due to more number of people coming from different parts of the state and other states as well. Bharuch health department has conducted 3,287 tests in last 45 days. People are not serious and thus the cases are expected to increase. Everyone is required to obey social distancing and wear masks," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-doc-engineer-asha-worker-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/76309296.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Goa Covid count hits 320, Taleigao man, tea boy test positive||PANAJI: Goa’s active Covid-19 count shot up to 320 on Wednesday after the detection of 28 new cases, 24 of which were linked to the Mangor Hill containment zone in Vasco. Since the detection of the first cases there last Monday, the area has accounted for 275 of the state’s total active cases after the government intensified testing in the densely-populated area. The day also saw Covid-19 panic spread to Panaji, after a 70-year-old man from Taleigao who tested negative four days ago, tested positive. Since the source of his infection is unclear, 85 swabs of persons linked to him were collected on Wednesday. His family, too, has been quarantined. The health department is probing how he may have contracted the infection. Taleigao sarpanch Agnelo D’Cunha said that the man was first taken to TB and chest disease hospital, St Inez, after complaining of chest infection. He was then referred to GMC’s isolation ward. On admission, he tested negative for Covid-19. However, four days later, on Tuesday, he tested positive. “He didn’t have any travel history, I hope there are no more cases here,” D’Cunha said. Health officials moved quickly to commence contact tracing. “We have been taking swabs of persons residing in the vicinity of that house today,” a top official said. Responding to a query on whether the case was linked to Mangor Hill, he said, “We will get to know details only once the test results of the people in the locality are known”. Meanwhile in Margao, a tea server working at the ESI/Covid hospital tested positive for Covid, and has been admitted there, said deputy health director Dr Ira Almeida. He used to deliver tea to hospital staff. The medical team is now ascertaining the source of his infection, since the person entered neither the hospital kitchen nor wards. Shadow Council for Margao convenor Savio Coutinho demanded sanitisation of the entire area housing the residential quarters of ESI staff. He also demanded that swab samples of residents of the vicinity be taken for testing. Coutinho said that he already spoke to health minister Vishwajit Rane and district collector Ajit Roy, and that they’ve assured “immediate steps”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-covid-count-hits-320-taleigao-man-tea-boy-ve/articleshow/76311406.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||Won past 2 polls for my work, will win again: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said he won the last two assembly elections (2010 & 2015) on the performance of his government and would win again in the coming assembly election. Addressing party workers through a ‘virtual sammelan’, Nitish coined a formula of ‘90% versus 10%’ to ensure victory in the 2020 assembly polls. He asked them to spend only 10% of their time responding to “misinformation campaign” of the opposition. “The rest 90% of the time should be spent on informing and educating the common people with data and facts about the development works done by his government in the past 15 years,” Nitish said. On Wednesday, he addressed workers of altogether nine districts in four separate sessions. In the first session, Nitish addressed the workers of Samastipur, while those of Begusarai and Khagaria in the second session. The workers from Bhagalpur and Banka were addressed in the third session and those from Munger, Lakhisarai, Jamui and Sheikhpura districts heard the party chief in the fourth and the last session of the day. The JD(U) chief said a revised industrial investment promotion policy would be announced in the next three or four days. “The last industrial investment promotion policy in the state was announced in 2016. Its five-year tenure is due to end in 2021. But the state government can make midterm amendments to make it more attractive for industries,” Bihar Industries Association (BIA) secretary Anil Sinha told TOI on Wednesday. Sinha said the BIA was ready to provide its assistance to the government’s move. Speaking to party workers, the CM further said his government was working day-and-night to provide employment to returned migrant workers and local people. “Several departments, through their different schemes, are running a campaign for employment generation for the local people and migrant workers,” he said. “Which work of development did I not do in the past 15 years?” Nitish asked while recounting the infrastructural developments done by his government. “Right from providing electricity connection to each household, spreading the network of roads and bridges in the entire state, providing piped water supply to each house, opening new engineering and medical colleges, to improving the condition of hospitals. What works we did not do?” he added. Around 5,600 workers participated in each of the four sessions of the virtual workers’ sammelan conducted by JD(U) national general secretary Sanjay Kumar Jha. “Party’s senior leaders like RCP Singh, Rajiv Ranjan Singh, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and building construction minister Ashok Choudhary also addressed the sammelan and spoke on different issues,” Jha told TOI. Attack on LaluMaking a veiled attack on RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family, energy minister Bijendra Yadav, while addressing the workers, said, “Nitish Kumar neither paid attention on accumulating properties for himself nor made any attempt to promote his family members or children, whereas a previous CM used to tour different parts of the state to ascertain where from ‘maal’ (money) can come. That previous CM also used to ascertain how land or building can be registered in his family members’ name by distribution of party tickets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/won-past-2-polls-for-my-work-will-win-again-nitish/articleshow/76308598.cms||Madan Kumar
June 11, 2020||Patna||RJD for a debate on NDA rule vs Lalu-Rabri regime||PATNA: Two days after JD(U) national president and chief minister Nitish Kumar asked his party workers to tell the youth about RJD’s ‘Jungle Raj’ and make them aware of the situation before 2005, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh on Wednesday challenged Nitish to hold discussion on the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime versus 15 years of his (NDA) rule. Singh, in a press meet at his party office, said Nitish was misleading the youth with such statements. “We have data of National Crime Records Bureau, which states how crime has increased in Bihar from 65% in our time to 80% now. While there used to be 108 crime incidents per one lakh population, this has increased to 222 per one lakh now. We are ready to hold a debate on all the parameters of crime before the media,” Singh said while presenting the NRCB data. He said it was during RJD’s regime that massacres were brought under control. There was no massacre between 2000 and 2005, he claimed. Singh said the first massacre took place in 1977 at Belchi and his party succeeded in putting an end to such incidents by 2000. “But you sent criminals to Vidhan Sabha and now once again massacre took place in Gopalganj. However, we assure the people of Bihar that once again normalcy will be restored if the state is handed over to us,” said Singh. Reacting to Singh’s challenge, JD(U) state spokesperson Anjum Ara said 118 massacres had taken place during the Lalu-Rabri regime. “Dalits, EBCs, minority and the poor had faced the brunt of those massacres. As far as the Gopalganj incident is concerned, that was a murder, not massacre. Also, no more organized crime takes place in Bihar, unlike earlier when criminals used to get protection from the CM’s residence,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-for-a-debate-on-nda-rule-vs-lalu-rabri-regime/articleshow/76308629.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||17 deaths in a day, 10 from Kolkata, take West Bengal’s Covid-19 toll to 432||KOLKATA: On Wednesday, the state reported 17 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total Covid-19 death toll to 432 in Bengal. This was the highest single-day death toll after June 6, when an equal number of deaths was recorded. Health department officials said 66.7% of the total deaths were patients who had co-morbid conditions. Ten of the 17 deaths were reported from Kolkata, while four was from North 24 Parganas, two from Howrah and one from Murshidabad. Before June, apart from May 15 in the recent past when the day’s Covid-19 death count was 10, the state had been recording daily tolls mostly in single digits. But in June, of the 10 days so far, eight have had death figures in double digits. “With increasing number of tests, the number of the infected and the death count will also rise. But the spike in deaths is of course a major cause for concern. Though many of the deaths pertain to Covid patients who had serious co-morbidities, we are working on a way to check the number of deaths,” said a health department official. With 343 new cases, the total number of people affected by Covid in the state rose to 9,328. So far, a total of 3,779 patients have been treated and discharged from from different hospitals across the state, 159 alone on Wednesday. The discharge rate so far was 40.5% and the total active cases stood at 5,117. Till date, the total number of Covid-19 samples tested is 2,97, 419. Even as the state had started rapidly ramping up testing, the number of samples tested has stagnated in the past few days, hovering around 9,000-9,500. In fact, it had gone down to 7,802 on Tuesday. On Wednesday, it was 9,519. “When we had started targeting 10,000 tests a day, Amphan happened, putting brakes on the speed at which we were going ahead. Some laboratories were still struggling to deal with the backlog even a few days ago. We expect a few more laboratories to start testing soon. In that case, we will be able to touch 10,000 daily tests and go above,” said a source at Swasthya Bhawan. “A large number of medical technologists are going to be engaged on a temporary basis who will help in collecting samples and testing,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/17-deaths-in-a-day-10-from-kol-take-bengals-covid-toll-to-432/articleshow/76310225.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University professor dies, kin say denied bed by hospitals||NEW DELHI: Wali Akhtar, a professor of Arabic at Delhi University, died on Tuesday evening, hours after his Covid-19 tests were done, the results of which were awaited.  His family alleged that Akhtar, who was sick for a week and had difficulty in breathing, couldn't get a bed in four prominent hospitals in Delhi and Noida despite showing Covid symptoms. His colleagues admitted him to a private hospital in Jamia Nagar where he eventually died. Ali Akhtar, elder brother of the deceased, said, on June 6, he complained of breathlessness and chest pain. "We took him to a prominent hospital in Noida. My brother was in pain, but the hospital refused him admission claiming lack of beds," he added.  The hospital denied the allegation and said, "It is impossible that we wouldn't cater to any patient who came to us".  He was allegedly denied testing at some hospitals in south Delhi too.  Marghoob Zaidi, public relations officer of Alshifa hospital, confirmed that Akhtar was admitted under the suspicion of Covid-19 infection as he had bilateral pneumonia. His test was conducted on Tuesday, but he died in the next few hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-university-professor-dies-kin-say-denied-bed-by-hospitals/articleshow/76323464.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||‘Rain, thunderstorm likely till June 14’||PATNA: The weathermen have predicted rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning in most districts of Bihar till June 14. The intensity of thundershowers is expected to be comparatively higher on Saturday and Sunday. Southwest monsoon is also expected to hit Bihar around June 15. A Patna Meteorological Centre bulletin on Wednesday stated that rainfall with thunderstorm was likely at one or two places in all districts over the next two days, with comparatively higher spread in northeast and southeast Bihar. A yellow-coloured warning for thunderstorm with lightning has also been issued for all the 38 districts over the next four days. The ‘yellow’ alert stipulates that authorities concerned should be watchful for extreme weather conditions. Sanjay Kumar, meteorologist (A) at Patna Meteorological Centre, attributed the expected thundershowers to “atmospheric instability” ahead of monsoon. “The monsoon current is advancing very smoothly and is expected to reach up to Sikkim within two-three days. Accordingly, the wind direction has changed from dry westerly to moist easterly. Change in wind direction along with moisture incursion is leading to atmospheric instability, which is a peculiar phenomenon ahead of the onset of monsoon,” he said. Kumar said moisture incursion is taking place from merger of two cyclonic circulations over north Odisha and another system over east Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood. “The high level of moisture along with heating in lower level of atmosphere due to comparatively higher temperature over the last couple of days has created weather conditions conducive for thundershowers,” he said. The meteorologist said southwest monsoon is likely to enter Bihar latest by June 15 and cover the entire state in a day or two thereafter. The weather bulletin also stated that southwest monsoon further advanced to remaining parts of Tamil Nadu, some more parts of west central and north Bay of Bengal, entire Mizoram and Manipur; most parts of Tripura and some parts of Assam & Nagaland. It further stated that moderate to light rainfall occurred at one or two places over northeast, northwest and south- central parts of Bihar during the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-thunderstorm-likely-till-june-14/articleshow/76307829.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||Cong to start digital membership drive||PATNA: Following a directive of the party high command, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha convened a party meeting on Wednesday to discuss the membership drive issue. In the meeting held at Sadaqat Ashram, state Congress senior leaders discussed how to use the digital platform to add more people to the party in the upcoming election. Jha, who presided over the meeting said, “The membership drive had slowed down due to lockdown, but now they will try to speed it up through the digital medium. Many people are keen to become member, but due to Covid-19 pandemic this process was rather slow. The drive will be also conducted till at the panchayat-level.” “Everyone is aware of the problems being faced by migrant workers and farmers. There is a huge figure of unemployed and this number will further increase. Unemployment rate in Bihar is around 47%. We are at the bottom of development index and second last in health and human development index. Now, people of the state have understood that they have no other option than Congress,” Jha said. Four working BPCC presidents Ashok Kumar, Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj, Kaukab Qadri and Sameer Kumar Singh along with state committee incharge Brajesh Pandey were present in the meeting. BPCC manifesto committee and research department chairman Anand Madhab said, “Apart from raising migrant issues, Congress will also be working on solving the problems being faced by the migrants.” Later, in the evening, All India Congress Committee secretary Ajay Kapoor who is looking after 19 districts of Bihar held a videoconferencing with the MPs, MLAs and presidents of those districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-to-start-digital-membership-drive/articleshow/76308725.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 11, 2020||Patna||Gaya OTA passing out parade to be a low-key affair||GAYA: Unlike the previous 16 passing out parades (PoP) organised by the Gaya Officers’ Training Academy (OTA), there will be no multi-activity display at the 17th PoP scheduled to be held on June 13. On all previous occasions, a fascinating and adventurous multi-activity display showcasing physical fitness and military skills of the future Army officers used to be held a day ahead of the PoP. Briefing media persons in Gaya on Wednesday, Lt Gen Sunil Srivastava, Gaya OTA commandant said, “A curtailed PoP schedule for June 13 has been prepared. However, this curtailment does not mean that the event will, in any manner lack in commitment and enthusiasm.” The commandant regretted that the cadets will not be displaying their skill and valour through demonstration of horse rides and other martial arts, including conventional martial arts. “It was not possible to hold the celebration as per convention on account of Covid-19 pandemic,” the commandant said. Lt Gen Sunil Srivastav added that unlike the past POPs, the immediate family members of the inductee officers have not been invited to be present in the memorable event. “Only the 17 special commissioned officers from the lower ranks of the Army, who completed the year-long training in Basic Military Science will be participating in the event,” he said. He added, “Altogether 81 other trainees of the Gaya OTA, who, after completing the year-long basic military training obtained degrees in Military Engineering from the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, Secunderabad, Military College of Telecommunication Engineering Mhow and College of Military Engineering, Pune, will be inducted at their respective institutes. Five cadets from Bhutan have also been trained by Gaya OTA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-ota-passing-out-parade-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/76308783.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Shorter queues as other modes share bus load||Kolkata: The queues at bus termini were shorter on Wednesday with more commuters choosing alternative modes of transport, like cycles, bike taxis carpools and shared cabs. The number of buses on the road was also higher than before — over 2,500 private buses plied on Wednesday — facilitating faster dispersal. However, bus queues existed and passengers did jostle to board them. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked for staggered office timings to ensure travel demand is evenly spread out throughout the day. TOI had highlighted how the problem was typical in the morning and evening peak hours. “People now understand crowding buses is dangerous. It is impossible for everybody to shift to other modes of transport, but we have deployed more buses on some routes based on demand,” said a WBTC official. Private operators said passenger distribution was uneven. “On Bypass, there are enough passengers in the peak hours to recover operating cost. But some routes were running near-empty buses during peak hours and even recovery of fuel cost was a challenge,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shorter-queues-as-other-modes-share-bus-load/articleshow/76310286.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 11, 2020||Business||WayCool foods ties up $5.5mn debt funding||Chennai: Agritech firm WayCool Foods on Wednesday said that it has raised $5.5mn through debt financing from IndusInd Bank, following the series C round of $32mn led by Lightbox earlier this year. The US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has extended a 100% guarantee. A statement from Waycool Foods said that the loan is to be deployed through IndusInd Bank’s impact investing division. WayCool plans to use the funds to improve their hygiene, increase transportation efficiency to reduce food spoilage and strengthen food distribution across South India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/waycool-foods-ties-up-5-5mn-debt-funding/articleshow/76310315.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar govt changes sample collection, discharge rules||PATNA: State health department on Wednesday made major changes in sample collection process of Covid-19 suspects as well as discharge policy for corona positive people. Principal secretary (health) Udai Singh Kumawat late on Wednesday evening, Now symptomatic people will not be brought to quarantine centres for taking their samples. A team will rather collect the samples, according to a letter written by principal secretary (health) Udai Singh Kumawat to all DMs and civil surgeons (CS) on Wednesday. All symptomatic people will now be home quarantined. In case of a positive report, they will be transferred to isolation centres as per the rule. Also, mild cases of Covid-19 will now be discharged from isolation centres in government hospitals without any test after 10 days of showing the symptoms. However, it has to be seen that people who are to be discharged did not have fever in the last three days. Till now, all the positive cases were discharged only after testing negative for Covid-19. “In case of any symptom after being discharged, they will inform health officials,” the letter reads. In case of severe cases, which include HIV patients, transplant recipients and malignancy, patients will be discharged after clinical recovery and with one negative RT-PCR test. ICMR had relaxed discharging criteria for Covid-19 on May 9 and Centre had sent a relaxed discharging parameters to all states. However, Bihar government had, on May 14, tweaked this norm and decided to undertake at least one RT-PCR test before discharging any Covid-19 positive person. Earlier, all positive people had to undergo two RT-PCR tests and were discharged if two reports came negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-changes-sample-collection-discharge-rules/articleshow/76309215.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 11, 2020||Patna||BJP’s physical mass contact drive from today||PATNA: Three days after the non-physical ‘virtual rally’ addressed by Union home minister Amit Shah via Facebook and YouTube, the party’s Bihar unit has now decided to launch a three-day physical mass-contact programme from Thursday, BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said. The campaign will involve the party’s rank and file as well as its former and present MPs and legislators. It would culminate in the party’s booth-level Saptarishi members reaching out to deliver a three-item mass publicity packet, including a message from PM Narendra Modi, to around 1 crore families in the state on Saturday itself. The packet will contain a booklet on the achievements of Modi in the first year of his second term, and also a four-page folder pointing to the achievements that BJP has described as “historic”. The packet will also contain a two-page printed letter from the PM addressed to ‘snehijan (lovable people)’ of the country. At a function held at the party’s state headquarters, Dr Jaiswal, along with vice-president in-charge of the three-day campaign Rajendra Gupta and party’s other senior functionaries, including Prem Ranjan Patel, Pinki Kushwaha, Pramod Chandravanshi, Suresh Rungta and Brajesh Raman, released the packet, marking the start of their mass distribution. “On Saturday, each Saptarishi member at the booth level will carry the packet to 25 families. While visiting the household, there will not be more than two persons, since they have to maintain social distancing,” Dr Jaiswal said, adding that five Saptarishi members of any booth will deliver the packets to 125 families. There are over 72,000 Saptarishi units in the state, each with seven members. Jaiswal said the functionaries would begin the mass publicity drive at the district headquarters, followed by the Mandal level on Friday, culminating in a mass distribution on Saturday with a target to access 1 crore families in the state. “The three items together are purported to give an account of the PM’s achievements in the first year of his second term. Due to coronavirus pandemic, he could not do it by addressing a public rally. Therefore, the mass contact programme has been planned,” Dr Jaiswal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-physical-mass-contact-drive-from-today/articleshow/76308752.cms||Abhay Singh
June 11, 2020||Surat||Engineer accepts monkhood in first Diksha after lockdown||SURAT: While the global pandemic has forced everybody to rethink their lives and its meaning, this Surti engineer was determined to renounce the materialistic path altogether. Following in the footsteps of his younger brother, Pujit, who accepted monkhood and became Saumya Chandra Maharaj around seven years ago, 28-year-old civil engineer Dhiren Shah, a resident of Gopipura, had been practicing to be a monk for the past one year. His dream came true on Wednesday at a small event held in Pal area of city and became the first person to adopt monkhood after the lockdown. In the presence of 35 family members Dhiren became Munishree Samitchandra Vijayji under the guidance of Shree Vijay Shramanchandra Suriswarji Maharaj. Son of a scrap businessman, Vastupal, who runs a metal scrap shop, Dhiren had always lived a simple life since his childhood. He had completed his engineering studies from Vallabh Vidhya Nagar. After finishing studies he had joined a city-based building construction group and also worked for a few years. “All of us are religious, but Dhiren was highly influenced by our younger brother who accepted monkhood at the age of 18 years. He was disturbed due to violence he observed around him and had been spending a lot of time with his guru preparing himself,” said Dharmin, elder brother of Dhiren. Earlier the Diksha event was scheduled in Mumbai on April 26 but due to lockdown it could not be held. Soon after the restrictions were eased, Dhiren took Diksha at an event held at the Ram Pavan Bhumi in Pal in presence of a few family members. In his dikshant address, the new monk said, “I realised that the truth is control and simplicity and not materialistic gains. Hence, I decided to walk on this path.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/engineer-accepts-monkhood-in-first-diksha-after-lockdown/articleshow/76309437.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Two test positive for Covid-19 in Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: The number of Covid-19 cases in Anand touched 116 as two new cases were reported from Anand town and Chikodra, located on the outskirts of the town. A 31-year-old man from Kapasia Bazaar area of Anand town and a six-year-old boy from Dr B R Ambedkar Society on Sarsa Road in Chikodra have tested positive. The district has so far registered 116 positive cases of which 14 have died while 93 patients have been discharged after recovery. Currently, there are nine active cases in the district. Of these, one is admitted at civil hospital, Anand, two at cardiac care centre, Khambhat, five at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad while one patient is being treated at the isolation ward of the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-anand/articleshow/76307564.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Surat||Raped multiple times, minor gets pregnant||SURAT: Another minor rape incident was reported in the city for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Puna police, who booked a 25-year-old labourer in Puna police station on Wednesday, for allegedly raping the 15-year-old minor girl multiple times said that the accused, Kuldeep Yadav, had already escaped to his native in Ayodhya of Uttar Pradesh before lockdown started. According to police, the repetitive rapes on the minor came to light when she became pregnant and had been complaining of abdominal pain. When her family took her to the hospital for medical test, the gruesome details were exposed. The 15-year-old survivor had earlier been raped by some unidentified man in July 2019, and a complaint was registered even then in the Puna police station. Accused in that offence it yet to get identified and arrested by the police. Based on a complaint lodged by the survivor’s mother, Yadav has been booked for rape and sexual assault to minor under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Preliminary probe reveals that the minor was sexually assaulted on multiple occasions by Yadav who lived in her neighbourhood when her labourer parents were out on work. The minor is 20 weeks pregnant and the police have approached the court seeking permission to abort the foetus. A hearing has been scheduled on Thursday. “After they come from the hospital, we will get more details from the family members on why they did not report the crime earlier,” said an official at Puna police station. Earlier on Monday, a 40-year-old man was booked for raping his nine-year-old minor step-daughter in Dumas police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/raped-multiple-times-minor-gets-pregnant/articleshow/76309414.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||Huge gap in penalty collection at toll plaza & checkposts on NH-2||SASARAM: There is a huge gap in the penalty amount realized from the overloaded vehicles on the toll plaza of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at Kumahau Gate on NH-2 in Rohtas and the two checkposts manned by the district administration on the same highway — at Dehri and Kumahau Gate. NHAI toll plaza manager Nishant Raj told this newspaper on Tuesday that 26,000 overloaded heavy vehicles were fined in the month of May at Kumahau Gate despite the nationwide lockdown. “Total Rs6 crore was realized as fine and excess loading charge from them in May,” he said. The overloaded heavy vehicles included sand-laden trucks, he added. On the contrary, mines and geological department’s assistant district officer Vikas Kumar said only 29 vehicles overloaded with sand were intercepted and Rs30 lakh was realized as fine at the two checkposts manned by the district administration at Dehri and Kumahau Gate on the same NH-2. The two checkposts are manned by armed police force led by a magistrate in three shifts. The NHAI toll plaza is only a few metres away from the Kumahau Gate checkpost. Rohtas district transport officer (DTO) G Haque confirmed that only 29 vehicles were fined for overloading at the two checkposts in May. Nishant said 850 to 900 overloaded vehicles, mostly sand-laden trucks, cross the toll plaza everyday. NHAI project director at Sasaram, Yogesh N Garhwal, told this newspaper that the details of overloaded vehicles passing through the toll plaza at Kumahau Gate are sent to NHAI headquarters almost everyday. Despite repeated calls and text messages, Rohtas DM could not be contacted for his comment on the issue. When contacted, Bihar mines and geology department minister Brij Kishor Bind said a meeting would be convened to discuss the reasons for comparatively lower penalty collection from overloaded vehicles at the two state checkposts. “I am not aware of such figures. But I will soon convene a high-level meeting in this regard to assess and identify the anomalies, if any. Action will be taken against the guilty, whosoever s/he might be,” the minister told this reporter over the phone on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/huge-gap-in-penalty-collection-at-toll-plaza-checkposts-on-nh-2/articleshow/76308660.cms||Alok Chamaria
June 11, 2020||Patna||M3 EVMs for upcoming assembly polls to reach state within 15 days||PATNA: Upgraded Model3 (M3) Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), which will be used in the upcoming state assembly elections for the first time, are expected to reach all the districts within a fortnight. A proposal has also been mooted to increase the number of polling booths to ensure strict adherence of social distancing norms while casting votes. M3 is the third generation EVM with improved features. The machine becomes inoperative the moment it is tampered with. Moreover, these EVMs can store data of 383 candidates, while M2 had the capacity of storing the data of 64 candidates only. District electoral officers-cum-district magistrates have started coordinating with their counterparts in other states to procure VVPAT and EVMs comprising control units (CUs) and ballot units (BUs). In a meeting held on Monday with chief electoral officer (CEO) HR Srinivasa, all the DMs were provided a list of states along with the districts from where they have to get these machines. Srinivasa told TOI on Wednesday that EVMs have to be brought from Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. According to one of the DMs posted in south Bihar, “The process of software scanning for loading M3-EVMs for transportation has begun. My deputy election officer is in touch with his counterparts in other states. Once the scanning process is complete, we will send containers with security forces to bring the EVMs. The machines will be checked again after reaching here. It is a long process and is done around four months before the election.” Another DM posted in north Bihar said the EVMs are expected to reach his district by next Wednesday as the scanning process is complete. Another DM, who has to get the VVPAT machine from Andhra Pradesh and BUs and CUs from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, said it will take two weeks’ time for all machines to reach his district. In the next videoconferencing with the CEO, the DMs have to appraise him about the status of EVMs procurement. They also said more EVMs will be procured this time as the number of polling booths is expected to increase for safety reasons. Srinivasa also said safety of voters and officials with regard to Covid-19 pandemic would not be compromised during the election process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/m3-evms-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-to-reach-state-within-15-days/articleshow/76308703.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Detours and signal tweaks allow more cyclists to use city roads||Kolkata: Hours after Kolkata Police announced several relaxations for cyclists, the city witnessed a greater number opting for the eco-friendly mode of transport. At least 10 of the 25 traffic guards said the increase was most visible in central Kolkata and northern suburbs with Howrah bridge and BT Road getting the maximum cycles during peak hours. A good number also opted for cycles in the Garia-Naktala and Maheshtala-Taratala belts. “Most of these people are regular local train passengers while others are Metro users. Several of them cycled to the point where they could get public transport. This phenomenon was more visible in stretches where autos are still infrequent,” said an officer. Officers categorized the cyclists into two — daily commuters from the suburbs on ordinary cycles and those within the city buying state-of-the-art, multiple-gear and battery-operated cycles to ride to work. “Regular auto riders using high-end cycles said they feel social distancing norms would be breached if they travel in autos now,” said a sergeant. Faced with the challenge of hundreds of cycles using Howrah bridge or BT Road on Wednesday, cops diverted them to lanes. Some were allowed to cross crucial bridges. “But we did not allow them on flyovers and ensured they followed rules,” said a traffic guard OC. “Cyclists going to Sector V offices from Metropolitan, Phoolbagan and Beliaghata were asked to take Canal South Road. At Chingrighata-Sukantanagar, we tweaked signal timings to ensure they could cross over. This way, we kept Bypass, Beliaghata Main Road and Narkeldanga Main Road mostly free of cycles,” an officer said. Those coming off Howrah bridge were asked to take either Brabourne Road or go towards Posta and use the less congested roads to enter the central business district. In the north, police stopped cyclists climbed from using the Lockgate flyover. But cycling was allowed on Broad Street, Karaya Road and Gariahat Road. However, cops said they will not allow cycles on 22 thoroughfares, including Park Street, Theatre Road, Camac Street, Red Road, Lalbazar Street, Council House Street, Rawdon Street and all flyovers. “We are easing challaning in all other zones,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/detours-and-signal-tweaks-allow-more-cyclists-to-use-city-roads/articleshow/76310278.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Hosps add beds to nCoV, other units||Kolkata: AMRI Hospitals, which launched the first designated Covid unit in a private set-up, will add 15 beds to it by next week and Peerless Hospital launched a 23-bed non-Covid unit on Wednesday to compensate for space taken up by its Covid unit. While AMRI now has 48 beds in its Covid unit, Peerless has 39 apart from a 40-bed isolation unit for suspected patients. “We have restructured the annexe building to make way for the extra beds. Our dialysis unit is being shifted to the main building at Salt Lake, which will free up space. We will have 15 more Covid beds there by next week,” said CEO Rupak Barua. He added the addition of beds had become imperative due to the sharp spurt in patients over the past fortnight. “Requests for beds have been pouring in and we are advising home quarantine to those with mild symptoms. But there is a long queue of elderly patients with co-morbidities who need admission. They are in the high-risk group and the more beds we have, the sooner we can admit them,” Barua said. “The idea of opening a new ward with executive facilities is aimed at making non-Covid and surgery patients feel confident. To facilitate Covid treatment, we have dedicated 10% of our beds and an almost equal number is marked for those who are seeking admission or waiting for Covid reports. While the patient count is increasing, we are facing acute shortage of clean and single cabins with high-end facilities where patients’ relatives can visit without any fear of transmission,” said Peerless CEO Sudipta Mitra. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, the number of beds reserved for Covid patients and suspects has been raised to 120. “We have 90 positive patients and suspects now,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Fortis Hospital has 40 Covid beds, which may be increased. “With the number of cases rising, every Covid unit will have to be expanded for the sake of the non-Covid sections of the hospital,” said pulmonologist Raja Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-add-beds-to-ncov-other-units/articleshow/76310246.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||Affordable housing fin cos may see increase in NPAs||Mumbai: Housing finance companies (HFCs) that lend to the affordable segment could see their gross non-performing assets (NPAs, or bad loans) rising. The likely increase is projected from 4.1% as on December 31, 2019, to 5.5-6.5% by end of FY2021 (next March 31), according to rating agency ICRA. The rating agency said that the impact of the pandemic on the livelihood of the end borrowers could be severe, leading to asset quality related issues for these players. This is because borrowers are largely self-employed and middle- to low-income workers who were the worst hit by the lockdown. The inherent weakness in the sector is reflected in NPAs of 4.1% for affordable housing companies as against 2.2% for the home finance industry. “According to estimates, the asset quality indicators of these entities could deteriorate by 50-100% in FY2021, though the reported numbers would start showing up only from results of Q3 of FY2021,” the rating agency said in a report. It said that the total portfolio of the new HFCs in the affordable housing space stood at Rs 52,350 crore as on December 31, 2019, registering a year-on-year (Y-o-Y) growth of 18%. “While the loan book growth of these entities could be in the range of 16-20% in FY2020, the growth numbers for FY2021 could be much lower and would depend on how long this situation persists and the time it takes for the companies and end borrowers to recover from the impact,” said VP (financial sector ratings) Manushree Saggar. Since the RBI permitted moratorium on loan repayments to continue until August 31, the defaults will take place only after the second quarter. “According to estimates, 40-45% of the portfolio of affordable HFCs is currently under moratorium. At the same time, many of these HFCs have not requested a moratorium from their lenders. Thus, their ability to service the debt promptly would depend upon the extent of on-balance sheet liquidity available and their ability to draw down the sanctioned but unutilised bank lines,” ICRA said. The positive news for the affordable housing finance industry is that their capitalisation is expected to remain comfortable and the need to raise capital will not be there as business growth is likely to remain muted in the near term. Also, despite challenges in raising incremental capital, support from National Housing Bank (NHB) and the RBI could somewhat ease the pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/affordable-housing-fin-cos-may-see-increase-in-npas/articleshow/76310376.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 11, 2020||Business||Union Bank to stick with merger timeline||Mumbai: Union Bank of India, which has recently completed a merger of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank with itself, has said that none of the timelines for the integration is being pushed back despite the Covid-19 lockdown. The bank has said a shift to virtual meetings has speeded up decision-making as it was possible to increase the frequency. Speaking to TOI, Union Bank MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai said that products, processes and policies of the three banks have been harmonised into one and lending rates realigned. Although IT integration is under way, and expected to be completed by the end of the year, customers can already avail basic banking services from any of the 9,500 branches of the merged entity. “The bank is larger now and thus, we have decided on a new organisation structure that can help the bank manage the even larger size and complexity of the business. We are gradually rolling out a new organisation structure. Senior executives have already assumed their new positions through virtual mode,” said Rai. He added that movement of people at the field level would take place once the lockdown is lifted and travel restrictions eased. According to Rai, with the advantage of size, the bank has the opportunity to scale up and create new lines of businesses. “The new organisation structure has been designed with this focus. The next step will be the structure creations. We have created hubs like MSME-processing centre, retail-processing centre and agri-processing centres. Creating a similar new office can happen only after physical movement is allowed,” he said. The merger of Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank is part of last year’s mega announcement where 10 banks had become four. The other three acquiring banks — Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank and Indian Bank — are based in Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai respectively. Union Bank is the only one based in Mumbai and has post-merger become the fourth largest in terms of branches and the fifth largest in terms of business, The merger period coincided with the commencement of the Covid-19 lockdown. However, the government decided to go ahead as the earlier integration of Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank with Bank of Baroda had enabled them to prepare for all merger-related issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bank-to-stick-with-merger-timeline/articleshow/76310430.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 11, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Despite using gloves, street food vendors fail to attract customers||PATNA: From tea sellers to ‘pani puri’ wallahs, street food vendors in the city have embraced the new normal after the Covid-19 lockdown and started using masks, gloves and sanitizers. Some have even switched to digital modes of payment and are using thermocol or paper plates, instead of steel ones. Rajesh, a tea seller in Nala Road area, told this newspaper that he had replaced glass cups with ‘kulhads’ (traditional earthen cups). “I have also installed a digital wallet on my phone to encourage cashless payments. I am taking these precautions to attract customers,” he said. ‘Nankhatai’ (shortbread biscuit) seller, Kumar Shubham, has stopped street hawking amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Instead of roaming around, I have started selling my biscuits at a fixed place. I know that the virus is quite dangerous, but people like me cannot stay at home for long. I need to do something to earn money,” he rued. Meanwhile, majority of the street food vendors are struggling to make ends meet after the lockdown. One of them, Narayana, who has been selling ‘chaat’ and ‘pani puri’ in Kadamkuan area for the last 35 years, said, “Earlier, I used to sell around 30 plates of ‘chaat’, which was enough to meet my basic needs. The last three months, however, have been nothing less than a disaster. Now, I hardly get customers.” Few vendors also claimed that the closure of educational institutes had affected their business. Upendra, a tea seller on Boring Road, said several students used to visit his shop every day. “My life has come to a standstill. I spent a lot of money on sanitizers, masks, gloves and disposable cups, but have not been able to attract customers,” he added. Some youngsters, who had been craving street food for nearly two months, were spotted at the stalls on Wednesday. One Simran Singh, a resident of Boring Road, said, “I am taking these ‘pani puris’ home because I do not want to take any risk by eating here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/despite-using-gloves-street-food-vendors-fail-to-attract-customers/articleshow/76307770.cms||Archi Rani
June 11, 2020||Patna||Man wills Rs 5 crore farm to pet jumbos||PATNA: Moti and Rani live a jumbo-sized life roaming around on a six acre farm in Phulwarisharif, just outside Patna. And now the elephant pair own the place, courtesy their master, Akhtar Imam, who has Willed this property worth Rs 5 crore to his two giant pets. It’s not a whimsical decision, insists Imam. “Moti had saved my life, he and Rani are my true my family. I love to take care of them. Due to constant threat to my life, I transferred the property to them so that they can live a good life even after I’m gone,” says the 50-year-old elephant rescuer, who claims to face threats from poachers and tusker smugglers. He runs an organisation for rescued elephants aptly named ‘Aerawat’, after the mythical ride of Lord Indra, the king of gods in the Hindu pantheon. “After my death, my NGO ‘Asian Elephant Rehabilitation and Wildlife Animal Trust (AERAWAT)’ would take care of these elephants and if anything happened to them then the property share and the NGO would be taken over by the state government. No one else can stake claim on this property, not even my family members,” Imam says. A native of Janipur village in Phulwarisharif, he has been taking care of elephants since he was just 12. “I have spent my entire life taking care of elephants and have spent a good fortune on this NGO established 15 years ago to help elephants across the country,” says Imam, who moves from state to state helping elephants and rescuing them. He also trains people on how to take care of the big animal. Recalling the story of how Moti saved his life from criminals, Akhtar says, “A few years ago, I had gone to Ara for some work with Moti. Around midnight, while I was fast asleep I heard my elephant trumpet. I peeped out of the window to see Moti had broken himself free from the iron chain and was chasing away some men carrying pistols.” Imam has also given a share in his ancestral property to his five sisters, who are married. “I have also given some share to my ex-wife and three children, who are quite enraged with my decision of giving the property to Moti and Rani,” he says, adding, “I disowned my elder son Miraj because he is a criminal and currently lodged in prison. He tried to embroil me in false cases.” But Imam turns soft again talking about his elephants. “Moti was born here. He is the offspring of an elephant my father raised. Rani I brought to Patna from Uttarakhand after she was rescued by forest officers from the clutches of elephant smugglers. Since then she’s is a part of this family,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-wills-rs-5cr-farm-to-pet-jumbos/articleshow/76307841.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 11, 2020||Business||Singapore and China only positives for engineering exporters||Chennai: Out of the 25 markets for India’s engineering exports, only Singapore and China could manage a positive year-on-year growth in April, 2020 while the rest conceded massive contraction up to 91% in some cases,due to a hugely disruptive impact of Covid-19.In a reflection of the scale of trade disruption, a city-nation of Singapore replaced the US as the number one destination for Indian engineering exports. The second position, just one more positive market, was China, an analysis Engineering Exports Promotion Council noted. “The US has been our number one market , while the UAE, European Union countries and some of our neighbouring SAARC nations were major destinations for us. But then, numbers have been turned on their head , under the Covid-19 impact. Even as the world economies are trying hard to re-open , it would be long before exports can reach a level of reassurance,” EEPC India Chairman Ravi Sehgal said in a statement. Raw material shortages-essentially steel, non-availability of workforce, unviable fixed costs and disruptions in the logistics were among the domestic problems, while restrictions on movement of people and goods, rising trade barriers and geo-political issues remain challenging areas , he said. Annualised growth in engineering exports to Singapore was over 95% during April 2020 to $553 million from $283 million in April 2019, while exports to the US nosedived 75% to $222 million. Exports to China registered a growth of more than 19% to $ 173 million in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/singapore-and-china-only-positives-for-engineering-exporters/articleshow/76310302.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||Shriram Transport Finance Q4 profit dips by 70%||Chennai: Vehicle financier Shriram Transport Finance Company said its net profit for the March quarter was lower by 70% at Rs 223 crore, due to higher provisioning of Rs 910 crore to address future stress to business from the Covid-19 pandemic. The financier earned a profit of Rs 746 crore in the same period of the previous year. In a regulatory filing to exchanges said, “It made public issue of secured redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs), of the face value of Rs 1,000 each, of Base issue of Rs 200 crore with an option to retain oversubscription aggregating upto Rs 1,000 crore.” “The second Tranche Issue opened on January 6, 2020 and closed on January 22, 2020,” it said. Net interest income for the fourth quarter was flat at Rs 1,918 crore. “In order to conserve cash resources to face the challenges and contingencies created by Coronavirus pandemic, the board of directors have not recommended final dividend. As such, the interim dividend shall be the final dividend for the financial year 2019-20,” the company said in a statement. Shares of Shriram Transport Finance Company closed higher by 2.6% at Rs 635.45 per share on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shriram-transport-finance-q4-profit-dips-by-70/articleshow/76310291.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||Devotees unlikely to go on haj this year||PATNA: Muslim devotees from Bihar are unlikely to go on the annual haj pilgrimage this year owing to Covid-19 pandemic, chief executive officer of Bihar State Haj Committee, Mohd Rashid Hussain said on Wednesday. Muslims from around the world usually flock to Mecca and Medina for the weeklong rituals in late July every year. However, this time, no arrangement has been made at Haj Bhawan in Patna for the registration of pilgrims. “We are waiting for information from the Centre about the confirmation of haj. A meeting between Haj Committee of India, ministry of minority affairs and authorities of Saudi Arabia is to be held on this issue in coming days,” Mohd Rashid said. “We are expecting that it would be cancelled as the international flights are not operating, except under Vande Bharat Mission for Indians stranded outside the country,” he added. Altogether 5,000 Muslims across the state have registered for haj this year. Of which, 40% have registered to take flight from Kolkata while remaining from Gaya. Rashid said the first flight for haj is expected from Gaya airport on June 25. However, they haven’t got any schedule so far. “There is no preparation at Haj Bhawan, like deputation of medical team for vaccination of pilgrims, arrangements of rooms, toilets, food, water and transportation among other basic amenities,” he said. “We haven’t even signed any agreement with any travel agency and body to provide volunteers, as per the direction of Centre. As the preparations take time, we don’t expect it will be complete in the next 15 days,” he said. As there is little chance of haj taking place this year, some people have cancelled the registration to get the full refund. Mohd Arif (49), who registered for haj with his wife, cancelled the tickets in May itself. “I don’t think it is safe to go for haj this year. Besides, we expect it to be cancelled,” he said. Mir Alam, another devotee, said he would also cancel his haj plans as the number of Covid-19 cases was increasing in Saudi Arabia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-unlikely-to-go-on-haj-this-year/articleshow/76307791.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||IMS BHU student goes missing from hostel room, case lodged||A MBBS student of Institute of Medical Science Banaras Hindu University Navneet Parashar went missing from his hostel room mysteriously since June 9 morning. Inspector Lanka Bharat Bhushan said that a case of missing was lodged in this connection after getting complaint from Parashar’s family and hostel inmates. Police said that Parashar, a native of Gopalganj in Bihar and a 2015 batch student doing internship, had collected all photographs of deities from the walls of his room and left his mobile phone there before leaving the room on his motorcycle. Police said that the students had earlier also gone missing for over a week last year, but later returned himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ims-bhu-student-goes-missing-from-hostel-room-case-lodged/articleshow/76307958.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Accused who attacked cop, found dead||Thanjavur: A 48-year-old robbery case accused, who attacked a constable when a police team surrounded him, was found hanging from a tree a few hours later. Police identified the deceased as Mani, 48, of Manojipatti area in Thanjavur. Based on the information that a three-member gang, including the victim, robbed cash to the tune of Rs 1.25 lakh and 11 sovereigns of jewellery from the house of a doctor couple on Monday in Thanjavur, Vallam police registered a case. Subsequently, a special team was formed under inspector Karunakaran. The team launched a search and surrounded Mani near Thanjavur on Wednesday. But he escaped from the clutches of police after attacking police constable Gowthaman, 32, using a sharp weapon injuring his leg. However, the team managed to catch another accused Selvam, 48, of Kallakuruchi district. The injured constable was rushed to the government medical college hospital and then to a private hospital. As police continued searching Mani, he was found hanging from a tree near a canal at Reddypalayam village a few hours later. On information, Kallaperambur police arrived at the spot and sent the body for postmortem. Preliminary inquiries revealed that fearing police action, the victim might have taken the extreme step, police said. Further inquiries are on, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/accused-who-attacked-cop-found-dead/articleshow/76311405.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||MOB to aid cops in crime control||Lucknow: UP Police has constituted a Modus Operandi Bureau (MOB) that will help in cracking cases of heinous crime though scientific probe by collating data of criminals, gangs operating across districts and theirparticular way of committing crime. ADG law and order Prashant Kumar said on Tuesday, “The Modus Operandi Bureau will collect and maintain record of inter-district criminals and gangs as well as sensational cases of loot, bank dacoity, dacoity, murder, fake Indian currency notes trade and smuggling.” “A dossier will be prepared on nature of crime and its pattern will be analysed. Suppose, if a bank dacoity takes place in Mathura and is followed by a similar incident in Aligarh, an analysis of pattern will help in probe of both cases. And if a pattern emerges, then other such cases can also be looked in same light. This will help in cracking cases and arresting accused. The record will also be helpful in future and guide investigating officers in nabbing criminals as per modus operandi adopted by them,” he said. The criminals against whom more than two cases are pending in court will be considered as habitual offenders, said ADG Kumar. The MOB will work under the superintendent of police, state crime record bureau, the ADG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mob-to-aid-cops-in-crime-control/articleshow/76311193.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||Bad bank idea finds little support from RBI, govt||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The proposal for a “bad bank” to take over non-performing loans from commercial banks has found little traction among the regulator, the government and other lenders. Most do not see any advantage in the proposal and feel that there will be issues related to transparency. State Bank of India (SBI) and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) have revived plans for a “bad bank” amid fears of a bad debt spike due to business disruptions related to Covid-19. The issue was on the agenda for a meeting between the government and regulators last month. A senior government official said that the move will only mean a transfer from the state-run lenders to a new entity, which can be done even now given the large number of asset reconstruction companies that are in the market. “Such transactions often lack transparency as the valuations raise questions,” the official said. Another official said that the transfer will be from public sector lenders to another public sector entity, and the government will end up providing capital to both the entities. Besides, in a private sector model, where the state-run players have less than majority control, it will turn into “nobody’s child” with a handful of executives calling the shots. Additionally, according to a senior banker, a bad bank did not have any special tools to speed up recovery of bad loans. “There are already 20 asset reconstruction companies, competing with each other to buy bad loans. Yet, no sales are taking place because of valuation issues. Would the bad bank pay more than what this market is offering?” he said. Also, bankers say that it is unclear where the capital is going to come from. RBI rules require that 15% of the value of the sale should be paid in cash. So, if banks sell loans worth Rs 1 lakh crore, the bad bank will have to pay Rs 15,000 crore. One of the big issues that lenders face in making judgment calls is the post facto scrutiny they face. “If the bad bank is in the public sector, the managers will face the same challenges that PSU banks have in deciding on an offer,” he said. The creation of a separate bad bank entity was first proposed by the Sakshat committee headed by former Punjab National Bank chairman Sunil Mehta two years ago. Following the IBA meeting last month, which took up the bad bank proposal, SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar, who is also IBA chairman, told TOI in an interview that the proposal had some advantages and centralising the decision-making could speed up the process and make it more professional. According to Central Bank of India MD & CEO Pallav Mohapatra, a bad bank is a workable proposition because it addresses two main issues in resolution of non-performing assets. “Today although there are platforms for lenders to come together. It is very difficult to get all to agree. Second, in 99% of the resolution proposals, time is of the essence. A deal that may be workable today may not be workable tomorrow,” he said. A banker said that since the lockdown, no transaction has taken place in bad loans. One of the reasons is that the physical inspection of the asset has been a challenge. In an interview to TOI, Kotak Mahindra Bank MD & CEO Uday Kotak had also expressed scepticism about a bad bank. According to Kotak, a big challenge is fair transfer pricing. “I am not saying NO, but it has to have well-defined governance and process mechanisms. The end game is the recovery of money We have to judge it not by accounting solutions but actual recovery of the nation’s assets. So far, outcomes have not been great,” said Kotak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bad-bank-idea-finds-little-support-from-rbi-govt/articleshow/76310731.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 11, 2020||Patna||Economic activities pick up pace: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister (CM) Sushil Kumar Modi said on Wednesday that economic activities in the state were slowly picking up the pace as the volume of trade and tax collection had been showing a sustained increase since April. The two-month lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus did have a devastating effect on economic activities, but the situation improved in June, especially after the beginning of Unlock 1.0, SuMo added. Giving an example, he said, “Goods and items worth only Rs 135.8 crore had arrived for sale daily from outside the state in April, but the value and volume of the arrivals stood at Rs 310.63 crore per day in May. Till June 9, goods and merchandise worth Rs 427.69 crore had arrived for sale in the state.” In terms of the nature of merchandise, Modi said edible items, medicines, medical equipment and fertilizer worth Rs 4,074 crore were brought to the state in April. Comparatively, the value of the arrivals increased to Rs 9,630 crore in May, which included items like iron and steel, electrical goods, cement, clothes, fabrics and vehicles worth Rs 6,568 crore. Trade in such goods was also reflective of the improvement in the construction sector, Modi said. Besides, the state’s tax collection also went up. The total collection through commercial taxes, transport, registration, mining and land revenue was only Rs 467.61 crore in April, but it increased to Rs 1,317.72 crore in May. “The drastic improvement could be gauged from the fact that the tax collection had dipped by 81.61% in April, 2020 compared to the collections made in April last year. However, the situation was better in May as the collection stood at 42.14%,” Modi said. Improvement in tax collection has also been registered in various departments. If the collection from the registration department was merely Rs 4 crore in April, it increased to Rs 60.78 crore in May. The corresponding figures pertaining to the transport department are Rs 31 crore and Rs 60 crore. In the commercial taxes department, the earnings of Rs 256.21 crore made in April increased to Rs 693.9 crore in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/economic-activities-pick-up-pace-sumo/articleshow/76307757.cms||Abhay Singh
June 11, 2020||Business||Mahindra bets on social networking company Hapramp||BENGALURU: Anand Mahindra, chairman of the $21-billion Mahindra group, has invested $1 million in early stage social networking startup Hapramp. Mahindra, who had announced his intent to back such a platform two years ago, said on Twitter that the startup brings “a combination of creativity, technology & data protection”. Started in 2018 by five computer science graduates, Hapramp has rolled out its first product called GoSocial. This is a social network for ‘creators’ like photographers, artists and writers. One can subscribe to these artists on the platform. “We bring them on our platform to create projects and then our users can come and subscribe to the creators and they can monetise it,” said Hapramp CEO Shubhendra Vikram. The startup will then get a commission out of the income of the creators. On top of subscriptions, it is also looking to work with brands where creators can work on projects. Through these, certain brands can be promoted. In the past two months, Vikram said 50,000 sign-ups have been seen and he is hoping it will double in the next two months. The company will use the new capital for marketing, business development, and hiring people for its technology team. Currently, it has a dozen people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mahindra-bets-on-social-networking-co-hapramp/articleshow/76310782.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Surat||Unlocked industrial areas are Surat’s new hotspots||SURAT: To add to Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) concerns, industrial units especially powerlooms, diamond polishing units in Katargam are proving to be the new nurseries for Covid-19 post unlocking. While the civic body is yet to give specific details about the number of cases emerging from each industry, it said a vast majority of the cases have been noted from the new territories. About 55 fresh cases were reported in Surat city on Wednesday taking the total number of cases to 2293 in the city. Of these, Katargam reported 15 cases followed by Limbayat with 17 and seven cases reported in the Central zone in the city. Incidentally, powerloom and diamond polishing units thrive in Katargam. “With reopening of industrial activities in the city, Covid-19 cases have surfaced from different areas. In many cases, infected patients are meeting a large number of people before they have tested positive. Covid-19 cases have started coming from industrial units in Katargam. We have observed that employees do not wear masks at work thereby spreading the virus,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, Municipal Commissioner, Surat. According to SMC officials, positive cases have been reported from the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and also for the first time after it reopened in Anjna Industrial estate. “Industrial units should ensure that workers maintain social distancing and wear masks. If cases continue to rise, SMC will shut particular industrial units as well,” Pani warned.nMeanwhile, two aged patients succumbed to the virus and both were suffering from co-morbid conditions. With this, a total 89 people have died from the virus in the city. About 48 patients were also discharged in the city on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,467 so far. Meanwhile, six more Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat district taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the Surat district to 187.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/unlocked-industrial-areasare-surats-new-hotspots/articleshow/76309329.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||US tech, retail majors dominate UPI platform||BENGALURU: The Unified Payments Interface (UPI), which came into its own after demonetisation, is now seeing complete dominance by US-based tech and retail giants. Together, Google Pay, Walmart-owned PhonePe, and Amazon Pay now control 85% market share on UPI, according to latest transaction volumes ending in May — even when Facebook-owned WhatsApp is yet to launch full-scale. According to three industry sources, Amazon Pay has seen a growth of 200% in its monthly transaction volume (60 million) in May compared to March, ending with a market share of around 5% for the first time (see graphic). Google Pay saw about 541 million transactions in May, while PhonePe did around 445 million transactions. These are estimates, but precise numbers for each platform would be in a similar range. The numbers where confirmed by one of the top three players by market share on UPI, which is the fastest-growing digital payments network in India. After a dip in April, UPI recorded a total of 1.23 billion transactions, matching the March numbers. While US firms are now cornering the lion’s share on the UPI network, homegrown Paytm’s slice of the pie has seen a steady decline as it saw 127 million and 125 million transactions in April and May respectively. Paytm said market share in UPI is no longer a relevant metric for the Noida-based firm. “UPI accounts for less than 30% of transactions happening on the Paytm platform. The majority of Paytm transactions are done by sources other than UPI,” a Paytm Payments Bank spokesperson said. “Google’s dominance continues on UPI, but Amazon Pay now looks like a sizable player based on transactions since lockdown. They have also incentivised users for signing up on its UPI channel and then transacting among consumers or merchants,” a person aware of the matter said. Amazon Pay, which has shown the highest growth in the last two months, is not the only one to have increased discounts. Google Pay, which remains in pole position, has also stepped up on the rate of incentivising its users for digital payments over the last two months, especially for bill payments. Industry sources said Walmart’s PhonePe has 40-50% of its total transactions accounted for merchant payments. “PhonePe has been focused on building the acceptance ecosystem and we continue to be leaders in driving merchant transactions to UPI. With cities gradually opening up, we have our teams on the ground in 400+ towns, helping small merchants get back on track with digital acceptance,” said PhonePe VP (payments and financial services) Hemant Gala . Emails sent to Google Pay, Amazon Pay and National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) — which manages UPI — did not elicit any response on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-tech-retail-majors-dominate-upi-platform/articleshow/76310766.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 11, 2020||Goa||Rights panel sets July 9 deadline to submit St Inez creek details||Panaji: Goa human rights commission has called for reports from the directorate of agriculture and the Corporation of the City of Panaji over choking of St Inez creek and sewage from new building projects and hardship caused to Taleigao farmers as a result. The authorities have been directed to submit detailed reports by July 9. The commission took suo motu cognisance of Taleigao farmers complaining of submerging of their fields due to silting of the creek. They requested the government to have the creek desilted and added that rainwater discharge during the monsoons makes it impossible to grow paddy crop. Encroachment of the creek by building projects and lack of setback maintained by them has also contributed to the woes of the creek and made farming a challenge for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rights-panel-sets-july-9-deadline-to-submit-st-inez-creek-details/articleshow/76311414.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||With no physical classes, middle school syllabi may be reduced by up to 50%||Kolkata: Schools are planning to provide relief to the students by reducing the load of syllabus between classes VI and VIII, following in the footsteps of the ministry of human resource development.Several institutes have decided to reduce the curriculum in middle schools from 10% to 50% depending on the reopening dates for in-classroom academic activities.St James’ School principal TH Ireland said they were likely to reduce the syllabus by up to 50%. “I shall take a call after speaking with the subject coordinators. However, in middle school, we are looking at decreasing the subject load by almost 50%. Online classes are not a replacement for classroom studies. It is also difficult to hold evaluations over the internet,” he said.He pointed out that topics that do not have relevance in ICSE Class X examinations will be removed from the syllabus. “We shall include matter, which is of significance in the senior classes,” he said. Another CISCE-affiliated school principal felt he would have to omit only 10% of the syllabus if the classes resume in July. “If we resume classes in August as suggested by HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, we may have to let go of 15% of the curriculum in the middle school,” he said. Even CBSE-affiliated schools have already started to reduce the syllabus. At Birla Bharati School, principal Apala Dutta is considering to remove 30% curriculum at least from the 2020-2021 session. “We have decided to curb the mid-assessment syllabus,” said Datta.The schools are making omissions based on three aspects. “First, all topics which have relevance in senior classes shall remain in the curriculum. Second, any topic that builds a students’ foundation will remain in the academic year. Third, chapters repeated from earlier classes will be removed,” informed an English academic advisor associated with a CBSE school.Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School, said she would wait for communication and directives from CISCE. “The Council has already suggested a curriculam to the affiliated schools. I shall wait for them to inform us about any reduction in the middle school syllabus,” she said. South Point School has planned for a combination of hybrid and in-classroom studies after academic activities resume. “There will be a reduction in the syllabus for middle school students. We are yet to fix the amount of load to be removed,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-no-physical-classes-middle-school-syllabi-may-be-reduced-by-up-to-50/articleshow/76310775.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 11, 2020||Hubballi||Transgenders roped in for preparing chikki for kids, pregnant women in Hospet||HUBBALLI: Extremely popular in Bombay Karntaka, the preparation of chikki provides employment to several people across the region, and the women and child welfare department has launched the project of integrating them in the mainstream further. In Hospet taluk in Ballari district, Amaresh Havin, the child development project officer, has helped set up chikki units where transgenders are employed, which will be provided to children at anganwadi centres. Havin said that the department had been offering financial assistance to transgenders as part of its endeavour to guide them towards a life of independence. “We are extending aid through the Mahila Abhivruddhi Nigam. Of the 43,000 beneficiaries in the 460 anganwadis across Hospet taluk, 36,000 are children. Chikki will help boost immunity among both children and pregnant women. We will need at least seven lakh chikkis each month, and we will purchase them for Rs 1.65 each. If this succeeds, we will emulate the Hospet model across the state,” Havin added. Tirumalesh, a transgender, who along with 10 others, founded Renuka Transgenders, a self-help group, is a part of a chikki manufacturing unit. “We were reduced to begging, working as outreach workers and daily-wage labourers. We were constantly subjected to humiliation, and faced many problems in life. The government has helped us lead a life of dignity. We have obtained a loan of Rs 2 lakh and we will get machines soon. We are already preparing 60 to 70 packets daily, each weighing 150g each and aim to increase production once we procure the machines,” Tirumalesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/transgenders-roped-in-for-preparing-chikki-for-kids-pregnant-women-in-hospet/articleshow/76308879.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 11, 2020||Goa||SOP sans mandatory testing kicks in today||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that according to to the new standard operating procedure (SOP), which comes into force on Thursday, persons entering the state from abroad can now opt for 14-day home quarantine after their Covid-19 test is negative. Earlier, they had to complete seven days in facility quarantine and another seven in home quarantine. While this option still exists under the new SOP, it is no longer compulsory. After getting tested and till the result is known, the person must stay in paid facility quarantine, the CM said. “We change the SOP from time to time since Covid-19 is a new disease and there is no standard protocol to be followed,” he said, adding that the SOP that will be enforced from Wednesday was decided after consulting ministers, MLAs, opposition members and others. This is the state’s seventh SOP on two months.The new SOP, that does away with compulsory testing for domestic arrivals, led to a huge uproar. From Wednesday, persons arriving in Goa from within India will have three options — 14-day home quarantine, get tested by paying Rs 2,000 and wait at facility quarantine till the result is out, or produce a Covid certificate from an ICMR-approved lab that was issued less than 48 hours prior to arrival. “The government will paste a sticker on the house of those in home quarantine,” Sawant said. The chief minister said that whenever someone is home quarantined, a local representative — panch, sarpanch, secretary panchayat, chief officer of the municipality or councillor — will keep watch on them. Elaborating on why the SOP was changed, Sawant said that prior to this version, the government collected swabs from persons entering the state and sent them home till the results were out. In this period, because there was no home quarantine stamp on the person’s hand, they used to mingle with everyone. “Because of this, we changed the SOP,” he said, adding that some people couldn’t afford the fee to get tested. As per the new SOP, Sawant said that all persons travelling to Goa will be screened with a thermal scanner. Earlier, he said, the screening was done with a thermal gun. “A thermal scanner is better than a thermal gun,” he said. “Once a person passes through the scanner, the temperature will be recorded,” he said. The CM also said that all symtomatic persons would be kept in isolation and tested. “We will test symptomatic persons compulsorily, and we may not charge them,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sop-sans-mandatory-testing-kicks-in-today/articleshow/76311410.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt announces major cuts to meet expenses; no increment for employees||Dehradun: Citing financial losses incurred due to the lockdown and the expenses incurred in the fight against Covid-19, the Uttarakhand government late on Wednesday announced a number of measures, including stalling the increment of employees and stopping fresh recruitments in all departments, barring health and police. A circular issued by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh to all senior state officials mentions that since the digital medium has changed work style and reduced the work load, posts which are not required should be cancelled and people working on these posts should be merged with other departments. The order also mentions that no increment would be provided to any employee for the ongoing financial year. Apart from police and health department, no vacancies would be created in any other department, the circular adds. Besides, fresh appointments of Class IV employees and filling up of positions such as drivers, gardeners, plumbers, wireman and electrician, too, have been stopped. The departments have been directed to cut down on their expenses such as travel, stationery and furniture. Besides, restrictions have been announced on advertising, publicity and foreign trips. No calendar, diaries or greeting cards would be purchased and any promotion, where there is a hike in salary, would not be allowed for this fiscal, the directive says. For politicians holding posts of directors and other positions in boards and corporations, there would be no recruitment of fresh staff. Further, apart from security purpose, no new vehicle would be purchased by any department. Departments have been told to hold workshops, seminars and training sessions in government buildings rather than private hotels and no hosting of events in five star hotels has been allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-announces-major-cuts-to-meet-expenses-no-increment-for-employees/articleshow/76308877.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Social workers rescue woman claiming she was gang raped||Nagpur: The social workers who were earlier part of food distribution network of Addl CP, crime, Nilesh Bharne under the banner of ‘Together We Can’ have now rescued a woman who was allegedly gang raped by three people after being forcibly whisked away from Jai Stambh square this week. No offence was registered even 48 hours after her rescue. The social workers’ group, who are still feeding the last bunch of migrants going back in Shramik Special trains, had come across the woman on the footpath near Jai Stambh square with her four-year-old son wrapped in tattered clothes. It is learnt police have managed to trace her family at Nashik. They kin have revealed that the woman had left home with her son a few days back. The social workers were stunned when she started talking about three persons, including a tea-kiosk owner in the vicinity, having raping her in some ‘jhopdi’. The social workers have also videographed the conversation with her. The video, now with TOI, has the woman stating that the three were trying to befriend her for the last couple of days. One of them managed to cajole her to come along with him on his bike to an unidentified place where they established physical contact with her. The woman said the three men ravaged her one by one. After the team of Anu Chhabrani, Shoeb Menon and Rekha Barhate approached the Sitabuldi police station, senior PI Raghavendra Rajput immediately helped rescue the woman and shifted her to Mayo Hospital where she has been tested for Covid-19 and found negative. She was later shifted to a government shelter home. It is learnt she was being counseled by a psychologist at the government shelter home as she has shown traits of aggressiveness. Rajput said she would be handed over to her family. “We have already asked the family members to reach Nagpur and take her back and there was no other development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/social-workers-rescue-woman-claiming-she-was-gang-raped/articleshow/76310788.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||Potholes may turn into death traps in monsoon||Lucknow: With monsoon just a fortnight away, the pathetic condition of many roads in several prominent areas of the city may turn fatal for commuters if not repaired in time. A reality check by TOI in several areas of the city found residents voicing their concern and demanding repair work on war footing for such roads which are already turning into puddles for mosquitoes to breed. Until a year ago, it was a smooth drive for commuters in Sector M, Aashiana, around their homes. However, after Jal Sansthan dug up a major stretch for laying of sewer pipes and left the area without repair, the stretch has become a major cause of trouble for people. “Driving on the road has become an arduous task. Even autorickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers refuse to come to this area. Those who do, demand extra fare. The repair work should start now without any delay or these roads will turn into a nightmare for us,” said Chhavi Agarwal, a resident. Similarly, potholed roads can be found in every locality of Aishbagh. “We have been complaining for the past year, but to no avail. We have to drive extreme carefully so that nobody ends up in a ditch. We have asked our corporator to get repair work done before monsoon,” said Jaswant Yadav, a resident. Several busy stretches in posh areas of Jankipuram are also dotted with potholes. “This stretch is among the busiest in the city. The road was in tatters within a month of construction, indicating poor quality of material used. Repair work should be done immediately while ensuring quality,” said Abhijeet Singh, a resident. Lucknow Municipal Corporation plans to start repair work of 121 roads from June 15, but residents said that by that time, pre-monsoon rains will start. This will not only obstruct construction work but even the repair will not last as it will not get enough time to dry. LMC chief engineer Manish Singh said, “Around Rs 50 crore will be used for the repair and maintenance work of roads in the city. Repair work will start by mid-June.” Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department engineer in chief (Lucknow) Rajeev Ratan Singh said, “We will conduct repair work of major lanes under our jurisdiction before monsoon”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/potholes-may-turn-into-death-traps-in-monsoon/articleshow/76311229.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 11, 2020||Goa||In new austerity measures, Goa freezes new govt jobs, infra projects||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday unveiled a series of austerity measures to help the state tide over the fiscal crunch triggered by the nationwide lockdown. These drastic steps, which include a freeze on new government jobs and infrastructure projects, could help the state government cut down its financial liabilities by Rs 150-200 crore a month in the coming months, officials said. With the state facing an 80% drop in monthly earnings, Sawant announced that as part of the new measures, recruitment for state government departments and corporations has been put on hold till December this year. An office memorandum issued by finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar has asked all departments to “defer the recruitment in all the government departments’ autonomous bodies/state PSUs/local bodies receiving grants front the state up to December 2020”. The move is likely to come in for some criticism from MLAs and ministers, who were keen on the recruitment process commencing. “Stopping recruitment was urgently required, it had to be deferred. There was no option,” said a senior government official. “These measures will lead to a reduction in the state’s liabilities to the tune of approximately Rs 150-200 crore a month, especially with the freeze on recruitment and capital works.” With around 60,000 government employees in Goa, the government has to shell out around Rs 50-60 crore per month just on salaries, pension, government provident fund, gratuity, group insurance and other heads. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting where the austerity measures were discussed, Sawant said that the “government has also banned foreign tours and non-essential domestic tours funded by the state government till December 2020.” He also said that the government will stop granting expenditure approvals for infrastructure projects till December even if the project has received administrative approval. This will have a bearing on projects initiated by government departments as well as corporations, state undertakings and panchayats and municipalities, except projects partly/wholly funded by Centre or deposit works. Also, departments and public sector undertakings of the government will not be able to borrow funds for their projects till December. The other austerity measures put in place are compulsory travel in economy class for all elected representatives and government officials while travelling by air, ban on hiring or purchase of new vehicles, ban on purchase of furniture, air conditioners, computers and electronic appliances till December. Extension for already hired vehicles will be allowed, said Sawant. Sawant also said that if urgent, the purchase of any of these items will require prior administrative approval from the chief minister and expenditure sanction from the finance department, along with justification for the need to purchase the equipment. In early April, the state government formed an expenditure control committee headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, with finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar and principal secretary Puneet Kumar Goel as members. The austerity measures outlined by the Goa government are in line with the steps taken by other state governments to conserve funds. Sawant said that apart from these austerity measures, all MLAs have transferred 30% of their salary into the CM Covid-19 fund. When asked how much the state would save through these austerity measures, Sawant said, “I cannot tell you the exact calculation of how much we will save, it will take time”. The finance department is still compiling data on the exact financial benefits that the government could accrue due to the austerity measures outlined on Wednesday. The CM also said that the state would continue to study the impact of the austerity measures and take further measures if required. Meanwhile, Sawant said that social welfare schemes have not been touched, and will continue. “The subsidies and social welfare schemes have not been touched because these sustain the economy and can lead to demand generation. We have tried to balance the economy and the state’s finances,” said a finance department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-new-austerity-measures-goa-freezes-new-govt-jobs-infra-projects/articleshow/76311411.cms||Murari Shetye
June 11, 2020||Goa||Vasco residents grapple with stigma, shame||VASCO: Zuarinagar resident Navin Jha was all set to take his vehicle for a service appointment at Loutolim on Thursday. However, on Wednesday, he got a message saying the car wouldn’t be serviced. Confused, given he already had an appointment, he called the centre. “They told me that the company has decided that all cars with a GA-06 registration won’t be serviced, as they’re from Vasco,” he said. As the port town’s Mangor Hill containment zone continues to report a bulk of the state’s daily Covid-19 cases, residents of Vasco — even those with no connection with Mangor Hill — are beginning to face the music wherever they go. Across the state, people not only from the town but also the taluka of Mormugao have reported being perceived as ‘coronavorus carriers’, and face stigma in many aspects of their day-to-day life. “They look at all of us as carriers,” Jha said. Denied service, he tried to explain to them the geography of the taluka, that he lives in Zuarinagar, part of Sancoale panchayat and Cortalim constituency. He said he has no connection whatsoever with Mangor Hill. They didn’t listen, and the car remained unserviced. It isn’t just automobile centres that have distances themselves from Vasco residents. Lawyers recently spotted a notice at a Margao court that also asked Vasco advocates to stay away. “Advocates residing in or having their office in Vasco are requested not to attend the court room, office or steno room of District Judge-2, Margao, till June 20,” the notice said. Vasco advocates association president Hyder Khilji reacted sharply. “Advocates from Vasco visit courts across the state,” he said. “However, we are looked down upon. Other staffers give us uncomfortable looks. People don’t understand that Mangor Hill is only a small area, and that Vasco and Mormugao are vast places and not everyone here has Covid-19.” The parish priest of St Andrew’s church, Vasco, Fr Gabriel Coutinho, too got a taste of this stigma. When he went to the South Goa collectorate, he was told to remain at a distance after a staffer got to know he was from Vasco. “The moment he came to know I was from Vasco, he gave me a weird look at said ‘pois rao!’ (stay far),” he said. “I then waited in a corner to go inside and get my work done.” Coutinho also said that all teachers from the parish-run school, St Andrew’s high school, who went to Margao for Class X exam corrections were sent back. “It didn’t matter if they were fropm Dabolim, Sancoale or Cansulim,” Coutinho said. “The moment they got to know they worked for a Vasco school, they were asked to leave. The Goa board, too, stopped all teachers from Vasco from going for corrections.” Goan social media, too, witnessed several posts about offices outside Vasco that have employees from the port town asking them to take a 15-day break and not come to work. The stigma against Vasco residents is also affecting family life for some. “My elderly mother lives in Zuarinagar, and I wanted to bring her here,” said Sabina Shaikh from Bicholim. “However, we’ve been told here not to bring any of our relatives from Vasco. Some are monitoring this.” Similar messages have been circulating in Ponda too, warning people against bring in their relatives from Mormugao. Meanwhile, Sports Authority of India employee Lovino Goes, who lives in Baina, has voluntarily decided to stay back home rather than see his colleagues panic when he gets to work. “People think all Vasco residents live in slums,” he said. “Prince Charles, and so many world leader who contracted Covid-19, don’t live in slums. Coronavirus can happen to anyone living anywhere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-residents-grapple-with-stigma-shame/articleshow/76311413.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records presence of elephants in middle Himalayas for the first time||DEHRADUN: The latest survey of jumbos in Uttarakhand has revealed that contrary to popular belief, elephants, too, can climb mountains. Till now, it was believed that elephants are present in only the Terai and Bhabar zones in the foothills of the state. But the elephant population estimation done by the state forest department last week has come out with interesting findings that show the presence of tuskers even in the middle Himalayas — an area where their presence was hitherto not witnessed. This, experts say, indicates that elephants may have started shifting towards higher altitudes from the foothills and Terai regions largely in search of food and water as their traditional habitats get affected due to climate change and human intervention. Read the entire story on TOI+ 'Jumbos moving up Himalayas for food and water'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-presence-of-elephants-in-middle-himalayas-for-the-first-time/articleshow/76308893.cms||Shivani Azad
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Technical education department proposes engineering admissions based on Class XII results||JAIPUR: The higher and technical education department has sent a proposal to minister Subhash Garg that this year, admissions in government engineering colleges be given based on Class XII board exam results. This is unlike last year when admissions were given based on JEE rankings and then Class XII results were considered. In February and March 2020, before the outbreak of the pandemic, government advertised in newspapers that this year, engineering entrance exam will be conducted on the basis of JEE marks. Since the pandemic started, dates to conduct JEE entrance exams were shifted further and now it is likely to be conducted in July. As the entrance exam is delayed, results will be delayed as well. Hence, state’s higher and technical education department cancelled the advertisements and decided that admission through board exam results would start the session sooner. The government is yet to take any decision on it. Manish Gupta, additional secretary, of the higher and technical education while talking to TOI said, “There are many suggestions given to the government to fill the seats as soon as possible, due to the delay owing to the pandemic. These are just suggestions at present, but nothing has been decided yet,” said Gupta. Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Education Teachers’ Association vice-president, Vipin Sharma has written a letter to the government criticizing the proposal. “If this is implemented, then students dropping out after Class XII will be able to take admission on their previous year results. It is better to set a bench mark to get good ranking students in government engineering colleges,” said Vipin. However, some people are finding this to be a positive step. Puneet Sharma, technical education expert says that there is not going to be any significant change by selecting students on the basis Class XII board exams. “Till last year, only 30% selections were made on the basis of JEE exams as most of the good rankers prefer colleges outside state. Rest of the seats are filled on basis of Class XII board exams, which is usually delayed. So, government is just doing away with this process,” said Sharma. He further said, “Students taking admission on board exam basis used to find it difficult to get student loans as banks prefer admission through JEE results. Moreover, this year due to the fear of the pandemic, parents would prefer to keep children within the state. So, this is beneficial for the future of the students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/technical-edu-dept-proposes-engg-admissions-based-on-class-xii-results/articleshow/76310780.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Teachers confused over conflicting duty orders||JAIPUR: The District Education Officer (DEO) has issued orders to teachers to report for board exam duty in the same schools where they were deployed before the outbreak of coronavirus. This has created a confusion among teachers who are currently appointed at quarantine centres by the district collectors. Teachers are now demanding clarification from the government whether to follow the DEO’s order or the collector’s. Class X and XII board exams were postponed after the outbreak of coronavirus. Now, government has issued new dates to conduct the exams while maintaining social distancing. According to the new rules, students will be made to sit at a distance and only one student on one bench will be allowed. New exam centres were identified and there is a need for more teaching staff for supervision, but most of them are busy with Covid duties. A senior government education officer said, “We are in need of at least 40% more staff this year for board exam supervision. Most of the teachers are busy with Covid-related duties, so we have asked the district administration to decide on the issue. A meeting between district education officials and district administration will be held soon on this matter. If any teacher has some issue with it, they can directly approach the district collector.” Vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Education Teachers’ Association Vipin Sharma criticizing the order said, “Teachers are calling us to get clarification regarding the orders. Many teachers are appointed on Covid duties and are now finding it difficult to decide whether to follow the DEO’s orders or the collector’s. Government officials should decide conclusively before issuing such confusing orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-confused-over-conflicting-duty-orders/articleshow/76310784.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Monsoon likely to hit state in 48 hours||Panaji: The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Goa’s coast within 48 hours, said the India meteorological department (IMD) on Wednesday. The rainfall activity was scheduled to pick up on the intervening night of June 10 and 11. Experts said that westerly winds are ideal for monsoon conditions; however, the winds are currently north-westerly. “While the wind speed is matching the criteria, the wind direction is not matching,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. Once the rainfall activity picks up and the low pressure over the Bay of Bengal comes somewhat closer to the eastern coast, all the remaining criteria will be satisfied, Rahul said. Currently, the western branch of the southwest monsoon is in Karnataka. Its northward limit is still near Kawar. Some parts of Goa experienced light showers on Wednesday. TOI had earlier reported that that monsoon advancement to northward of Karwar is likely to happen soon, covering Goa and some parts of Konkan region. Its eastern branch over the Bay of Bengal has slightly advanced northwards. “It is passing through north eastern states like Tripura and Nagaland,” Rahul said. According to statistics shared by the IMD, the southwest monsoon usually arrives in Goa by June 6 and withdraws by October 8. Last month however, the IMD had revised the onset date to June 10. Weeks later, the dates were advanced to June 5 or 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-likely-to-hit-state-in-48-hours/articleshow/76311415.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Didn’t have authority to dump garbage: CCP to HC||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday asked the commissioner of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) to explain the circumstances in which the Parade Ground in Campal was used for the purpose of dumping garbage by June 12. When questioned by the high court during the hearing, the corporation admitted that it doesn’t have any authorisation for dumping and remediation of garbage at Parade Ground. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told the court that no fresh garbage has been dumped at the site for three years, while CCP counsel Ashwin Bhobe said that there will be no fresh dumping of garbage at the site in the future. Pangam told the court that out of 7,555 cubic metres of waste at Parade Ground, 6,800 cubic metres has already been remedied but added that this couldn’t be transferred to the cement factory in Karnataka where it is recycled and used, as is normally done, because of the monsoon. Goa State Pollution Control Board counsel Dattaprasad Lawande stated that the cement factory at Karnataka has started accepting remedied waste. He said that it could be possible to shift the remaining 800 cubic metres of waste which hasn’t been remedied yet to the Saligao waste treatment plant. The court issued notices to the CCP and other authorities over garbage on the ground in the capital city stating that the garbage is “likely to prove a source for ailments like dengue and malaria”. In the previous hearing, the division bench comprising justices Mahesh Sonak and M S Jawalkar stated that the state and its residents who are already coping with spread of Covid infection, can hardly afford the necessity to combat such a situation “As it is, the medical apparatus in the state is making attempts to cope up with the rising Covid-19 cases and, therefore, any further strain on the medical infrastructure available in the state will obviously be contrary to public interest,” the division bench had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/didnt-have-authority-to-dump-garbage-ccp-to-hc/articleshow/76311417.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||Covid cloud looms over prep for Lord Jagannath’s annual rath yatra||Lucknow: For the first time in its 100-year history, the annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra of Chowk will be held without troupes, tableau trucks and massive crowd of devotees due to novel coronavirus pandemic. Organised at Badi Kali Ji Mandir by Shri Shri Jagannath Rath Yatra and Navratra Mela Samiti, the Rath Yatra was scheduled on June 23. As per tradition, devotees pull the ‘rath’ (chariots) of three deities—Lord Jagannath, Lord Balbhadra and Devi Subhadra. Temple authorities have decided on a mini version of the yatra with deities in three ‘palkis’ on a vehicle accompanied by 10 people, including committee members and priests, while maintaining physical distance. The temple will be closed for public. The plan yatra will be livestreamed on social media. Organizing committee member Anurag Dixit said: “We have requested the administration to allow a mini version of the yatra. Those participating will perform the ritual of ‘nauka vihar’ in Gomti. We will request devotees to stay at home and offer prayers from the terrace or watch live on Facebook.” Similar decisions have also been taken by other prominent puja committees. Shri Radha Madhav Sewa Sansthan of Madhav Mandir in Daliganj, which will enter its 59th year of Jagannath Yatra, will perform only a set of rituals in the temple. “Instead of five days, a three-day event will be organised. On first two days, a blood donation camp will be set up, food packets and masks will be distributed.On June 23, a puja will be organised inside the temple. Devotees will offer prayers from outside the main entrance,” said spokesperson Anurag Sahu. The 96-year-old Shri Mahant Shatrughan Das Rath Yatra Samiti of Aminabad is also considering to skip the yatra. Surya Prakash Pathak, a member, said the temple will remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-cloud-looms-over-prep-for-lord-jagannaths-annual-rath-yatra/articleshow/76311244.cms||Aditi Singh
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Gang stealing money from villagers at banks busted||Nagpur: With the arrest of two miscreants, local crime branch (LCB) of rural police on Wednesday busted a gang of miscreants who used to steal money from villagers, mostly senior citizens, at banks. The accused have been identified as Golu alias Mohsin Raza and Haidar Ali. Earlier, LCB sleuths, led by PI Anil Jittawar, had arrested Mohd Sheikh on June 4, which led to arrest of the other two. According to police, the tricksters used to target villagers who would visit banks for withdrawing or depositing money. The accused used to offer the villagers help with counting their money by giving reasons such as fake notes. They took out some notes from the bundle before giving it back to villagers. Several such incidents were reported at Kalmeshwar, Katol and other places in city. LCB sleuths started investigation and nabbed Sheikh who spilled beans about his other accomplices. Sources said the accused targeted citizens in Kalmeshwwar, Katol, Ramtek, Sakkardara, Sihora and Sity in Bhandara district and Nagbhid in Chandrapur district. Meanwhile, rural police have urged citizens not to fall prey to such frauds and report if such incidents occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gang-stealing-money-from-villagers-at-banks-busted/articleshow/76310791.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 11, 2020||Mumbai||First kidney transplant in Mumbai in 2.5 months||MUMBAI: For four years, a 63-year-old Mahim resident waited for a call saying a kidney donation was available for him.“The call came, but bang in the middle of the lockdown,” said Ishwar Gandhi, who has been battling kidney failure for five years now. Tired of the twice-a-week dialysis sessions as well as complications of diabetes, he said “yes” to a kidney transplant at H N Reliance Hospital, Girgaum. Gandhi is perhaps the only kidney patient to have undergone a cadaveric or deceased donor transplant in the two-plus months of the lockdown. (Apollo Hospital, Nerul, conducted a cadaveric transplant on March 25, a day after the lockdown was announced). ‘Special space for transplant patients key in Covid era’Around 10 liver transplants from live, related donors have taken place during this period. The near-freeze followed the state Covid task force’s advisory against transplants unless in case of emergencies; as transplant patients are on special medicines to suppress their immune system from rejecting the new organ, it was felt the coronavirus is dangerous for them. “Gandhi’s case is the first successful kidney patient in the Covid era. It underlines the fact that cadaver transplants can be done successfully despite Covid with little bit of care,” said nephrologist Dr Rushi Desphande, who has been Gandhi’s doctor for moe than five years now. In Gandhi’s case, the kidney donation call came on May 21 after a 35-year-old male suffered a brain death in Pune and his family agreed to donate his organs. “None of my family members could donate a kidney for me due to medical reasons. This donation is hence precious,” said Gandhi. Experts said with special arrangements and medical care, transplants can be a success. Due to Covid, several patients undergoing dialysis tested positive in large numbers across the city. Dr Deshpande, who is also a member of the Mumbai Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre( ZTCC), said the key would be for hospitals to ensure a separate space for transplant patients. “There should be no sharing of manpower resources, as in doctors, nurses and support staff, between transplant teams and Covid care teams,” he said. H N Reliance Hospital CEO Dr Tarang Gianchandani said, “Hearing about a successful operation and the fact that a transplant patient is going home, gives out hope. Gandhi’s case will boost the cadaver programme that has been put on hold since the Covid infection.” Gandhi is ready for discharge and is not worried about Covid. “We have to take precautions and care,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-kidney-transplant-in-city-in-2-5-mths/articleshow/76311418.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Movement from Mahisagar, Dahod to R’thn restricted||VADODARA: Movement at the Gujarat-Rajasthan state border in Dahod, Mahisagar and north Gujarat districts was restricted in wake of the decision by the Rajasthan government to allow only persons with necessary permission to enter the state. Sources in Dahod and Mahisagar districts said that elaborate security measures and barricading were maintained by the Rajasthan police to restrict vehicle movement. Those entering Rajasthan were questioned thoroughly. According to officials, missives stating that only persons with permissions will be allowed into Rajasthan have been sent by the Rajasthan government to the bordering districts too. Dahod district collector Vijay Kharadi said, “We have been asked to give permission only to those who need to travel in unavoidable circumstances.” Kharadi said that those needing to travel to Rajasthan will have to apply to their local district collectorate or police for getting he permission. Sources said that people had already started making inquiries with the Dahod district administration for passes. Fatepura and Jhalod talukas of Dahod district and Khanpur taluka of Mahisagar district share border with Rajasthan. Aravalli and Sabarkantha police officials said there was no chaos at the borders but they are prepared to tackle rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/movement-from-mahisagar-dahod-to-rthn-restricted/articleshow/76307585.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bareilly||Shifting of ‘healthy’ tigress to Kanpur zoo instead of releasing into forest after tranquilising sparks row||PILIBHIT: The shifting of a "healthy" tigress to Kanpur zoo after she was tranquilised in Mala forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) has sparked a row with wildlife experts calling it a "mindless decision" while forest official defending the move in the wake of locals going on a rampage and setting on fire a portion of the forest land after the big cat killed a man. The two and a half years old tigress mauled a 35-year-old man outside his house in Goel Colony near Mala forest range around 9.30 pm on Monday and dragged the body into the field. However, as a mob chased the tigress, the big cat disappeared into the forest leaving the man’s body behind. The angry villagers allegedly set a portion of the forest on fire prompting PTR officials to capture the feline immediately. She was spotted in compartment number 126 A of the Mala forest range, around 500 metres from the Goel Colony village and tranquilised. However, just a day after, chief conservator of forest, Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma, who was present during the operation, said the tigress had been put into a cage and would be released into the forest after her medical examination, the decision of shifting the feline to Kanpur zoon came in. Earlier, a five-year-old "healthy" PTR tiger with "no injury or physical deformity" was shifted to the Kanpur zoo on April 3 after he was tranquilised in Richhaula village following a fatal man-tiger conflict. Kaushalendra Singh, a wildlife enthusiast and a former member of the Uttarakhand State Wildlife Board, termed the decision "extremely worrying". "Healthy tigers are being lodged at zoos for no valid reason, even as zoos are supposed to be like rehabilitation centres for those wild animals which are unfit or unable to survive in the forest due to certain reasons. It is an attempt by forest authorities to cover-up their failures in mitigating the man-tiger conflict, which is a direct outcome of rapidly shrinking prey base in forests and massive illegal activities like the felling of trees and exploitation of valuable forest resources in tiger reserves in collusion with forest staff," alleged Singh. Singh said he had sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to announce a "wild lockdown" by banning the entry of humans, including eco-tourists, into forests to protect tigers and their prey base. Asked about the decision, UP chief wildlife warden Sunil Pandey said, "We had no other option, but to remove the tigress immediately from PTR with villagers going on a rampage and setting the forest area on fire." When contacted, head of the Terai Tiger Project in Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) PC Pandey told TOI over the phone, "The shifting of healthy tigers to zoos is neither a healthy practice nor a permanent solution to mitigate the man-tiger conflict. The frequent shifting of big cats to zoos will, on the other hand, also encourage villagers to pressure forest officials to shift every tiger on the prowl to the zoo." Pointing at his "limitations in taking such decisions", PTR field director H Rajamohan said, "The decision-making power in the cases of man-tiger conflicts such as tranquilising a big cat and shifting it to a zoo or releasing into the forest is in hands of the chief wildlife warden only. Whatever action we have taken, including in case of the five-year-old tiger or the adolescent tigress, complied with his directions."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/shifting-of-healthy-tigress-to-kanpur-zoo-instead-of-releasing-into-forest-after-tranquilising-sparks-row/articleshow/76307884.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Day after tiger’s death, Asiatic lion dies at Nahargarh park||JAIPUR: A day after the death of a tiger, an Asiatic lion suffering from leptospirosis died at the city’s Nahargarh Biological Park on Wednesday. The eight-and-half-year-old lion, Siddharth, was brought to the park from Gujarat two years ago. An official said, on June 4, for the first time blood was observed in the urine of Rudra, a 18-month-old tiger, which died on Tuesday. Similar symptoms were found in Siddharth since June 5. Treatment was provided to big cats as prescribed by the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) doctors. TimesViewThe death of big cats at regular intervals at the city's Nahargarh Biological Park hints at negligence on the part of zoo administration. While it is the duty of veterinary specialists to keep a continuous watch on the health of animals, they have been dying mysteriously. If the zoo administration had conducted regular blood tests and medical check-ups, the vets would have known about the infection in big cats. After the death of three big cats within a gap of 10 days in September last year, forest and environment minister Sukhram Bishnoi had visited the park and pulled up the officials. But no improvement has been seen on the ground. If the park officials had done basic rodent management, the death of big cats could have been averted.“An infection called leptospirosis, mainly affecting the liver and kidneys of an animal, was detected after the samples of Rudra were taken on June 6. The report of the tiger also discussed with the (IVRI) and (WII) and based on which treatment including fluid therapy was started. Asiatic lion, Siddharth was also undergoing treatment after same symptoms were observed,” a forest official said. The initial post-mortem report revealed that the lion died due to leptospirosis. The park authorities have sent the samples to IVRI for confirmation. Officials, however, ruled out finding symptoms of Covid-19 in the animal. The death occurred due to negligence of the department as they miserably failed in rodent management. The big cats and other animals in the park are under threat from field rats and mongoose which are present in large numbers and passing on potentially life-threatening diseases to them. “The main source of leptospirosis infection is rat urine and infected animals can also spread it further. It could also be spread from mongoose urine. Rats and mongooses are in plenty and they need to be kept away from the zoo premises,” a source said. Sources further said, as the biological park is situated in the sanctuary area, many a times rats and mongooses enter the cages and nibble on the food of wild animals. “Measures need to be taken to control their number and activities. No holes or spaces should be there in enclosures from where rats can enter. If not controlled and diagnosed timely, it can damage kidneys and other organs of other big cats at the park.” The death toll had reached five at this park in the past 10 months. Now, there are 11 big cats, including three tigers, five leopards and three Asiatic lions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/day-after-tigers-death-asiatic-lion-dies-at-nahargarh-park/articleshow/76310785.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mysuru||Govt college from DKS’s stronghold to be shifted to B’luru||MYSURU: In a major administrative decision that could lead to row, the state higher education department has shifted six government first grade colleges, including one from KPCC chief D K Shivakumar’s stronghold of Sathanur in Ramanagara district. Besides, the government has also shifted three degree colleges from JD(S) stronghold of Hassan district. All the six degree colleges are shifted owing to poor student enrolment, the department stated. The colleges have less than 100 students each, it said. According to the order, Sathanur College is shifted to Basavanagudi in Bengaluru city. This comes amidst BJP government’s denial of permission to organise a meeting for Shivakumar to take charge as the KPCC chief and the controversy surrounding shifting of a medical college from Ramanagara to Chikkaballapura recently. Other colleges to be shifted are — Terakanambi Government First Grade College in Chamarajanagar district to Kudachi in Belagavi district; Government First Grade College, Arehalli in Hassan to Malleshwaram in Bengaluru; Government First Grade College in Hallimysuru, Holenarasipur, Hassan to Shantinagar in Bengaluru; Government First Grade College in Sakaleshapur, Hassan to Hebbal in Bengaluru and Government First Grade College in Hanur in Chamarajanagar district to Nippani in Belagavi. As per the documents, department of collegiate education (DCE) has shifted six government first grade colleges in the last three years citing poor enrolment. DCE commissioner P Pradeep said the decision to shift colleges was taken after considering two factors. “Colleges with poor strength for last three years and colleges in areas with a good number of educational institutions have been shifted to places where there is a demand. Under the current circumstances we can’t start new colleges. So for the better utilisation of resources, including manpower, this decision has been taken,” he said. Ramanagar District Congress Committee (DCC) president S Gangadhar stated the move is nothing but political vendetta against the party leaders. “Sathanur is a rural area. Now just to target our leaders, the college granted to Sathanur is being shifted. Let the government start new colleges in those areas where there is a demand instead of shifting the existing colleges,” he said. JD(S) state unit president, HK Kumaraswamy said he has raised the issue with deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan, who holds higher education portfolio. “Sakaleshpur is a Malnad area and if the college is shifted to a city, it will create a lot of problems. The college has infrastructure worth Rs 4 crore. I have also got a hostel sanctioned. In such a scenario, shifting of the college is not a good idea. The government should change its stand,” he said. According to sources, the decision is ill-timed. “A lot of money has been invested in college infrastructure— buildings, hostels and others in Mysuru region. Now, if the colleges are shifted, the infrastructure will become a wasteful expenditure,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-college-from-dkss-stronghold-to-be-shifted-to-bluru/articleshow/76308910.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: With US consulate getting its building, Rs 300 crore Paigah Palace may go on the block||HYDERABAD: Is the Telangana government mulling to sell or lease heritage building Paigah Palace at Begumpet, currently housing the US consulate? Going by indications, the state government is now gearing up either to sell or lease the palace located in a four-acre prime land to a hotel once the US consulate moves to its own building at Gachibowli early next year. The property cost, including land value, has been pegged at over Rs 300 crore. The state government had asked municipal administration department early this year to hand over the building to the general administration department (GAD) once the US consulate moves out of the heritage structure in mid-2021. Following the directions of the state government, a committee has been constituted by the municipal administration department a couple of days agoto coordinate with the US consulate officials to conduct a joint inspection of the building. The committee has also been asked to submit a factual report on issues arising in de-leasing process of Paigah Palace at the earliest. Official sources said the team was supposed to be constituted in February. However, it was delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The committee was constituted on June 8 after principal secretary, municipal administration, Arvind Kumar sent a reminder to the HMDA secretary. However, principal secretary, municipal administration, Arvind Kumar said the orders were issued based on the GAD directions issued to the municipal administration in January 2020 and and put on hold due to the Covid-19 situation. There is speculation that the cash-strapped state government might put it up for sale as it looks at different means for resource mobilisation. However, the building is a heritage structure as per earlier government records. After the new heritage Act came into force a couple of years ago, the list of heritage buildings has not been updated. The heritage building in four-acre land was headquarters of Hyderabad Urban Development Authority (HUDA) since its inception in 1975 till 2008 before it was handed over to the US consulate in 2008. HMDA moved its offices to a GHMC building at Marredpally in Secunderabad and finally moved to its own complex at Tarnaka in 2010. Interestingly, HMDA is also shifting all its wings to Swarna Jayanthi Complex at Ameerpet in a couple of weeks. A few months ago, the government had started renovation works in three floors in the buildings at a cost of Rs 8 crore. The officials have been asked to take precautions while shifting files and other important documents and equipment to the new building. “Once the office is shifted, the state government will decide the fate of the HMDA complex whether to bulldoze it and construct a new complex or sell the land as part of the resource mobilization,” a senior HMDA official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-us-consulate-getting-its-building-rs-300-cr-paigah-palace-may-go-on-the-block/articleshow/76310840.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 14 Harsul prison staffers test positive for Covid-19||AURANGABAD: Fourteen staffers, including two officers, of Harsul Central Jail have tested positive for Covid-19, raising fresh questions as only recently 29 inmates had tested positive for the contagion despite the premises being under lockdown. Jail superintendent Jail Hiralal Jadhav on Wednesday said swab samples of 60 officers and staff members, including himself, were taken on Tuesday and the reports arrived on Wednesday. “All jail staff members who tested positive are asymptomatic and have been quarantined at the jail’s rest house and in two bungalows on the jail premises,” the superintendent told TOI. The officer said all the patients are being attended to by a Covid-19 task force as well as medical officers from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. Jadhav said the lockdown, which was in force at the jail premises since April 19, was lifted today (Wednesday). Meanwhile, the district administration said that 121 more people, including 41 women, tested positive in the last 24 hours till Wednesday, taking the total count to 2,271. However, 1,283 have been treated and discharged while 872 are being treated at different facilities in the district, said officials. The case are being reported from newer areas, including the ones situated close to the the industrial estates in the city. The number of cases being reported from rural areas is low, as only two cases were reported from Savarkheda in Soegaon on Wednesday and another from Kannad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/14-harsul-prison-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76308931.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Living in fear on banks of River Periyar||KOCHI: The onset of monsoon has pressed the panic button for those living on the banks of Periyar in Aluva and North Paravur. Fearing that there may be flood this year too, many have taken measures to shift to other places, if need arises. Some of them who live on the banks of Periyar have already hired houses in areas where chances of flooding are less. “Some of the residents in apartments at Thottakkattukara have already moved out to hired houses or relatives houses which are in safer zones. In 2018, we suffered a huge loss due to floods. At least 60 cars in each of the three apartment complexes promoted by us at Thottakkattukara were damaged in the flood,” said Ashok Kumar, a builder. “Some of the families have already vacated their houses. Especially those living in villas of our complex have already shifted to other places like Thrissur. Many have already packed their belongings and are ready to shift any time,” Kumar said. “I have insured my apartment complexes against natural calamities now. Given the Covid-19 situation, we don’t expect that the government may be giving any compensation if we suffer losses this time,” he said. It is the reports about rising water levels in the dams coupled with previous experiences of flood that forced the people to be apprehensive. With the handloom sector suffering huge loss in the 2018 flood, the cottage industry has taken measures to protect the equipment. “During 2018 flood, many of the handloom owners, mostly cottage industries, suffered huge losses. This time, most of them have already raised the looms by a few metres so that the equipment won’t be damaged in the flood. As they have already covered the looms with sheets so as to protect them, no weaving activity has been taking place,” said T S Baby, board member, Hantax, a cooperative society of weavers in the state. On people shifting to other places Baby said, “Most of the people in the area can’t afford hiring houses. A maximum of 2% of people may be able to afford it,” he said. “Now that the government and KSEB have ensured that the dams will not be opened at one go, apprehensions of people have subsided to a great extent,” he said. At the same time, authorities say they haven’t yet pressed alarm buttons. Kerala state disaster management authority chairman Sekhar Kuriakose said no warning regarding floods has been issued so far. Officials with the district disaster management authority also said they haven't issued any orders or warnings regarding the possibility of flood. “We haven’t given any warnings so far. The issue of people becoming panicky has not been brought to our notice. However, we will look into it, if there is any,” an official with the district disaster management authority said. Some of the residents in areas like Elookkara, Thottakkattukara and Thaikkattukara in Aluva have already carried out truss works on their roofs. “In 2018, the ground floor of many of the houses in the areas were submerged. Now, they are doing truss works on rooftops so that they can stay there and keep their belongings there safely in case of a flood,” said Rajiv, a resident of Aluva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/living-in-fear-on-banks-of-river-periyar/articleshow/76308921.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Auditor appointed for Mapusa Urban||Panaji: Goa’s finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar has appointed chartered accountant Gautam Sardesai as the statutory auditor for the Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank (MUCB). Sardesai will audit and evaluate Mapusa Urban’s assets and liabilities as part of the liquidation process. Hawaldar has been appointed as the official liquidator for the bank and has been tasked with returning deposits to account holders while also recovering dues owed to the bank. The audit will help identify the bank’s present financial position and aid the liquidation process. India’s banking regulator, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on April 16 cancelled the license granted to MUCB. With cancellation of the banking license, MUCB has been prohibited from accepting deposits and repayment of deposits. The license was cancelled as MUCB lacked adequate capital structure and income potential, and had failed to adhere to banking norms and its operation was detrimental to the depositors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/auditor-appointed-for-mapusa-urban/articleshow/76311441.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, Covid-19 spike in Pathankot, Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur: A spike in Covid-19 cases was recorded in Pathankot and Gurdaspur districts on Wednesday. A pregnant woman and an SHO were among the 19 people who tested positive for the virus in Pathankot. In Gurdaspur, the number of cases rose by 13. While the pregnant woman is from Bhudoria, a Pathankot district official refused to divulge details of the SHO. Gurdaspur deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the infected persons included three migrant labourers, four contacts of patients and 10 persons who were tested as they were symptomatic. Gurdaspur deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said six persons in Shukarpura and three in Sundar Nagar localities of Batala were found infected and they had now declared the two localities as containment zones and imposed curfew there to restrict movement of people. This is the highest number of coronavirus positive cases reported in a day in Pathankot and Gurdaspur, which have 44 and 26 active cases, respectively. Gurdaspur district administration has also appointed sub-divisional magistrate Balwinder Singh as nodal officer of the containment zone. Pathankot’s Dr Krishan Chand said the health department had also appointed nodal officers for conducting medical tests of contacts of patients. He expressed concern over a few people not being ready to undergo home quarantine, describing it as a threat to public safety. “Such people will be dealt with under Section 188 of IPC,” he said. Punjab medical education and research minister O P Soni said 126 patients were under treatment in Amritsar and that a few congested areas of Amritsar — including Phulla Wala Chowk, Katra Charat Singh, Lohgarh, Shaktinagar, Katra Sant Singh, Bombay Wala Khu, Katra Moti Ram, Gali Kaddan — had been declared as containment zones. Twelve persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar on Wednesday. They included six new cases (one each from Bombay Wala Khu, Maan Singh Gate, Katra Khajana, Katra Charat Singh, Lawrence Road and Chucak village), five contacts of patients from Garden Enclave and Mohini Park, and a man who returned from Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-covid-19-spike-in-pathankot-gurdaspur/articleshow/76310905.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 11, 2020||Mysuru||Govt must lease all its factories to pvt firms: Nirani||MYSURU: Former minister and BJP MLA Murugesh Nirani on Tuesday said all the state-run industries should be privatized. He spoke after meeting Mysuru royal family member Pramoda Devi Wadiyar to invite her for the inauguration of Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK) which he has leased for 40 years. Nirani said there has been no opposition to the government’s decision to lease the Pandavapura sugar factory. “The farmers and elected representatives in Mandya district have expressed their cooperation. We will clear Rs 26 crore which PSSK owes to the government. We will start the factory and crushing sugarcane from this year and will ensure good income for farmers. We have also planned to provide employment to locals,” he said. Nirani, however, refused to comment on Mysugar factory in Mandya. “I have not taken any decision on Mysugar. But certain people are unnecessarily expressing their opposition on privatization. I demand the government to privatize all its factories. Government is not to run factories. Private companies will manage factories better,” he said. In the same breath, Nirani clarified that the government should not sell its factories but lease them to private companies. “Instead of opposing, KPCC president DK Shivakumar too should participate in the tender process and lease factories for the welfare of farmers,” he said. When asked about the dues to be paid to farmers by Nirani Sugars owned by him, Nirani said Rs 32 crore needs to be paid. “I will clear the pending amount in 10 days,” he said. Sumalatha bats for privitization of Mysugar Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh said she will condemn political leaders who are politicizing the issue of privatization of government-run Mysugar factory in Mandya. Sumalatha said her first priority is towards the welfare of farmers. “As both PSSK and Mysugar factories are closed, every year during harvesting, farmers face severe financial problems. If the sugar factories are privatized, it will benefit farmers and cause no harm to anybody. But a few political leaders are making it a political issue for their own interests,” she said. “The government has invested crores of rupees in the factory and has lost around Rs 420 crore. If the government cannot run the factory, it has to be handed over to private firms which will help farmers,” she said. CAPTION’ Confusing signals: Sugar minister Shivaram Hebbar visited Mysugar mill along with district incharge minister K C Narayanagowda on Wednesday. He said that chief minister B S Yediyurappa is not in favour of privatizing Mysugar mill||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-must-lease-all-its-factories-to-pvt-firms-nirani/articleshow/76308945.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||In Mominpura, the man who wrote the Mahabharata||Nagpur: In Mominpura, the late Farogh Nakkash is known as the man who wrote Mahabharata, more precisely its Urdu translation. The last three months in a containment zone have been tough for his son Jamil Farogh, a kafan (shroud) seller. Life returned to some normalcy as the restrictions were partially lifted on Tuesday. “Hardly anyone came to buy the cloth in these days,” he says. Like others even he realizes the pandemic, that has put lives at stake, is to blame for the situation. Jamil doesn’t complain of any financial distress though. “We have few needs and can manage with less,” says Jamil, who is unmarried, and lives with his brother’s family and an unmarried sister — a teacher. It is only after he opens up, some time into the conversation, Jamil asks his sister to get a book. With a picture of Krishna and Arjun on the cover, it is titled ‘The Shahnama-e-Hind’. This Urdu translation of the Hindu epic Mahabharata in poetry form is among his few possessions. The book was written by his late father Farogh Nakkash, with assistance from Jamil. The name Shahnama is derived from the Iranian classic by Firdaus. What pains him is that his father’s lifetime work remains shrouded in obscurity, after getting initial recognition. “We met so many people, including former chief minister Manohar Joshi and some local leaders. All we got were assurances of meagre dole of a couple of thousand rupees,” says his cousin Mehfooz sitting next to him. Quickly, he recites an Urdu couplet describing the duel between Arjun and Karana. “I have read the Mahabharata,” he says. The book was published in 1997 by Suresh Sharma, the chairman of Baidyanath Group. It has lines both in nastaliq (Urdu) script and Hindi. The Hindi translation was done by Jamil. “We hoped the book is made part of any government library or archives. I took the request to many influential people but in vain,” he says. Like the Shahnama-e-Hind, Nakkash’s family also leads a life of obscurity. Even Nakkash made a living by selling kafans. “My father dedicated his entire life to the purpose, even at the shop he spent most of the time writing As it was related to a different religion, the work was not appreciated by many in the community,” he says. “The then divisional commissioner Shahzad Husain, who was my friend, spotted Nakkash, and he requested me to get the book printed. I did so,” said Suresh Sharma of Baidyanath Group. “It is indeed an impressive work. I realized that after reading it. Unfortunately, the author did not get his due. Even those days he lived a simple life selling kafans. I gave away all the copies to his family,” he said. Shahzad Hussain said he took a lot of efforts to promote the book. “I also took Nakkash to meet the then governor Shankar Dayal Sharma, who was in the city. The governor told him ‘aap lafzo pein nakkashi karte ho’ (you are a sculptor of words),” he recalls. The community’s elite too admit that Nakkash did not get his due. Mazhar Alam Siddiqui, a professor of Urdu and Persian at Vasantrao Naik Government Institute, said he had heard of the book but not come across it in any of the academic circles. Majid Parekh, a champion of communal harmony, said, “Nakkash’s works have gone unnoticed, like the Urdu translation of Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj’s Gram Geeta by my brother Abdul Gaffoor Parekh.” When asked if he believes the Mahabharata was true, Jamil shows one of the lines by his father, which reads, “It would be injustice to say that the story in which the country’s majority population has deep faith is not true.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-mominpura-the-man-who-wrote-the-mahabharata/articleshow/76310883.cms||Shishir Arya
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||HC bail to 6 Bangla nationals who took part in TJ markaz||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court granted interim bail to six Bangladeshi nationals, who were booked for allegedly misusing tourist visas to attend a religious congregation at Nizamuddin, Delhi, and then moving to Lucknow without taking a covid-19 test, triggering fears of virus spread during the lockdown. The bench of Justice A R Masoodi, however, set strict conditions for bail, including a bar on leaving the country without court nod. Six Bangladeshi tourists, who have visa validity till July 2020, would have to surrender in court before visa expiry. Bail to a seventh applicant, Akalli Nahar, was put on hold as his visa had expired in April. Passing the interim order, the bench said, applicants can be released on furnishing a bail bond and reliable surety. Considering legal complications of tourists stranded in India after expiry of visa and other issues, the bench issued notice to High Commission of Bangladesh and ministry of external affairs for addressing questions on their release. The bench fixed July 16 as the next of hearing for considering regular bail to applicants — Mohammad Shafiulla, Zaheer Islam, Mohammad Allauddin, Jameela Akhtar, Rahima Khatoon and Zareena Khatoon. They were booked by Lucknow’s Madiaon police under Section 188 IPC, Section 3 Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Section 56 Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 13/14B/14C Foreigners Act, 1946. Arguing for the Bangladeshi nationals, advocate Pranshu Agrawal submitted they had come to India on a valid visa and informed authorities on their movements. They were arrested on April 18 and have spent considerable time in jail for offences in which maximum punishment was five years and hence they were entitled to bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-bail-to-6-bangla-nationals-who-took-part-in-tj-markaz/articleshow/76311322.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 11, 2020||Bareilly||Mumbai returnee, 35, faints on road & lay unattended for two hours in UP’s Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A migrant worker, who had only recently returned from Mumbai to be with his family in Pilibhit, had a narrow escape when he fainted on a busy road on Tuesday afternoon and lay there in the scorching sun for over two hours without anyone daring to attend to him thinking he was a Covid-19 patient. After two months of lockdown, Santram, 35, had quit Mumbai and returned to Pilibhit on the first chance he got. He was tested by the health department for novel coronavirus infection on his return on May 22. He was clear. He also underwent home quarantine for over two weeks. On Tuesday afternoon, suffering from a bout of restlessness, Santram ventured out of his home in Pilibhit’s Bisalpur town to get medicines. But, after a few minutes of walk, he stumbled and fell near an empty plot by the road. Passersby gathered and one of them called ‘108’ ambulance. The vehicle came but the medical staff didn’t come with the PPE. They left and returned after over an hour and took Santram to the district hospital. A local of Bisalpur city, Roop Lal, said that Santram was semi-unconscious and was begging for help, quietly. “But no one responded due to the Covid-19 scare,” Lal said. When contacted, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Bisalpur, Chandra Bhan Singh, said, “The staff of the government ambulance should have been equipped with all the protective measures to deal with novel coronavirus. They had the life of the patient in danger.” Additional chief medical officer CM Chaturvedi said that Santram was given proper treatment, and he was out of danger now. “Santram was suffering from acute dehydration. He was given ample fluid and medicines and sent back home,” Chaturvedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mumbai-returnee-35-faints-on-road-lay-unattended-for-2-hours-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/76307906.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Migrants who stayed back reset lives, brick by brick||NEW DELHI: Ranjan Prasad, a migrant labourer at a construction site in Hari Nagar, was in dire circumstances, with just Rs 100 left in his pocket after two months of nil income. “I was at this lowest point when my contractor called me to tell that work would resume in a week’s time,” said Prasad. He decided not to leave Delhi as he was planning. “I realised that this is the only time I could earn something more than normal by working overtime because of the labour shortage,” he grinned. While lakhs of itinerant workers left Delhi for their home villages in other states, a handful lingered on, hoping things would get better. Some, of course, had no means of going back, but there were others who did not face privation during the lockdown because their generous employers paid them in full and took care of their fooding when they could not get rations from Delhi government. “I am in Delhi with my wife and three children, one of them my brother’s. He returned to our village in Bihar over a month ago on foot. When leaving, he told me I was so lucky,” said Chet Ram, a construction worker at Pitampura. “Indeed, I realise I am the lucky one in the family. My employer ensured we got three meals a day and paid me even for the months when we did not work.” For Radha Devi too, her life was as normal after the lockdown as earlier, giving her no reason to heed the insistence of relatives that she return home. “Both my husband and I are construction labourers and so were afraid of what would follow when the lockdown was announced,” she said. “But our contractor paid us our salaries on time and took care of other needs. There was no point thinking of our village.” Raju Gandhi, employed in the Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, disclosed that many of his relatives and friends had left for their home city of Chennai. He decided not to, hoping to use this to his advantage. “I could foresee a shortage of labour,” he smiled. “I now work overtime. There is no harm in making an extra Rs 400 working 12 additional hours. I can do this for my family.” Uttar Pradesh migrant Kishore Awasthi was similarly disposed at Chandni Chowk. “These are the little perks of staying on in Delhi. Had we gone back, we would have sat idle in our villages,” he said. “Now, at least we are doing something and earning a bit more.” However, there are many who are still in the city because the opportunity to go home has knocked only now. Phool Mehta, who worked on the Ashram underpass site, revealed. “I was short of money and every single day was a battle. After many cries for help, my brother has booked my ticket for 12 June,” he said. Gundeshwari Mehta stopped himself from going to his village in Bihar for fear of passing on the corona infection to his family. “However, an important work is pending at home so I will now have to go. But I hope to return in a week’s time,” Gundeshwari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrants-who-stayed-back-reset-lives-brick-by-brick/articleshow/76310828.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Restore 2 more trains, say activists||AURANGABAD:AS the lockdown norms have been eased further, railway activists have demanded the restoration of at least two more trains for the benefit of the passengers. The Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) train between Jalna and Manmad, and Secunderabad-Mumbai Devgiri Express are among trains whose restoration have been sought. Veteran railway activist Omprakash Varma said that many people are resuming work from office, the DEMU train must be started at the earliest. Rajesh Shinde, the public relations officer for Nanded division of South Central Railway (SCR) said, “Partial restrictions on interdistrict travel is one of the hurdles in the restoration of trains. The necessary call on restarting of trains will be taken by the Railway Board in keeping with the state policies.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/restore-2-more-trains-say-activists/articleshow/76308958.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Two spl charter flights bring migrants from Mumbai, Big B arranges fare||Times News Network Varanasi: Migrant workers arrived here at Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport by two special charter flights from Mumbai on Wednesday. The passengers claimed that their air fare was arranged by Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan through a trust. According to airport spokesperson, special charter flight Indigo (6E-9981) arrived at Varanasi airport from Mumbai at 12:40pm with 174 passengers. The second special charter flight (6E 9983) landed at LBS airport in Varanasi at 6:35pm with 180 migrants from Mumbai. Special arrangements were made for the passengers. All the passengers were brought into terminal building through aerobridge. Special counters were placed for screening of the passengers and they all were moved out separately through international arrival. These arrangements were made keeping in view the special distancing norms. Special space was created so that all the norms are followed to check Covid-19. More numbers of medical staff were deployed at the airport for smooth functioning. Shahnawaz Khan, a native of Rae Bareli, who operates auto-rickshaw in Mumbai, said that the chartered flight was arranged for migrant workers by Amitabh Bachchan through Pir Makhdum Saheb Charitable Trust. “We are extremely thankful to the great actor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-spl-charter-flights-bring-migrants-from-mumbai-big-b-arranges-fare/articleshow/76307902.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Vid records highest 128 cases in a day; two deaths in Akola||Nagpur: Vidarbha recorded 128 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, which is region’s highest single day spike till date. The cases were reported from eight districts, with Nagpur alone contributing 79 cases.The total number of cases surpassed the 2,500-mark to reach 2,545. Worst-hit Akola recorded 20 new cases and two deaths, both senior citizens, taking the Covid-19 toll of Vidarbha to 85. Out of this, 42 deaths are from Akola alone.On the other hand, 89 patients from the region recovered and got discharge from various hospitals. Region’s youngest patient — a three-month-old boy — along with his mother and 18 others recovered in Amravati. Akola discharged 32 patients followed by Nagpur (24). Gondia became Covid-19 free, at least on June 10, after all 69 patients from here recovered and got discharge. No fresh case has been reported in the district since June 3.With total 1,703 patients recovered till date, Vidarbha’s recovery rate on June 10 was 66.91%. Maharashtra’s rate is 51% and India’s 48.88%.Among the patients who died at Akola GMCH on June 10 included a 62-year-old man from Gadge Nagar area, who was admitted on June 6, and a 70-year-old man, a resident of Sontakke Plots in Old City who was under treatment since May 29. Both were having severe comorbidities, said doctors at GMCH Akola.Total number of cases in Akola reached 864 on June 10, with 20 new cases coming from 11 different localities. With 577 of them recovered and 42 deceased, Akola has total 265 active cases now. Neighbouring Washim recorded unusual spike of eight new cases on June 10. These included three patients from one family. Washim has 13 active patients now. In Buldhana, four new patients reported on June 10 came from Sangrampur and Malkapur tehsils. The district has 27 active cases now. Bhandara recorded six new cases on Wednesday. Out of the total 48 patients in the district, 32 have recovered and got discharge so far. For the second day in a row, the number of discharged patients in Amravati exceeded than those being admitted. Against the 20 patients discharged on Wednesday, five patients were admitted in the Covid ward.Among the new cases, a 70-year-old woman from Compasspura in Old City, Badnera, tested positive on Tuesday late night while a 22-year-old man from Prabha Colony in Jalaram Nagar tested positive on Wednesday morning. Out of the 287 cases so far, the number of recovered cases is 225. There are only 45 active cases now, including the two patients admitted in Nagpur.The Covid count in Chandrapur district reached 43 after four new cases were reported on Wednesday. Three were found positive in reports received late on Tuesday night. They include wife, 33, and five-year-old daughter of a 43-year-old positive patient of Jugnala village in Bramhapuri tehsil. The third case, a 22-year-old person from Barad Kinhi in Bramhapuri tehsil, is a contact of patient from Adyal Tekdi.A 45-year old person from Sumitra Nagar in Tukum tested positive on Wednesday. The person had symptoms for last eight days and was admitted to a private hospital before coming to GMCH on Monday. His swab sample was taken on Tuesday. As many as 23 patients have been treated and discharged from the hospitals. Now, there are 20 active patients in Chandrapur district.In Yavatmal district, two positive cases were reported from Mahagaon on Wednesday when 120 swab sample reports were received. One patient admitted at GMC recovered and got discharge on Wednesday. According to sources in GMC, the recovery of district rate is 77%. The district has recorded 160 patients so far. Out of them, 124 patients have recovered and got discharge.Meanwhile, one of the inmates of a Covid-19 Care Centre in Mahagaon claimed that his home in Sadhu Nagar area has been burgled. Being under isolation, he is unable to lodge a police complaint. Villagers demanded that police should increase night patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-records-highest-128-cases-in-a-day-two-deaths-in-akola/articleshow/76310833.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Registration of vehicles picks up gradually in Ernakulam district||KOCHI: Vehicle registration activity in Ernakulam regional transport office limit has been picking up gradually after lockdown restrictions were relaxed, shows data. Ernakulam RTO limit witnessed a total of 2,167 vehicle registrations in March. It slipped to just nine vehicles in April. However, it again started picking up in May with 573 vehicle registrations and in just 10 days in June it has reached 333, according to data released by the department. "As usual, most of the vehicles that are being registered are motor cycles. Though the registration of vehicles will continue in the coming days, there will be a dip compared to previous years due to the current financial situation. Altogether, the registration of vehicles is very poor,” said a motor vehicle official in Ernakulam RTO. Of the 333 vehicles registered in June, 226 were motor cycles and the rest were cars and other transport vehicles. But there were very little takers for CNG vehicles, which the government promotes to check air pollution. There were only two CNG-only vehicles registered in Ernakulam RTO office in June. Of the 573 vehicles registered in May, only five were CNG-powered ones. The rest were either diesel or petrol, or petrol/CNG or petrol/hybrid ones. Revenue also picked up from registration, other services and tax. Ernakulam could generate only Rs 32.83 lakh in April. But it rose to Rs 4.32cr and Rs 2.35cr in March and first week of June, respectively. Though there is online facility to remit fee, many still prefer cash payment. Meanwhile, two vehicles got permits last month for operating as mobile workshops. People in the automobile sector feel that huge vehicle tax, poor cash and non-cooperation on the sides of banks dissuade customers from purchasing new vehicles. They allege banks refuse to give loan to customers, who made one or two defaults in payment in earlier loans the latter availed. "The existing registration is of vehicles purchased in March or of those who made advance payment. How can people buy vehicles when there is no cash flow in the economy? Since everybody is scared of public transportation mode, there is some momentum in two-wheeler and low-end car categories. No sop in tax also dissuade people from buying new vehicles. Government needs to introduce a new tax regime instead of relying on existing methods. The government can collect vehicle tax for five years instead of the existing 15-year system. They can collect tax periodically for five years each this way for the next 15 years. This will reduce burden on customers and the government won’t lose money too. We have approached the government suggesting methods to revive the automobile industry, one of the hubs of economy," said Manoj Kurup, secretary of Kerala automobile dealers association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/registration-of-vehicles-picks-up-gradually-in-dist/articleshow/76308936.cms||T C Sreemol
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Six new Covid positive cases reported in Varanasi, two in Mau||Varanasi: Six new cases of Covid-19, including two daughters of a community health centre’s sanitary staff, surfaced in Varanasi, while two cases were also reported in Mau district on Thursday. Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said that 309 reports were received from BHU lab out of which six were positive, taking Varanasi’s Covid tally to 252. As 169 of the total cases reported have been cured and four have died, number of active cases stands at 78, he added. Among the six infected are the daughters (aged 14 and 19) of a sanitary staff of Cholapur community health centre. With the arrival of their reports, the Cholapur CHC was sealed as per the protocol for 24 hours for proper sanitisation. A 30-year-old son of an already infected man of Chhittampur village of Varanasi also tested positive. He had returned from Surat. A 20-year-old Mumbai-returned student of Ayili village in Chaubeypur and a 28-year-old housewife of Konia area were also found Covid positive. Meanwhile, with the arrival of a second consecutive negative report, 17 patients admitted at ESIC, DDU district hospital and Ayurvedic College Chowkaghat were discharged. Ayili village of Chaubeypur and Konia areas were included in the list of hotspots. Total number of hotspots in the district reached 127, of which 67 have become green zones. Number of active hotspots are 60. Mau DM Gyan Prakash Tripathi said that two new positive cases surfaced with the arrival of test reports on Thursday. Total number of positive cases in Mau reached 58, out of which, 36 have been cured while one has died. Active cases in the district are 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/six-new-covid-positive-cases-reported-in-varanasi-two-in-mau/articleshow/76327372.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||1,324 cases for cow related crime in UP||Lucknow: Since January this year, UP government has registered 1,324 cases for killing of cows and illegal transportation of the animal or beef. Other than arresting 3,867 accused of crimes against cows and their progeny, the government has filed cases under the Gangster Act against 2,197 persons who have repeated offences under the Cow Protection Act and also invoked the Goonda Act against 1,823 among them. The strict action has been taken even as The UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act had, till Tuesday, a fine of up to Rs 10,000 and a jail term of a maximum of 7 years for illegal transportation of cows, their killing or sale of beef. A government spokesperson said the CM had taken personal interest in ensuring that cows were protected in the state. Till now, for instance, 5,02,395 cattle have been geo tagged in the state. The government wanted to adopt a modern technique, especially through information technology, to identify and maintain cattle and it is possible to get all details of an animal through bar code and RFD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1324-cases-for-cow-related-crime-in-up/articleshow/76311328.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rain predicted in Telangana for next 3 days as southwest monsoon inches closer||HYDERABAD: Southwest monsoon is all set to make its official entry in the city and across the state in the next 24 hours with a few areas experiencing pre-monsoon showers of up to 78 mm on Wednesday. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society, Kalavancha and Pedda Amberpet in Abdullapurmet mandal received highest rainfall of 78.5 mm and 67.8 mm respectively till 9 pm. Many other areas such as Balanagar, Kukatpally, Shapur Nagar and Begumpet received rainfall of 30-40 mm. The showers in the city were welcomed joyfully by the residents. “For the past few days, it was hot and humid at the same time. Cloudy weather and cool winds during evening hours have finally brought some relief,” said Prerna Kothapalli, a resident of Kapra. For many others, however, bountiful rains bring in a lot of woes. A wall and a tree collapsed at Punjagutta and many other areas experienced waterlogging and power cuts. “Power snapped in our area around 5.30 pm. Every time, even if it rains for 30 minutes, the power supply snaps and it takes almost two hours to be restored,” said Shashank Patnaik, a resident of Gajularamaram. Meteorologists attributed the rainfall activity to a confluence zone over the state. Southwesterly winds from Arabian sea and a low pressure system over Bay of Bengal have converged resulting in intermittent rains over the state. “Over the next 24 hours, rainfall will cover the entire state, thereby marking official entry of south-west monsoon in Telangana. The intensity of rainfall is only likely to increase over the next few days,” said Raja Rao, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad. The IMD, Hyderabad, forecasts that the city and other districts will receive heavy rainfall for the next three days as it has issued thunderstorm accompanied with lightning warning till June 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rain-predicted-in-t-for-next-3-days-as-sw-monsoon-inches-closer/articleshow/76311072.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Don’t withdraw haj money hastily’||AURANGABAD: GSA Ansari, the former chairman of the Maharashtra State Haj Committee, on Wednesday urged the haj pilgrims, who have already deposited the money with the Haj Committee of India, to wait for the government of Saudi Arabia to take a decision on Haj this year In a statement, Ansari said that the pilgrims should not hastily withdraw the amount deposited for haj, which is safe with the haj committee, in case the situation improves and they can visit the holy cities of Mecca and Medina. He said that the Saudi government has not yet made its policy on Haj 2020. He also said that Masood Ahmed Khan, the chief executive officer of the haj committee, would communicate the decisions taken by the Saudi government. Citing some Congress functionary’s advice that pilgrims must withdraw the money deposited, Ansari said the amount could be withdrawn any time, but the pilgrims should not withdraw it immediately and instead wait and pray for the pandemic to come to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dont-withdraw-haj-money-hastily/articleshow/76308975.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bareilly||28-year-old youth booked for sexually & financially exploiting 25-year-old for 7 years||Pilibhit: A 28-year-old youth of a village under Jehanabad police station was booked on Wednesday afternoon for raping a 25-year-old girl of the same village for seven years under the pretext of marriage with her. The accused, Ashiq, also extracted Rs 70,000 in cash and gold ornaments weighing 80 gram from the girl, a post-graduate, by emotionally blackmailing her.The complainant said the accused retracted his promise of marriage with her after extracting the valuables from her in installments. In the mean while, Ashiq kept avoiding the question of his commitment, whenever the question cropped up, she said. Locals said the girl belonged to a backward caste, while the accused was upper caste, even though he followed a different faith.The complainant said she had recently been alerted that Ashiq had consented to his parents’ choice of a girl for marriage. But when she confronted him to raise her objection to the development, he beat her up brutally.Jehanabad SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said the accused was booked under sections 376 (rape), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), adding that although he is on the run, police would nab him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-year-old-youth-booked-for-sexually-financially-exploiting-25-year-old-for-7-years/articleshow/76307939.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Chain snatching accused who escaped custody held||Kochi: South police nabbed a person accused in a chain snatching case hours after he ran from their custody while being taken to a Covid precautionary facility, where arrested persons are lodged ahead of remanding them. The arrested person has been identified as Melbin (24) of Kannur. According to police, instead of stationing arrested persons at police stations now they are being stationed at special facilities set up in each sub divisions, as part of the Covid containment measures and the accused ran from such a facility at 11pm Tuesday. The accused was set to be presented before a magistrate on Wednesday and he was taken to the facility set up at the old circle inspector office at Tripunithura. However, when his handcuffs were taken off, he pushed aside the policemen on duty and ran. Police however immediately spread the information through wireless and police teams were on the road through the night, looking for the accused. Police managed to find him from Tripunithura town by early morning. Police said that he would be presented before a magistrate. The man would be kept in isolation until he is tested negative for Covid and later he would be sent to jail, officers said. Case against hooligans for attacking quarantine home Kochi: Ramamangalam police registered a case and launched a probe after unidentified hooligans pelted stones at a house which was rented out by a man to stay in home quarantine. According to police, the incident happened at Ooramana in Ramamngalam on Wednesday morning. A Mumbai-based youth had returned home and he hired a vacant house at Oornamana to stay in quarantine. However, police said that the local residents were against this. The attack happened late on Monday before the youth reached the spot to occupy the house. Even though the house was damaged, with its window panes shattered in the stone pelting, the youth occupied the house on Tuesday. Rural police said that an FIR was registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and an investigation was launched to find the miscreants. Police said that those interfering in quarantine measures and thereby the containment efforts of the state government would face stringent legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chain-snatching-accused-who-escaped-custody-held/articleshow/76308955.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mumbai||Can’t let economic activity grind to a halt to fight Covid-19: Maharashtra CMO||MUMBAI: If people violate social distancing rules and unnecessarily crowd public areas, the state government will be forced to roll back the relaxations and reimpose a strict Covid-19 lockdown, warned chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. He also appealed to the citizens to be alert and not let their guard down as the “battle was not yet over”. The CM also said that the state government had repeatedly asked the Centre to allow resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai for employees in essential services, but the Centre was yet to respond. The Govt is taking cautious steps for ‘Mission Begin Again’. Like we imposed the lockdown in phases, it will have t… https://t.co/wqIL1VRX46— CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) 1591803167000Late at night, the CMO tweeted: “Like we imposed the lockdown in phases, it will have to be lifted in a phased manner. The danger is yet to pass. But, we cannot bring the economic cycle to a grinding halt even as we fight coronavirus.” Expressing concern over pictures of crowded gardens and public places on Monday, the CM said: “We have to learn to live with the virus, but people have to be cautious… Outdoor activity has been allowed for your health, not to spoil it.” No friction in cabinet meeting, says CM UddhavThe CM said that if the lockdown relaxation turns “life-threatening”, the government will have no choice but re-implement a strict lockdown. “The crisis is not yet over. We have allowed some sectors to resume operations in a phased manner as we have to restart the economic cycle… but if the crowd is not reduced, then we will have no choice but to roll back the relaxations,” said Thackeray, after a meeting at the Vidhan Bhavan. His statement comes at a time when Maharashtra registered over 94,000 Covid-19 cases and around 3,400 deaths. Refuting allegations of ‘issues’ between chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and ministers, Thackeray denied that there was any ‘friction’ in Tuesday’s cabinet meeting. “The cabinet meeting works for people’s projects and there are last-minute proposals that do come up. No one comes to fight in the cabinet meeting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-let-eco-activity-grind-to-a-halt-to-fight-covid-cmo/articleshow/76311452.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 11, 2020||Business||Rising life cover awareness amid Covid helps insurance sector stage recovery||Hyderabad: Thanks to higher awareness about the importance of having a life cover in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the life insurance sector seems to be slowly shrugging off lockdown blues. In May 2020, the first-year premium or new business by life insurers declined by only 25% as compared to the year ago period, whereas, in April 2020, new business had dropped 32.6 % compared to the year ago business. While in April this year, the total new business premium logged by 24 life insurance players, including LIC, stood at Rs 6,727.74 crore (Rs 9,981.88 crore in April 2019), in May, it stood at Rs 13,739 crore (18,414.02 crore in May 2019). The first-year premium of LIC during May 2020 was Rs 10,211.53 crore (Rs 13,496.68 crore in May 2019) and during April 2020 it was Rs 3,581.65 crore (Rs 5,268 crore in April 2019). Insurers pointed out that the enhanced awareness about the need to have life protection policies in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to this recovery and will also drive growth in the coming days. “The private life insurance industry has recovered from a 40% de-growth in April 2020, to 32% de-growth in May 2020, which has been result of increased demand for protection products in the past couple of months. Because of the consumers’ constant focus on non-negotiable life-goals, we expect this demand to continue in the near future as well,” Prashant Tripathy, MD & CEO, Max Life Insurance said. He pointed out that Max Life has been able to limit its de-growth to 20% for both April and May 2020. “In May, we have seen an increase of 6% in the number of policies sold on a Y-o-Y basis and are confident that our focus on protection business and non-par savings products will enable us to claim back the customer demand and help get back towards consistent growth,” he said. Tarun Chugh, MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz Life too said that the company is witnessing a rise in the sale of protection plans on account of the increasing awareness amongst customers on protecting their risks. “Going forward, the industry will see an increase in the number of policies, but the value may not be very high,” he cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-life-cover-awareness-amid-covid-helps-insurance-sector-stage-recovery/articleshow/76310911.cms||Swati Rathor
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Students ‘depressed’ over continuing exam stalemate||Nagpur: With uncertainty over final-year examinations continuing in Maharashtra, students of traditional universities are in a quandary. The political rivalry between ruling coalition and opposition is the reason for their woes, with neither the government nor chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari’s office coming clear on the issue, which has now snowballed into a big controversy. “It’s high time, they come clear on whether exams would be held or not. What’s the point in keeping us in a confused state of mind? Due to this stalemate, we’re facing problems in our job placements through campus interviews,” said Purva Joshi, a student of Dr Babasaheb College of Engineering. TOI tried contacting higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, and principal secretary Saurabh Vijay over the last couple of days, but both didn’t respond to numerous calls and text messages. Even higher education director Dhanraj Mane didn’t pick up calls. The stalemate had led to many students either losing out on jobs, or being asked to continue as interns till they clear the exams or submit a provisional degree. “The situation is adversely affecting and pushing us towards depression. Many of us are currently interning and would have been placed by this time, if the government had taken a clear decision of cancelling the exams and handing over a provisional degree based on previous years’ performance,” says Pratik Lokhande, a student of Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management (RCEOM). He adds that those seeking admissions in universities abroad or in premier institutions like IIMs are suffering due to the indecision. “If exams are conducted late, these institutions would cancel admissions,” he says. Agreeing with him, MBA student from Dr Ambedkar College at Deekshabhoomi, Neha Chimurkar terms the entire experience as “frustrating”. “Initially, when they decided to cancel the exams, a majority of students were happy. Not because they’re saved from preparations, but due to the danger of getting infected with the deadly virus at centres. Now, with uncertainty looming over our heads, we’ve started studying. I just want to request the decision makers to clear the confusion once and for all, as we’re stuck due to the stalemate,” she says. THE DEVELOPMENTS * Govt constitutes panel of 4 VCs to decide on conducting exams during pandemic * They suggested constitution of advisory panel for coming up with guidelines * After demand from students, minister Uday Samant wrote to UGC for exam cancellation * CM Uddhav Thackeray declared exams would be cancelled & average marks granted * Chancellor BS Koshiyari wrote to CM strongly opposing exam cancellation * He said it’s against provisions of Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, and UGC rules||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-depressed-over-continuing-exam-stalemate/articleshow/76310928.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP issues Rs 1.3cr recoverynotices to 6 sacked teachers||Lucknow/Shravasti: The UP government on Wednesday issued notices to six sacked teachers for recovery of Rs 1.37 crore paid to them during their tenure of employment in the district. The six were sacked last year after they found using fake papers to get the job and FIRs were filed against them. One of them is in jail, one has got bail while the remaining four are absconding. Earlier, similar steps were taken to recover Rs 95 lakh from four teachers in Bahraich, which they spent as salary and allowances during their service. Last week, TOI reported about one teacher who worked at 25 Kasturba Vidyalayas for 13 months and 'took away' Rs 1 crore as salary. Later, it turned out that documents of one 'eligible' candidate were being used by fraudsters. Shravasti’s basic shisha adhikari Omkar Rana issued notices to six teachers – Manoj Kumar of Etah (Rs 4.8 lakh) , Ram Kumar of Firozabad (Rs 13.6 lakh), Shobnath of Sant Kabir Nagar (Rs 33.3 lakh), Rajiv Upadhyaya of Gorakhpur (Rs 33.4), Kanhaiya Singh of Balrampur (Rs 32.7 lakh) , and Ajit Kumar Shukla of Bahraich (Rs 19.1 lakh). "All these six teachers were caught working with fake documents last year, after which they were sacked and FIRswere lodged against them,” Rana said. According to officials, of the six, Ajit Shukla had produced a fake certificate of the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) to get the job. He was sacked, and later arrested but is currently on bail. Rana said, Ram Kumar is related to the 2004-05 BEd degree scam where candidates used fake degrees in the name of Agra University. Others were terminated in different cases of using fake documents. Of the remaining five, Shobhnath is behind bars while four are absconding, Rana told TOI. Together, these six teachers had taken Rs 1.3 crore as salary and other allowances for which recovery notices have been served. "If they fail to deposit the amount by June 20, the recovery of revenue will be done by initiating legal action, the notice says (TOI has a copy). According to Bahraich BSA Dinesh Yadav, four teachers using fake documents were sacked on April 12, 2019 and recovery notice amounting to Rs 95 lakh was issued to them in January this year. Over 4,000 teachers across the state were found using fake degrees of Agra University in an SIT probe. Action has been initiated against all of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-issues-rs-1-3cr-recoverynotices-to-6-sacked-teachers/articleshow/76311402.cms||Isha Jain
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||HC rejects revenue officers’ plea over probe into fake land deal||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently dismissed a petition filed by two revenue officers seeking the quashing of a probe into their alleged role in fraudulent sale of land for Rs 1.38 crore. The officers are facing criminal proceedings for their alleged involvement in selling non-existent land to a Pune-based developer to establish a solar energy plant at Lohara in Osmanabad district in 2013. Shashikant Gaikwad, at present working as tehsildar in Bhiwandi and a resident of Lohara village, and Gopal Akoskar, currently working as revenue circle officer in Osmanabad district, had approached the high court seeking quashing of the FIR registered against them with the Lohara police for offences punishable under sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR was registered against 45 people, including the two revenue officials, following directions from the Judicial Magistrate First Class in October 2018 after Amit Navneet Gandhi, a resident of Pune, filed a private complaint. “He and his father had reached a land deal with 42 people for Rs 1.38 crore, according to which they sold them (the developers) about 100 acres situated in Survey numbers 70 and 71 (A) among others to set up a solar power plant. The 42 people had submitted revenue record, which was purportedly issued by tehsildar, revenue circle officer and talathi. However, later it turned out that survey no. 71 (A), supposed to be having a bigger portion of over 70 acres of land, does not exist,’’ said Shantanu Deshpande, the lawyer representing Amit Gandhi. Deshpande said that the complaint also stated that revenue authority like the tehsildar, revenue circle officer and talathi helped the accused to create false record, like 7/12 extracts and revenue map to convince him that such land existed. While rejecting the criminal application by the officers, the HC bench comprising Justices T V Nalawade and Justice M G Sewlikar observed “There is record to show that such land was not in existence but by making false representations, huge consideration was obtained from the complainant and his father. The aforesaid record shows that the talathi, revenue circle inspector and the tehsildar had played their own part in it. They could not have given the certificates in respect of the land, which was not in existence.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-rejects-revenue-officers-plea-over-probe-into-fake-land-deal/articleshow/76309002.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath sets one crore mandays of job target under MGNREGS||LUCKNOW: Enhancing employment cover to labourers, including those who migrated to UP following novel coronavirs induced lockdown, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday set a target of creating one crore mandays of jobs under the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) by June 15. Currently, the rural development department is able to create around 42 lakh mandays of work. This means, that the state government will have to increase its capacity by more than double to generate jobs under MNREGS in five days. The decision was taken by the CM at a high-level meeting comprising departments which could potentially create jobs under MNREGS. The CM also held a video conferencing with district magistrates and divisional commissioners to accelerate works under MNREGS. Sources present in the meeting said that the CM asked the officials to create an additional 58 lakh more mandays of work to meet the target of one crore. In the last one-and-a-half months since the MNREGS works started a total of around seven crore mandays have been created by the rural development department. The CM said that the DMs in various districts should assess the situation and identify works which can be conducted under MNREGS in their respective districts. Yogi said that DM would be required to send a detailed proposal of works in the next three days. He also asked the divisional commissioners to carry out inspection of the districts under their jurisdiction and get the developmental projects expedited. The CM pitched for convergence of various departments to create more jobs under the Central scheme. He said that this would also help the government in identifying more spots where works could be carried out and more labourers could be engaged under MNREGS. He said labourers may also be engaged in other state and central government schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-sets-1cr-mandays-of-job-target-under-mnregs/articleshow/76311345.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||Unnao tops state’s first ease of doing biz rankings||Lucknow: Unnao district has topped the first comprehensive ‘ease of doing business’ rankings under the business reform action plan issued by the infrastructure and industrial development department on Wednesday. The district has trumped Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj and Baghpat for effectively disposing of applications received on Nivesh Mitra portal. In May, chief secretary RK Tiwari had said that each district would be assessed on efficiency to handle complaints and issues raised on Nivesh Mitra portal to improve the overall performance of the state in ease of doing business rankings. The rankings issued on Wednesday are for the month of May and include applications received since February 21, 2018. All districts were divided into two categories for assessment –those receiving more than 2,000 applications (category A) those with less than 2,000 applications (category B). Total 23 districts had qualified for category A and 52 for category B. Unnao received 2,176 applications from entrepreneurs seeking clearances, licences, etc. It was awarded 85.11 marks in disposal of applications within specified timeline, 42.31 marks for resolution of grievances within 15 days and 43.55 marks for ‘satisfied’ user feedback. Unnao’s total of 170.97 marks was better than Bulandshahr (164.42), Ghaziabad (161.81), Prayagraj (161.26) and Baghpat (160.02). In category B, Kaushambi secured first spot with 181.70 marks, followed by Shravasti (172.57), Siddharth Nagar (170.81), Fatehgarh (166.39) and Ayodhya (165.84). Principal secretary (industries) Alok Kumar said districts were judged on three parameters – disposal of applications, grievance redressal and user feedback status. “If total marks of two or more districts are the same, the subtotal of Nivesh Mitra application disposal percentage is considered to rank districts,” he said. Kumar added that the performance of districts at the bottom of both the categories would be analyzed and corrective measures would be taken to improve their performance. Nivesh Mitra, state’s single window portal for industries, provides 146 services of 20 departments. In the last nationwide ranking for 2017-18, UP was placed in the ‘Achievers’ category, having ranked 12th with a score of 92.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-tops-states-first-ease-of-doing-biz-rankings/articleshow/76311339.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||City’s built-up area up 80% in 11 years||AHMEDABAD: Dense green cover in the city has seen a reduction of over 20% along with a 17% decline in open spaces in the Ahmedabad. However, Ahmedabad’s built up area increased by around 72% up from 81.68 sq km in 2005 to 141 sq km in 2016. Similarly, the state capital Gandhinagar, which was once listed among the greenest city in the state and country saw a reduction of 30% in its dense tree cover while its built up area increased by 80%. According to the data from the state forest department, the expanded city limits also saw an increase in built up of over 70%. Officials said that satellite imagery acquired by the forest department shows that green lungs have reduced in Ahmedabad and there are more scattered trees. Dense forest area means that the tree density per hectare should be more than 40%, while in open forest areas the density is between 10 per cent and 40 per cent. In Ahmedabad city, the area under open forest increased by one square kilometre. However, according to officials, the water bodies in the city are disappearing. The city which had 10.37 sq km of water bodies in 2005 now has only 8.7 sq km. Officials said that this data was acquired by the Gujarat Ecological Education and Research (GEER) Foundation for its study on the urban trees. GEER had taken up the project after the first urban tree count was declared in 2010. With no urban body willing to support the programme, the department is going ahead on its own and is likely to finish its report in the next couple of months. The officials said that in Gandhinagar city, open land area fell by 23% between 2005 and 2016. “What was surprising is the area under water bodies increased from 13 to 21 sq km. Officials said that they are now examining the areas where water bodies have increased. The officials said that in the last 11 years construction activity has increased in Bopal, Ghuma, Manipur, Shela and Ognaj in the western part of the city and toward Vatva, Nikol, in the eastern part of the city. The built up area toward Gandhinagar, that is Bhat, Motera and Koteshwar, is also growing. Development along the west of the city is due to the large number of manufacturing industries along this corridor specially towards Sanand and the growth in east is due to the location of existing industrial estates in Vatva and Odhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-built-up-area-up-80-in-11-years/articleshow/76310224.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Man selling fake engine oil arrested||VADODARA: The special operation group (SOG) of Vadodara police arrested a man for selling duplicate engine oil in the city. The cops acted after they got information that Nusrat Mehendi Bhujawala, a resident of Wadi, was selling duplicate engine oil by using different brand names. “Nusrat used to run a small unit in his home. He used to bring in all the raw material for making the engine oil. The accused also had a machine for mixing all the raw material for making the oil,” SOG sleuths said. He used to pack the oil in different packets and sell them under brand names. SOG seized the machine, packets, stickers and oil worth Rs 3.34 lakh from the spot. The police said that a similar offence was registered against him at Panigate police station for selling duplicate engine oil in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-selling-fake-engine-oil-arrested/articleshow/76307603.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pharma company cheated of Rs 2 crore by Mumbai man||AHMEDABAD: A medicine supplier from Gota filed a complaint on Tuesday at Sola police station alleging that a Mumbai-based pharmaceutical firm owner had cheated him and his partner of Rs 2.10 crore by not paying dues for medicines he had purchased from them. In his FIR with Sola police, Jaimin Oza, 31, resident of Gota, states that he and his partner Chirag Patel run a business in supplying medicines, Uptas Life Science, for three years in Science City Road area. Around two years ago, another medicine businessman from the city, Ketan Patel, had introduced Oza with Adhyatmabandhu Gupta, the accused in the case, who runs a firm named Concept pharmaceuticals in Mumbai. On November 5, 2018, Gupta gave a telephonic purchase order to Oza which was fulfilled then. According to the FIR, Oza had supplied medicines to Gupta till March 30, 2019. Oza said that he had sold medicines worth Rs 2.27 crore on credit to Gupta during that time period. But Gupta had only paid Rs 17 lakh to him through RTGS (real time gross settlement), states the FIR. Oza said that he was not given due amount of Rs 2.10 crore despite continuous pursuance by him to Gupta and his staff members. Gupta had given four cheques of Rs 25 lakh at different times, but all of them bounced, states the FIR. As Oza failed to get money from Gupta, he along with his business partner approached Sola police and filed a complaint of cheating and breach of trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pharma-company-cheated-of-rs-2-crore-by-mumbai-man/articleshow/76310256.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu’s highest one-day tally of 1,927 takes count beyond 36,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported nearly 2,000 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, its highest single-day count, and crossed the grim milestone of 36,000 cases, nearly 26,000 in Chennai alone. Nineteen deaths were reported, taking the toll to 326. But this number does not include the 236 deaths till June 8 in Chennai that were recorded by the city’s civic body but not included in the state’s count. A 11-member panel of experts is investigating how this happened. At the Covid-19 control rooms, health officials were counting vacant beds in hospitals, transferring and recruiting more doctors and health workers for Chennai, and mapping out red and buffer zones for micro-containment plans.Chennai’s tally of 25,937 cases account for nearly 70% of the state’s tally, which touched 36,841 with the 1,927 cases reported on Wednesday. So far, 19,333 people have been cured and discharged from various hospitals across the state. The state has 17,179 people under treatment. It took two months for Tamil Nadu to record 5,000 cases ever since the first case on March 7. It then took 16 more days to cross 15,000 and another 11 days to breach 25,000. Since then the state has added another 10,000 cases in just a week. The state has added 14,518 cases since June 1, and the doubling period during the time has dropped from 16 days to two weeks. During the same time Chennai added 11,095 cases and the doubling period dropped to 13 days. All medical college hospitals were at full capacity and those in peripheral hospitals were filling up fast. Data on the state dashboard showed 68% of beds in private hospitals were vacant, although some hospitals such as Apollo Hospitals, Greams Road, Kauvery Hospital and Fortis Hospitals had no vacant beds. “We have told all hospitals to keep at least five beds on standby for emergency. There are 13,000 private hospital beds. We are slowly asking hospitals to set aside more beds for Covid care,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. Meanwhile, in the government side, the state will add at least 10,000 more beds in Chennai. On Wednesday, Chengalpet reported 182 cases while Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram registered 108 and 33 cases, respectively. Other northern districts continued their upsurge significantly contributing to the state’s Covid count. While Vellore had 11 cases, Ranipet had 25 and Tiruvannamalai reported 26 fresh cases. In the south, Tuticorin recorded the highest increase of 23 cases, followed by Madurai which had ten fresh cases. The western region which was Covid free for a long time has begun reporting new cases every day. In Coimbatore one person was reported positive on Wednesday, while Dharmapuri and Namakkal has four each. Nilgiris and Tirupur, however, have no cases. Four of the 19 people who died had no comorbidities. The youngest patient was a 38-year-old man with chronic kidney disease admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 5. He died a day after the test results turned negative on June 8. There were 13 people above the age of 60 and five in their 50s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-highest-one-day-tally-of-1927-takes-count-beyond-36k/articleshow/76310944.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Salem||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu’s highest one-day tally of 1,927 takes count beyond 36,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported nearly 2,000 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, its highest single-day count, and crossed the grim milestone of 36,000 cases, nearly 26,000 in Chennai alone. Nineteen deaths were reported, taking the toll to 326. But this number does not include the 236 deaths till June 8 in Chennai that were recorded by the city’s civic body but not included in the state’s count. A 11-member panel of experts is investigating how this happened. At the Covid-19 control rooms, health officials were counting vacant beds in hospitals, transferring and recruiting more doctors and health workers for Chennai, and mapping out red and buffer zones for micro-containment plans.Chennai’s tally of 25,937 cases account for nearly 70% of the state’s tally, which touched 36,841 with the 1,927 cases reported on Wednesday. So far, 19,333 people have been cured and discharged from various hospitals across the state. The state has 17,179 people under treatment. It took two months for Tamil Nadu to record 5,000 cases ever since the first case on March 7. It then took 16 more days to cross 15,000 and another 11 days to breach 25,000. Since then the state has added another 10,000 cases in just a week. The state has added 14,518 cases since June 1, and the doubling period during the time has dropped from 16 days to two weeks. During the same time Chennai added 11,095 cases and the doubling period dropped to 13 days. All medical college hospitals were at full capacity and those in peripheral hospitals were filling up fast. Data on the state dashboard showed 68% of beds in private hospitals were vacant, although some hospitals such as Apollo Hospitals, Greams Road, Kauvery Hospital and Fortis Hospitals had no vacant beds. “We have told all hospitals to keep at least five beds on standby for emergency. There are 13,000 private hospital beds. We are slowly asking hospitals to set aside more beds for Covid care,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. Meanwhile, in the government side, the state will add at least 10,000 more beds in Chennai. On Wednesday, Chengalpet reported 182 cases while Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram registered 108 and 33 cases, respectively. Other northern districts continued their upsurge significantly contributing to the state’s Covid count. While Vellore had 11 cases, Ranipet had 25 and Tiruvannamalai reported 26 fresh cases. In the south, Tuticorin recorded the highest increase of 23 cases, followed by Madurai which had ten fresh cases. The western region which was Covid free for a long time has begun reporting new cases every day. In Coimbatore one person was reported positive on Wednesday, while Dharmapuri and Namakkal has four each. Nilgiris and Tirupur, however, have no cases. Four of the 19 people who died had no comorbidities. The youngest patient was a 38-year-old man with chronic kidney disease admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 5. He died a day after the test results turned negative on June 8. There were 13 people above the age of 60 and five in their 50s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tns-highest-one-day-tally-of-1927-takes-count-beyond-36k/articleshow/76319095.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||1 dies of virus, 6 +ve in HP||Shimla: A Hamirpur woman, 53, died on Wednesday of Covid-19 at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, where she was undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, six fresh cases of virus infection also surfaced in the state, pushing the total count to 451. Of the new cases, three were reported from Kangra district, two from Sirmaur and one from Solan. The state now has 187 active cases, while 247 have recovered, 11 have migrated out of state and six patients have died. The woman who died on Wednesday was shifted to Shimla on June 4 as she was suffering from kidney ailment. She had travel history of Delhi and had returned to state on May 28. Her grandson also tested positive in Hamirpur on Tuesday. Earlier, two people from Mandi district died of Covid-19, while Hamirpur, Kangra and Shimla districts reported one fatality each. Meanwhile, following detection of eight Covid-19 cases — all employees of Orisson Pharma Company Ltd in Kala Amb panchayat of Sirmaur district — on Tuesday, the area spread over sub-village Khaari along Sadhaura and Nagal Suketi road, including the habitation in and around Himalayan College, has been declared a containment zone. Besides, the adjoining areas of Moginand, Rampur Jatton and Nagal Suketi of Kala Amb panchayat, Khairi, and Tokka and Johron of Trilokpur panchayat has been declared a buffer zone by the Sirmaur district administration. In Kangra district, a 28-year-old man from Bandiyan Khopa village, who returned from Delhi on May 31 and a 56-year-old man from Dhrug Baijnath, who had also arrived from Delhi on June 4, have tested positive. A 58-year-old woman from Naushera village of Dehra tehsil who came from Delhi on June 7, has also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-dies-of-virus-6-ve-in-hp/articleshow/76310955.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Tough times ahead for Kochi Metro||KOCHI: It’s almost 80 days since Kochi Metro services came to a halt. The rise ahead for Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) would not be smooth as the Metro agency will have a tough time generating enough revenue for its sustenance. If we go by the figures released in 2018-19 annual report published by KMRL, the agency suffered a loss of Rs 77 lakh per day for operating metro services covering a distance of 18.22 km between Aluva and Maharaja’s College. “Now the metro can operate from Aluva to Thykoodam. But the entire stretch has remained idle ever since the announcement of lockdown. There is no revenue from the fare box. However, KMRL has to pay its employees as well as contract service providers, undertake maintenance and above all, it has to pay huge amounts as interest for loans taken. As the economy struggles to revive, KMRL will not find many takers for the commercial spaces created at metro stations. They will have to take a relook of their revenue generation models to sustain in a highly volatile economic environment,” said a transport planner who works for the state government. He also highlighted the fact that despite getting green signal from the commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) to begin commercial operations till Petta, KMRL is unable to go ahead. Much before announcing a complete suspension of metro services on March 22 to tackle the spread of Covid-19, KMRL had taken a decision to temporarily reduce its services of Kochi Metro trains. With people are keeping away from public transport systems out of the fear of virus spread, Kochi Metro will have to travel the extra mile to convince their passengers to return. “So far, Kochi Metro has been trying to encourage the public to avoid private vehicles and migrate to public transport. Commuters who can afford to take the metro have started to get back to cars and two-wheelers,” said a Kochi Metro official. Experts keenly following implementation of Kochi Metro project are apprehensive about the future of big-ticket infrastructure projects which increases pressure on land use and raises environment concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tough-times-ahead-for-kochi-metro/articleshow/76308999.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||JVVNL junior engineer accepts Rs 10k bribe, arrested||Kota: A junior engineer (JEN) of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) posted at Samaraniya in Baran district was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly taking bribe of Rs 10,000. He was produced before the ACB court in Kota that ordered on Wednesday to send him to jail under judicial custody if he tests negative for Covid-19. The sample of the accused JEN was collected on Wednesday for the Covid test. The junior engineer, identified as Gampa Pramod, a resident of Krishna in Andhra Pradesh and posted at Samaraniya in Baran district was arrested by sleuths of ACB, Baran on Tuesday at his government residence at GSS Khushiyara, after he accepted a bribe of Rs 10,000 from one Ramkishan Kirad, a resident of Sirsodkalan village of the district, said ACB Baran inspector Gyanchand Meena. The complainant Ramkishan Kirad, had in April 2018 applied for replacing his domestic electric meter following which the employee of JVVNL took away the electric meter but did not put the fresh meter, the ACB inspector said. The complainant later met JEN Gampa Pramod, who took Rs 10,000 to execute the work to replace the meter and later demanded Rs 10,000 more, he added. The complainant approached ACB Baran on Tuesday and lodged a report in this connection against JEN Gampa Pramod following which a verification was carried out on the same day, the ACB inspector said. The JEN on Tuesday evening, the same day of verification of the complaint, called the complainant with the bribe amount of Rs 10,000 at his government residence at GSS Khushiyara, where ACB personnel, already alert, arrested him after he received the bribe, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jvvnl-junior-engineer-accepts-rs-10k-bribe-arrested/articleshow/76310898.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Police crack down on lockdown violators||AURANGABAD: Police have increased its crackdown against individuals and establishments found violating the lockdown norms as the number of Covid-19 cases are fast rising in the city. Bikers roaming without valid reason in containment zones have particularly come under the scanner of police who have registered two offences in the last 24 hours till Wednesday morning. Also, the Begampura police booked a 23-year old resident of Harsul and 21-year old from Hilal colony for violating lockdown norms, an official release said. In a related offence, the Harsul police have booked three people caught riding on a two-wheeler, which is not only a traffic violation but also flouting of the social distancing norm. Shops, restaurants and other commercial establishments operating beyond the stipulated time have also faced police action. The Jinsi police have booked a 30-year old owner of a hotel at Champa Chowk, whereas their Cidco counterparts registered an offence against a 51-year-old person for operating an articles shop in the N-10 area beyond the permissible timings. The Harsul police have booked 10 shopowners for similar violations. All the aforesaid offences have been registered under the Epidemic Act, 1897, Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-crack-down-on-lockdown-violators/articleshow/76309019.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||RERA slaps Rs 93 lakh fine on Noida realtor for delay in refund||LUCKNOW: A bench of Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) has imposed a penalty of Rs 93 lakh on housing developer giant Mascot Homes Private Limited for delaying refund to buyers who invested in its housing project Manorath in Noida extension. It also directed the company to refund buyers’ money along with interest. The order was issued by UPRERA’s bench-2 NCR on June 2 on the petition filed by a section of buyers. The order directs the company to give refund to 31 complainants along with interest till December 31, 2020, and deposit the penalty amount of Rs 93 lakh at RERA. In case the company fails to comply with the directions, UPRERA will issue recovery certificates for the amount payable to customers and fine from builder’s assets, the order said. On the petition of these 31 complainants, the bench on January 31, 2019 had directed the promoter to give the possession of houses to buyers by June 2019 along with occupancy and completion certificates as well as delay interest, else after that the buyer would have the right to claim refund. The order said the promoter failed to give the possession on time. As a result, it added, the 31 complainants approached the authority in August 2019 again. The authority sent a notice to the builder on September 3, 2019, seeking reasons for non-compliance of the January 31 order. The promoter replied they will give possession by January 2020. The promoter was served with a show cause notice again on December 2, 2019, and asked to state reason why a penalty may not be imposed under Section 63 of RERA Act for non- compliance of order. The promoter did not respond, after which the authority decided to proceed for action under Section 63. The promoter sought time on March 16, 2010, hearing to refund buyers’ money in instalments. The Bench then asked promoter to submit an affidavit in this regard. However, it failed to file the affidavit with regards to refund. Subsequently, the bench ordered to return the amount with interest in four instalments, of which first was to be paid by April 30, 2020, with compliance report to UPRERA submitted by May. However, the promoter did not comply with the order, said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rera-slaps-rs-93l-fine-on-noida-realtor-for-delay-in-refund/articleshow/76311353.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 11, 2020||Bareilly||Seven arrested in two separate murder cases||Bareilly: Police on Wednesday claimed to have arrested at least seven accused wanted in two different cases of murder committed on June 6. A 35-year-old youth, Sachin Maurya, was shot at in broad daylight at Ahiyapur village after a gang of three started indiscriminate firing at the Katara Chand Khan locality in the city. In another incident on the same day, police said that two youths were arrested after they reportedly stabbed their 32-year-old friend Kamal to death. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey said that police arrested five persons – including Vinod Kumar, Mohammad Salman, Aman Maurya, Muzaffar Ali and Mahak Singh. Police recovered two motorbikes, five country-made pistols and live cartridges from their possession. On June 6, all five accused had reached Katara Chand Khan locality where they started indiscriminate firing. An innocent youth Sachin Maurya sustained bullet injuries. He passed away on June 9 during treatment. The SSP said that all five accused were arrested in a police encounter that took place on Wednesday morning. In another incident, police recovered a dead body with several stab wounds from a field under Bithari Chainpur police station limits on June 6. The deceased was identified as Kamal, a resident of Jogi Nawada locality who was an e-rickshaw driver and a native of Shahjahanpur. “During investigation we learnt that Vishal Gupta and Mohammad Ishaq, who were Kamal’s friends, had taken the latter to Beniram village under the pretext of bringing wheat sacks from there. On reaching the place, they stabbed him and fled the spot. Later, they sold the new batteries and abandoned the vehicle at the petrol pump,” the SSP added. An FIR under section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the IPC was registered against them and they were sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-arrested-in-two-separate-murder-cases/articleshow/76307973.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Sangrur gets first death, 11 test positive||PATIALA: Eleven Covid-19 cases were reported in Sangrur district on Wednesday, taking the tally to 134. Also, a 70-year-old man from Malerkotla died of the virus, becoming the district’s first coronavirus casualty. The deceased, a tuberculosis patient, had been on ventilator for four days in Patiala. The health authorities said four members of his family, comprising 1.5-year-old girl and a nine-year-old boy, also tested positive. A 38-year-old woman from Jhaloor village, an assistant to anganwadi worker and two persons from Malerkota were also from Delhi. Officials said two cops of Sangrur police lines had also tested positive. In Patiala, four fresh cases were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sangrur-gets-1st-death-11-test-positive/articleshow/76310932.cms||Bharat Khanna
June 11, 2020||Delhi||From dhoom to gloom: Why banquet owners are upset||NEW DELHI: From early morning on Wednesday, disc jockey Mukesh Kumar (name changed) has been out on his two-wheeler, looking for a place where he can keep his DJ equipment safely. For about five years, the expensive equipment was set up permanently at a popular banquet hall in north Delhi, which is likely to be turned into a Covid-19 treatment facility. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently said that hotels and banquet halls would continue to remain closed as the government might attach them with hospitals to expand health services in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi. A tentative list of such banquet halls has been prepared. Some of the biggest such banquet halls in the city are located in north and northwest Delhi, with hall area ranging between 5,000 and 20,000 square feet. They have been accordingly identified as 50 to 275 bedded facilities. “My entire set-up, including the wooden dance floor and the speakers and the lights, was a permanent fixture. I used them whenever I was asked to come, depending on the customer’s requirement,” Kumar claimed. “The banquet hall owner called me this morning and asked me to remove my equipment immediately as he had to empty the hall,” he said. “There are expensive speakers, players and controllers, apart from light truss and sharpy lights. The entire equipment is worth about Rs 3 lakh and would not fit in my home. I cannot just keep it anywhere.” “This just adds to the stress at a time I am out of work,” he added. Banquet hall owners said they don’t have any qualms in providing their premises for the fight against Covid-19, but feel Delhi government could have made some better alternative arrangements. “We believe the guesthouses would have better served the purpose as they have rooms with attached toilets,” said the owner of one of the most well-known banquet halls in the capital. “Our halls are designed to accommodate hundreds of people at the same time, but for events that last for four to five hours. Our toilets are also designed accordingly. Most of them have urinals, but no showers. Banquet halls are not meant for 24x7 accommodation,” he added. Another banquet hall owner said that they are concerned about their premises sustaining damage. “We have invested crores of rupees in designing and decorating the interiors that include expensive marble flooring, mirrors, lighting, chandeliers, etc. What will we do if these are damaged? We are not even sure how much we will be compensated for the use of our premises, many of which are rented locations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-dhoom-to-gloom-why-banquet-owners-are-upset/articleshow/76310966.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||25 gamblers arrested in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The crime branch unit of the city police raided a residential premises in the Qiasar Colony area on Tuesday evening and arrested 25 people on the charges of gambling. They also recovered cash and other material worth Rs 3.40 lakh from their possession. According to assistant police commissioner Nagnath Kode, police conducted the raid after receiving a tip-off about gambling at the residence of one of suspects named Mohammed Sajid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/25-gamblers-arrested-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76309049.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Doctor held for taking Rs 12k bribe in Jhalawar||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Jhalawar, on Wednesday arrested a medical officer posted at primary health centre (PHC) at Harigarh in the district for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 12,000 from a nursing staff. The medical officer demanded the bribe for not dismissing his deputation and sending him to the place of posting at PHC in Suneil. An ACB sleuth on Wednesday arrested Dr Pradeep Sharma at PHC Harigarh, who also held additional charge of BCMHO, Khanpur, for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 12,000 from a nursing staff, said Bhawanishankar Meena ASP, ACB, Jhalawar. The medical officer demanded Rs 15,000 from Sanjay Mehar for not dismissing his deputation at PHC, Pedawa, which is also his native and to send him to his actual place of posting at PHC, Suneil, he added. The complainant approached ACB, Jhalawar, on Monday and lodged a complaint against Dr Sharma following which verification of the complaint was carried out on the same day, the ASP said. The medical officer on Wednesday morning called the nursing staff with bribe amount of Rs 12,000 at PHC Harigarh, where the ACB personnel, already alert, arrested him as soon as he accepted the bribe amount, the DSP said, adding the bribe amount was also recovered from the window of his government residence on the PHC premises. The accused medical officer is a resident of Talwandi area in Kota where ACB team of Kota is currently carrying out a search operation, he added. The accused will be produced before the ACB court in Kota on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doctor-held-for-taking-rs-12k-bribe/articleshow/76310936.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Solar powered electrification on cards for 90 S Goa houses||Panaji: The decision of the state cabinet on Wednesday, to implement the rural village electrification scheme for households through renewable energy, will help 90 houses in Sanguem, Quepem, Sattari and Canacona get electricity. “This scheme will benefit houses which do not have electricity,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. A cabinet note said the programme aims to bring electricity, through renewable energy sources, to un-electrified remote villages, hamlets and wards where grid connectivity is either not feasible or not cost-effective. “ This scheme is formulated to ensure last mile connectivity and electricity connections to all remaining un-electrified households in the state,” the note further said Under the scheme, 100% financial assistance will be provided to households, with an upper limit of Rs 90,000 per household, for a 500 Wp solar system. This amount will include cost of transportation and installation as well as annual maintenance contract (AMC) for five years. Each household will be charged monthly electricity charges, as determined by the government, depending on the number of units consumed. This amount will be used to create a village-wise corpus fund which will then be used to undertake maintenance of the systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/solar-powered-electrification-on-cards-for-90-s-goa-houses/articleshow/76311470.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad is No. 1 in Smart City project implementation||AHMEDABAD: The smart city project of Ahmedabad has again being rated the best smart city project in implementation. The special purpose vehicle, Smart City Ahmedabad Development Limited, maintained it first position in terms of execution. According to AMC officials, the SPV secured 81.37 marks out of 100 and was the first among all the cities in the county. The officials said that the SPV, even during the lockdown, ensured that the implementation was going on without any hindrance. In all, Ahmedabad submitted 35 projects under the Smart City Project Mission, in which a major chunk is area-based development, retrofitting of transit oriented zone (TOZ), in-situ slum housing at Rama Pir No Tekro, CG Road redevelopment along with a multi-level parking complex, 60 MLD sewage pumping station, metered 24x7 water supply, LED streetlights and laying of an optical fibre network across the city. Besides these projects, some 186 locations in the city have been turned into Wi-Fi zones where citizens can access the internet for free. Places like AMC’s public offices, the BRTS corridor, LG, VS and Shardaben hospitals are WiFi zones. The majority of these projects are already on track and some of these are on the verge of completion, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-is-no-1-in-smart-city-project-implementation/articleshow/76310219.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Relics found from Koodalmanikyam Temple pond||THRISSUR: Idols, shaligrams and coins found from the pond of the Koodalmanikyam Temple at Irinjalakkuda have sparked a debate on Wednesday. The relics were found when the theerthakulam (pond), spread over 3.5 acres, was drained. A senior devaswom official, on Wednesday, claimed that the findings were from the yagashala of Kuleepini Maharshi. A prominent historian, however, refuted the claim. “The temple is 5,000-year-old, and the ancient yagashala of Kuleepini Maharshi shows that the sage had conducted yaga inside the temple,” said U Pradeep Menon, chairman of the Koodalmanikyam Temple devaswom. It is believed that sages, led by Kuleepini Marshi, lived and meditated in the area, which was once a dense forest. “We have scheduled a meeting of temple priests on Friday for further decision,” said the devaswom official. Refuting the official’s claim, historian and former vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University Rajan Gurukkal said India does not have any temple that is 5,000 years old. “According to an inscription in which King Sthanu Ravi is also mentioned, the temple dates to 854 AD. Sage Kuleepini is only a legend. Relics obtained from the tank are votive offerings by devotees or those abandoned by Brahmin households or local shrines. They are not very old,” said Gurukkal. Gurukkal further said that historian Dr Kesavan Veluthat had identified the idols as dancing Krishna, Somaskandha, Lord Vishnu with Devi and Bhoodevi. “Some of the objects could be used for worship in Nambuthiri houses, which were later handed over to nearby temples. There are salagramams (shaligrams), Sivalingas, Yonipitas, etc,” said Gurukkal. Bharatha, brother of Lord Ram, is the presiding deity of the Koodalmanikyam Temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/relics-found-from-koodalmanikyam-temple-pond/articleshow/76309027.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||In Hry, 2 patients die at PGIMS||Rohtak/Karnal/Yamunanagar/Panipat/Jind: Two Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here died on Wednesday. Rohtak chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anil Birla said the patients included a 66-year-old diabetic man from Kamla Colony, Rohtak, and a 48-year-old man from Sonipat district. While the Rohtak patient was admitted to a hospital on Tuesday, the other one had been admitted on June 7. Their cases have not been addded to the state tally. Eight people, including four from a family, tested positive in Karnal. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said a day after a 48-year-old man from Kalandhari Gate tested positive, four members of his family — including his 72-year-old mother, 47-year-old wife, 17-year-old son and 15-year-old daughter — were found infected. Two people tested positive in Yamunanagar, said civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya. “A man (27) from Azad Nagar in Yamunanagar city, who returned from Uttar Pradesh, and a man (34) of Manohar Colony in Jagadhri, who returned from Gurgaon, are the new patients,” said Dr Vijay. Also, a 36-year-old man tested positive in Panipat, said chief medical officer Dr Sant Lal Verma. He had recently returned from Delhi. Of 12 people who tested positive in Jind, one was a two-year-old girl and another a washerman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hry-2-patients-die-at-pgims/articleshow/76310989.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||TB control staff takes up Covid-19 challenge||Lucknow: The expertise and experience of staff engaged in the revised national TB control programme came in handy for the state health department in the crusade against Covid-19. The office and field staff has been tracking and tracing suspected Coronavirus cases, drawing their samples and transporting them for testing, besides working in the state helpline for surveillance and counselling. “Over 80% of the 3,000-odd staff was instantly taken for Covid-19 control and each one of them has worked diligently till now,” said state TB officer Dr Santosh Gupta. “From lab technicians to supervisors, counsellor to visitors and even district leads, including district programme officers have contributed for the cause,” he added. Experts believe that several reasons accounted for deployment of TB staff in Coronavirus containment. The advantage with TB staff is that they are trained to collect and handle samples which made them point persons for a number of lab related activities. A practical reason was that the TB programme staff members have vehicles which were used for transportation of coronavirus samples from districts to labs. Then, they follow up patients and are used to tracking people regularly — a trait much needed to build the line list of suspected cases in a cluster. Also, many of them are in the business of persuasion to ensure that patients do not miss their medicines despite side effects. This skill was used at the call centre while handling anxious or depressed persons during the lockdown. “It is because of their prior experience that negligible health staff contracted the infection in the process of collecting samples,” said Dr Santosh. Many of them shouldered double responsibility during the lockdown period. “The primary responsibility — TB control programme — did suffer during lockdown as the OPDs remained closed. But then the task was to ensure that the existing patients did not drop out. So, many in the TB team were twinning between Covid and TB duties,” said CMO of a red district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tb-control-staff-takes-up-covid-19-challenge/articleshow/76311361.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Legal action against schools for ‘online fees’||AURANGABAD: The Zilla Parishad has warned schools of legal action if they are found increasing fees on the pretext of ‘online charges’. The step was taken after some parents complained of some private schools started collecting additional fees in the name of virtual learning classes. The ZP education department has written to schools about the directives from the state government that prohibit any hike in schools fees due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The communication has also asked schools not to insist parents for paying fees before June 15 or any such deadline. S P Jaiswal, education officer (primary) with Aurangabad ZP, said schools not complying with the latest order would face action as per Epidemic Act 1897, Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). “The directives issued by the state government are crystal clear and prohibits any hike for the academic year 2020-21. Schools cannot increase the fees under any head including online charges,” he said. ZP authorities also said no school should force parents for paying fees, even using online modes, at least till June 15. Despite lockdown, a section of schools from the city has been engaging students by holding classroom sessions in a virtual manner with students attending the sessions from their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/legal-action-against-schools-for-online-fees/articleshow/76309035.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's tally crosses 32,000, deaths near 1,000 mark||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,501 more cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking its tally to over 32,000 while the death toll mounted to 984. This is the second time when over 1,500 cases have been reported in a day in Delhi. The highest spike in fresh cases — 1,513 — was recorded on June 3. In a bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Delhi health department said the death toll from the novel coronavirus infection had risen to 984 and the total number of cases mounted to 32,810. A total of 79 fatalities were reported on June 9, which took place between May 20 and June 8, the bulletin said. Of these, 39 deaths took place on June 7 and 20 on June 6, an official said. He added that the cumulative death figures referred to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the death audit committee made on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. Meanwhile, state health minister Satyendar Jain said in a statement, “There is transmission in the community. But if it is community transmission or not that can be declared by the Centre only. It is a technical term.” He also said Delhi government was gearing up for the “foreseeable situation of June 30”, and for that, preparations were being made for Covid infrastructure in stadiums, banquet halls and hotels. Incidentally, the bulletin for June 9 was not released on Tuesday by the government. It was eventually released on Wednesday morning. As per the morning bulletin, the tally, recorded till June 9, stood at 31,309, while the death count was 905. On Wednesday evening, the Delhi health department said as many as 12,245 patients had recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there were 19,581 active cases. A total of 2,66,156 Covid-19 tests have been conducted till date, it said. The total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 15,345, it said. As many as 299 patients are on ventilator or in the ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-tally-crosses-32000-deaths-near-1000-mark/articleshow/76310985.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Patient from UP missing in Kurukshetra||KURUKSHETRA: It has been two days since a man, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Kurukshetra district, has gone missing from the local address he had given. The police say the mobile number given by him suggests that he is actually from Bulandshahr district in Uttar Pradesh. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said, “A 26-year-old man had come from UP to Kurukshetra recently and his sample was sent for Covid-19 test on Sunday. His report showed him positive on Monday. He had given his address as Ravidas Mohalla in Thanesar city, which was found to be incorrect. The mobile number that he provided is also not reachable.” He said they have written to the Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) to trace the patient, who vanished after giving his sample for testing. Kurukshetra SP Astha Modi said, “We are working to find him. The address he provided was found to be incorrect and his mobile number is also not reachable. We have received a written representation from the Kurukshetra CMO.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/patient-from-up-missing-in-kshetra/articleshow/76310974.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman beaten for buying diapers||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old woman from the Tragad area of the city on Tuesday filed a complaint with Sabarmati police, alleging that her mother-in-law attacked her because she bought diapers for her two-year-old son. In her FIR, the woman states that she married to a Naranpura-based man according to her family’s wishes on January 22, 2015. After their wedding, her husband went to Dubai to work. She alleged that her in-laws began harassing her after that, by demanding jewellery and other valuables which she bought from her parents’ home. She states in the FIR that even though she was suffering from severe back pain, her mother-in-law forced her to take up a job and also do the household chores. She said that her mother-in-law has adopted austerity, but she could not live life according to her wishes and had fights with her over this several times. She said she went to a medical store to buy diapers and milk for her son. When she returned home with these items, her mother-in-law began taunting her for spending so much money on useless products. When she protested, her mother-in-law abused her and began beating her due to which she suffered a fracture to her hand. She was then rushed to a private hospital and later approached police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-beaten-for-buying-diapers/articleshow/76310217.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bareilly||UPSRTC starts AC bus service on Moradabad-Agra route||BAREILLY: In a huge relief for passengers in summer, the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) started its air-conditioned bus service on Moradabad-Agra route from Wednesday. Earlier, only non-AC buses were operational on the route, according to officials. The AC 3/2 Janrath bus has now been added to Peetal Nagri depot. The bus will depart at 7am from Peetal Nagri bus station at Katghar, Moradabad, for Agra and depart from Agra at 3pm in the afternoon, to return to Moradabad. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, UPSRTC regional manager (RM Moradabad), Atul Jain said, "With passengers increasing on this particular route and given the present hot weather conditions, we have decided to start AC Janrath bus service from Moradabad to Agra. The bus will depart from Kanth bus station at 7am and reach Agra in around six hours. The bus will then leave Agra for Moradabad at 3pm." Officials at UPSRTC said that only one AC bus will run on the route initially and based on the response from passengers, more buses may be added later. The UPSRTC is also taking all possible measures to contain the spread of infection and provide a hassle-free experience during the Covid-19 pandemic. The corporation has been disinfecting bus stations and waiting lounges regularly. Passengers are strictly advised to adhere to the basic guidelines of wearing face masks while travelling in buses and carrying hand sanitisers. Social distancing norms are also being advised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upsrtc-starts-ac-bus-service-on-moradabad-agra-route/articleshow/76307995.cms||Maria Khan
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Ayush doctors object to sample job, cite technical inability||PATIALA: Worried over the decision of the state health department to involve Ayush doctors in collection of samples of Covid-19 suspects, the Punjab Ayurvedic Medical Services Association (PAMSA) has decided to raise the matter with the chief minister and the Union government to get their duty cancelled, maintaining that it was not their technical field. The PAMSA members said the health department had already initiated training of the Ayush doctors in Punjab for sample collection under its plan, despite the fact that it was a violation of the central government guidelines. They said according to the guidelines issued by the Government of India, the healthcare professionals, including lab technicians, BSc/MSc microbiology students, were specifically categorised as the training resources for “laboratory sample collection, packaging and transportation.” According to the letter issued by the Punjab Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, IDSP, to all the civil surgeons in Punjab, it has been decided that all Ayush medical officers and rural medical officers (RMOs) in the district should also be trained for collection and packing of nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal swabs for RT-PCR Covid-19 testing. It is proposed that three-day training of the Ayush medical officers and RMOs for observation, assisting and for independent collection and packing of swabs under supervisions of medical officers/microbiologist. The training is to be conducted at ‘flu-corners’ and at least two individuals per batch be trained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ayush-docs-object-to-sample-job-cite-technical-inability/articleshow/76310999.cms||Bharat Khanna
June 11, 2020||Kolhapur||19 fresh Covid cases in Solapur rural||Kolhapur: Solapur rural has recorded 19 Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, which is the highest number of Covid cases reported in a single day in the rural area, taking the total number of cases to 100.  According to the official communication, the district administration had sent 45 throat swab samples for testing and 18 of them, nine male and nine female, tested positive. Five men and four women of New Beedi Gharkul, South Solapur, were detected as Covid-19 patients. Another woman from Mulegaon of South Solapur also tested positive. In North Solapur tehsil, seven Covid-19 cases were reported while a SARI patient from Akkalkot tehsil tested positive.  South Solapur has recorded 40 case, which is the highest number of Covid cases in Solapur rural. Barshi tehsil has registered 19 patients. Karmala and Mangalwedha tehsil have not seen a single patient so far. The number of active patients in Solapur rural is 61 while 33 have been discharged so far. It has recorded six deaths. 42 more Covid case in Solapur city Solapur city has reported 42 new Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, including 23 males and 19 females. Three Covid related deaths—two males and one female—were recorded on Wednesday. As many as 49 patients have been discharged on Wednesday, as per the official communication.  All three of the deceased had other health problems, officials said. All of them were above the age of 60. Solapur city has 429 active patients while the total number of Covid-19 cases is 1,310. The city has recorded 122 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/19-fresh-covid-cases-in-solapur-rural/articleshow/76309064.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ajmer||13 hurt in clash between two groups in Ajmer, 11 held||AJMER: In a violent clash between two groups in Kakariya village, around 8km from the city, 13 people were injured in stone pelting and stick fights. Civil Lines police arrested 11 accused and registered a case in the matter. According to police, there was some dispute between two groups during lockdown. The dispute turned violent on Wednesday morning when one group attacked the other with sticks. While the other group pelted stones, more people from nearby villages started gathering. Police rushed to the spot and arrested 11 accused. According to police, 13 people were injured and were taken to hospital. Police said there was a dispute over opening of shops during lockdown. Police is investigating the matter and have posted a team in the village to maintain peace. A clip of the clash also went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/13-hurt-in-clash-between-two-groups-11-held/articleshow/76316124.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s Covid-19 tally crosses 500-mark||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus infections in city surged once again on Wednesday with 24 new cases being detected— the highest single-day spike since April 16 — and the count of Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 500-mark, reports Yusra Husain. New patients include nine employees of the private call centre that handles the state government’s Covid-19 helpline and one from Shalimar Gallant apartment in Mahanagar, which earlier hogged the news when Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor tested positive on March 19. Call centre was closed for 24 hours for sanitisation, Shalimar Gallant apartment was notified as containtment zone for the second time. Building in Chaupatiya, Viraj Khand containment zonesThe samples of Covid-19 helpline workers were collected after a woman staffer tested positive on June 5. Nine more employees — six men and three women — tested positive on Wednesday, taking the call centre tally to 10. All nine were sent to RML Institute and samples of their family members will be collected on Thursday, said health officials. The woman was a resident of Malhaur in Chinhat where 11 persons have so far been found infected and the area designated as containment zone. Two other places, Aman Apartment in Chaupatiya where a 61-year-old woman died of Covid-19 and her three family members tested positive, and a locality in Virajkhand, Gomtinagar were also declared containment zones, taking the number of such localities to 19. Besides, four Government Railway Police jawans who were in quarantine, and a health worker posted in ICU of the Covid-19 hospital in SGPGIMS also tested positive. The positive cases included four migrants who had recently returned home, The only relief was that the number of people who recovered and were discharged was more than fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-covid-tally-crosses-500-mark/articleshow/76311377.cms||Yusra Husain
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||All places of worship to remain closed till June 30||Kanpur: All religious places of the Kanpur Nagar district will remain closed till June 30. A decision to this effect was unanimously taken at a meeting chaired by the divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde held here on Wednesday following spike in number of corona cases and new hotspots that had emerged in the city in the last 24 hours. The city has recorded 21 fresh cases in the last twenty four hours and three infected persons have died in this period. The health authorities had found as many as 16 cases in the city on June 8 and 18 cases on June 9 respectively. Under unlock 1.0 guideline, religious places could be opened from June 8 last but the leaders of all religions at a meeting held with the district administration officials on June 7 had expressed their inability to control and manage the crowd of devotees. They had sought time from the district administration to discuss the issue within their community. It was decided to convene a meeting on June 10 to discuss and decide the issue therefore as per schedule, all religious leaders attended the meeting on Wednesday afternoon. During the meeting, all religious leaders were of the view that after opening of the places of worship they could somehow would control the large number of devotees inside religious places of worship but it would be difficult for them to control the situation outside. “Controlling entry of five persons at a time inside a religious place is not an easy affair as everybody will try to go inside at the earliest and thus will break social distancing rules“, said mahant of Anandeshwar temple. Managing sanitization of devotees too would be a difficult job as who would supervise that their hands have been sanitized properly or not. In that case, any infected person may infect many persons. To avoid such a type of situation, the religious leaders said that they were not in favour of opening of religious places so soon, said an official. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari then announced in the meeting that all religious places would remain closed till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/all-places-of-worship-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/articleshow/76311011.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS attended to 12,000 patients during lockdown||NEW DELHI: All India Institute of Medical Sciences attended to over 12,000 patients at its emergency or casualty facility and performed 2,641 major and minor surgeries between March 25 and May 31—when the country was under lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak. The hospital, authorities said, also provided 55,000 tele-consultations to follow-up patients to reduce the need for them to visit the facility. “As far as Covid-19 treatment is concerned, 2,301 admissions were recorded at its Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre and National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar,” AIIMS spokesperson Dr Aarti Vij said. On an average, Vij said, around 800 coronavirus-infected patients were admitted to the AIIMS daily. “The hospital has been at the forefront in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic providing treatment to infected individuals at its two dedicated facilities (Trauma Centre and NCI) for the last two months. However, non-Covid patients are also being attended to with equal importance,” Vij said. Also, around 1,800 Covid-19 and non-coronavirus patients were provided dialysis during this period, the AIIMS spokesperson added. She said that 11,218 AIIMS employees, including medical, para-medical, office and other support staff, were trained on infection control practices after the onset of the pandemic. “Various information, education and communication (IEC) activities have been undertaken at the institute for spreading awareness about Covid-19 and training for capacity building,” Dr Vij added. Around 40 videos on various topics, such as ‘Stay Home and Stay Safe’, hydroxychloroquine and Covid-19, and stigma related to the infection, have been uploaded on the website of AIIMS and health ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-attended-to-12000-patients-during-lockdown/articleshow/76311001.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Three teams to contain locust attacks in Ajmer||AJMER: Swarms of locusts that invaded Roopangarh block in the district were eliminated by a team constituted by the agriculture department on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. The pests flew with the wind that came from Nagaur region. Another operation was conducted in Kekri block of the district where farmers came out to help the teams and to save vegetables growing in the fields. District collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma said while one group of locusts entered the district from Nagaur, another reached Kadel village from Beawar in Rajasmand district. Swarms of locusts were also reported in Nalegao, Sarseri, Arai, Motipura, Khadnadpura, Delwada and near Kekeri. Alert was issued in these regions and 3 teams were constituted under deputy director of agriculture VK Sharma and assistant director Kailash Chand Meghwanshi. Four fire tenders, 24 tractor-mounted sprayers, five water tankers, 2 vehicles of locust warning organisation and 30 workers were sent to the fields. These teams surveyed 1,210 hectares and sprayed 183 litres of pesticides to control the locusts. Experts said groups of locusts were divided into many groups and special efforts were made to control them in Padao Dilwada, urban region of Beawar. To avoid locusts to sit on corps and to compel them to fly, they used tins and boxes to scare them away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-teams-to-contain-locust-attacks-in-ajmer/articleshow/76310977.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||13 hurt in clash between two groups in Ajmer, 11 held||AJMER: In a violent clash between two groups in Kakariya village, around 8km from the city, 13 people were injured in stone pelting and stick fights. Civil Lines police arrested 11 accused and registered a case in the matter. According to police, there was some dispute between two groups during lockdown. The dispute turned violent on Wednesday morning when one group attacked the other with sticks. While the other group pelted stones, more people from nearby villages started gathering. Police rushed to the spot and arrested 11 accused. According to police, 13 people were injured and were taken to hospital. Police said there was a dispute over opening of shops during lockdown. Police is investigating the matter and have posted a team in the village to maintain peace. A clip of the clash also went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-hurt-in-clash-between-two-groups-11-held/articleshow/76310960.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC begins contempt proceedings against Bar president||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court initiated contempt of court proceedings against its Bar president Yatin Oza, for terming the high court a ‘gambling den’ and levelling allegations of forum shopping during a press conference.Oza had addressed a press conference on Friday as president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association and accused the court registry of favouritism and corruption. He claimed the HC registry gives preferential treatment to the rich, smugglers and traitors, and it would kick the poor away. He likened the HC administration to a gambling den. He was insisting on the reopening of courtrooms on the grounds that junior advocates are without work at present. A bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria has taken suo motu cognizance of senior advocate Oza’s “scandalous expressions and indiscriminate as well as baseless utterances”, and said that he has attempted to cause serious damage to the prestige and majesty of the high court and to demoralize HC administrative wing. The judges opined that the “scurrilous remarks” were made without making any inquiry with the chief justice about the reality. For this, the HC prima facie found him responsible for committing criminal contempt of court under Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act and takes cognizance of the issue under Section 15 of the Act. The HC issued a notice to Oza asking him to reply by June 16. Till then, the HC restrained Oza from making of any “scandalous” remarks with regard to the subject of HC registry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-begins-contempt-proceedings-against-bar-president/articleshow/76310215.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Only Centre can take a call on community transmission: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that Delhi government was arranging twice the number of beds than the patients in the hospitals and currently only half of the available beds were occupied. “By June 15, around 7,000 beds will be occupied and by June 30, 15,000 beds will be occupied. We are preparing for the foreseeable situation of June 30, and for that, we are readying the Covid infrastructure,” Jain said. About the community transmission of the novel coronavirus in the capital, the minister reiterated that “there is transmission in the community, but if it is community transmission or not, that can be declared by the central government only.” “It is a technical term. Earlier, in one case, contact tracing would be done up to 600 people, and today, if we multiply 1,500 cases by 600, it will translate to 9,00,000 people for contact tracing. So, contact tracing is being done only for immediate contacts and not for indirect contacts,” the health minister of Delhi said. “The data that we are sharing says that the doubling rate in Delhi is spreading after every 10-15 days. Even the active contacts of cases are around 30,000-40,000. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, has himself said there is a community transmission in the containment zones,” Jain added. Empanelled private hospitals told to treat govt employees at approved rates In a major relief for over one lakh government employees, Delhi government has asked all private hospitals empanelled with it to provide healthcare to employees having health cards at government approved rates. “It has been brought to our notice that a few government health scheme-empanelled private hospitals are refusing admission to DGEHS beneficiaries who are either suspected or confirmed of Covid-19 unless they deposit a hefty amount,” DGEHS said in a notice on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/only-centre-can-take-a-call-on-community-transmission/articleshow/76311025.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 300 Banjaras gather to install idol||KOTA: Flouting social distancing norms, over 300 people of Banjara community gathered for the installation of an idol of folk deity Baba Ramdev in Borda village under Bhanwargarh police station of Kishanganj subdivision in Baran district on Tuesday. A mass marriage ceremony that allegedly included a few minor couples was also solemnised followed by a community feast. An initial probe by the tehsildar of the area said there was no mass wedding but it recommended penalty on over 300 people of the Banjara community for violation of social distancing. The matter came to light on Tuesday evening when some videos went viral on social media following which police and tehsildar reached the spot around 9pm. A large number of people of Banjara community gathered for installation of Baba Ramdev in a newly constructed temple in Borda village on Tuesday noon, Bhanwargarh SHO Maan Singh Hada said. These people also performed hawan and other rituals followed by a feast and distribution of prasad to community people. When police reached the spot on Tuesday night, eople had left the place, however during the inquiry it was revealed around 300-500 people of Banjara community had gathered for the installation of Baba Ramdev statue in the newly constructed temple, Hada said, adding the reports of mass wedding ceremony was found to be false as no evidence reflecting to such event was visible there. The tehsildar of the area, who also holds the charge of subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Kishanganj, is probing the matter and action would be taken as per the recommendation of the probe report as violation of social distancing was apparent in the community event, he said. The initial probe revealed around 25kg of was used for the community feast that indicated around 300 people participated in the event and 6 altars for hawan and a tent that could accommodate around 250-300 people was found on the spot when the team reached the spot around 9pm, tehsildar Jugmohan Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/300-banjaras-gather-to-install-idol/articleshow/76310990.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gandhi Hospital Covid care hit as doctors strike work for relief, security||HYDERABAD: Health services in Gandhi Hospital, Telangana’s only exclusive Covid-19 facility, was badly hit on Wednesday after a strike by 300 doctors took hold, leaving patients in the lurch. Protesters comprising junior doctors, house surgeons and resident doctors began boycotting duties from 8 pm on Tuesday after a colleague was assaulted by a relative of a Covid-19 patient who died. Angry doctors raised slogans against the government, demanding decentralisation of patients from the over-crowded Gandhi Hospital to other state-run centres, apart from filling up vacant posts and providing more security. While health minister Eatala Rajender met the protesting doctors and said their principal demands would be taken up in consultation with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the doctors turned down the requests for resuming duties. “In view of our demands not being met, we decided to continue our strike until there is a positive decision on decentralisation,” said Dr Lohith Reddy, president TJUDA, Gandhi Hospital. The government in turn clarified that services were not entirely paralysed as 40 professors, 45 associate professors and 120 assistant professors at the hospital have been pressed into service in the Covid-19 wards and ICU. As the protests took hold, some 500 patients suffered with only some nurses present to look after their needs in wards. “We have not got any food since morning, Every time we ask for tea, we are told that it is on the way. Even drinking water was not supplied throughout the night nor any doctor came to check on us,” said a patient. Anxious relatives and attendants of some 500 patients rushed to the hospital after hearing about the strike. “My brother is inside one of the wards. He said no one is available to fix his oxygen or help him reach the toilets. I ran here after receiving the SOS as I am afraid the strike may kill him,” said another attendant. Tension was palpable as police tried to stop the protesting doctors from coming out of the main gate, but doctors forced their way out and sat on a dharna outside the main gate bringing traffic to a halt on the route. Traffic had to be later diverted. ”It is high time to rope in other government and private hospitals to share the burden. Hospitals can have Covid-19 section and non-Covid-19 section. We have sacrificed three months of our academic year and many of us have not seen out families too for months. All we are asking the government is to decentralise the hospital,” said Dr Nikhil, a general surgeon resident. Doctors at the hospital have been over-burdened and under-staffed. On Tuesday night too when a doctor was assaulted with an iron rod, there were nearly 500 patients (including 150 in intensive care) at the hospital. “There is only one ward boy for over 60 patients, while for two Covid-19 patients in the acute medical care unit at least one patient care worker is required. There is inadequate manpower of speciality doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, ward boys, patient care providers for the number of patients Gandhi Hospital is receiving,” said Dr Khizer Hussain, a protesting PG doctor. An initial invitation by health minister Rajender to hold talks with representatives of the doctors were turned down by PGs, following which the minister reached Gandhi hospital around 5 pm. “I will convey all your demands to the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and get back to you,” the health minister was quoted by a doctor. But the protesting doctors consulted among themselves and decided to continue with the strike. Trouble broke out at 7.30 pm on Wednesday after a 55-year-old Covid-19 patient succumbed at the hospital, following which two attendants of the patient assaulted a PG doctor first with a plastic chair and then with an iron chair, sparking protests. Various doctors and medical associations have also come out in support of the doctors and demanded better security and protection for doctors. “Doctors and staffers are facing verbal abuses and threats almost every other day, especially in case of patients succumbing during treatment. When a similar incident happened in April, we continued duties on the assurance of the health minister and police commissioner,” said Dr K Anvesh, president of Telangana Doctors Federation. “We did not protest at that time considering it as a pandemic but this is the second attack and even female house surgeon and nurses were not spared,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-covid-care-hit-as-docs-strike-work-for-relief-security/articleshow/76311749.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Best possible action in health dept irregularities: Thakur||Shimla: Under attack from the opposition over the alleged scam in the health department and arrest of health services director, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said there is no place for corruption in his government and best possible action has been taken in the alleged irregularities in the purchase of equipment to fight Covid-19 in the state. Addressing a virtual rally of BJP for Shimla parliamentary constituency, the CM said some opposition leaders were trying to mislead the people by making comments on the state government, whereas the truth was that during Covid-19 pandemic, his government’s performance had been best in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/best-possible-action-in-health-dept-irregularities-thakur/articleshow/76311030.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Capt shares Milkha’s Covid message||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday shared a video of Olympian Milkha Singh on Twitter, asking people to fight against coronavirus as part of the state government’s ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign. “Sharing an appeal by our ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh ji. Thank you for your time and support. I am sure all Punjabis will respond to your appeal and take necessary precautions against Covid-19 in our Mission Fateh,” said Amarinder. In his video message, Milkha appealed to the people to wear face mask and wash their hands at least three-four times daily. “We should follow the appeal of the government. We should also maintain social distancing,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-shares-milkhas-covid-message/articleshow/76311005.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Stir threat over Maharshi Dayanand University ‘vacate hostels’ order||ROHTAK: Opposing the decision of Maharshi Dayanand University administration to ask students to vacate hostels, the Indian National Student Organisation (INSO) has threatened to launch a stir. INSO state president Pardeep Deswal said the university administration has ordered all its students to vacate their hostels by June 25. Deswal said the students were at home during lockdown, but their belongings were safe in their hostel rooms. He threatened that if varsity tried to vacate the hostel rooms forcefully, then they would oppose the vice-chancellor for enforcing such a rule against the spirit of an educational institution. He said INSO would not tolerate the forceful eviction of the hostel rooms during the crisis time, especially when they have cooperated in the best possible manner with the varsity norms. “The hostellers have paid their dues well in advance and till it is matured, not even a single room would be vacated,” the INSO added. According to the notice served by office of the chief warden date June 8, MDU, it is said that all the wardens ensure that all the hostel residents except the final semester students (UG/PG/MPhil/PhD) vacate their hostel rooms latest by June 25. MDU registrar Gulshan Taneja said students who were yet to take their exams and wanted to stay in hostels for completion of their academic year will be permitted to stay. No inconvenience would be caused to students, Taneja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/stir-threat-over-mdu-vacate-hostels-order/articleshow/76311023.cms||Sat Singh
June 11, 2020||Kochi||KEIL begins work on state’s 2nd biomedical treatment plant||Kochi: Kerala enviro infrastructure limited (KEIL), a firm engaged in treatment of hazardous waste, has started work on the state's second biomedical treatment plant in Kochi. The plant which is expected to be ready for commissioning by the end of the year will cater to the needs of the central region of the state. Constructed at a cost of Rs 11 crore, the plant has a capacity to treat around 14-18 tonnes of waste a day. "We have started the construction and have already placed orders for procuring equipment required for the purpose. The work can be completed within six months," said an KEIL official. The government had allotted 25 acres of land on the premises of Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Limited (FACT) at Ambalamedu in Kochi for treating hazardous waste generated in the state. Of the 25 acres, three acres will be used for setting up the biomedical waste treatment plant. At the same time, IMA goes eco-friendly (IMAGE), run by IMA, which also had mooted a proposal to set up a similar plant in Kochi is yet to get government’s nod. The only biomedical plant is the one operated by IMAGE in Palakkad. "Though the government decided to allot land to us for setting up the plant at Brahmapuram, procedures for leasing out land is yet to be completed. Even if the land lease agreement is signed between the government and us, we should get around 11 types of approvals from various agencies before starting the work. Once the work is started, we can complete the construction and start operations within six months," said Dr K P Sharafudheen, secretary, IMAGE. It is up to the revenue department to complete the procedures for leasing out the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keil-begins-work-on-states-2nd-biomedical-treatment-plant/articleshow/76309096.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Dist sees highest single day tally of 79, total stands at 863||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 cases is rising steeply in the district. On Wednesday, 79 persons tested positive which is highest in a single day tally since the district registered first case 92 days ago. With these, the district’s total swelled to 863. The last 456 cases came in just in 20 days while the previous 407 took 72 days. After reaching 708 on June 7, 155 cases came in just three days which is fastest 100 compared with earlier seven slabs of 100 cases. A major reason behind the spurt is 117 persons from Naik Talao-Bangladesh area, city’s fourth hotspot, tested positive in last three days. Samples of 65 persons from this zone were positive on Wednesday. This containment zone has become second in the district after Mominpura to register 200 cases. Total cases here are 203. It has surpassed Satranjipura, city’s first hotspot, which has recorded 137 cases. Also, Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone has dubious record of registering 100 as well as 200 cases in quickest time. It took 45 days for Mominpura to cross 200 mark. TOI on June 8 had reported Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s preliminary investigation that revealed how one group’s fondness for Mominpura biryani emerged was the reason for them contracting the virus and its massive spread. 203 corona positive cases from Naik Talao-Bangladesh could be detected due to NMC’s mass quarantine model. Under the guidance of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai and Dr Praveen Gantawar, the team of NMC Satranjipura zone led by zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane had quarantined 726 persons from here. The civic body is tracing more contacts and likely to quarantine many more in coming days. Many corona positive cases are being reported from non-containment zones since easing of lockdown on June 1. Number of containment zones has increased to 40 due to such cases. Mominpura containment zone has continued to record new cases on daily basis. Fortunately, mortality in the district is still low. Till now, 15 Covid-19 patients have died of which a majority tested positive after death. The central government’s Rapid Response Team and experts had credited fewer deaths to NMC’s mass quarantine, testing model and proactive measures. Identification of positive patients and treatment in initial stage reduces mortality. NMC along with state government-run hospitals had already increased capacity of beds to 12,000 for asymptomatic, moderate symtoms and serious patients. The civic body has also continued contact tracing in proper manner to end chains and prevent transmission to non-containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-sees-highest-single-day-tally-of-79-total-stands-at-863/articleshow/76310055.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fruit vendor’s daughter in 99.7th percentile||AHMEDABAD: A day after the Class X results were out, Uma Prajapati, a resident of Mahavirnagar, was back at her father’s fruit cart at Hatkeshwar Circle. Few would imagine that the girl selling bananas to a customer, has scored 90% percent marks and ranked in the 99.7th percentile in Gujarat, with A1 grades in science and mathematics. “Yes, there was a small celebration on Tuesday, but as my grandfather is hospitalized and my father has to look after him, it was brief,” says Uma, the eldest of the four siblings. “No 0ne from my family has scored such marks in Class X. Very few of them have even reached this far in education. But my father and family always supported me, even arranging for tuition classes.” The family of Shyamsundar Prajapati lives in Mahavirnagar on the 132 Feet Ring Road and the family make a living by running a fruit cart. Beaming, Prajapati says that his daughter has always remained among the top students in her class at Rashtra Bharati School. “It’s a second miracle for him. Earlier, he had got saved from an IED blast in the nick of time during the 2008 Ahmedabad serial blasts. The family have high hopes for their brilliant girl, who loves to study and explore,” said Harshad Patel, a social worker from Amraiwadi. “Uma not only takes care of the cart when her father is away but is also seen with her textbooks at the cart, inspiring others.” On what she wants to do in life, pat comes reply, “No one in my family is a teacher. I want to be one. I would take science now. I am inspired by doctors as well and would love to be one,” says the topper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fruit-vendors-daughter-in-99-7th-percentile/articleshow/76310251.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur traders’ body call for ban on selling of Chinese goods||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, on Wednesday, appealed to traders and customers to not sell or buy goods which are made in China in order to protest against the move made by the Chinese army at the India-China border.A meeting with the representatives of all trading associations which are aligned with the KCCI was held at its office. Sanjay Shete, the president of the traders' forum said, “No trader will place orders for items made in China made and we will create awareness among people not to buy such products. In this way, we can achieve self-sufficiency in the production of goods ensuring its quality. We will also request the government not to import goods from China and make the ground fertile for the growth of indigenous manufacturing.”Dhairyasheel Patil, the vice president of Confederation of All-India Traders said that in the next one year, the Chinese presence in Indian markets will come down significantly. The representatives suggested that traders should display boards stating 'no Chinese products available’ in front of their shops and appeal to people to buy Indian made products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-traders-body-call-for-ban-on-selling-of-chinese-goods/articleshow/76309084.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||College St market’s hardware section closes for 21 days||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Wednesday declared a major portion of the College Street market as a containment zone after a trader was tested positive for Covid-19.“A trader in Block C, a hardware hub, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Hence, we asked traders of the block to keep their shops shut for the next 21 days,” the civic official said. A KMC team from the headquarters went to the market and conducted a sanitization drive. According to a KMC health department official, the patient is a resident of North 24 Parganas and the civic body is trying to find out whether he got infected in his neighbourhood or from someone in the College Street area. However, the department is not taking chance and has decided to conduct a major sanitization drive on and around College Street. “We need to conduct a comprehensive sanitization drive and send our health workers to find out whether people are showing signs and symptoms of Covid-19,” said a health department official. The KMC’s anti-Covid team is keeping a watch on College Street, Keshab Sen Street, Amherst Street and some parts of Bidhan Sarani that have been marked as Covid-sensitive zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/college-st-markets-hardware-section-closes-for-21-days/articleshow/76311037.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No plan for one more lockdown’||Gandhinagar: Deputy chief minister and state government spokesman Nitin Patel appealed to people not to believe rumours that the state government is contemplating a complete lockdown again. For the second time, the government has had to issue a clarification that there is no proposal for a complete lockdown even as messages to this effect are being circulated on social media. “There is no plan at any level of enforcing a total lockdown again. Although the Covid-19 numbers have increased, the situation is under control and there is no need to consider any such proposal. The government has a clear view of controlling the spread of Covid-19 without economic restrictions,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-plan-for-one-more-lockdown/articleshow/76310211.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Plane shortage keeps Indians abroad stranded||CHENNAI: Evacuation of stranded Indians in the US, Canada and Europe has been slow, as only one Indian carrier, Air India, has the long range planes needed. Most flights are scheduled from Chicago, San Francisco and Toronto but they are not enough as too many Indians, several of them hailing from Chennai, are waiting to return home as early as possible. As the demand is high for urgent travel and as announcement of US schedules in phases is not adequate, travel and tour companies have tied up with foreign airlines and have approached the DGCA for permission to operate services. The move comes as some foreign carriers from Europe and the US are flying to India to take back their citizens. “These aircraft fly empty to Delhi and Mumbai. The government is yet to allow them to bring Indians stranded aboard,” said an official of the Airports Authority of India (AAI). “The ministry has relaxed its rules and has started to allow foreign airlines, especially those in the Middle East, to fly in Indian passengers. FlyDubai operated a few flights to Chennai. But there is no move yet to allow it from the US and Europe,” said an official. Nishant Pitti, founder and CEO of EaseMyTrip.com, said, “We are planning to tie-up with a few airlines to repatriate the thousands of Indians stranded in the US, Canada and Europe. We will speak to the airlines when we get approval from the ministry of civil aviation. A dialogue has been initiated.” Air India flights have been scheduled based on the number of people who are ready to fly based on registrations. However, too many flights cannot be operated by the airline because fleet limitation and international and domestic connections too need to be taken into consideration, said an airline official. Crew rostering and moving them between airports within the country is a challenge. Nevertheless, Air India has included 18 flights from Chicago, 18 from San Francisco and 19 from Toronto in its schedule from Delhi. This has come as a blessing for the 500 NRIs stranded in the city as several have got tickets. Gowtham, an NRI from Seattle stranded in Chennai, said, “I managed to get a ticket to fly to San Francisco via Delhi. But demand is too high for flights both ways. There is a Facebook group with 15,000 members, all who want to come to India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plane-shortage-keeps-indians-abroad-stranded/articleshow/76310065.cms||V Ayyappan
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Arrested suspects were passing info to Pakistan for past 10 months||JAIPUR: Police have said the two spies arrested by the state intelligence bureau two days ago for leaking information to Pakistani agents had been actively passing on information for close to 10 months. They earned approximately Rs 75,000 in return for confidential information. The two were arrested after MI Lucknow shared the information with Rajasthan IB. The two arrested were identified as Vikas Kumar (29), a civil defence employee at an army ammunition depot near Sriganganagar, and Chiman Lal (22), a civil contractual employee of the Army’s Mahajan Field Firing Range (MFFR), Bikaner. They were taken into custody on Monday in a joint operation. “The accused earned very small amounts in exchange for military information over the course of 10 months. The amount involved was not very much and we found digital footprints of Rs 75,000 which were transferred into the accounts of their relatives. They might have received other sums also but there is no evidence of it in the bank transactions,” said an official. Vikas is the son of a retired army personnel and hails from Jhunjhunu, and Chiman is a native of Bikaner. Elaborating further, official said, “The two were convinced in the usual way in which such informants are recruited, which is by befriending a woman on social media who gradually lures them into sharing information in exchange for money. In such cases, as the amount involved is not much, the accused also do not think they are giving out secret information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/duo-was-passing-info-to-pak-for-past-10-mths/articleshow/76311012.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Huge haul of poppy husk seized from apple-laden truck, driver arrested in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (rural) police arrested a Jammu and Kashmir resident after 1,050-kg poppy husk was recovered from his truck in Jagraon on Tuesday evening. One of his three clients, who were travelling with him, too, was nabbed. The consignment is worth Rs 73 lakh to Rs 84 lakh. Muhammad Latief of Baramulla district was nabbed on a tip-off. Ludhiana (rural) SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said, “A truck loaded with apples was stopped at a checkpost in Sidhwan Bet. On checking, we found bags of poppy husk hidden beneath apple boxes.” DSP (investigation) Dilbag Singh said, “Thirty bags of poppy husk, each weighing 35kg, were recovered from the truck.” There were three other men in the truck. “They were his clients. One of them, Jasvir Singh Tillu of Sidhwan Bet, was nabbed. The two others, Satnam Singh and Kaku, both of Jalandhar, managed to escape. The three drug peddlers were keen to buy the contraband,” said a cop. Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) in-charge Simar Shergil said, “Jasvir has a criminal past. Satnam and Kaku have been in the drug business for the past some time. We are checking the antecedents of Latief.” A case has been registered under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/huge-haul-of-poppy-husk-seized-from-apple-laden-truck-driver-arrested/articleshow/76309088.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Kolhapur district reports 1 new coronavirus case, Sangli 10||KOLHAPUR: Just one Covid-19 case was reported in the Kolhapur district on Wednesday till 8 pm taking the total number of cases so far to 693. Of them, 114 are currently under treatment and eight have succumbed. On Wednesday, 41 patients were discharged. So far, 571 patients have been discharged in the district. The day also saw 122 samples being tested. According to the officials, the number of testings done every day will increase in the coming days as it has been decided to compulsarily isolate and test all the persons with prevailing diseases and senior citizens. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 10 new cases pushing the tally up to 192. Four of the new cases are from Mandur in Shirala tehsil, where already 15 cases and one death have been reported. The four patients include two teenagers and two middle-aged persons. Two 11-year-old children, one each from Mangle village in Shirala and Vita town, are also among the new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-1-new-case-sangli-10/articleshow/76309093.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows doctors, who made NEET PG cut, to join medical & dental colleges||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Wednesday granted permission for joining of doctors in the state’s medical and dental colleges selected through the NEET PG counselling conducted by the Union health ministry, and holding of entrance exam for PG/UG courses by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). A state government spokesperson said the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has informed the state regarding the selection process and joining/ reporting by the doctors in state medical institutions. Accordingly, the Punjab government has granted permission for their joining. In addition to this, the state has also allowed PGIMER, Chandigarh to hold entrance test for post graduate/under graduate courses between June 14 and June 26, considering it an essential activity. The spokesperson pointed out that the Union government has already allowed the conduct of board examinations for classes X and XII. He said the local authorities would extend requisite administrative facilitation and security services for both events. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-allows-doctors-who-made-neet-pg-cut-to-join-medical-dental-colleges/articleshow/76311053.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks Covid-19 relief for all unorganised sector workers||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notice to the state government on a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought the state government to provide Covid-19 relief to all registered unorganised sector workers including construction workers irrespective of the renewal of membership.A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing the petition filed by P Ponkumar, president of the Thamizhaga Kattida Thozhilalar Mathiya Sangam based at Madurai. Ponkumar stated that following the announcement of lockdown, the state government had distributed Rs 1,000 relief and essential commodities to all the registered unorganised sector workers in the state. He stated that 32 lakh workers have enrolled in the construction workers welfare board in the state. But, due to various reasons such as migration in search of employment, several workers were unable to renew their membership. Due to this, the Covid-19 relief was provided only to nearly 12 lakh active members.Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. He stated that since only 50% of the workers are employed in construction works as per government norms, the livelihood of several others is affected. Therefore, he sought the state to provide additional relief of Rs 5,000 to all the registered construction workers from the funds accumulated in the welfare board. The case was adjourned to June 17 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-covid-19-relief-for-all-unorganised-sector-workers/articleshow/76311054.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||7 criminals arrested in 3 separate encounters||Kanpur:Seven criminals were arrested in three separate encounters with the police in the city on Tuesday night. First face-off between police and the accused took place in Barra area while one in Kalyanpur and other in Kakadeo, police said. The first incident occurred under Barra police station limits in which five men were arrested, Senior Superintendent of Police Anant Deo said. Five men riding on two separate motorcycles were intercepted by Barra police on the highway on suspicion. When signalled to stop for checking, the occupants tried to flee. Three were arrested as they fell off their vehicle after a brief chase, while two others while fleeing opened fire on the police team. In retaliatory action, two of them were injured and arrested. Two injured criminals identified as Shankar Lal Yadav of Lalganj Raebareli and Mumtaz of Babupurwa’s Bagahi area have been admitted to a hospital, while three of their aides -Aman Awasthi of Gunjan Vihar, Rinku of Khadepur Naubasta and Aman Bajpayi of Chaubeypur were sent to jail, the police said. Another criminal, Amit Kumar Kushwaha, a resident of Baikutnpur Bithoor, was arrested by the Kalyanpur police during night patrolling in the area. “The accused has over a dozen cases of theft and was held after a gunfight following which he suffered injuries in his leg,” the police said. Late on Tuesday night, a criminal Sunny, whom police had taken for firearm recovery in Central Park area, opened fire at police team from the recovered pistol and tried to flee. However, an encounter broke out in which Sunny, a resident of Kakadeo, sustained gun shot wounds and later was arrested, police said. Sunny was arrested on June 8 in connection with a case wherein on June 6, he along with his aide Sushil had held a mother- daughter duo hostage before robbing them of cash and valuables in Shastrinagar area. The police had arrested Sushil, on June 7 and later sent him to jail. SSP said the injured were taken to hospital and legal proceedings were being carried out against them at respective police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/7-criminals-arrested-in-3-separate-encounters/articleshow/76311044.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Injured in Telangana, Moga youth returns home||Moga: A youth from Lopon village of Moga, Sukhjit Singh (20), returned home after remaining bedridden for over a month in Telangana due to a serious spinal injury. Sukhjit and his two friends Avtar Singh and Lovepreet Singh, who had gone to Hyderabad seeking employment, returned on Tuesday night in a flight to Amritsar. Officials at Telangana played a big in his recovery. Sukhjit, Avtar and Lovepreet had gone to Armoor in Telangana on February 19 to take up employment on a combine harvester. On March 26, Sukhjit Singh, who was operating a combine harvester at Armoor in Nizamabad district of Telangana, had suffered electric shock when the harvester hit high-tension wire. Sukhjit, who was thrown off the ground, suffered serious debilitating injuries immobilizing all four limbs. An X-ray and diagnostic screening revealed that he had suffered multiple fractures including that of the spine crippling him, which may have left him disabled for life. After he was treated at the government general hospital, Nizamabad, for nearly a week, his worsening condition prompted some locals to get in touch with Telangana Sikh Society (TSS) president Tejdeep Kaur Menon, an IPS officer in Hyderabad, for urgent medical attention. When Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans was briefed about Sukhjit’s health status and how his associates have stood by him, he agreed to buy their air tickets back home, said Sukhjit and his father hwant Singh. Hans said Telangana officials, principal secretary Harpreet Singh, secretary Arjun Rao and Telangana Sikh Society president Tejdeep Kaur Menon helped the youngster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/injured-in-telangana-moga-youth-returns-home/articleshow/76311036.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Number of micro-containment units crosses 1,000 mark||KOLKATA: Officially, the city now has 1,009 micro-containment units. With over 1,500 active cases in Kolkata and each patient’s residence being considered an individual containment unit, the number is not that shocking. However, there are some key findings on the list that has led both KMC and Kolkata Police to harp on the need of micro-surveillance at apartments and standalone buildings in 30 most-affected wards, most of which — with the exception of Beliaghata and Phoolbagan — are in the south and added areas. In the last 24 hours, 99 new names of micro-containment zones have been added to the list, which till Tuesday had 910 names. While 89 of the new micro-zones are in the south, merely 30 were from the north, the list published on the Egiye Bangla website confirmed. On the positive side, around 20 containment units have turned green. While Tangra and Kidderpore-Ekbalpore continued to witness a spike in some of old affected zones on DC Dey Road and Braunfield Row, Bhowanipore and Ballygunge continued to report new cases. On Wednesday, fresh cases were reported from within the staff quarters of a hospital located near Lansdowne, Panditya Road, Dover Terrace and Fort William, along with apartments at Ruby crossing, Kalikapur, Banamali Naskar Road (Behala), Judges Court Road (Alipore/Chetla), Gopal Nagar, Dhakuria Panchanatala slum and DL Khan Road near Bhowanipore. Mudiali area, which had managed to turn into a green zone several weeks ago, now has three separate micro-containment units. KMC and Kolkata Police have now decided to check even asymptomatic patients from public spots close to these zones, a method that was adopted to control the virus spread in the slums of Belgachhia and Narkeldanga. Santanu Sen, who is part of the Covid-advisory committee in KMC, said: “The approach is beginning to pay dividends in populated clusters. We are confident it will be successful in apartments as well,” he said. KMC has also asked dedicated teams to carry out house-to-house surveys. Each team will be in charge of one containment zone. Lalbazar has decided to impose total shutdown in containment zones in case the lockdown rules are openly flouted. The cops are accompanying a KMC health team armed with thermal guns on a house-to-house search for possible infected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-micro-containment-units-crosses-1000-mark/articleshow/76310095.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Bhilwara bizman cremated; wife critical, son recovering||AJMER: The family of three that consumed poison at Shahpura near Bhilwara on Tuesday had taken a loan of Rs 12 lakh and was unable to pay the EMI for the last three months due to business losses because of lockdown, police said on Wednesday. Mohit Bilra (45) died on the same day while the condition of his wife Rinku (38) is still critical. The couple’s son Dev (17) is said to be recovering. Funeral of Mohit was conducted by his relatives at Shahpura on Wednesday. Police said the family was in depression due to financial losses. Mohit had purchased the Shahpur flat in January. Police said since Rinku was not in a condition to speak, they were waiting to know the real reason of suicide. Police said they had confirmed that there was a loan on the family and the family was under tremendous depression. Dev is recovering but was unable to speak and doctors prevented police from any interrogation with the boy. Police said Mohit ran a textile shop at Azad Chowk in Bhilwara. Police doubted that not paying EMI could not be the reason to commit suicide and therefore they were investigating further to know the facts. The suicide bid by the three members of a family has shaken the business class of Bhilwara as the city is leading manufacturer and trader of textiles and it remained closed for the last three months. Some units in Bhilwara have started but they are facing labour problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwara-bizman-cremated-wife-critical-son-recovering/articleshow/76311041.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ajmer||Bhilwara bizman cremated; wife critical, son recovering||AJMER: The family of three that consumed poison at Shahpura near Bhilwara on Tuesday had taken a loan of Rs 12 lakh and was unable to pay the EMI for the last three months due to business losses because of lockdown, police said on Wednesday. Mohit Bilra (45) died on the same day while the condition of his wife Rinku (38) is still critical. The couple’s son Dev (17) is said to be recovering. Funeral of Mohit was conducted by his relatives at Shahpura on Wednesday. Police said the family was in depression due to financial losses. Mohit had purchased the Shahpur flat in January. Police said since Rinku was not in a condition to speak, they were waiting to know the real reason of suicide. Police said they had confirmed that there was a loan on the family and the family was under tremendous depression. Dev is recovering but was unable to speak and doctors prevented police from any interrogation with the boy. Police said Mohit ran a textile shop at Azad Chowk in Bhilwara. Police doubted that not paying EMI could not be the reason to commit suicide and therefore they were investigating further to know the facts. The suicide bid by the three members of a family has shaken the business class of Bhilwara as the city is leading manufacturer and trader of textiles and it remained closed for the last three months. Some units in Bhilwara have started but they are facing labour problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bhilwara-bizman-cremated-wife-critical-son-recovering/articleshow/76315893.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis watch their shadows vanish!||Ahmedabad: At 12.39pm on Wednesday, the shadows vanished from the city – what if only for a few seconds! The phenomenon, identified as Zero Shadow Day (ZSD) was experienced by the science enthusiasts with live demonstrations at a few spots in the city. Dilip Surkar, executive director of Vikram A Sarabhai Community Science Centre (VASCSC), said that they had organized a live webcast of the event which was witnessed by about 2,000 people. “The experts also discussed the reason behind the phenomenon and its significance. We figuratively say that the sun has come overhead every noon but it’s scientifically not true – for every point on Earth between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn, there are only two such days in a year which are identified as ZSDs,” said Surkar. He added that if the ZSD on Wednesday is missed, there is no worry – in Ahmedabad, the citizens will be able to experience it again on June 30 at 12.43pm. “For other places, there are several online resources that can pinpoint the date and time,” he said. Other science centres also engaged the students online or offline through the activities. Experts pointed out the importance of the day by narrating the tale of Eratosthenes, a polymath and librarian. Two millennia ago, he had calculated the circumference and radius of the Earth using the same concept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-watch-their-shadows-vanish/articleshow/76310199.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj going containment zone way||Ludhiana: Habib Ganj and Islam Ganj areas here are likely to be declared containment zones, as 13 Covid-19 cases — only two short of the number of cases required to declare an area as such zone — have been reported from there.A senior officer of the health department said 13 positive cases have been reported from the two areas, and once there are 15 confirmed cases, they would be declared containment zones and restrictions would be put in place to check further spread of virus.However, the number of high-risk areas in the district has been reduced to 10, after the health department removed three areas — including Chawni Mohalla, which was declared a containment zone — from the list of 12 such areas and added one to the list.Referring to Habib Ganj and Islam Ganj areas, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said an epidemiologist is monitoring the pandemic condition in there and the same would be declared containment zones once the number of cases hits 15.“Once it is 15, the epidemiologists will talk to the district administration and the state headquarters, and then containment zone restrictions will come in force,” the civil surgeon said.BOXTwo Short of 15Date – DescriptionJune 4 – Male, 35, Islam GanjJune 6 – Pregnant woman, 27, Islam GanjJune 6 – Female, 65, Habib GanjJune 7 – Female, 18, daughter of parents testing positive, Islam GanjJune 8 – Male, 32, Kusht Ashram at Islam GanjJune 9 – Female (30), male (35), male (30), IslamganjJune 9 – Male (60), male (29), female (20), Habib Ganj.Corona countAreas — CasesDoraha — 5Guru Amardass Market &, Mata Rani Mohalla, Khanna — 2Gobind Nagar, Machhiwara, Samrala — 3Bhopur, Khanna — 5Model Town Extension — 3SAS Nagar, Near Sangeet Cinema — 3Isher Nagar, Gill Road — 4Prem Nagar, Islam Ganj — 4Madhopuri — 2Chander Nagar — 2BOX 2:High-risk zones down to 10The number of high-risk areas has come down to 10, as the health department removed three areas — Chawni Mohalla, 33-Foota Road and Guru Nanak Nagar — from the list of 12 such areas and added Chander Nagar to it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/habib-ganj-islam-ganj-going-containment-zone-way/articleshow/76309104.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Relax rules for functioning of typewriting institutes: Plea||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking relaxation from the state government for the functioning of typewriting institutes.Soma Sankar, president of the Tamil Nadu Typewritting- Shorthand- Computer Institutes Sangam in Virudhunagar district, stated that there are 3,500 government-approved private typewriting institutes in the state. Following the announcement of lockdown, all the institutes were closed.Most of the institutes were functioning in rental buildings and due to the lockdown, those running the institutes have not been able to pay the rent and salary to their employees for the past three months. Also, the livelihood of people dependent on the institutes is affected. After the state had issued relaxation to several sectors from lockdown, he sent a representation to the government seeking relaxation. The representation stated that members of the association had given several undertakings such as spraying disinfectants at the centres everyday, maintaining social distancing, use of hand sanitizers, face masks. There would not be any issue of overcrowding at the institutes as they have different time slots and would accommodate only 10-15 students per session. Since, there was no response on the representation, Sankar moved the high court Madurai bench. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi ordered notice to the state government and adjourned the case to June 17 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relax-rules-for-functioning-of-typewriting-institutes-plea/articleshow/76311068.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||Smart tech helps companies cut human contact||MUMBAI: Driven by health and safety compliance norms and other emerging requirements in a Covid-19 environment, the electronics security solutions market is witnessing a new wave of growth. Whether it’s hardware solutions for face recognition, body temperature scans or detecting if an employee is wearing a mask at the entrance, companies are going all out to purchase these products. Prama HikVision India, a video security solutions provider, is one such company. Its MinMoe terminal uses deep learning algorithms for face recognition and scans body temperature. MD & CEO Ashish Dhakan said, “The Indian electronics security market is expected to grow at 25% CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) in 2020. This growth will be driven by health and safety compliance norms and emerging security requirements.” Zenatix CEO & co-founder Rahul Bhalla said, “Customers right now have a low risk appetite and are looking at our products as a ‘must-have’ than one that is good to have.” Zenatix, part of Hero Electronix, offers IoT (internet of things) products. It has an access control solution called ZenSafe, which is cloud-based and allows personnel to control multiple terminals, while integrating with the company’s existing HR management solution over standard APIs (application program interfaces). For on-field workforce, like delivery agents and factory employees, the company also offers a wearable called ZenMonitor that sends body temperature readings to the cloud via its companion app. Hardware solutions are being considered alongside virtualised HR services, with large enterprises increasingly turning to workforce management solutions to deal with the challenges brought on by the lockdown, social distancing norms and its employees working remotely from home. Despite the economic slowdown and tightening of budgets, decision makers are not wasting any time in ensuring that areas pertaining to employee engagement and communication are given more priority. Solution providers are seeing an increased demand for their existing line of services as well as new ones. “The entire HR automation space for Asia alone, in the pre-Covid scenario, was pegged at Rs 27,000-30,000 crore. Now with Covid-19, it is expected to grow three times in 2020-21 itself,” shared TeamLease VP & business head Kaushik Banerjee. “Out of this, India will be looking at $1 billion (over Rs 7,500 crore), according to an HR survey. In the post-Covid scenario, market growth is expected to be 2x in India.” Automated IT processes for onboarding/offboarding employees, holding video-based interviews and conducting learning sessions have been in existence for some time now. However, there has been a significant uptick in this area due to the lockdown. “Our inbound enquiries have increased by 2.5 times over the last two months, when compared to what it was pre-Covid. As a result, our yearly revenue estimates have increased by 150%,” said Kiran Menon, CEO & co-founder of Tydy, a company that provides HR automation solutions. “We are getting inquiries from large startups as well. Traditionally, only enterprises cared for such services.” Prospective companies are also making decisions faster. “Earlier, negotiations would take up to three months. Now it has come down to 1-3 days,” said Banerjee. Amara Raja Group, for instance, had to adapt quickly to the lockdown. The company, which has a 16,000-strong workforce, already had certain HR solutions like recruitments, information access, e-learning and internal collaboration in place. However, this mostly covered its 3,500 white-collar employees only. “A 3- to 5-year implementation was planned to include the rest of the workforce. But the lockdown and Covid situation have made us advance our plan. The company has already extended its We@AR location-tracking and Zippi collaboration platform to all employees, even those who have moved back to their native place. This two-way communication has helped ease anxiety and raise morale of the people,” explained Amara Raja Group president (group HR & new business development) Jaikrishna B. The company also had to deploy a people safety management app for the 400-500 still working on the ground during the lockdown. What is relatively new is the way documents are shared, social interaction is controlled and hardware solutions are installed to monitor employees. “Collecting documents through emails or e-documentation portals, plus e-KYC, is being extensively used,” said Banerjee. Tydy has also had to include a scheduling aspect to their solution to know which employees are visiting their supervisor and at what time. IT asset allocation has also had to be re-architected, where the company has had to devise a way to have essential equipment sent to an employee’s home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/smart-tech-helps-cos-cut-human-contact/articleshow/76303498.cms||Ashutosh Desai
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||Big B Special flights give last-mile connectivity to 1,550 UP migrants||VARANASI/PRAYAGRAJ: Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan, in collaboration with Haji Ali Trust and the Mahim Dargah Trust, chartered special flights to help around 1,550 migrant workers stranded in Mumbai amidst Covid-19 lockdown reach their homes safely in Uttar Pradesh. The cine star joined hands with the Trusts to arrange the special flights after a train that was supposed to ferry the migrants was cancelled due to some technical issues. One flight with 180 migrants on board reached Allahabad on Tuesday evening, while another special flight carrying 174 passengers landed at Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi at 12.40pm on Wednesday. More flights are scheduled to land in other UP cities. The noble act of ‘Big B’ and the two trusts did not end here. The migrants were dropped to their homes in places like Basti, Kaushambi, Bhadohi, Pratapgrah by pre-arranged taxis. Special counters were set up for screening of travellersEarlier, the plan was to send 1,547 migrant workers and their family members who had been registered to travel home by train, which was cancelled because of some technical issues. For many migrants who landed at Bamrauli along with their families and kids, it was their first experience of travelling in flight. “I sell bangles in Mumbai. We were dejected when we came to know that the train had been cancelled. When someone said that a flight will take us home, I thought it was a joke, but here I am, safe and secure with my family. We will never forget this kind gesture,” said a passenger, who requested anonymity. Special counters were placed for screening of the passengers and they were escorted out while ensuring compliance of social distancing norms. A huge number of medical staff were deployed at the airport for quick screening. Shahnawaz Khan, a native of Rae Bareli, who operates auto-rickshaw in Mumbai, said, “We are extremely thankful to the great actor Amitabh Bachchan and Pir Makhdum Saheb Charitable Trust for arranging this chartered flight for migrant workers like me.” The passengers were permitted to leave the premises of the airport only after following all set norms. The humanitarian assistance for migrant workers was named ‘Mission Milaap’ and the flights were sponsored by Amitabh Bachchan, with help of Suhail Khandwani, managing trustee of Mahim Dargah trust and trustee of Haji Ali Dargah. The arrangements were coordinated by Rajesh Yadav, Managing Director of Amitabh Bachchan Corporation Limited, and Sabir Syed, IT director, Mahim Dargah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/big-b-special-flights-give-last-mile-connectivity-to-1550-up-migrants/articleshow/76311409.cms||Rajeev Mani
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMC asserts control over schools, managements miffed||Nagpur: Following complaint by parents regarding fees, a private unaided school was issued notice by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)’s education department, though usually it is the district education officer that handles such issues. While a school owners’ association has questioned NMC’s locus standi, the civic body says it is within its right to do so as per government guidelines after Right to Education (RTE) Act came into force in 2012. The notice signed by NMC’s education officer Priti Mishrikotkar questioned the bifurcation of fee under ‘computer lab’ etc type of headings. Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM) office bearer Ravindra Fadnavis, said, “I doubt if such issues fall within the purview of NMC.” An employee in the NMC’s education department, who did not wish to be identified, said a 2014 GR leaves no doubt about that. “Tukaram Mundhe is the competent authority and has initiated steps to ensure we assert our right over schools in city,” the employee said. Sources confirmed Mundhe asked his education department to coordinate with education department officers and work out who will handle what. RTE activist Shahid Sharif said the Act had a wider context. “Mundhe has authority to ensure RTE compliance in all schools from Std I-VIII. But he should not think it is only about easy things like admissions. RTE entails assessment of children, inspecting compliance, quality etc,” said Sharif. Also, if the GR came in 2014, why had NMC not asserted its authority over city schools so far? Retired senior education official Mahesh Karajgaonkar said the answer lies in history books. “Since the time of CP&Berar, education administration system here was different. Mumbai and Pune for decades have had active involvement of the civic body’s education department in governing some or all private schools. In Pune they have a board, whereas in Mumbai they have education inspectors in separate zones. In Nagpur, the zilla parishad looked after everything,” said Karajgaonkar. He added that if NMC insisted on taking complete control immediately, it would be a disaster. “Right now NMC does not have any system in place to supervise the massive network of schools. Till Mundhe is there, it might get managed properly but after him it will be chaos,” said Karajgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-asserts-control-over-schools-managements-miffed/articleshow/76310088.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers paying through nose to bus back workers||Ludhiana: Facing worst labour shortage for paddy transplantation due to Covid-19 pandemic, farmers are spending between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 lakh to bring workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The charges for paddy transplantation per acre have doubled this year as compared to the previous year. “Last year, workers had come from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in trains for transplantation, but this year due to Covid-19, farmers have to hire buses to bring them from their states. Recently, a group of farmers from our village booked three buses, paid around Rs 75,000 to Rs 1 lakh for each and brought 60 workers from Motihari in Bihar. These workers are staying outside the villages at tube-well rooms and they have given their samples for testing,” said Sudagar Ghudani, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) and farmer from Ghudani village. “Besides, farmers are giving them higher wages for transplantation as compared to last year. In Galoti village and three villages in Malaudh, many farmers have pooled in money and brought farm workers. The whole exercise might delay the transplantation,” he added. The farmer organisations said there was acute labour shortage, but workers were willing to come. Harinder Lakhowal of BKU (Lakhowal) said though there was 60% to 70% labour shortage, workers, who had earlier come for paddy transplantation, were calling up farmers to bring them back as they were penniless there. “Till now, around 10 buses of workers have come to Ludhiana district, which means around 400 labourers have returned. The number will increase manifold soon. The government should run trains to bring them back. They work for 15 hours a day and don’t go inside villages. Only one person from among them goes to bring ration to check virus risk,” said the BKU leader. He added that last year they gave Rs 2,500 per acre for transplantation, but now farmers were paying a minimum of Rs 5,000. “This will reduce the profit of farmers,” he said. Farmers are not only paying more, but also taking care of their needs in the time of pandemic. “We are spending on bringing them from their states and paying them double the wages. We are also ensuring that they get the best food,” said Joga Singh, a farmer from Machhiwara. Samples takenAt Machhiwara, the health department took samples of a group of around 20 migrants who recently came for paddy transplantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-paying-through-nose-to-bus-back-workers/articleshow/76309102.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||Courts shut for 2 days as advocate tests +ve||Kanpur: Panic prevailed in the Kanpur court on Wednesday after the news of a lawyer getting corona infected. According to some advocates, the infected advocate had met several people in the court. As soon as the news hit the court premises, the courts were closed for two days that is Thursday and Friday tocheck spread of the virus. The courts will also remain closed for two more days due to second Saturday and Sunday. It will now reopen on Monday. According to general secretary, Kanpur Bar Association, Kapil Deep Sachan, the courts have been closed for two days. The four days closure will give enough time to sanitary workers to sanitize the courts’ premises properly, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/courts-shut-for-2-days-as-advocate-tests-ve/articleshow/76311067.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Construction company asked to pay Rs 214 crore for stamp duty evasion||JAIPUR: A construction company has been asked to pay Rs 214 crore for stamp evasion, in the largest case made out by the stamps department in the state. Court of collector (stamp) circle - Jaipur-I, ordered Rs 214.84 crore recovery from the company, Oriental Nagpur Bypass Construction Pvt Ltd, on a case unearthed by the state directorate of revenue intelligence (SDRI) on stamp duty evasion. This order is the largest case made by the stamps department based on the information given by SDRI, said officials. The court ordered the company to pay Rs 64.32 crore for stamp duty and Rs 75.26 crore as interest and the same amount as penalty taking the total amount to Rs 214.84 crore. An investigation conducted by SDRI on stamp duty evasion found that the consortium and banks, in order to evade stamp duty, executed their common loan agreements outside Rajasthan like in Delhi or in Haryana on stamp papers of Rs 100 or Rs 500. The common loan agreements between consortium and banks are bilateral documents aimed at reducing the risk of debt between the lender (group of bankers led by the lead bank) and the loaner. Stamp duty is payable on the said document under the Rajasthan Stamp Act, 1998, as per rules. The SDRI has asked Oriental Nagpur Bypass Construction Pvt Ltd to produce relevant documents on suspicion of stamp duty evasion. On examination of the documents, it was found that Oriental Nagpur Bypass Construction Pvt Ltd, had signed a loan agreement with six major banks and financial institutions, including SBBJ, Jaipur, in 2010, in connection with construction and maintenance of the highway. This agreement executed in New Delhi amounted to Rs 1,289 crore. According to the Rajasthan Stamp Act, stamp duty is payable on documents executed in the state as well as on documents executed outside the state if any immovable property related to such documents is located in Rajasthan or the document is related to a work to be carried out in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/construction-co-asked-to-pay-rs-214cr-for-stamp-duty-evasion/articleshow/76311029.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Ensure waterlogging does not take place in basements: KMC||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has asked residential societies and developers of under-construction buildings to ensure that waterlogging at the basements and terraces does not take place during monsoon. Officials said that waterlogging at basements and terraces often pave way for the formation of breeding grounds for mosquitoe larvae which causes dengue. So far, over 90 cases of dengue have been reported in the city this year. Earlier this moth, 11 confirmed dengue cases were reported. Also, many suspects were found during door-to-door survey. Blood samples of these suspects have been sent to the Sentinel Laboratory at Chhatrapati Pramilaraje (CPR) hospital for testing. On Wednesday, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti directed the officials of health and vector-borne diseases control programme department to step up efforts in destroying the breeding grounds of dengue mosquitoes by carrying out disinfection activities. A senior health official requesting anonymity said, “Nowadays with the rise in Covid cases, dengue cases are also adding up, creating panic among citizens. We have found that the recent cases are from residential areas such as Nagala Park, Navnath Nagar and Saneguruji Vasahat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ensure-waterlogging-does-not-take-place-in-basements-kmc/articleshow/76309103.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for evading GST worth Rs 70 crore||VADODARA: The goods and services tax (GST) officials have arrested a Bharuch-based businessman for evading the taxes worth Rs 70 crore. Dilip Jain was arrested after GST investigations revealed that he hadn’t registered with the GST department and avoided paying taxes on the financial services he offered. GST officials said that Jain, whose transactions are to the tune of Rs 450 crore, owns four firms including Genesis Group, Grabdeal International, Grabdeal Advertisement and Tourism LLP and Glamox Solutions Pvt Ltd in Bharuch. “Jain offered financial services and ran multi-level marketing schemes. He used to charges Rs 8,500 from those who joined his firm and gave a fixed return as commission to the members,” a senior GST official said. “All the services he offered come under GST purview. But Jain didn’t have GST registration and he never paid taxes. Investigations revealed that he avoided paying GST to the tune of Rs 70 crore. This is just an initial amount that may go up in the coming days,” the official told TOI. Jain was arrested by GST officials on Tuesday and his past financial dealings are now being investigated. “We are also examining his business model and how he paid money to the subscribers,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-evading-gst-worth-rs-70-crore/articleshow/76307620.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court refuses to stay online classes||CHENNAI: Laying bare the fact that Tamil Nadu does not have any rules or regulations to govern online classes, the state government told the Madras high court that it has not permitted conduct of online classes by schools and colleges. It has, however, issued a government order restraining educational institutions from demanding fee for online academic activities, it added. A submission to this effect was made by government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan in response to a public interest writ petition that opposed online classes without the state framing appropriate guidelines under the Information Technology Act. On its part, the Centre, represented by additional solicitor-general of India G Rajagopalan, objected to any interim order against online classes saying the Union government must be given time to get instructions from competent authorities. Concurring with his submissions, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar refused to pass any interim orders, and said: “We consider it to be a matter of larger public importance and therefore, we issue notice to all the respondents arrayed in the present writ petition.” They said no interim relief can be ordered since it was not known as to what the ground reality was. The judges adjourned the hearing to June 25. Earlier, senior advocate S Prabakaran, representing the PIL-petitioner, S Saranya, argued Indian digital education had several fundamental flaws and serious lapses. Also, only 8% of homes with young members in TN have computer with internet connection, he said. In her petition, Saranya, a mother of two children, said during the online session, several advertisements with explicit content were popping up, disturbing the students’ mind and lives. Prabakaran pressed for an interim order of stay pointing out that the Tamil Nadu government took a stand that it had not permitted such classes. He said students attending online classes are easy targets for exploitation, as they are redirected to adult websites through several pop-up advertisements. This apart, such online classes have spoiled the dignity and decorum of classroom environment which have far-reaching consequences in learning habits and discipline of students, the petitioner said. Highlighting the drawbacks of such classes, Saranya added that students are denied the opportunity to raise questions and get it clarified from teachers. “Online education limits the amount of interaction students get with peers and faculty. Moreover, every student cannot be expected to be comfortable with such technology,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-refuses-to-stay-online-classes/articleshow/76310080.cms||Sureshkumar
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Son, wife stab 75-year-old multiple times in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Following heated arguments, a 45-year-old man, along with his mother, brutally killed his father at their house in BRS Nagar on Tuesday night. After stabbing Sham Singh Anand, 75, multiple times, Jatinder Singh and Charanjit Kaur, 67, sat beside his body the entire night and apprised their relatives of the incident on Wednesday morning. Sham Singh had retired from IFFCO as its north region general manager. Assistant commissioner of police (West) Sameer Verma said, “Jatinder is the only child of the couple. As he is unemployed, Sham Singh was running the house with his pension. Jatinder was dependent on his father for even basic needs, which strained their relations. And Charanjit would support their son.” “A couple of days ago, the trio had a fight after which Jatinder and Charanjit left the house and went to their relatives’ place in Ropar. Sham Singh pacified the two and brought them back to the city on Tuesday,” the ACP added.  However, on returning home, the three brawled again, as the elderly man had to take the help of his relatives to persuade them to return. “An tempers frayed, an infuriated Sham Singh picked up a knife and attacked his wife, who received a deep cut on her wrist. On seeing this, Jatinder lost his nerve and hit Sham Singh on head with a blunt weapon. He then snatched the knife from his hand and stabbed him multiple times, in eyes, head and face. Charanjit, too, stabbed him,” the ACP said. Sarabha Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala said, “The family had returned from Ropar around 6pm on Tuesday. Thereafter, Sham Singh went to his brother’s house to bring back his two-wheeler, which was parked there. He returned home around 9.30pm. Jatinder said the murder took place after half-an-hour. He and his mother sat by the body the whole night and called up their relatives in Ropar in the morning.” The kin then informed Sham Singh’s brother, who lives in Ludhiana’s Subhash Nagar, of the killing. After reaching the spot, his brother, Kishan Singh, sounded the police. Kishan Singh said, “Jatinder is an addict. He would often ask for money to buy drugs, which led to fights between the father and the son.” The ACP said, “It is yet to be verified if Jatinder is an addict. The body has been sent to civil hospital for post-mortem.” “We have recovered the weapons used in the crime from the spot,” the SHO added. The Sarabha Nagar police have arrested Jatinder and Charanjit under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/son-wife-stab-75-yr-old-multiple-times-at-their-brs-nagar-house/articleshow/76309117.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||4 policemen suspended for harassing businessman||Jhansi: Four police personnel including two inspectors posted at Baruasagar police station were suspended on Wednesday while the SO was sent to the lines for harassing a businessman few days ago. As per the details given to the press by IG (Jhansi range) Subhash Singh Baghel, a few days ago, a jeweller, who was going to Mauranipur from Jhansi, was stopped by the police during routine checking near Baruasagar. The businessman alleged he was forcibly taken to the Baruasagar police station and harassed by making him wait without any reason for long hours. Later, a delegation of businessmen met the IG and informed him about the entire incident. Taking the matter seriously, Baghel ordered an enquiry into the matter, and suspended two inspectors and two constables involved in the incident while the station house officer of Baruasaga police station was sent to lines on Wednesday. “I have ordered a detailed enquiry, and based on the outcomes, we will take further necessary action on those who are at fault,” said the IG in a press brief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-policemen-suspended-for-harassing-businessman/articleshow/76311080.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight die, 191 positive; No community spread in Telangana as per ICMR: Govt||HYDERABAD: Authorities in Telangana quoting an ICMR survey claimed the state was free from community transmission, even as eight more persons died and 191 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded on Wednesday. Despite the state’s tally rising to 4,111 cases and overall death toll from the virus going up to 156, health minister Eatala Rajender said a surveillance study done by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found there was no community spread in the state. “ICMR had collected 1,200 samples in rural districts of Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda as part of prevalence survey conducted between May 15 and 17. Of 1,200 samples, only four persons were tested positive for coronavirus,” health minister Eatala Rajender said. When it comes to urban areas, surveys in five containment zones of Hyderabad, Adibatla, Tappachabutra, Miyapur, Chandanagar and Balapur was conducted on May 30 and 31 and 500 samples collected. In this survey also, only 15 were found to be positive for Covid 19, the minister said. Rajender said this was possible only due to strict implementation of lockdown and preventive measures taken by the state government along with people’s cooperation. Later in the day, Telangana health department bulletin said of the total cases, 143 cases were reported in Greater Hyderabad, while 11 cases each came from Medchal and Sangareddy districts. Eight new cases were reported in Ranga Reddy district and the rest were from Mahbubnagar, Jagtial, Medak, Nagarkurnool, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Vikarabad, Nalgonda and Siddipet. Officials said till today 1,817 Covid-19 patients were discharged after they recovered, while 2,138 patients were being treated for the infection. Meanwhile, a central government team on Covid-19 headed by joint secretary Sanjay Jaju visited GHMC office on Wednesday. He along with other central team members Vikas Gade, Dr Ravinder met GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar on the steps being taken to contain the spread of the virus. Jaju said community cooperation was must for containment of Covid -19. He inquired about the situation prevalent in zone, ward and circlewise in the GHMC area. He said that the lockdown restrictions were almost relaxed. Private hospitals and labs in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai were conducting Covid 19 tests and around 70% of tests were found to be positive. The joint secretary discussed in detail on the number of positive cases in the GHMC area, methods adopted in contact tracing, facilities available for Covid 19 testing, hospitals, home quarantine, home isolation, containment issues with the officials. He said in the present scenario to contain a virus spread home quarantine was the only method available. As the cases were increasing by more than 100 every day, all-district collectors, health officials, deputy commissioners in GHMC limits were asked to create a WhatsApp group to improve coordination issues and also to share information without any delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-die-191-ve-no-community-spread-in-t-as-per-icmr-govt/articleshow/76311753.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 11, 2020||Business||HC seeks to hear from MP Birla companies||KOLKATA: A single bench of the Calcutta high court on Monday has directed issuance of notice to the M P Birla Companies to appear before it in the 15-year-long Birla-Lodha legal battle. On May 11, the Supreme Court had remanded the matter back to the probate court and directed it to decide on the dispute soon. “I am of the view that it is very elementary that the appellants at whose instance some orders have been set aside by the Division Bench and the very applications have been directed to be decided by this Bench and particularly when the Division Bench observes that the appellants should be given opportunity of hearing, it is the minimum, a notice should be issued to those appellants,” the HC judge said in the order. The said M P Birla companies — Birla Corporation, Birla Cable and Vindhya Telelinks — will now be heard in deciding the issues emanating from the decisions of the court-appointed committee, including non-reappointment of Harsh Vardhan Lodha as director in two of these companies and remuneration to him by none of them. In an order given on May 4, a division bench of the Calcutta HC had quashed a stay on re-appointment of Lodha as the director of Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cables. Birlas went to the Supreme Court against the division bench order, but the apex court asked the probate court to settle the issue. Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal, the counsel for the Lodhas, said, “This development is not something which deserves comment. The companies will surely take action in respect of such notices as would be legally appropriate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-seeks-to-hear-from-mp-birla-cos/articleshow/76311077.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||2 New Mkt blocks may remain shut after trader tests Covid +ve||Kolkata: News of a New Market trader testing positive triggered a day-long drama with KMC’s markets department first sealing off two blocks and then announcing that it would shut down the entire market for three weeks. Finally, they reversed the decision to shut the entire market after the civic health department said such a stringent containment measure was unnecessary. “We will decide on Thursday on exactly how much of the market needs to be contained. The rules of containment have changed, and hence, shutting down the entire market does not make sense. We have been advised by the KMC health department and will act accordingly,” a KMC markets department official told TOI late on Wednesday evening. Earlier in the day, the SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association had learned about the trader’s Covid positive report and informed the market authorities. Following this, two blocks — E Block where cake and confectionery range is located and E(N) block that houses shops like Maggi (formerly Magnolia) and Shobha — were sealed. The Covid-infected trader runs a dairy shop in E block. After the twin blocks were disinfected by KMC staff, the markets department decided to shut down the entire market for 21 days and asked traders in the old complex to take out any goods they wanted to before the entire market was to be sealed. The common toilet and drinking water facility was the reason cited by the authorities as the infected trader had come to the market till Sunday and would have used both. The decision led to disgruntlement among a section of traders who questioned why the entire market that had opened only 10 days ago was being shut when only affected buildings in neighbourhoods were being sealed. “Some business was just about beginning to happen. A few customers had started coming in. This is so very unfortunate,” said SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association president Ashok Gupta. Association joint secretary Ashraf Ali also argued that shutting down the market wasn’t a solution. “What if there’s another Covid case after 21 days? Will the authorities shut the shops again? What happens to the traders then?” he questioned. Faced with such questions, the markets department decided to consult with the civic health department. The latter made it clear that only shutting down the affected block was sufficient to dispel any fears of the contagion from minds of shoppers and traders. Accordingly, the markets department reversed its decision. Earlier in the day, speaking to TOI, the infected trader said he might have got infected from an asymptomatic person either in the market or on the way to and from it. “I think I got infected on the second day itself. I had a slight temperature and throat infection from Thursday. Then when I had breathing problems, I suspected it could be Covid. So I went to a private hospital and got myself tested. The results came on Tuesday. I have quarantined myself,” he said, adding that his family members had also gone for Covid test after he tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-new-mkt-blocks-may-remain-shut-after-trader-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/76310105.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Three men pose as transgenders, add phenyl to quarantine centre water tank in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The police on Wednesday arrested three men, who posed as transgenders, on the charge of attempt to murder after they mixed phenyl in the drinking water tank of a quarantine centre in Krishan Colony of Jodhewal. According to the police, one of the accused wanted revenge from cops, as they had arrested his brother in December 2019 in snatching and theft cases. The accused have been identified as Guniya, alias Nitika Khunsi, 25, Gaurav, 25, and Simran, 24, of Krishan Colony. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of constable Gurpinder Singh. The constable said he was earlier in the security of Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal. When she tested positive for Covid-19, he, along with constable Rajinder Singh and sub-inspector Amritpal Sharma, were quarantined in a house of a building in Krishna Colony. Later, other contacts of Covid-19-positive patients were also quarantined there. After his isolation period ended, he, along with two other cops, was put on security duty at the centre.” He said on Monday evening, when he opened the drinking water tap, he smelled phenyl in it and went upstairs to check. In the tank, he found phenyl mixed in the water. On questioning, area residents said they saw three men near the rooftop tank. Before going to the building, the trio had told some residents that they were going to teach cops a lesson. Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said, “Guniya is a man, but has been living as a transgender with Gaurav and Simran. The police have also got the accused medically examined and they were found to be men. They indulge in illegal activities, like drug peddling. Guniya’s brother, Jatinder Singh Pappi, was arrested by Jodhewal police in December 2019. He is lodged in jail at present. Following Jatinder’s arrest, Guniya nurtured a rivalry against the police and therefore took the step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/three-men-pose-as-transgenders-add-phenyl-to-quarantine-centre-water-tank/articleshow/76309110.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||Mother held for killing minor son||Prayagraj: A 35-year old woman was arrested by police on the charges of killing her five-year-old son at Kanauja Kala village in the limits of Phulpur police station here on early Wednesday. The accused woman, identified as Renu, was a resident of Saraymamrez who had allegedly stabbed her minor son identified as Rishi Kumar (5), to death with the help of a shovel. Deputy SP (Phulpur) Umesh Sharma told TOI that the accused woman, said to be mentally challenged, was caught by a group of villagers when she was allegedly taking the body of minor to dump into a nearby well. He added, “ Cousin of the accused named as Radhika spotted the mother taking the seriously injured son bleeding profusely towards nearby well and raised an alarm”. The villagers caught the woman red handed and locked her in a room. DSP said that the woman along with her two minor sons had come to her parents’ house in Phulpur village about 20 days back. Her husband Ramesh Patel is a private driver and lives in Saraymamrez. Police said that the woman had hit the shovel on the forehead of her five year old son. The boy was bleeding profusely yet she picked him up and was on the way to a nearby well to dump him when she was caught by the villagers on the family member’s alarm. The villagers took the injured boy to community health centre where doctors referred him to SRN but boy died on the way to the hospital. When police quizzed the accused mother, she replied, “Jo bhagwan ne diya tha, maini usko bhagwan ke pass wapas kar diya ( whatever God gifted me, I sent his gift back to him). The accused brother told police that the woman was mentally challenged and was undergoing treatment for past four years. Few months back, she had stopped taking medicines. The body of minor boy was sent for post mortem examination. The woman has another son aged about eight years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mother-held-for-killing-minor-son/articleshow/76307072.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Snow leopard found dead in Gangotri National Park, samples sent to IVRI-Bareilly||Uttarkashi: An ailing snow leopard died in the Nelang Valley region of Gangotri National Park on Tuesday. The female leopard was found in poor health condition by the patrolling staff of Gangotri National Park on Monday and was kept under watch. However, when the veterinarian came to inspect the big cat on Tuesday, it was found dead. The exact cause of the death couldn't be ascertained even after the postmortem and thus, the big cat's samples were sent for further tests to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly. NB Sharma, deputy director of Gangotri National Park, has ruled out the possibility of any foul play saying that there is limited human movement in the region. “A female snow leopard aged 7-8 years has died in the Nelang Valley region of the park. In primary investigation, veterinarians could not identify the exact cause of death as its stomach was all empty and lungs and kidney were all fine too. It could be possible that the big cat was sick and became unable to hunt. We are sending its viscera samples to IVRI-Bareilly to find out the cause of death,” he said. The official informed that this is the third snow leopard death in the Gangotri National Park region since its establishment in 1989. “The earlier incidents of leopard deaths were reported in 2015 and 2018. Both the cases were of natural deaths. According to internal estimates of WII, there are around 500-700 snow leopards in India and Uttarakhand is home to 80-100 elusive cats. Among which, nearly 40-50 snow leopards are in the Gangotri National Park region,” the official added. Snow leopards are listed in the vulnerable category of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. Notably, India is yet to conduct a population estimate of snow leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snow-leopard-found-dead-in-gangotri-national-park-samples-sent-to-ivri-bareilly/articleshow/76309163.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Kasi’s dad for quashing son’s detention under Goondas Act||Madurai: The father of sexual predator Kasi alias Suji has filed a habeas corpus petition (HCP) before the Madras high court seeking to quash his son’s detention order under the Goondas Act and set him at liberty. Kasi was arrested for shooting intimate videos and photographs of more than 100 young women, he had befriended and extorted lakhs of rupees from them and lodged in the Palayamkottai Central Prison in Tirunelveli. K Thangapandian stated that the Kottar police in Kanyakumari distict have falsely implicated his son Kasi and registered a case against him on April 24 under various sections of the IPC, sections under Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act and Information Technology Act.He stated that after his son was arrested, the Kanyakumari district collector passed a detention order under Goondas Act on April 29 stating that Kasi was a sexual offender. In the detention order, it was stated that Kasi had indulged in activities prejudicial to maintenance of public health and public order, however, Thangapandian claimed that his son did not indulge in any such activities.Stating that the detention order was illegal and was passed without application of mind, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.When the petition was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi ordered notice to the state government and adjourned the case to a further date for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kasis-dad-for-quashing-sons-detention-under-goondas-act/articleshow/76311090.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||17 test positive for Covid-19||TNNLudhiana: Seventeen persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 60 pending reports received from Government Medical College, Patiala, 14 were positive and 36 negative. The health department officials said those who have tested positive include a 32-year-old woman, a 29-year-old man from Chawni Mohalla containment zone and a 45-year-old woman from Mundian Khurd. The Mundian Khurd woman was an influenza-like illness case.Others are: a 37-year-old and a 21-year-old women and three men, aged 38, 19 and 60, who are contacts of a positive patient. They are residents of Field Ganj in Ludhiana.Besides, a 23-year-old pregnant woman of Dhillon Nagar Colony, Ludhiana, has tested positive. Another pregnant woman, who too is 23-year-old, of Gobindpura, Ludhiana, has also contracted the virus.A 57-year-old man from Hata Sherjung, Ludhiana; an 18-year-old man of Dhuri Line, Ludhiana, a 58-year-old woman from Mallah village in Jagraon and a 23-year-old Abu Dhabi returnee are also positive.Three positive patients are admitted to private hospitals. They are: a 42-year-old woman from Atam Nagar, Ludhiana, who is admitted to DMC and had travelled to Ludhiana from Delhi; a Dhandra Road, Ludhiana, man, 54, who is admitted to Oswal Hospital; and a 57-year-old Sahnewal man, who too is admitted to DMC.To date, 175 patients have been discharged from hospitals after they were treated of the virus.A total of 13,101 samples have been taken so far, of which reports of 12,045 have been received. As many as 11,655 samples were negative and reports of 1,056 samples is pending. The Ludhiana case count is 281, while 110 patients who were from outside the district tested positive here. The virus has to date claimed 10 lives.So far, 8,785 persons have been home quarantined. At present, their number was 2,157. On Wednesday, 258 persons were sent for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/17-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76309128.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Centre linking data from various govt depts opened||Kochi: Marking a big stride towards a bright future of the city which is amply supported by technology, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan formally inaugurated Integrated Command Control and Communication Centre (ICCCC), which is part of smart city project, in Kochi through an online system on Monday. The centre has been set up in 10,000sqft space near the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium Metro station. All data available with Kochi corporation, police, fire and rescue services department and KSEB would be collected at the centre in the first phase. Later, other agencies and departments will also be brought under the limits of ICCCC. The facility will help prepare plans for police, traffic, road, public health etc., with the support of interactive web maps. This will help enhance the efficiency and speed of various government services, chief minister said while inaugurating the project. This will also aid in providing various services to the public during emergencies. The facility can play a crucial role in disseminating information to public as well. If any disease spread or an accident occurs in an area, the information can be given to the public using the system in an easy and effective manner. Citizens web portal and mobile app are also part of the facility and it will help deliver various services to the public online. People can also use web portal and mobile app for lodging complaints. The official who is responsible for taking corrective measures would look into the complaint and take mitigative measures. If the official fails, the complaint will automatically be forwarded to the superior officer after a fixed period. Information collected from various departments and agencies will be analysed at the automated system at ICCCC. This will help better planning in the city. The communication centre will also support police in maintaining law and order besides assisting various agencies in disaster management operations. Controlling pollution, ensuring efficient use of electricity and water and a coordinated system for providing efficient healthcare services are other features offered by the centre. CCTV surveillance, public address system, emergency call box and panic button to help public during emergencies are some of the other features of ICCCC. The CM also inaugurated rooftop solar plants installed atop government offices in Kochi. The plants installed at 28 government offices will generate 14.6 million units of electricity a year. This will also help reduce carbon emission by 1,000 tonne a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/centre-linking-data-from-various-govt-depts-opened/articleshow/76309131.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Won’t allow devotees in temples, say Char Dham priests||Dehradun: The priests of Char Dham shrines have refused to abide by the order of Devasthanam Management Board which allows a limited number of local devotees to visit Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri temples till June 30. According to the mahapanchayat of Char Dham chief priests, they are not compelled to follow any directions from the board as its very existence has already been challenged in the court and the matter is sub-judice. They also maintained that the devotees won’t be allowed in temples and even if the government remains adamant on its decision to start Char Dham Yatra, they won’t perform puja. Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Teerth Purohit Char Dham Mahapanchayat, told TOI that the priests and local representatives of both the Gangotri and Yamunotri temples have already informed the local district administration that they will not allow devotees inside temples. “Covid-19 cases have surged in the hills too. What if any infected person arrives in the temple. All the priests will have to be put under quarantine and puja would have to be suspended in the shrines for many days if this happens,” he said, while adding that the priests will not follow any directions from the Devasthanam Board as the matter is sub-judice. Echoing the same, Shiv Prakash, head priest (rawal) of Gangotri Dham, said, “We won’t perform puja or let devotees enter the temple.” According to the orders issued by the Devasthanam Board on Tuesday, 1,200 local devotees will be allowed in Badrinath Dham, 800 pilgrims in Kedarnath, 600 in Gangotri, and 400 in Yamunotri shrine on a daily basis. The pilgrims will have to procure tokens prior to visiting the temples. However, the Char Dham Yatra for residents of other states has been postponed till June 30. It is worth mentioning that the state government has also allowed local saints to meditate in Char Dham shrines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wont-allow-devotees-in-temples-say-char-dham-priests/articleshow/76309136.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rains lash city||Ahmedabad: Heavy rains lashed almost all parts of the city with very heavy rains reported from Sarkhej and Bodakdev area of the city. The city till 11 am had received an average 20.70 mm of rains taking the total seasons rainfall to 97.20 mm since June 1. Even the outskirts of the city that is area of Bopal, Shela, Ghuma, Shilaj among other reported very heavy rains late in the night. The weathermen have for Thursday forecast rains or thundershowers late in the evening or night on Thursday also. The weathermen said that humidity levels were very high at 8.30 in the morning. The humidity was 83% in the morning. The city reported the maximum temperature of 38.3 degree which was 1.2 degree below normal while the night temperature was was 27.3 degree which was 0.6 degree below normal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rains-lash-city/articleshow/76310262.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||In another peak, UP records 20 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: In another day of high casualties, UP recorded 20 Covid-related deaths -- its highest-ever single-day tally -- on Wednesday. The previous single-day highest tolls was recorded just a day before when 18 casualties had been reported. On Wednesday, 277 new cases, including 52 in Jaunpur, marked the coronavirus spread in the state in the past 24 hours. Other districts from where deaths were reported included Mainpuri where two persons died and Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Lucknow, Kanpur, Aligarh, Hapur, Bulandshahr and Amethi. On the positive side, the total recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in 24 hours after a gap of nearly two weeks. Against 277 cases, 302 persons were discharged from hospitals taking the total number recovered to 6,971. This means a recovery rate of 59.5% for the state which is higher than the national average of a little over 50%. In another development, the total number of samples tested for the pandemic virus crossed four-lakh mark. With 13,351 samples tested, the total reached to 4,04,637 on Wednesday. Health officials said that the state was working towards achieving 15,000 tests per day mark in a week. Of the new cases, Jaunpur accounted for a maximum of 52. Health officials said that all of them were migrants who had returned from New Delhi, Mumbai, Surat and Dadar and Nagar Haveli. The new cases took Jaunpur’s overall tally to 352 which is highest in eastern UP. Gautam Budh Nagar bagged the second slot with 18 cases, taking the total to 746. Gonda, Baghpat and Meerut followed with 17, 16 and 13 cases. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the total number of active cases in the state reached 4,318. He further said that 92 migrant cases took the total for the category to 3,815.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-another-peak-up-records-20-covid-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/76311412.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Cop hurt in stone pelting in north Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Inderlok police post in north Delhi was attacked late on Wednesday by the brothers and relatives of a man who had been taken into custody on the complaint of a resident of the area who had accused him of robbing and thrashing him. The crowd pelted stones and fired at the police post in which a sub-inspector got injured after being hit by a brick. The policeman had fired in the air to disperse the crowd. The families of both the victim, Akhlaq alias Kale, and the accused, Saadkeen, have criminal antecedents and quarrelled with each other often. Akhlaq reached the police post around 10.30pm and told the cops that Saadkeen and his brothers had looted and beaten him. Saadkeen had rented his shop to Akhlaq to run a bakery. “Usually, Saadkeen would take goods from the shop saying he would pay later. However, Akhlaq refused to give him anything on Wednesday without making a payment. They got into an argument, which turned ugly and Akhlaq was thrashed by Saadkeen and his brothers,” said an investigating officer. DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj said, “Saadkeen and his brothers were brought to the police post, but were let off later. They soon returned wielding lathis and pelted stones and bricks at the policemen. Saadkeen’s brother, Naved, also fired a shot. The sub-inspector then fired two rounds in the air to disperse the crowd. We have arrested Saadkeen, Ashkeen and Shahrukh. Efforts are being made to nab the others.” CCTV footage of the incident shows a dozen men wielding lathis, entering the police post and attacking the cops. Some of them pelted stones from outside. The sub-inspector was hit by a brick on the face and fell to the ground. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was discharged after treatment. Naved had earlier been jailed in an attempt to murder case and was recently released on bail. He is currently being treated at a hospital and will be arrested once he is discharged, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-hurt-in-stone-pelting-in-n-delhi/articleshow/76329777.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Tamil Nadu hasn’t recorded 236 Covid deaths in Chennai||CHENNAI: Atleast 460 people have died of Covid-19 in Chennai till June 8, which is more than double the 224 announced by the directorate of public health (DPH), a scrutiny of the city corporation death registry has revealed. A team of DPH officials on Tuesday found that the death register maintained by the health officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation had recorded 236 more deaths than the state register. If these deaths had been added, the fatality rate in the state would have been close to 1.5%, against the 0.7% reported by state officials. On Tuesday, TOI had reported that at least 20 Covid deaths logged by the Railway hospital in Perambur were not reported to the Covid-19 state nodal office. “We have no intention of hiding any deaths. We are transparent. This revision exercise also shows that,” health minister C Vijayabaskar told TOI. All government medical college hospitals and some private hospitals have to report deaths to the state and city corporation through email. “Many have not submitted it and we are finding out why. We will add the cases to the death registry after verification,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “A committee has been formed to reconcile the issue within a week,” she said. DPH has issued showcause notices to hospitals and set up a committee to “streamline” death reports. It also directed the Greater Chennai Corporation to send all Covid-19 death reports to the state health agency in a prescribed format. Public health officials have also been directed to analyse all domiciliary deaths and see if they could be described as “probable Covid”, as per ICMR guidelines. Officials in the health department of Chennai corporation said they had nearly 75% less deaths, partly because they have not updated the state death registry as they were short-staffed. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Epidemiologists say doctors have to declare Covid deaths and probable Covid deaths along with a list of comorbidities. Like in every other death declaration sheets, the forms 4 and 4 (a) will also ask doctors to write down underlying cause, contributing factors and immediate cause. WHO has provided codes for Covid-19 deaths – U07.1 for all Covid deaths and U07.2 for probable Covid deaths. Also read: India sees highest one-day spike of 9,996 casesIn second case, Covid-19 virus is not identified through test, but doctors have clinically or epidemiologically diagnosed and suspect the virus. “Accurate data is necessary to measure the public health impact, plan for timely health interventions and protect communities. At the same time, other health conditions affecting populations need to be also monitored,” said an official. Watch Chennai’s Covid toll found double of that reported||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tamil-nadu-hasnt-recorded-236-covid-deaths-in-chennai/articleshow/76312014.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Locusts reappear in Ramtek, sprayed with drones||Nagpur: The state agriculture department finally used drones for spraying pesticides on locust swarms on Wednesday. The two machines reached Nagpur last week and were supposed to be used in areas where the conventional means of spraying like fire tender and tractor mounted pumps could not reach. But the drones could not be put into use as the locust was not spotted after that The pest which had flown out of Maharashtra reaching Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh was once again seen on Monday. The swarms had entered the Pench tiger reserve. No spraying was done as it was a protected forest area. After exiting the forest, the swarm was spotted at Ajni village in Ramtek tehsil on Wednesday where the spraying took place. Raivindra Bhosle, joint director agriculture (JDA, for Nagpur division said the drones were effective and could reach the inaccessible areas. “Apart from drone, spraying was also done through tractor mounted pumps and fire tenders,” he said. “The drones had to take multiple sorties because the battery needed to be changed at frequent intervals. At a time the drone could carry 10 litres pesticides,” said Bhosle. A video shows a drone hovering above a swarm of locust which are then seen scattering away. By sundown the swarms settled in Mohadi village in Mouda tehsil, moving out of Ramtek. The teams have geared up for another round of spraying here. As kharif sowing has not started, there was no risk to the crops, he said. “The spraying should be done when the locust has settled down after sunset or early in the morning. Since there is moisture due to rains, it may help in killing the pest. Due to the moisture, the pesticide is likely to stay on locust’s body for a longer time,” said Manoj Rai, a locust expert from Centre for Sericulture and Biological Pest Management of Nagpur University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locusts-reappear-in-ramtek-sprayed-with-drones/articleshow/76310138.cms||Shishir Arya
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Harmful waste used for land reclamation||Kochi: Officials of Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) who inspected a private property near Karimugal, not far away from the Brahmpuram waste plant, following complaints have found that the low-lying plot was being illegally levelled by rampant dumping of hazardous waste. The PCB has directed secretary, Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat, to identify the landowner and submit an action taken report. “We even spotted biomedical waste like urine bag catheter dumped in the plot. They were not just plastic waste,” said a senior PCB official who visited the spot. PCB officials suspect that the area is being levelled using wide variety of material like industrial ash and saw dust besides plastic waste in rampant violation of Municipal Solid Waste Rules, 2016. Both panchayat and pollution control board authorities suspect that a part of the land spanning several acres is wetland. According to residents, dumping and levelling of the plot was not a recent development, officials said. “The volume of waste is huge. There are several kinds of waste including saw dust and plastic. We don’t know who the landowner is. We have now issued a letter to the village office to identify the landowner,” said Anil Kumar, secretary, Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat. Once they identify the owner the local body would take action on the basis of Panchayati Raj Act. PCB can also proceed against violators based on relevant provisions of MSW Rules. Abdul Basheer Koyikkal, an elected member of the panchayat, said illegal landfilling is not a recent development and the panchayat had earlier inspected the spot following a complaint, but no action was taken. Panchayat secretary also confirmed that they had received a complaint before the lockdown had started and the dumping was stopped post inspection. In 2019, reclamation of nearly 15acres of wetland at Manakkakkkadavu in Kunnathunad has resulted in a controversy after the conversion was regularized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/harmful-waste-used-for-land-reclamation/articleshow/76309161.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills 47 goats in Nainital’s Jalal village||Nainital: In yet another incident of wild animals attacking human habitations, a leopard entered an animal shed in a remote village in Nainital district and killed at least 47 goats. According to locals, the incident took place on Tuesday night in Jalal village, around 40 km from district headquarters. “I had closed the shed on Tuesday night and went to sleep, however, as I went to check on them on Wednesday morning I found that 47 of them were dead each having either signs of animal tooth or claws,” said 40-year-old Lakshman Singh, the owner of the goats. Apart from 47 dead goats, 18 are injured and over 25 are still missing. “I, along with several other, went around the nearby forest to look for them but we did not spot anything after which we informed the forest department,” he said. Singh said that though the village is surrounded by forests and animal attacks are common, but it is for the first time that so much damage has been done in one night. “Animals have been spotted in the area and over the years there have also been incidents when goats were killed by the leopards but attack on such a huge scale has never happened,” Singh said. Meanwhile, forest department officials said that it looks like at least two leopards were involved in the attack. “We are investigating and trying to trace the animals that attacked the village. The department is also planning to install cages in the village so that the leopard can be caught,” said range officer Amit Gawasikoti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-47-goats-in-nainitals-jalal-village/articleshow/76309176.cms||Prashant Jha
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: PCR tests to detect Covid-19 not fully reliable, says CCMB study||HYDERABAD: In a finding that could have widespread ramifications, researchers at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, have found that about 50% of Covid-19 positive samples tested through the standard RT-qPCR test may not yield the correct result. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) test has been recommended by the WHO and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and is used globally to detect the virus. The CCMB scientists found a high percentage of false negative cases while comparing the RT-qPCR with a new test method developed by the them. The new test — RT-nPCR — is not only cost-effective but can be conducted on a large number of people in a short time, the researchers said. “We found that taking both standard RT-qPCR tests together, the RT-nPCR test was able to correctly identify 90% of samples detected as positive by RT-qPCR. It also detected 13% samples as positive among samples that were negative by the standard RT-qPCR test (likely false negatives),” the scientists said in their research paper which has been uploaded on an online pre-print repository for biological sciences ‘bioRxiv’. “Based on the experimentally measured false negative rate by RT-nPCR tests from this study, we estimated that as many as 50% of the positive samples may escape detection in single pass testing by RT-qPCR in an actual testing scenario,” they added. The new method uses RT-nested PCR and is equally sensitive as RT-qPCR. This method needs a simple PCR machine. It increases the possibility of many more labs doing Covid-19 tests, thereby expanding testing capacity. RT-qPCR requires an expensive qPCR machine, which is not found in many labs in the country. “The CCMB method is suitable for largescale surveillance,” the researchers claimed. RT-qPCR involves extraction of RNA from nasopharyngeal swab samples to measure amplification of a short segment of a viral gene in the course of a PCR reaction following reverse transcription of viral RNA. Performing the RT-qPCR test requires a real-time thermal cycler which is an expensive instrument. A majority of research laboratories are equipped with only a limited number and smaller laboratories may have none, which places constraints on the number of tests. The research team comprised corresponding author Imran Siddiqi and Jayeshkumar Narsibhai Davda, Keith Frank, Sivakumar Prakash, Gunjan Purohit, Devi Prasad Vijayashankar, Dhiviya Vedagiri, Karthik Bharadwaj Tallapaka, Krishnan Harinivas Harshan, Archana Bharadwaj Siva, Rakesh Kumar Mishra and Jyotsna Dhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pcr-tests-to-detect-covid-not-fully-reliable-says-ccmb-study/articleshow/76311757.cms||Syed Akbar
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Leaders, greens invoke 2018 floods to slam Athirappilly NOC move||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala State Electricity Board’s move to revive the controversial Athirappilly hydroelectric project has set off an avalanche of criticism from political leaders -- cutting across party lines – and activists. The government, egged on by the KSEB, has extended the validity of its no-objection certificate for the 163 MW project across the Chalakkudy river in Thrissur district. While power minister M M Mani and electricity board officials termed the NOC a routine procedure, politicians and environmentalists have raised red flags, terming the move the result of the government’s failure to understand lessons from the torrent of recent natural disasters. after the devastating floods of 2018 i would have thought that kerala govt. would have got some environmental sense… https://t.co/UHuWibuia0— Jairam Ramesh (@Jairam_Ramesh) 1591768306000“After the devastating floods of 2018 i would have thought that Kerala govt. would have got some environmental sense. But obviously contractor lobby is powerful,” former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted. The project has been on and off the radar for decades, thanks to the resolve of the board and activists. “The board has never said that it has abandoned the project. We have been trying for long to reach a consensus with all stakeholders for commissioning the project. The NOC was sought following the Central Electricity Authority’s advice that the board apply afresh for the techno-economic clearance of the project,” a senior KSEB official said. CPI leader Binoy Viswam and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala slammed the move to revive the project. Both said they would continue to oppose the project as it was not in the best interest of the sensitive ecological nature of Kerala, especially in view of the series of natural calamities that the state has experienced in the recent years. BJP state president K Surendran went further and alleged corruption behind the move to revive the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/netas-greens-invoke-18-floods-to-slam-athirappilly-noc-move/articleshow/76309172.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||2nd GRSE ship selected for export||Kolkata: After becoming the first defence shipyard in the country to export a ship (to Mauritius), a Fast Patrol Vessel (FPV) built by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) in Kolkata has been selected for the Seychelles Coast Guard. The export will take place after necessary formalities are completed by the governments of the two countries. The FPV selected for Seychelles was fourth in a series of five such vessels being built for the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) by GRSE. Another ship will be built to replace the one being exported. On Tuesday, GRSE also delivered the fifth FPV of this series to the ICG. This was the 105th ship to be delivered by GRSE to the Navy or ICG. The protocol of delivery and acceptance was signed by Rear Admiral (retd) V K Saxena, CMD, GRSE and Comdt (JG) Subhash Kapoor, commanding officer of the vessel. Others present included R H Nandodkar, DIG, ICG and other senior officials. The FPVs, which have been entirely designed by GRSE’s Central Design Office has an efficient hull form developed in-house and proved through extensive model testing, these ships are designed to achieve speeds exceeding 34 knots with an endurance of more than 1500 nautical miles. They are fuel-efficient, powerful platforms, well-suited for anti-smuggling, anti-poaching and rescue operations. They are fitted with state-of-the-art main engines with advanced control systems, water jet units and an ‘Integrated Bridge System’ that integrates all communications and navigation systems. These ships are also fitted with 40/60 Guns as the main armament and have improved habitability features with fully air-conditioned modular accommodation for 35 personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/2nd-grse-ship-selected-for-export/articleshow/76311096.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow architect part of Ram temple trust jury||LUCKNOW: Well-known architect Vandana Sehgal, who is also the principal of the college of architecture at AKTU in the city, has been named as a member jury to finalise design and architecture of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya. Amid speculations that prime minister Narendra Modi would lay the foundation stone of Ram temple next month, the state administration has intensified pre-construction activities. When TOI contacted Sehgal, she confirmed that she had been appointed member jury, but declined to share the temple construction plans. During the lockdown, Sehgal was the first architect to launch a virtual exhibition of art works and drew applause from across the world. The jury will assist the Ram Temple Trust, set up by the Centre on the directives of the Supreme Court, in giving final shape to the temple with the selection of architects. It is in this background the Centre has named Sehgal as a jury member to finalise the design and architecture of the temple. She would also select architects for the temple. Apart from heading the college of architecture, Sehgal is a member of the council of architecture and has worked with many national and international organisations and institutes associated with architecture. Sehgal is among the four jury members. While all the other members are from the government side, she has been named as an independent member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-architect-part-of-ram-temple-trust-jury/articleshow/76311416.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Schools struggle to stay afloat, some mull shutting down||CHENNAI: Schools across the city are struggling to stay afloat due to heavy losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown. While some have laid off teachers and other staff to cut down on expenses, a few are planning to shut down their campuses permanently. “We have incurred losses amounting to Rs 10 lakh in the last three months. It is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain the school, we are left with no option but to close it,” said the headmaster of a primary school in the city, requesting anonymity. “We haven’t announced our decision to parents yet, though we have been dropping hints and encouraging them to find alternatives for their children.” At least a 100 students are currently enrolled in the school. “We have also asked a few parents to help us with donations so we can get through this phase. But everyone is going through a bad time themselves,” said the headmaster. Most schools that are struggling to get over the crisis are relatively new. They were all opened a year or two ago and are operating out of rented buildings. More than a 100 schools have been opened in and around the city in the past four years. At least four of them are on the verge of shutting down due to the heavy losses incurred, but the others are still hopeful. Samhita M, director of Ela Green school in Maraimalai Nagar, said apart from a drastic dip in admissions, many children have dropped out fearing the pandemic, adding to the huge losses. “We had less than 50% admissions this year (2020-21). Cost of maintaining classrooms has increased, we have to pay our teachers and other staff,” said Samhita. “We are going through a rough phase right now, but are hoping to sail through.” Mohammed Aboobacker Siddique, founder of Orange Tree Montessori School in Madipakkam, said they contemplated shutting down due to economic reasons, but managed to make other cuts instead. “We were going to start our new campus soon but we have stalled it. A few of our teachers have taken a break, for personal reasons, we are trying to save money in every possible way,” he said. Siddique too expressed concerns about the uncertainty that lies ahead. “The period from mid-March to May was the hardest. We are draining all investments. We hope the situation eases by August. Since the profession is a passion and parents are supportive, we do not want to give up easily and shut down,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/schools-struggle-to-stay-afloat-some-mull-shutting-down/articleshow/76310112.cms||Aditi R
June 11, 2020||Delhi||It didn’t bargain for this, but here’s how Sarojini Market is bracing for the future||New Delhi: In the rather deserted Sarojini Nagar Market in south Delhi, two women awaited their takeaway order at Khatta Meetha, a popular eatery nestled between shops selling fashionwear and shoes. An autorickshaw slowed down and the driver asked, “Auto chahiye, auto? Kahan chalna hai?” The women, regulars at the market perhaps, didn’t reply, clearly dumbfounded to see an auto at a spot that in normal times is so jampacked that not even a bicycle can squeeze through. Getting no response, the auto sped away. A bargain hunter’s paradise, Sarojini Nagar Market is synonymous with crowds. At least it was, till Covid-19 upended everything. Social distancing circles now pockmark the lanes that, till a few months ago, almost weren’t visible under the crush of feet. The circles appear redundant at the moment because there aren’t too many customers around. Of course, because the residential neighbourhood that the market mainly catered to was razed to the ground for redevelopment, there are fewer local shoppers. But, said Rajesh Taneja of Stelatoes, a shoe shop, “We get customers not only from south Delhi, but also from distant areas, including Ghaziabad and Noida in Uttar Pradesh.” In the Covid era, however, customers don’t want to spend an extra minute on buying what they need, he said. Mohammadpur resident Vipin Sharma represents this new customer. “When I had to go back to work, I found all my shoes, lying idle and uncared for during the lockdown, in bad shape,” Sharma said. “I needed a new pair of shoes urgently and also brought my family to buy some small household items.” While Sharma managed to quickly pick a pair for himself, his wife, Sushila, was disappointed not to find the soap dish, clothesline and other items on her shopping list. While all shops in the market are open, the street vendors are missing. “The major attraction of coming to SN was the availability of everything from clothes to coffee mugs at pocket-friendly prices,” she said. Om Chopra, owner of Om Boot House, said it was important that along with the shops, the vendors were also allowed. “When people come here, they want to return home with something. SN gets all kind of customers and many of them are vendor favourites,” he added, Chopra felt that the resumption of Delhi Metro services would make a big impact in drawing shoppers. Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar’s Mini Market Trader Association, agreed. “There are not many markets in Delhi with a metro station located nearby. The reopening of the train network will be a huge help,” he said. Chopra thoughtfully added, “Even after the serial bomb blasts of October 2005, which took a big human toll, the market was back to business within a few days.” However, a bustling market is what SN is yet to become in the aftermath of the lockdown. “I have grown up at Sarojini Nagar’s Railway Colony and I have never seen the market so thinly filled,” said Dilip Singh, salesman at a garment shop. “Though people are coming, they are here mainly to take a stroll and feel a little normal amid the stress.” R K Mehta, owner of boutique Jai Saira, also shrugged, “We have opened our shop because not doing so is not an option. There are very few customers, but we hope the footfall will increase.” The market came up in the 1950s to serve the thousands of government flats of the newly built Vinay Nagar, which a couple of decades later got carved into Sarojini Nagar, Laxmi Bai Nagar and Netaji Nagar. The shop-cum-residences in the market were allotted to Partition migrants from Pakistan. Two huge arches in the middle of the two ends of this ‘I’ shaped market, with a dilapidated sign announcing ‘Sarojini Nagar’ are perhaps the only remnant of the market’s cross-border past, apart from such signboards as Quetta Stores or the erstwhile Lahori Restaurant. At its birth, Sarojini Nagar market was a rather grand neighbourhood market, with grocery stores, pharmacies, barbershops, cloth and wool stores, tailoring shops, meat stalls, tent houses, even egg wholesalers. In the 1980s came those offering water coolers, electronics, readymade clothes, suitcases, etc on ‘hire purchase’. Credit cards and EMIs were alien words then. It was not, however, renowned for restaurants and had only a few like Amar Jyoti. The post-liberalisation ’90s era saw SN market evolving into the place it is today. Branded stores and those selling export rejects turned the sleepy back lanes into its most thriving segment. Subsuming the market’s entire character, affordable fashion became SN’s crowd magnet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/it-didnt-bargain-for-this-but-heres-how-sarojini-market-is-bracing-for-the-future/articleshow/76329803.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Neither shocked nor surprised, say activists||Kochi/Thrissur: Environmental activists are more amused than angered by the move of the Kerala State Electricity Board to pursue the proposed Athirappilly hydroelectric project -- considered to be economically unviable and environmentally disastrous.The state government extended the validity of the no-objection certificate issued to the project by another seven years on June 4 as KSEB seeks to revalidate both the techno-economic clearance from Central Electricity Authority and environmental go-ahead from ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF).“We are neither shocked neither surprised by the move because KSEB has been maintaining this strategy throughout even when their hopes were at a low ebb. They are like Robert Bruce but this I feel is not because of any keenness in implementing the project but to protect some self-interests,” said Mohandas M, convener of river protection forum, which had played a role in organizing protests against the project.Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac had pegged the project cost at Rs 1,500 crore and it would be difficult even for KSEB to convince others that the proposed 163 MW project is viable. Power projects in Kerala use only 40% of installed capacity and actual capacity would be very less.‘To the detriment of tribals’Government chief whip and CPI leader K Rajan said it is well known that the project would be major environmental hazard and detrimental to tribals in the area. How can the government then revive the project? The issue had not been discussed in the LDF or the state cabinet, Rajan said in Thrissur. DCC chief Joseph Tajet said information collected by him under the RTI Act had made it clear that environmental sanction for project had lapsed on July 18, 2017. The RTI replies indicate the government had incurred an expenditure of Rs 22 crore since 1988. Another Rs 4.11 crore is being allocated annually for reforesting other areas to compensate for trees to be cut for the project, Tajet said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/neither-shocked-nor-surprised-say-activists/articleshow/76309179.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||25 new Covid cases in U’khand, one more death reported||Dehradun: Of the 25 new cases, six are in Dehradun with no travel history and two similar ones in Nainital. In the past three weeks, the state has reported over 250 cases of Covid-19 with no travel history which health watchers feel are signs of community transmission. Uttarakhand reported its first case on March 15 and till May 20, the health department maintained that all patients had traveling history. "From May 21, we have started getting cases where the infection source is unknown. There are 253 such cases till June 9, in 20 days. In 253 (16%) of the a little over 1,560 cases till Wednesday, the infection source is not known. On an average, there are 12 to 13 cases every day across the state of this nature since May 21 and maximum 123 of them are from Dehradun," said Anoop Nautiyal from Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organization which is closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state. According to the data from health bulletin, 11 out of 13 districts have cases from unknown sources in which Dehradun has maximum 176 followed by 15 in Haridwar and 14 in Champawat, nine in Udham Singh Nagar, eight in Nainital and Bageshwar each, seven in Pithoragarh, six in Almora, four in Pauri, three each in Tehri and Uttarkashi. "In 144 cases in Dehradun, the travel history is not available while in 50 cases, the health department has mentioned contacts/attendant/locals. As many as 42 patients are from Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi and 17 are healthcare staff or police," Nautiyal added. However, Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 Control at health directorate room said that there is no community transmission in the state yet. "There may be a very few cases in which we didn’t get history or related details of patients but we do get it later, almost in every case," he said. Meanwhile, a 48-year-old Covid positive patient from UP’s Bijnor admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Rishikesh, died on Wednesday taking the toll to 15. With 76 people getting discharged, the number of recovered patients has reached 831 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/25-new-covid-cases-in-ukhand-one-more-death-reported/articleshow/76309180.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 11, 2020||Chennai||City cut off, no mad rush for train tickets||Chennai: There was no mad rush to book tickets when reservations opened on Wednesday for the additional trains on Chengalpet-Trichy-Chengalpet and Arakonam-Coimbatore-Arakonam routes scheduled to run from Friday. Railway officials say the sluggish demand for seats is because the trains do not touch Chennai, because it is a red zone and the state government has requested railways to operate services within the state without touching the state capital. Tickets are sold out in minutes for trains during summer but around 1,000 second sitting seats are available on Chengalpet-Trichy train and 146 sleeper class seats on Chengalpet-Trichy train via Mayiladuthurai for travel on Friday. However, there was demand for second seating on the train via Mayiladuthurai as booking status touched waitlist 2 by Wednesday evening. Officials say this could be because several people from southern suburbs of Chennai may be travelling to Kumbakonam or Mayiladuthurai. There are several seats vacant for trains scheduled to depart on Saturday and Sunday. There are hardly any takers for the Arakonam-Coimbatore intercity train as 1,545 second sitting seats and 90 AC chair car seats are available for travel on Friday. The train has around 1,700 second sitting seats. A railway official said, “Reservations is likely to pick up in the coming days. The services were started after a request from the state government because there was a feedback that there will be demand on these routes. The government wants to start trains within the state in a phased manner. A request was sent to the railway board and the routes were approved.” Several people who live in southern suburbs of Tambaram and Chengalpet often travel to Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai and Trichy. Though the idea behind starting the service from Chengalpet is to discourage residents of Chennai from travelling, people can still board the trains as cabs are available. “These trains will be useful for people as more lockdown relaxations are expected,” he added. Southern Railway, following the state government’s request, is already operating some special trains connecting cities like Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy. The Chennai to Delhi Rajdhani specials from Chennai is the only popular train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-cut-off-no-mad-rush-for-train-tickets/articleshow/76310127.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Virus increasingly affecting patients’ lungs, say doctors||Coimbatore: Echoing district collector K Rajamani’s statement that the current Covid-19 strain was more stronger and virulent than before, doctors on Wednesday said the virus was increasingly affecting the patients’ lungs.Pointing out that the virus had infected the lungs of only 10% of 280 patients, who they treated before the opening of borders, doctors with the ESI Hospital said now the percentage of such patients has gone up to 50.Speaking to TOI, hospital dean Dr Nirmala said almost 50% of the patients was symptomatic and that most of their lungs were affected. “Out of the 35 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital, lung opacity was detected in 15 of them during the chest CT scan. And 20 of them have cold, cough, headache and body pain. Three of them also have mild to moderate breathlessness and require ventilation.” According to her, even symptomatic patients could find their lungs infected.The doctors said things were different in the previous wave of infections, when 280 patients were treated at the hospital. The patients were from the district and neighbouring Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode. “Only 10% of them had changes in lungs and symptoms. While they had bronchial pneumonia, they didn't require ventilation. A few others had sore throat, dry mouth, body pain and easy fatigability. But it was much a smaller percentage,” said another doctor.Pointing out that the current batch of 35 patients were from different parts of the country, the doctors said patients from New Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai had severe symptoms, compared to those with no travel history or those from Bengaluru.A district administration official said, “The hospital had a patient from Chennai with continuous dry cough. But when they gave him steroids, he became better. About 90% of patients with breathlessness are from the above three places.”The doctors said every patient was subjected to CT scan of the chest and that the course of treatment was based on the virus’ impact on their lungs. “If there is pneumonia, we give them medicines based on their biomarkers and repeat the CT scan every five days, until the lung infection clears. We also ask patients to practice yoga and pranayama, among others,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virus-increasingly-affecting-patients-lungs-say-doctors/articleshow/76310126.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||It is official, Coimbatore is now Koyampuththoor||Coimbatore: Koyampuththoor this is how Coimbatore will be described hereafter in all new official documents and nameboards.As part of the drive to rechristen anglicised place names, the English spelling of 40 places in the district, including the district’s name, have been changed to match their Tamil pronunciation. This was notified in the state gazette on April 1.Apart from the spelling of the district’s name, those of 39 other places have been tweaked to suit their actual pronunciation. Perianaicken Palayam will become Periyanayakkan Paalayam, Vellalore will be written Vellaloor and Thondamuthur, Thondamuthoor, among others. These are some of the 1,018 names of places across the state, whose official English spelling and subsequently their pronunciation have been changed to suit their actual Tamil pronunciation. Officials of the Tamil development department said the new spellings will be in effect in official documents hereafter. Those in existing ones will not be disturbed.The gazette asked the departments of revenue, district administration, rural development and panchayat raj, and corporations, to take steps to implement the changes.In November 2018, following an announcement by the minister for Tamil official language and Tamil culture K Pandiarajan, the Tamil development department undertook the work to identify names of places in the district, which had been anglicised, and suggest possible spellings that would match the Tamil pronunciation. District-level committees were formed under the collector. The committees held deliberations and presented a list of names whose spellings could be changed to suit their Tamil pronunciations.An official from the district Tamil development department said as per the inputs given by Tamil scholars in the district-level committee, they sent a list of names to the state. State Tamil development director G Vijayaraghavan said the committee that proposed the changes comprised revenue officials, local administration officials, highway officials, and Tamil scholars. “The idea was to match the spelling of a place’s name with what a common man pronounces,” he said.Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said they were unaware of the changes and will proceed with it when the state communicates it. Spelling of 40 places in Tirupur also has been changed. The district-level committee has recommended that 'Coimbatore' should be made 'Koyamputhur'. But the high-level committee had altered it further to Koyampuththoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/it-is-official-coimbatore-is-now-koyampuththoor/articleshow/76310148.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Revoke amendment to Essential Commodities Act: Farmers’ union||Coimbatore: The central government should revoke the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, said a group of farmers, who staged a protest in front of the Tirupur collector’s office on Wednesday.The protesters expressed displeasure over passing the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, which they said, will allows anyone to purchase and sell agriculture produce and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020, which legalises contract farming. While farmers have been urging the government to implement the recommendations of MS Swaminathan commission that suggested increasing minimum support price (MSP) by 50%, the government had made amendments that might affect farmers, especially micro, small and medium farmers, said Tirupur district secretary of All India Kisan Sabha R Kumar. “More than 85% of farmers in the district are micro, small and medium farmers. The restrictions on stocking food produce are removed through the amendments. Most of the farmers have obtained bank loans or borrowed from moneylenders to continue farming activities. In this situation, how can they store their produce for months, to sell for a better price? Also, there are just four storage facilities in the district. Farmers have to spend a lot to transport produce to the facilities,” he said.“Chances are high that middlemen might procure produce at a lower price, store for months and sell for higher price when demand rises. The government’s moves are in favour of the corporate companies and they should change the anti-farmer attitude,” Kumar added.Police arrested 22 protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revoke-amendment-to-essential-commodities-act-farmers-union/articleshow/76310133.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man held for killing brother||COIMBATORE: Tirupur police have arrested a 40-year-old man for murdering his elder brother in an inebriated state at their house in Karuvampalayam in the city on Tuesday. The accused was identified as Rajendran, a daily wage worker. According to police officials, the accused and his elder brother Gunasekaran, 49, stayed with their parents in Karuvampalayam. Both of them often argued and fought with each other after consuming liquor. On Tuesday night, the brothers had an argument after they returned home in an inebriated state. In the heat of the argument, Rajendran picked up a grinding stone and smashed his brother’s head with it, the official said. Alerted by their neighbours, police rushed to the spot and recovered the body of the deceased that was found in a pool of blood. The body was sent to Tirupur hospital for post-mortem. Police have charged the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-killing-brother/articleshow/76310134.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||Much ado over women officers at liquor shops in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Presence of women officials of excise department in liquor shops created a buzz in the city on Wednesday — so much so that the department had to issue a clarification stating that the women were a part of the inspection teams and had not been deployed at liquor shops. Even Congress had posted objections on Twitter.  After the administration took over the liquor shops from Monday, several women were seen inside the liquor shops. All these women were clad in the excise department’s uniform. When TOI tried to talk these women employees of the excise department, they refused to comment. मध्यप्रदेश सरकार द्वारा शराब की बिक्री के लिए महिलाओं को ड्यूटी पर लगाने का शर्मनाक फ़ैसला नारी की अस्मिता, सुरक्षा… https://t.co/2QQ6GoA82F— Shobha Oza (@Shobha_Oza) 1591791282000Congress spokesperson Shobha Oza tweeted about the incident, “Shameful decision of the Madhya Pradesh government to put women on duty for the sale of liquor is against the dignity, safety and honour of women. The government should immediately take back this unnecessary and unreasonable decision and respect the public sentiments.” When contacted, assistant commissioner (excise), Sanjeev Dubey, claimed that no women was deployed to sell liquor or manage liquor shops. “No women is deployed at any liquor shop,” said Dubey. When asked about the presence of the excise department’s women staff inside the shop, Dubey said, “They are excise sub-inspectors and such others. They are a part of the inspections only. If anyone is claiming that women employees are deployed at liquor shops, then it is completely wrong.” About the deployment letter being circulated on social media, Dubey replied, “It is fake. No one has issued such letter for women’s deployment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/much-ado-over-women-officers-at-liquor-shops/articleshow/76311095.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 reaches mayor's office, staff tests positive||HYDERABAD: The second Covid-19 positive case was detected at the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office. The person who tested positive works as an attender in the peshi of Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan. He tested positive on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, all the staffers working in the peshi were sent home. The areas the attender visited were contained. “We are identifying the people who came in contact with the attender. We are also contacting people who visited the mayor’s chamber,” said a GHMC official. According to the mayor, after a positive case was detected on the fourth floor of GHMC head office, they got themselves tested. “After the person who tested positive in fourth floor visited my chamber, me and 20 staffers got ourselves tested and an attender tested positive. Since two days, the staffer who tested positive did not report to work,” said Rammohan.  Around 40 GHMC staffers visited a hospital on Wednesday to get themselves checked. “We are waiting for results and have asked the people to work from home,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-reaches-mayors-office-staff-tests-ve/articleshow/76311113.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard rescued from 30-foot deep well||VADODARA: A leopard which had fallen in 30-ft deep farm well at Runvad village in Chhota Udepur district on Wednesday was rescued after a four-hour long operation . Amarsing Rathwa, the owner of the farm well, sighted the leopard around 6am and alerted the forest department. The leopard, estimated to be four-year-old , is believed to have accidentally fallen while chasing a prey. “Instead of dashing with the wall of the well, it would have jumped in,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. The wild cat remained clung to an iron rod concretized in the well. The rod was meant for placing a water pump and the water was below the rod. Instead of lowering the cot or a rope, the forest department decided to lower a makeshift ladder for the leopard to climb up. “The leopard was clung at a height of 15 feet so if we would have lowered a cot, there was a possibility that it could have jumped from the cot and injured our staff. We ruled out rope too as it would have caused its death,” Pandya added. Tranquillization was also not used as there was a fear of leopard drowning. The ladder tied to a rope was lowered in the well with forest department staff standing at a distance. During the first two attempts, the leopard slipped and fell, but on the third attempt it got out and ran into the bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-rescued-from-30-foot-deep-well/articleshow/76307636.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Private schools violate govt order, conduct admission process in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Despite repeated warnings and even after a school was sealed in the city for conducting entrance exam during the lockdown period, private schools continue to violate the state’s orders by conducting admission process, distributing books, and collecting fees. On Wednesday, a private school in R S Pram conducted admission process. Parents were seen getting application forms and challans and inquiring about the fee. A personnel from the school told TOI that an LKG seat — including the fee, capitation fee, books and uniform price — will cost Rs 52,000. When informed, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said he will instruct the officials concerned to investigate. Chief education officer P Usha also promised to look into the issue. She said no schools were given permission to function or give admission during the lockdown period. “We had instructed schools not to conduct Class XI admission process as there are no guidelines from the state.” Complaints also surfaced about several private schools distributing books and asking parents to pay fee. Parents said that a private school in Podanur had not conducted quarterly or half-yearly exams, depending on the marks of which the state had asked schools to give 80% marks for Class X students being promoted this year. However, the principal said they had conducted both the exams and the allegations were baseless. She also showed the marksheets of both the exams. Collector Rajamani said he had convened a meeting with officials of the school education department on Thursday to discuss about private schools demanding fees and other such violations. “We will tighten our grip on private schools that violate the state’s order,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-schools-violate-govt-order-conduct-admission-process/articleshow/76310159.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||2 flyers, pregnant woman test +ve||Coimbatore: Three people, one of them a pregnant woman, tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Wednesday. While two of them are flyers from Chennai, the third one is a local resident.In the case of the flyers - a 24-year-old woman from RS Puram and a 34-year-old business traveller - their samples were collected on Tuesday when they landed in the city airport. They have been admitted to private hospitals.The indigenous case is the pregnant woman. The 25-year-old resident of Kovaipudur is the third one to test positive from the district in the current wave. She doesn’t have a travel history and any known contact with a positive case.A health department official said the woman was tested for Covid-19 when she approached a private hospital to get admitted for delivery. She has been shifted to the ESI Hospital.G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The patient is asymptomatic and stable. Her husband is a cop who is deployed at Walayar check post. We have collected samples from him, other close family members and neighbours. There are around 12 houses in and around her residence.” The other two indigenous cases comprise a 24-year-old doctor from Malumichampatty and 49-year-old cancer patient from Podanur. Officials are trying to trace their source of infection and, trace and isolate all their immediate contacts to curb the spread.The official said they were testing the contacts of the Podanur man. “We have drawn 70 samples on day one and asked officials to test 100 others on Wednesday. We will continue to screen people in the area, since Podanur has been problematic for a long time now.”The official said 49 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment in the district - 35 in the ESI Hospital, 11 in the PSG Hospitals and three in the Royal Care Super Speciality Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-flyers-pregnant-woman-test-ve/articleshow/76310164.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||After death, Aadhaar may get digital burial||HYDERABAD: People die but their 12-digit Aadhaar number remains active, giving scope for misuse. Now, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the issuing authority, is planning to digitally bury the Aadhaar too once a person dies. As of now, deaths do not get updated in Aadhaar database as there is no linkage between the death registry of the Registrar General of India and repositories of state government and UIDAI. For instance, Telangana has a different software than the one used by the Registrar General of India, leading to compatibility issues. Sources said UIDAI is now mulling a proposal to link death registration to Aadhaar. “When a person dies, his Aadhaar number should become inactive. Currently, the kin of the deceased are not reporting the deaths to UIDAI. There is no linkage of death registries with Aadhaar,” a UIDAI official told TOI. “The proposal to link death registration with Aadhaar is in a preliminary stage. If death registry and Aadhaar software are linked, whenever a person dies, it will show in our system. At present different states are using different softwares,” the UIDAI official said. “Registrar General of India uses CRS software and Andhra Pradesh adopted it. Telangana uses Unified Birth and Death Registration Management Information System, while GHMC has its own application. We are working on software compatibility. This is in the primary stage,” he added. States with CRS software have started death information linking, but they were using birth registration linkage to Aadhaar. “A just-born child can be enrolled in states such as Haryana and Andhra Pradesh for Aadhaar. Birth registration and Aadhaar linkage is available in a few states,” the official said. As per UIDAI, Telangana has 99.9% Aadhaar saturatio and the projected population and Aadhaar enrolment for 2020 was 3.93 crore. In Andhra Pradesh, Aadhaar enrolment saturation was about 90%. Of the projected 5.3 crore population, 4.8 crore people had already enrolled for Aadhaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-death-aadhaar-may-get-digital-burial/articleshow/76311763.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: NIA arrests two for theft on aircraft carrier||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the trespass and theft of critical electronic components, installed on-board indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) under construction at the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), Kochi, arrested two persons in connection with the incident. In a press statement on Wednesday night, NIA stated that the arrested are Sumit Kumar Singh (23) resident of Munger, Bihar, and Daya Ram (22), resident of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan. As per the statement, the accused were arrested from their houses on Wednesday after finding them involved in the case of theft of ‘certain computer hardware components from the IAC under construction at the Cochin Shipyard Ltd.’ “During multiple searches in Bihar, Rajasthan and Gujarat conducted on Wednesday, some stolen electronic devices were recovered and incriminating materials have been seized. NIA conducted a painstaking and a very detailed investigation into this completely blind case, collecting and analyzing fingerprints and palm-prints of more than 5,000 persons, who had worked in the IAC project during the relevant period. A large number of witnesses were examined. In March 2020, NIA had announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh to anybody who gives any credible leads in the case,” the statement said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. As per the agency’s summary of allegations listed on its website, the case relates to the theft which happened between August 29, 2019 and September 13, 2019, thereby causing damage and destruction of highly sensitive defence infrastructure with the intention of threatening the security of India and waging war against the Government of India by unknown persons. The theft came to notice on September 13, 2019, after IAC’s Integrated Platform Management System was run on a trial basis. Equipment which were found missing included six RAMs of three computers, three processors of three computers and three hard disks. The monetary value of the stolen devices was put at Rs 2.10lakh. The initial FIR in the case was registered by Kochi city police and it was later handed over to NIA. IAC is in its third phase of construction and is expected to be inducted into Indian Navy as INS Vikrant in 2021 or 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-arrests-two-for-theft-on-aircraft-carrier/articleshow/76309190.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Inside NTB: Making ends meet is a daily struggle here||Nagpur: Without even waiting for a question to be asked, sunglass seller Krishna Chakradhar animatedly says whatever little earning had restarted has again stopped after Naik Talao got linked with Bangladesh, where allegedly some positive patients had a biryani party before they got infected. Kamlesh Bhawar, a local community head, insists that media must mention the exact lane or mohalla from where corona positive cases are reported. Naik Talao has seen only seven cases, while rest are from Bangladesh area,” he says. A settlement of 1,000 homes, it’s difficult to say where Naik Talao locality merges with Bangladesh — named after the neighbouring country following its separation from Pakistan as per locals. Unlike Naik Talao locality on the banks of the lake, Bangladesh is many times bigger and congested. “TV channels have made it look like Naik Talao-Bangladesh is one common area. We are losing business and people are distancing themselves from us though we are from safe zone,” says Chakradhar, who lives near the lake. The lakeside has mostly people who live on daily wages and seller of cheap fashion items like sunglasses and belts. On Wednesday, TOI visited the area after some residents called up to speak about their plight. They said the spike in cases has led to resentment as well as panic among residents of Bangladesh and Naik Talao. Former deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar, who belongs to this area, said many residents have approached him too. “Residents of both the areas have cooperated with the civic body. Some were not close contacts yet had got quarantined out of curiosity. When such people were found positive, others started believing that they may get infected at the quarantine centre. On Thursday, another 400 suspects will be taken away by NMC,” he said. Pardikar said people will not oppose but NMC must ensure their safety. He also slammed the civic body and TV channels for attributing the spread to a particular area. “Residents here are mostly daily wagers. The containment will increase their problems, so NMC must help them,” he said. Echoing Pardikar, Chakradhar said the residents are losing employment due to the way the area is being portrayed by TV channels. “We are getting our supplies from ration shops and kindness of donors. After some citywide relaxation, we had started work but again we are not allowed to go out now,” he said. The community head Bhawar said the first patient was an e-rickshaw driver-cum-tailor. “16 of his family members tested positive. He comes from a poor family. Similarly, others from the area faced problems feeding themselves during the lockdown. We are worried how we will sustain ourselves if the entire area continues to be labelled as corona hotbed,” he said. Bhawar said employers have asked workers not to come while sellers are sent back by cops who know they live at Naik Talao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inside-ntb-making-ends-meet-is-a-daily-struggle-here/articleshow/76310168.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Doon dist admin to start trials for e-office||Dehradun: The Doon district administration is all set to start trials for operating as e-office from June 15 to 30. All official work will be done online, which will need greater coordination. For e-office to work, government files, human resource management, public grievance systems and leave records of employees will be digitized. “The digitization will help in feeding real time data. There will also be the option to check status of pending works,” said district magistrate Ashish Srivastava. The system of e-office will be streamlined officially from July 1. Officials will be able to put digital their signature for expediting official work. Employees who perform well under the new e-office system will be rewarded on the occasion of Independence Day and Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dist-admin-to-start-trials-for-e-office/articleshow/76309188.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Supply deferral another hurdle amid crisis, say MSMEs supplying to railways||Coimbatore: Representatives of micro, small and medium industrial units from the district, who supply to railways, say the orders which had been placed already were being deferred, citing fall in production this year. They said they have been asked to deliver only 40% of the orders and defer the rest to 2021. The district has around 100 industrial units which supply to the railways, most of which are MSMEs. Representatives of Railway Suppliers Association (RASA) said they had been getting ready to deliver pending orders by March, when the lockdown was announced. Now, they said their inventories were lying idle. “While we were waiting anxiously for an extension in delivery period, zonal railways have resorted to purchase order modifications instructing us to defer supply of 50% of the order quantity by April 2021,” they said in a petition sent to Union railway ministry on June 8. They said in some cases, the South Eastern Railway, to which they deliver, had asked them to defer the supply of 60% of the order quantity to 2021. “We request that the supply of pending orders issued to small scale industries shall not be deferred and the delivery period be re-fixed,” they said. President of RASA S Surulivel said those who supply for railways, pay 10% of the total cost of the order as security deposit, which would be released on complete delivery of the orders. “Many industries with big orders have paid several lakhs of rupees as security deposit. While they have asked us to defer the delivery, the security deposit would not be released for another year,” he told TOI. When contacted, a senior official from Southern Railway said they too have asked their suppliers to defer 25%-30% of the orders by a year. “This is because funds are not available, and as our factories are not running in full capacity. However, if there is revival even before next year, we may ask them to supply the rest of the order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/supply-deferral-another-hurdle-amid-crisis-say-msmes-supplying-to-railways/articleshow/76310172.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI elections: Contest heating up||Ahmedabad: As the date for filing nominations for the elections of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) nears, the contest appears to be heating up for the post of senior vice-president. If well-placed sources in the industry body’s circles are to be believed, Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group which is into logistics, manpower management and garment business is expected to file his nomination, along with president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), Jayendra Tanna. When contacted, Shah said, “I am thinking to file my nomination for the post of senior vice-president at GCCI and will be submitting my form soon. I have the support of several members and even a few past presidents of the chamber as well.” The deadline for filing nominations is June 16. Speaking to TOI, Tanna said, “I will soon file my nomination for the post of senior vice-president. I want to work on several issues for small traders and businesses. One of the issues I worked on was pushing for a retail trade policy, during my tenure as the vice-president. However, the proposal has not seen light of the day yet.” Sources said that there is a buzz in GCCI’s circles about small businesses, MSMEs and traders not getting enough representation or importance from the top brass. When asked about it, Shah denied the same and instead said, “During the lockdown, small businesses have been extensively supported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-elections-contest-heating-up/articleshow/76310191.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMC violated norms by allowing Mominpura slaughterhouse to function: Tiwari||Nagpur: Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari on Wednesday claimed that the Naik Talao-Bangladesh resident, who is being blamed for hosting a biryani party and spreading coronavirus in the area, was dependent on daily meals provided by the local corporator because of financial problems. Tiwari also said that municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe should own up to “civic administration’s failure in containing the pandemic in the city” and apologize to citizens. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Tiwari said that he was not confident about Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) deputy chief medical officer Dr P Gantawar’s theory which claimed that the Naik Talao-Bangladesh resident had contracted the virus when he visited Mominpura to buy meat from a slaughterhouse. “Allowing the slaughterhouse to function in a containment zone like Mominpura is violation of civic body’s restrictions and poses health threat to the entire city,” said Tiwari. He questioned how come the NMC’s authorized slaughterhouse become functional when the area has been declared containment zone since April 12. A statement from the civic administration said as the slaughterhouse comes under essential services, the NMC kept it open. However, it had shut the slaughterhouse at Gaddigodam after cases were reported from the area. Despite measures like marking containment zones and quarantining people, Tiwari sought to know where did the NMC went wrong in curbing the spread of coronavirus. He also said former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s efforts ensured enhanced medical facilities at both GMCH and Mayo hospital, which helped in keeping the mortality rate in Nagpur city low. According to him, doctors, paramedical staff from both the government hospitals played a vital role while NMC only played the role of catalyst. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke and health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja were present in the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-violated-norms-by-allowing-mominpura-slaughterhouse-to-function-tiwari/articleshow/76310187.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Learn science behind weather forecasting||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) plans to conduct an online training programme for people fascinated by the process of weather forecasting.The eight-day programme, which will have three-hour sessions, will be conducted by TNAU’s Agro Climate Research Centre. It will teach the basics of weather and climate, director S P Ramanathan said. “We want people to understand how cyclones and depressions form and what happens when they do. We also need them to learn from where the monsoon winds come from and how maximum and minimum temperatures are recorded,” he said.The centre decided to conduct the programme encouraged by the feedback from the farming community, which makes use of its weather-based agro advisory bulletins. “The training will help people, including farmers, take decisions based on the weather prediction they receive,” said the director. Those interested should pay a training fee of Rs 200 to SBI account 31606418668. IFSC code is SBIN0002274. Details of payment should be intimated to 9486186076 or tometeorology@tnau.ac.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/learn-science-behind-weather-forecasting/articleshow/76310175.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Work to restore Puzhuthivakkam lake, stalled by Covid, resumes||Chennai: Restoration of the Puzhuthivakkam lake, which was stalled due to the Covid-19 outbreak, has resumed. Corporation workers have begun installing bollards on the footpath and hand railings along the footpath surrounding the lake. According to an engineer from Perungudi (zone 14), apart from the Puzhuthivakkam lake, they will also begin work on Madipakkam lake, Naicker Kuttai in Madipakkam, Vembuli Amman Temple tank near Puzhuthivakkam, Naachangulam near Pallikaranai, Vannankuttai near Jalladanpet. Perungudi is one of the least affected zones with 450 Covid cases. “After repeated complaints from residents about people misusing the footpath along the Puzhuthivakkam lake, we have installed bollards. A portion of footpath is yet to be completed. That will also be finished,” said the engineer. With a budget of Rs 2.4 crore from the smart city project fund, corporation proposed to set up a walking track, fences, benches and create islands at the lake. They also planned to plant trees on the islands and grass on the bund. The project which began in November 2018, was to be completed in a year. But it has been delayed, said residents of Sheela Nagar, who maintain the saplings along the footpath. “The work started again in February and stairs and hand rails were installed. But the pandemic brought the work to a halt. People are using the footpath for morning and evening walks even now. It is good that work has resumed,” said S Ramakrishnan, a resident of Puzhuthivakkam. Reclaiming encroached spaces around the water body delayed the project, a corporation official said. Residents have raised concerns about the place being used as an open-air bar and liquor bottles being dumped into the water body. Corporation officials said the premises will be fenced soon and that they are considering installing high mast lights along the footpath. About sewage being let into the lake, the engineer said all such connections were cut off before the restoration work began. “Further, in Ullagaram and Puzhuthivakkam, Metrowater has already started giving underground drainage connections,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/work-to-restore-puzhuthivakkam-lake-stalled-by-covid-resumes/articleshow/76310162.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bareilly||Retd ANM & aide booked after four newborns die in 24 hours at Budaun CHC||Bareilly: An FIR has been lodged against a retired auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) and her assistant, who is yet to be identified, after four newborns died on a single night at the community health centre (CHC) in Islamnagar in Budaun district on May 31. District administration has also written to the state government to take action against the staff, while the medical officer in-charge (MOIC) of the CHC has been shunted to the office of the chief medical officer (CMO).Station house officer of Islamnagar police station, Jasveer Singh, said, “An FIR has been registered against retired ANM Nujhat and her unidentified aide, under Section 304A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC.”CMO (Budaun) Dr Yashpal Singh said, “After the death of the newborns, a magisterial inquiry was conducted. The inquiry report stated negligence on part of the CHC staff. The MOIC was attached to my office when the inquiry began. We’ve now written to the state government, recommending action against the CHC staff.”Following the death of the newborns, aggrieved family members had accused the CHC staff of laxity in providing treatment to the babies. They had also alleged that during deliveries, an obstetrician was not present at the CHC.The first baby to die was born to Anita Devi and Pal, a labourer from Girdharpur village. The second was delivered by one Sunita, wife of Jitendra, resident of Alinagar village. The CHC staff had earlier claimed Sunita was anaemic and had delivered a stillborn.In the third case, Mala, wife of Pushpendra Kumar, delivered a baby which died within few minutes of the delivery, while in the fourth incident, Umesh’s wife Kusum gave birth to a stillborn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/retd-anm-aide-booked-after-four-newborns-die-in-24-hours-at-budaun-chc/articleshow/76307149.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||Lockdown: Accident graph declines||Prayagraj: Two months of lockdown due to Covid-19 has has led to a decline in the graph of road accidents in terms of fatal and non-fatal category in Prayagraj range this year. Comprising Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur districts in April and May months this year compared to same period of previous three years. This year, April recorded a total number of 52 road accidents in Prayagraj range—Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and Fatehpur—which claimed lives of 28 people and left 37 others injured. Whereas, last year, a total of 271 such cases were recorded in April, killing 136 people and injuring 183 others. In 2018, as many as 270 such cases were recorded in the same month which killed 145 people and left 163 others injured. Similarly, in May this year, 139 road accidents killed 75 people and injured 77 others. Whereas, a total of 274 cases of road accidents occured in the same month in 2019 which claimed lives of 136 people and injured 177 others. In the May of 2018, as many as 352 cases killed 224 people and left 204 people injured in the Prayagraj range. IG (Prayargraj range) K P Singh corroborated that reported road accident cases in terms of fatal and non-fatal category in April and May this year were far less than those in previous years due to the strict enforcement of lockdown. He, however, claimed, “Despite the overall decline in cases in all four districts of the range, Prayagraj has reported more deaths and injuries than the other three districts. The road accident statistics revealed by range police stated that a total of 52 such cases were reported in April this year which include 26 in Prayagraj, 11 in Pratapgarh, eight in Fatehpur and seven in Kaushambi. Pratapgarh reported the highest number of deaths (11) followed by Fatehpur (nine), Prayagraj (seven) and Kaushambi (one). Beides, 37 people were injured in road mishaps including 21 in Prayagraj, eight in Kaushambi, seven in Pratapgarh and one in Fatehpur. Similarly, in May this year, a total of 139 cases of road accidents were reported in the range— 55 in Prayagraj, 24 in Kaushambi, 32 in Fatehpur and 28 in Pratagarh. Highest number deaths (27) was reported in Prayagraj followed by Fatehpur (25), Pratapgarh (13) and Kausambi (10) . A total of 77 people were injured in May which included 30 in Prayagraj, followed by 17 in Kaushambi, 10 in Fatehpur and 20 in Pratapgarh. Comparative figures also reveal that May recorded more than double cases of road accidents compared to April. Similarly, the number of killed and injured persons was also more than double in May as compared to April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lockdown-accident-graph-declines/articleshow/76307153.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lawyer uses filthy language in ‘virtual court’, fined||CHENNAI: Call it the perils of virtual courts. A lawyer of 30-year Bar experience uttered a filthy phrase in Tamil, instinctively on seeing a rashly driven car on road, forgetting the fact that he was still in the middle of his argument in a virtual court. He was pulled up by the judge for it and fined, too. G Samwell Rajendran was arguing a bail case from near a road on Monday, when he spotted a dangerously driven car whizzing past. He exclaimed, using a filthy phrase in Tamil, as to how reckless the driver was. That he uttered it in virtual court while the judge and other court employees were watching, was the offence. Irked by the ‘filthy, offensive and intimidatory’ words, the principal district and sessions judge of Thoothukudi, N Logeswaran, initiated summary contempt proceedings against the lawyer and issued him a show-cause notice. On Tuesday, not satisfied by the explanation offered by the lawyer, the court slapped Rs 200 as fine for causing ‘intentional interruption to judicial proceedings.’ The fine is to be paid by June 10. “This court is of the view that even an uneducated village man will not utter the filthy language in a public place... This court finds that the accused has insulted the principal district judge sitting in the judicial proceedings during working hours, and committed an offence under Section 228 (intentional insult or interruption to public servant sitting in judicial proceedings) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said sessions judge Logeswaran. The order was communicated to Rajendran through e-mail and to his Whatsapp number, and it will be uploaded to the official website of the district court. The judge, who himself lodged the complaint, mentioned how the prosecutor, woman stenographer, protocol officer and a couple of other court officials who were present in the virtual court and witnessed the ugly incident too gave a ‘written report’ to the judge about the incident. In order to pre-empt any penal action, Rajendran wrote to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry explaining the incident. It, however, did not help, as the court concluded that the remarks were an ‘intentional insult in the course of judicial proceedings.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lawyer-uses-filthy-language-in-virtual-court-fined/articleshow/76310183.cms||A Subramani
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 positive flees from GDMCH, caught||Dehradun: A middle-aged Covid-19 positive patient, who is also suffering from schizophrenia, fled from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. He broke the door of the hospital's Covid-19 isolation ward and ran towards a busy market area. However, the patient was caught by the police within 40 minutes. During this time, the entire hospital staff remained in a state of panic. Meanwhile, Dehradun's police constable, who was tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday, tested negative for the virus on Wednesday. A senior police official said that the constable was home quarantined and his sample was collected on June 1 but his reports arrived on June 9. “He took the right precautions and managed to recover in the meantime. When we got him tested again on Wednesday, he was found Covid-19 free," said the official. The state, till June 10, has around 4,900 pending samples and the pendency of samples in the state has remained above 4,500 since June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-positive-flees-from-gdmch-caught/articleshow/76309228.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19: 6 more test positive in dist||Prayagraj: Four members of a family were among six new novel Covid-19 cases reported from the Prayagraj district on Wednesday. With these new cases, tally in the Prayagraj district reached 134. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that four members of a family, all residents of old Katra ( Safiyaganj), are primary contact of coronavirus positive cases. He added that four members of family included four women aged between 15 to 47 years. Moreover, a two- year old boy, whose parents tested positive for infection last week, also tested positive on Wednesday. Besides, a 27-year-old youth from Khajoori block in Koroan, also tested positive for Covid-19 infection. He was admitted at SRN hospital for treatment. Officials said the patient had no travel history but he was suffering from liver and lung diseases. Till now, there are 41 active cases and are undergoing treatment at Covid Level One hospital in Kotwa and Covid Level Three hospital in SRN. While 89 patients have recovered and discharged , four have died of Covid-19 infection so far. Health officials, meanwhile, said that a total of 305 samples including 118 from Kaushambi and 187 from Prayagraj were tested and nine samples were tested positive for Covid-19 infection. Of these, six samples were from Prayagraj, two from Kaushambi and one from Jaunpur district. Officials said that as many as 14,372 people have downloaded AYUSH kawtch app in the district so far. Besides, details of around 1.2 lakh migrants have already been uploaded on portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-6-more-test-positive-in-dist/articleshow/76307181.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur division has 9 flyers +ve in 10 days, 52 co-passengers quarantined||Nagpur: Nine domestic flyers who reached here in the last 17 days have tested Covid-19 positive in 10 days. Following this, their 52 co-passengers have been placed in institutional quarantine. Between May 25 and June 10, 6,204 persons in 56 flights had landed in Nagpur of which 3,591 were from the city and remaining from parts of Vidarbha and MP. Two air passengers from the district tested positive on Tuesday. A 34-year-old woman from Shivaji Nagar in the city had returned from New Delhi on June 2 along with a family member. As she had soar throat, body ache and fever, the woman got tested and the result came positive. A Hingna man along with two family members had returned from Delhi on May 27. Zilla parishad authorities had taken their swab samples a couple of days ago as a proactive measure. His reports came positive, while wife tested negative. A person from Dhantoli, who had returned from Mumbai on May 25, had also tested positive on June 5. It has come to fore that six more flyers had tested positive of which three are from Chandrapur. Two of them had returned on May 25 and one on June 4. Two from Gadchiroli (returned on May 27) and one from Bhandara, who came back on June 1, have also tested positive. Though not mandatory, a few districts are testing flyers on proactive basis resulting in the detection. Some cases were detected after the returnees having health issues were tested. As per new protocol, administration in all six districts of Nagpur division are quarantining and testing co-passengers. After a flyer is tested positive, co-passengers in 30 seats situated in five rows, including the one occupied by the person himself and two each on front and rear, are being quarantined. The person from Dhantoli was tested when Chandrapur administration alerted that the man had travelled in the flight in which another person had tested positive. Following Hingna case, Nagpur ZP had alerted Gadchiroli administration only to know that two passengers have tested positive and one is in quarantine. Some tips for safe flying: Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Transmission of the disease is high during flight due to aerosol droplets. Thermal scanning won’t work if a person has consumed medicine or he/she is asymptomatic. Airlines should provide N-95 mask to all passengers before boarding and should not allow anyone to touch or remove it throughout the flight. Airlines should ensure disposal of masks after landing so as to prevent spread of infection, if any,” he said. On mandatory swab test before boarding, Dr Balankhe said, “This will increase the cost of flying. Positivity rate is highest at 65% between 5th and 8th day of contracting the disease and hence it will not be effective always.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-division-has-9-flyers-ve-in-10-days-52-co-passengers-quarantined/articleshow/76310242.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid Covid-19, insurers to make health claims data public||HYDERABAD: Zeroing in on a health insurance plan can be tough. While policy buyers usually take into consideration the pricing and health conditions covered before opting for a health cover, now they will also be able to compare the claims settlement data of insurance companies before choosing a plan. To bring in more transparency in the operations of the health insurance industry and help customers make an informed choice, insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), on Wednesday issued guidelines stating that all general and health insurance companies will have to make claims settlement data public. The information will have to be published within a period of 90 days after the close of every financial year. Insurers will have to disclose information pertaining to the number of policies and lives serviced along with geographical area in which services are rendered by the company or its third party administrators (TPAs). Each insurer will also have to publish data regarding the number of claims processed, including outstanding number of claims at the beginning of the year, number of claims received during the year, claims paid during the year, claims repudiated and outstanding at the end of the year. Insurers have been directed to make public the turnaround time (TAT) for cashless claims (for both individual and group policies) and TAT in case of payment/repudiation of claims. Besides, they will also have to make public the data about the grievances received against TPAs. The insurance sector watchdog has directed all TPAs to share the requisite data with the insurers to enable them to publish information on their respective websites. It has said that in the case of termination of services of a TPA, the insurer shall publish the same on its website citing reasons for termination within three days from the effective date of termination. Amit Chhabra, head, health insurance, policybazaar.com, said, “Since the Covid-19 crisis, IRDAI has been issuing guidelines to make insurance products more focused towards customer needs. It has issued guidelines on public disclosures by insurers on the qualitative and quantitative parameters of health insurance policies offered. This will provide more clarity to both insurers and customers on the services provided and help customers make a more informed decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-covid-insurers-to-make-health-claims-data-public/articleshow/76311142.cms||Swati Rathor
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Two more country liquor shops burgled||Nagpur: After a long pause, burglaries at liquor shops have once again surfaced in the city with two cases reported on Tuesday from Gittikhadan and Lakadganj areas. Interestingly, the burglars have also stolen DVRs which had recording from CCTV cameras installed at both the shops. Police have launched search operation to nab the culprits. Since the lockdown came into force in March, at least 11 liquor shops have been burgled in the city. The burglaries had stopped after home delivery of liquor was allowed mid-May. In the first incident, a country liquor shop was targeted by thieves who decamped with a large number of liquor bottles from a shop located near Gittikhadan Chowk. The burglars entered the shop by breaking front gate lock and decamped with CCTV cameras, DVR and liquor in all worth Rs3.96 lakh. In another incident, a country liquor shop in Lakadganj, owned by Abhishek Jaiswal, was targeted by a burglar who stole liquor bottles, DVR and LED TV worth Rs64,002. Based on the modus operandi, cops suspect both the burglaries to be the handiwork of same criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-country-liquor-shops-burgled/articleshow/76310252.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||IMA holds Spring Term-20 award ceremony||Dehradun: The Indian Military Academy held Spring Term-20 award ceremony — comprising 146 Regular Course and 129 Technical Graduate Course — ahead of Passing Out Courses here on Wednesday. The event was held at Khetarpal Auditorium in which the Gentleman Cadets were felicitated by Lt Gen JS Negi, Commandant of IMA. He bestowed medals and awards to the outstanding Gentlemen Cadets who excelled in various fields during their pre-commission training at the Academy. During the ceremony, officials pointed out that while the Covid-19 outbreak has disrupted training in most educational institutes in the world, IMA implemented an effective action plan integrating all preventive guidelines outlined by the Ministry of Health, Army Headquarter, and Army Training Command. It was, however, ensured that there was no dilution in training standards of the Gentleman Cadets even as all precautions were taken and a healthy routine was rolled out for them. As many as 12 medals, six trophies, and two book prizes were given in the ceremony. Certificates for course completion and awards for other activities were also given on the occasion. Lt Gen Negi, in his address, said, “The country demands willing, unhesitating, unfaltering obedience and loyalty from each young officer. It is important for an officer to maintain a competitive streak within the parameters of sportsmanship and fair play at all times and in the profession of arms, it is always a collective and a team effort that is important and there are no runners up in a war.” The senior officials also complimented the parents and dear ones of the award winners for being their strength and assured the cadets that their parents will be with them in this proud moment through media coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ima-holds-spring-term-20-award-ceremony/articleshow/76309258.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand’s three capitals: Summer, temporary and a permanent one that never was||Dehradun: Despite 20 years of its existence, the state of Uttarakhand is yet to get a ‘permanent’ capital. The difficulty here is not one that stems from having few options, rather it’s a paralysing problem of too many choices. The hill state recently announced Gairsain — where it has been holding assembly sessions for a few years now — as its summer capital. At the time of the state’s formation in 2000, Dehradun was named its temporary capital. This did not go down well with statehood agitators who had long held that Gairsain in Chamoli district would be the capital. The idea, they said, was quite fitting — a capital in the hills for a hill state. The first chief minister of the new state — Nityanand Swami — formed Justice (retd) Virendra Diskhit Commission on January 11, 2001 to suggest a suitable state capital. Seven years later, the commission handed over its report to the then BJP CM B C Khanduri. According to political expert Jay Singh Rawat, the commission had highlighted 17 points – like poor connectivity, lack of infrastructure, seismic zone, water problem, low possibilities of expansion — against Gairsain being the capital but also listed points in its favour such as less travel for people in the hills. “The commission also listed Dehradun, Kashipur, IDPL Rishikesh and Ramnagar among potential capitals,” he said. The report was tabled in the state assembly on July 13, 2009 but no further action was taken. On March 4, this year, CM Trivendra SIngh Rawat after reading out the budget announced Gairsain as the summer capital. He did not comment on a permanent capital for the state or the status of Dehradun. On June 8, Gairsain officially became the state capital after the approval of governor Baby Rani Maurya. According to former CM Harish Rawat from the Congress, “During my term, we had developed a roadmap so that Gairsain could be built as permanent capital. According to the plan, proper road connectivity was established, an assembly building was set up, flats for legislators, ministers and officers were constructed. The CM has announced Gairsain as the summer capital but now the government needs to make their stand clear on a permanent capital.” Uttarakhand government spokesperson and urban development minister Madan Kaushik, however, said that “other decisions would be taken when the time comes”. “At present, we have fulfiled our commitment made in the vision document for 2017 assembly elections to name Gairsain as the summer capital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-three-capitals-summer-temporary-and-a-permanent-one-that-never-was/articleshow/76309263.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||Of 41 hotspots in city, 4 converted into orange zones||Kanpur: The influx of migrant workers has spiked coronavirus cases in the city due to which the number of infected persons have not only increased but has also enhanced the number of hotspots in the city. According to the list released by the district administration on Tuesday, the city has 41 hotspots and four hotspots have been converted into orange zones. Commissioner Sudhir M Bobde , district magistrater Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, DIG/SSP Anant Deo, chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla and other officials reviewed the situation and declared new hotspots in the city. They have shifted Quli Bazar and Anand apartment Tilak Nagar into the green zone. Thousands of residents of Quli Bazar took a sigh of relief when their locality was shifted into green zone. The area, which had been under restrictions for the last two months, emerged as one of the biggest hotspots. The authorities said four hotspots which had been converted into orange zones, would soon be shifted into green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/of-41-hotspots-in-city-4-converted-into-orange-zones/articleshow/76311139.cms||Anant Chandak
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||MSU begins online admission for BSc course||Vadodara: M S University’s Faculty of Science has started the online process for admission in BSc (honours) programme. The faculty has initiated the admission process for 1,020 grant-in-aid seats of the main campus while the admission process for other seats at Padra college will be started later. The faculty will also carry out subject allotment online. The university has been carrying out online admission process since the last couple of years but subjects were allotted after calling the students on-the-spot. “This year, subject selection will also be done online. Students will not be called. They have to upload documents. We will verify them and the final merit list will be declared,” said professor Kauresh Vachhrajani. The last date for applying online is July 31, post which subject allocation will be done. “In the subject allocation rounds, each student will be sent a message regarding the subjects allotted. If the student accepts, fee challan will be generated and he or she has to pay online fees for confirming admission,” he said. The faculty will conduct the first round between August 8 and August 10. There are 120 seats each available in botany, chemistry, geography, geology, physics, statistics, zoology whereas 180 seats are available in mathematics. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-begins-online-admission-for-bsc-course/articleshow/76307650.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Why TN must come clean on Covid deaths||CHENNAI: Ahead of ‘unlock -0.1’ and with more testing likely, the state is expected to see an increase in Covid-19 cases, complications and deaths. But, unless it documents complex cases and deaths, the state will not be able to measure the public health impact or plan for timely health interventions to protect communities, say experts. A day after TOI reported that at least 266 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai till June 8 were not announced by the directorate of public health (DPH), public health activists and doctors’ bodies have pointed out that under-counting deaths can cause serious harm to public health and disease profiling. “It’s not just among the cases not reported. We could be missing more,” said Indian Medical Association secretary Dr A K Ravikumar. Until now, neither the state nor Greater Chennai Corporation has data on the number of people testing positive for Covid-19, those who died or “probable Covid-deaths” - where there is a clinical suspicion but no lab report. Agencies such as WHO and ICMR have provided codes for Covid-19 deaths - U07.1 for all Covid deaths and U07.2 for probable Covid deaths. In the second case, the virus is not identified through test, but doctors have clinically or epidemiologically diagnosed and suspect it, said ICMR-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research director Dr Prashant Mathur. “Both have to be recorded,” he said. While the state has recorded 326 deaths under -- U07.1, there has been none under U07.2 so far. “We must know the total number of deaths in the city in the past three months,” said Dr Ravikumar. “Many deaths in the city including those that happened at home may not have been accounted. We must do a verbal autopsy to reconcile these deaths. It is important information during the time of pandemic.” Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ association has demanded update on deaths registered across all TN cities. A spike in figures indicates increase in Covid-19 cases, said its president Dr K Senthil. On March 30, there were 956 SARI cases reported across the state of which 38 were admitted to various hospitals. By April 15, there were 190 admissions and on June 9, there were more than 500 admissions. “Many patients die within hours of being admitted to hospitals and if the swabs are not taken from the deceased we won’t know the number of patients who died with the infections,” said a senior public health official. A team of officials under city health officer Dr Jagadeesan, the registrar of births and deaths for Chennai, has begun preparing reports of patients who died of Covid-19 in the city. The report will be sent to the directorate of public health. The state has constituted an 11-member expert committee under the chairmanship of DPH (OSD) Dr P Vadivelan to “analyse and streamline the Covid-19 death reports with regard to Chennai Corporation.” Health secretary Beela Rajesh said the registrar of births and deaths in the state, the director of public health, reconciliates deaths once every year. “Now, based on demand we have set up a committee for this. It will analyse case sheets and add more people to the toll,” she said. “Everything about the disease has changed – testing, treatment and management. We are learning every day. The committee will analyse death reports and update toll.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-tn-must-come-clean-on-covid-deaths/articleshow/76310258.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Development of Kedarnath, Badrinath must stand test of time: Modi||Dehradun: Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the ongoing development projects at Kedarnath and also discussed matters related to the Badrinath shrine with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat via video conferencing on Wednesday. Modi asked Rawat to keep in mind a vision for the next 100 years while developing the two shrines. PM Modi also directed the state authorities to envision and design development projects for holy sites in a way and manner that stands the test of time, are eco-friendly and in harmony with nature and the surroundings. Through drone camera technology, the PM also inspected the ongoing work in and around the Kedarnath area. Modi also suggested development of small patches on the stretch from Rambada to Kedarnath. The CM sought a package of Rs 200 crore from the Centre for the completion of the projects at Kedarnath. The PM asked Rawat to ensure that arrangements are in place for visitors to get acquainted with detailed historical and mythological significance of the shrines. In wake of the present scenario and comparatively lean pressure in terms of tourists and pilgrims to the holy shrines, the PM asked the authorities to use the time to complete pending works, while keeping in mind the social distancing norms. During his visit to Kedarnath in May last year, the PM meditated inside the Rudra cave, which is located near the main temple premises. This generated immense interest among tourists and pilgrims, and the state government decided to build three more caves in the area. Modi said the caves that are being built should be developed in a planned manner to make these attractive. Issues of development of Brahma Kamal Vatika, museum to greet pilgrims and the route to Vasuki Taal, re-development of old town quarters were also discussed during the video conference session. CM Rawat said that, as the state is gradually opening up from the lockdown, a limited number of people from the state only are allowed to visit Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines. Only 800 devotees are being allowed each day, and they are required to wear mask and follow social distancing norms. Chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh also gave detailed information about various ongoing works at Kedarnath. He said the work of reconstruction of the tomb of Adi Shankaracharya will be completed by December 31. The work at Saraswati Ghat will be completed by June 30. The construction of the bridge on the road to Bhairav temple has been completed before schedule. The houses for ‘tirth purohits’ (priests) are being built in five blocks. Of these, two have been completed and the rest will be completed by September, the chief secretary informed. The work on the bridge on the Mandakini river is expected to be completed by March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/development-of-kedarnath-badrinath-must-stand-test-of-time-modi/articleshow/76309291.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 11, 2020||Dehradun||Smriti Irani addresses virtual rally for Kumaon, enlists Modi govt’s achievements||Dehradun: Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday addressed a virtual rally for Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region during which she highlighted the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government. The rally comes in the wake of the BJP-led Union government completing one year in office during its second term. During her address, Irani hailed the Modi government for rolling out Ujjwala, Ayushman Bharat, and Jan Dhan schemes, abrogating Article 370, appointment of Chief of Defence Staff, giving nod to One Rank One Pension, and free distribution of ration during Covid-19 pandemic. She added that the Centre has so far credited Rs 3,000 crore in 30 crore Jan Dhan accounts to help people during the ongoing health crisis. “The Centre has also given free ration to 80 crore people during this pandemic,” she said. Launching an attack on the Congress, Irani asked, “Those who question the Modi government must answer why people didn’t have bank accounts and why women had to cook on chulhas (stove heated by burning wood, charcoal, animal dung or crop residue) during the Congress regime.” The one-and-half-hour long rally encountered several technical glitches and Irani had to reconnect several times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smriti-irani-addresses-virtual-rally-for-kumaon-enlists-modi-govts-achievements/articleshow/76309276.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||IndiGo flight for Pune & Delhi resumes operations||Prayagraj: After operating a direct flight for Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore, Prayagraj resumed operations of flight by IndiGo for Pune and Delhi from Wednesday. Flight operations were stopped following the nationwide lockdown, and were resumed only recently with the start of an IndiGo flight for Bangalore and Mumbai and an Air India flight for Delhi. Soon after, Indigo started booking tickets for the flight to Delhi and Pune. The flight from Delhi will take off from Delhi at 9.40 am and land in Prayagraj at 11.05 am. The same flight will leave for Pune at 12.05 pm and reach at 2.30 pm. In its return journey, the flight will leave Pune at 3.20 pm and land in Prayagraj at 5.35 pm. After a halt of 40 minutes, the same flight will take off at 6.15 pm and reach Delhi at 7.40 pm. At present, this flight has got approval to operate till June 30, but authorities are optimistic that the approval might be extended by the aviation ministry. Moreover, Indigo is hopeful of operations resuming for the flight to Kolkata, Raipur, Gorakhpur, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar and Dehradun in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/indigo-flight-for-pune-delhi-resumes-operations/articleshow/76307246.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||674 lions in Gujarat, official count reveals||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Wednesday officially declared the Poonam Avlokan lion count — it has been estimated that there are at least 674 lions in the state. The lion population is up by 29% since the last count. The count thus puts to rest the speculation that the lion population has been reduced when compared to 2015 numbers. TOI had on Wednesday reported: “Gujarat now home to 674 lions, 29% growth in population.” The official data released on Wednesday showed that the adult lion population had increased by nearly 46% as compared to 2015 figures. The number of lionesses had increased by 30% over the past five years. The adult lion population is now 159 while the female adult lion population is 262. This numbers were 109 and 201 respectively. Rajiv Gupta, the additional chief secretary, forests and environment, confirmed that the lion count was 674 and had grown by 29%. He said that the rise in population has been mainly due to effective conservation and management efforts by the state government with support from the Centre. The forest department had been able to successfully curb the CDV outbreak in 2018, he said. The population of sub-adult lions has increased by nearly 58%. Among the 115 sub-adults counted there were 45 males, 49 females, and 21 were unidentified. Meanwhile, the official data revealed that the distribution of lions has increased from an area of 22,000 sq km in 2015 to 30,000 sq km in 2020, a rise of 36%. Officials said they are placing each sighting location on a map and are preparing a detailed report along with the count in each taluka. These details will help the forest department identify problem areas. The department has been doing a count on Poonam and this data is studied by the local deputy conservator of forests every month. The information also helps officials analyze the movement of lions and keep track of deaths. Officials said that the 15th Asiatic Lion Population Estimation was scheduled this year but owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was not conducted as planned in May. Instead, the department decided to adopt the Poonam Avlokan (moonlight observation) method which has been used by the forest department regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/674-lions-in-state-official-count-reveals/articleshow/76310314.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Daughters design ‘quarantine room’ for dad who returned from Spain||CHENNAI: Roshna Keerthi and her sister Saira Mahati missed their father a lot after he got stuck in Madrid since March due to Covid-19 outbreak. However, when the little ones heard that their father would be landing in Chennai on Monday, both started jumping but with a note of caution. The children knew how dangerous the virus was, so they decided to decorate a quarantine room for their father Gopinath Chandran. Eleven-year-old Roshna and seven-year-old Saira first prepared a list of materials including sanitizer and gloves that they wanted to buy. With the help of their mother, the duo organised it in a couple of days. They then worked on some drawings, illustrations and instructions on the safety aspects to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Finally, some home-made candles in case if the power went off. Once the room was set, they pasted an illustration saying “Quarantine Room” on the door. As Gopinath entered his apartment in Kolapakkam (after a week’s institutional quarantine in Delhi), both Roshna and Saira welcomed him wearing masks. They then requested him to use the sanitizer kept at the entrance. The children showed him the room where he should undergo institutional quarantine for a week. “Hi, Appa, welcome to quarantine room B44. All your necessities will be available at your doorstep. And you will be provided with breakfast, lunch, snacks, tea and dinner,” they wrote on a paper and placed it on the wall itself. Gloves, tissue paper, sanitizer and soap were kept on a table inside the room. “We have been hearing a lot about Covid-19 for the past three months. We were very upset when we heard that our father got stuck in Madrid. We were eagerly waiting for him but at the same time, we wanted to take care of him the best we could. And that’s how we started to design a quarantine room for him,” said Roshna and Saira. At a time when many don’t follow safety measures, Roshna and Saira show the world how prevention is better than cure. How did they get the idea? “I booked through Vande Bharat Mission and I got a ticket to Delhi, where I landed on May 31. I took institutional quarantine at a hotel in Delhi for a week. I used to tell my daughters how I was treated there. I think they got the idea from it only,” said Gopinath, a software consultant. Both Roshna and Saira agree, but they also want to give credit to various awareness drives. “We hear a lot about the outbreak of Covid-19 these days. A cure for this virus is not yet out, so we should never take chances. I am very upset that I am not able to spend time with my father, but I know it’s my responsibility to follow the safety measures,” said Roshna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/daughters-design-quarantine-room-for-dad-who-returned-from-spain/articleshow/76310534.cms||M T Saju
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||Highest single-day tally: Four coronavirus patients die in city||Kanpur: As four Covid positive patients died on Wednesday, Kanpur recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid deaths. Besides, there has been a major surge in positive cases in the last 24 hours, with 23 fresh cases taking the district’s Covid tally to 582. Out of the total 22 Covid deaths in the district so far, 11 have occurred in June alone, in a period of last six days. This has left the district administration and the health department worried, even as they are making efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic. With 23 fresh cases on Wednesday, the total number of active cases has reached 217. So far, 343 Covid positive persons have been cured and discharged from the hospital. Three of the recovered persons were discharged on Wednesday. While two were discharged from GSVM Medical College, one was sent home from Rama Medical College. District health department informed that the new Covid cases have surfaced from Barra-2, Babupurwa, Naubasta, Gwaltoli, Fattehpur Kakwan, Kakadeo, Laxmipurwa, Shiv Nagar, Kashyap Nagar, Meerpur Cantt, Naraiyal Bazar, Juhi and Hanumant Vihar. Moreover, as many as 71 persons kept under quarantine were sent home as they completed their quarantine period on Wednesday. A total of 488 samples were collected for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/highest-single-day-tally-four-coronavirus-patients-die-in-city/articleshow/76311151.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||GUJCOST to train teachers||Ahmedabad: After initiating online studies for school students, Gujarat Council On Science and Technology (GUJCOST) has started an initiative to impart training to teachers for better use of digital technologies in academic activities. As many as 250 teachers will be trained across 33 districts using GSWAN’s Adobe Connect platform, according to a media statement. GUJCOST has joined hands with Learning Links Foundation, a non-profit organization, for providing need-aligned professional development for teachers in secondary and higher secondary schools. The ‘Digital Learning’ classes began on Wednesday in which as many as 70 teachers from various districts including Gandhinagar, Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Mehsana, Patan, Kutch and Aravalli participated. The idea is to generate a pool of teachers who have an expertise in enhancing online education as well as ensuring that students in rural and remote areas of Gujarat can also participate in online academic activities. Schools have been shut down for more than three months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Online learning has become a ‘new normal’ for imparting education with many schools in the state recently starting online classroom sessions for the new academic year. Schools are likely to remain shut for a little longer with a final decision on their re-opening for academic activity being planned in August, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujcost-to-train-teachers/articleshow/76310312.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kanpur||Girl travels 200 km on truck alone to marry her FB beau||Kanpur: Undeterred and unafraid of the novel coronavirus, a 23-year-old girl travelled 200 km all alone in a truck to marry her beau whom she met during the nationwide lockdown on social networking site. A re-run of ‘Pyaar Kiya Toh Darna Kya.......once again,’ was the buzzword in Chautarahar village on Tuesday. A native of Shankarpur village in Kuthaund police area of Jalaun, Puja (23) met Brijesh of Chautarahar village under Taalgram police station of Kannauj district on Facebook. The two started liking each other and the friendship soon bloomed into love and the duo decided to get married. But, like every love story, this one had a twist too. Brijesh snapped all ties with Puja as his family wanted him to get married on their will. When Puja came to know about this, she decided to visit Brijesh’s family and convince them for their marriage. She covered nearly 200 km in a truck and walked around 20 km to meet Brijesh’s family in Chautarahar village on Monday evening. She staged a sit-in in front of Brijesh’s house. Refusing her request of getting married to their son, Brijesh’s family asked her to go back home. Local residents informed the village head Jai Singh who intervened in the matter. A panchayat was convened and finally Brijesh agreed to marry her Facebook girlfriend. “In order to sort out the issue, Puja approached us seeking justice. She showed their Facebook and WhtsApp messages to us. Later, a panchayat was convened and we managed to convice the boy and his parents,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-travels-200-km-on-truck-alone-to-marry-her-fb-beau/articleshow/76311172.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 case count tops 10,000, 435 people test positive||PUNE: The Covid-19 case count surged past 10,000 mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, three months after first two cases were recorded in the area on March 9. With this, PMR has become the second region in the state, after Mumbai, to have more than 10,000 coronavirus cases. PMR added 435 cases, second highest daily tally so far, in the last 24 hours, pushing the patient count up to 10,394. The 24-hour highest tally in PMR was recorded on May 25 when 459 new cases were reported. A district official, however, said pending reports also contributed to the sharp 24-hour case tally rise. This was also confirmed by a source in the PMC health department. Among the 10,000 cases, Pune municipal limits have accounted for 8,601 followed by Pimpri Chinchwad (918) and the rural areas (875). The region took about 75 days to reach the 5,000-mark on May 22. However, it added another 5,000 cases in just 19 days. Besides, seven deaths were reported on Wednesday in PMR, which pushed the death toll up to 449. The Sassoon General Hospital reported two deaths, including that of a 62-year-old woman from the Janata Vasahat area and a 69-year-old woman from Yerawada. Three patients died at private hospitals. These included a 50-year-old man from Aundh, a 61-year-old man from Haveli taluka and a 64-year-man from Bhusawal. PMC health officials said 214 critical patients were being treated at various hospitals in the city, of which 43 were on ventilator support. A total of 271 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after they were declared Covid-free, taking the cured tally to 6,682 in the region so far. About 2,528 active patients were under treatment at various hospitals and Covid centres. Officials said 1,949 swabs were collected on Wednesday and were sent for the testing. When it comes to quarantined, 47,061 were in isolation, either at home or medical facility, in PMR. Of these, 38,847 are were from PMC limits alone, 5,724 from Pimpri Chinchwad and 2,490 from the rural and Cantonment areas of the Pune district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-case-count-tops-10k-435-people-test-positive/articleshow/76311156.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 11, 2020||Pune||Disinfectant spray of DIAT||PUNE: The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, Pune, a deemed-to-be university, has developed a nano technology-based disinfectant spray to combat Covid-19. Named ‘Ananya’, it can be used by anyone, from a common man to a healthcare worker, for individual as well as largescale use. This spray can be used on masks, PPEs, hospital linens, as well as well as on medical instruments. "This is a water-based spray and will be effective for more than 24 hours," stated a statement issued by DIAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/disinfectant-spray-of-diat/articleshow/76311161.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||With 78 new cases city sees highest single-day spike||Bhopal: The Covid-19 tally in Bhopal crossed 2,000-mark on Wednesday, recording the highest number of cases in a single day — 78. As of now, the city’s corona count is 2,059.In the first ten days of June, over 500 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19. The disease has claimed 64 lives in Bhopal since the outbreak.Meanwhile, 23 members of a family in Sadarpura, Jehangirbad, tested positive for the virus, according to a health department report. The news has shocked the Sikh community. There are 40-50 houses in the area where the health department would undertake contact tracing and health screening.CSP Alim Khan said, “The location of new infection spread is adjacent to Laxmi Galla Mandi in Jehangirabad. Covid-19 protocols and sampling will follow.”SDM Rajesh Shukla said, “Seven positive cases came from Priyadharshani Nagar and Jai Bhim Nagar each while two came from Banganga slum and three from Kolar-trisection and one from Kotra Sultanabad.”At the Hoshangabad road mall, 13 more people tested positive. Earlier, six cases were reported from the 108 call centre and around 200 were tested for Covid-19. “13 staff members of our call centre have been tested positive for Covid-19. They have been hospitalised/quarantined by the state health authorities and their family members too have been home quarantined, as per protocol,” stated a 108 service press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-78-new-cases-city-sees-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76309381.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Money, documents stolen from car||Ahmedabad: Montu Patel, 35, of Naroda has lodged a complaint at Bapunagar police station alleging that thieves had broken the glass window of his car parked near a garage at Hirawadi Crossroads on Tuesday and fled with a bag containing important business documents and Rs 1,50,000. The thieves were on a scooter, stated Patel in his FIR. Patel stated that he had left home in his car with Rs 3,10,000 for his factory, Shree Ganesh Enterprise, Textile and Packing Materials — located on Dehgam Road. At about 10.30am he left his factory to send Rs 1,60,000 through an angadia firm to a party. He then put the bag containing the rest Rs 1,50,000 beside the driver’s seat and went to a garage near Hirawadi Crossroads. “After parking his car a little away from the garage, while he was standing at the garage, he heard a loud sound of glass breaking. He turned and saw a hooded man had broken the left window glass of his car and picked up the bag. Patel ran after him but the man ran and sat on the pillion seat of a scooter, which was waiting for him. The man driving the scooter was wearing a helmet,” said a police official. Police said Patel and his friends had tried to chase the scooter but could not catch up. “We have lodged a complaint and are gathering CCTV footage to identify the vehicle and the accused,” said inspector N K Vyas of Bapunagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/money-documents-stolen-from-car/articleshow/76310309.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mobile clinics help bring 450 coronavirus infected individuals to light||PUNE: Every day around 10am when Prachi Deshpande, a doctor associated with a mobile clinic for screening suspected Covid-19 patients, slips into her personal protection gear she knows that she has to keep it on for the next 6-8 hours or even beyond. As long as she is on the road screening suspected positive patients, she cannot use the washroom. So, she avoids having even a sip of water till she calls it a day. This has been a daily routine for her as well as for around 100 people attached with the mobile clinics of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the last two months. The untiring work of these medical staffers has helped in detection of over 450 positive cases, said civic officials.  On an average, the mobile clinics screen around 8,000 people daily. "These clinics have been operating in containment as well as in non-containment zones since April," said Vaishali Jadhav, a senior health official of PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mobile-clinics-help-bring-450-infected-individuals-to-light/articleshow/76311158.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 11, 2020||Rajkot||Recycled plastic products to get more expensive now||RAJKOT: Large number of products made from recycled plastic waste are expected to get more expensive following an increase in raw material prices. The reason: There has been nearly 75% reduction in the influx of plastic waste coming to Dhoraji and Upleta towns of Rajkot district, the biggest plastic waste processing clusters in the country, handling garbage from almost 25 states. Around 550 plastic recycling units in these two towns process nearly 1,000 tonnes garbage every day. However, now this has plummeted to just around 200-300 tonnes a day due to the lockdown. As a result of this shortage, the prices of recycled plastic has also gone up to Rs 15-R s18 per kg from around Rs 12 per kg. The recycled plastic is the key raw material for making products like granules, plastic ropes used in packing bags of agricultural products and used by loaders like trucks to tie the goods, baling twins, water pipes used in farms and others. Dalsukh Vagadia, president of Dhoraji Plastic Manufacturers Welfare Association said “Due to severe shortage, it’s not economically feasible to operate machines that recycle plastic waste.” The 40-year-old cluster gets plastic waste like cement bags, powder bags, polythene bags, LD and HD plastic scrap and others in trucks from nearly 25 states barring some from south India and north east. Vagadiya’s counterpart in Upleta, Nandlal Unghad, said, “Lack of transportation is also one of the major reasons for the shortage. The truck owners are refusing to operate unless their vehicles are fully loaded and they have doubled the transportation charges too.” “ As a result, it has become unviable to do business for the scrap dealers too who send us the waste in bulk. The garbage price which was Rs 10 per kg for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Haryana has increased to Rs 18 per kg, ” Unghad,added. Besides locally used products, the reprocessed plastic material has a international market too. Ankit Rakholiya, who plastic recycle unit owner in Dhoraji said, “The cost of production has increased but when we go to sell in the market, we are forced to reduce our price because the prices of virgin plastic have also gone down, especially in case of the plastic granules.”  The difference between virgin and recycle material is only 25%, so people prefer the former. The difference should be at least 50% for our products to sell,” said Rakholia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/recycled-plastic-products-to-get-more-expensive-now/articleshow/76308326.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Help desks to address inter-dist travel between Mangaluru, Kasaragod||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district administration is observing due diligence in allowing bonafide people from Kasaragod to travel to the for their work. With 14-day quarantine otherwise mandatory for people coming from Kerala, the district administration is monitoring the daily pass system to prevent its misuse. A help desk has been set up at Talapady to address emergent issues, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said. This issue took a political hue with Congress leader UT Khader on this side of the border and the president of Kasaragod unit of BJP K Shreekanth on the other taking up cudgels on behalf of their respective constituents. Both Khader and Shreekanth had slammed the delay on part of the authorities in Dakshina Kannada in facilitating movement of people in the adjoining districts for their daily routine including education and livelihood. Shreekanth told TOI that the situation has vastly improved ever since they protested against the delay in issuing passes at the inter-state border at Talapady on Monday. “We are thankful to BJP leaders in Dakshina Kannada district especially former Kerala BJP in-charge and DK member of parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel for understanding our plight and smoothing things out,” he said. On June 3, the DK district administration had issued an SOP for interstate travel of daily commuters, especially students, merchants and professionals from Kasaragod working in Mangaluru. As per the SOP, medical and other professionals, government officials and students from Kasaragod were required to register on https://bit.ly/dkpermit to obtain a regular commuters’ pass that is valid till the end of the month. Sindhu said the only area of concern was to establish the bonafides of the applicants. “Hence, we insisted on those applying for pass to furnish a letter from their employer, institution to establish the genuineness of their request,” she said. The help desk has been set up at Talapady on directed by district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary, she said, adding the administration is in touch with its counterparts in Kasaragod to address ticklish issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/help-desks-to-address-inter-dist-travel-between-mangaluru-kasaragod/articleshow/76310781.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Panchayat employee takes care of nCoV patient’s baby||PUNE: An employee of the Manchar Gram Panchayat in Ambegaon tehsil decided to take care of a four-day-old baby girl, lending a helping hand to a Covid-19 positive patient after doctors realized it was not safe to keep the baby with her mother in the hospital. The patient, hailing from Manchar, was moved to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) after she tested positive for Covid-19 and six of her relatives had to be quarantined. Four days ago, the patient gave birth to a healthy baby but the doctors advised against handing over the baby to her relatives. Dr Deepali Ambike, head of YCMH’s padiateric department, “Keeping the baby surrounded by Covid-19 positive cases was a risk.” Manchar village sarpanch Datta Ganjale said, “Two of our employees, Archana Bende and Sneha Misal, brought the baby to Bende’s home and took care of her. On Wednesday, the reports of six members of the family came as negative and we handed over the baby to one of them,” Ganjale added. Bende said, “Keeping the baby calm was a challenge for me but she did not cry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panchayat-employee-takes-care-of-ncov-patients-baby/articleshow/76311168.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Social distancing goes for a toss in malls, shops & kiosks||BHOPAL: A group of students in school uniform were seen sipping tea and chatting at the tea stall outside PCC office. Let alone being mindful of social distancing, they were not even wearing masks. Outside GTB Complex, another group of boys were spotted savouring pani poori, standing on both sides of the thela in a row.Such sights are becoming common in the city as the process of unlocking the market unfolds. “Despite shortcomings, malls and restaurants have a mechanism to maintain physical distancing, but now that the tea stalls and small snacks shops have opened, it is difficult to ask people to sit or stand at safe distance," said an official of the food safety department on the condition of anonymity. It is the food safety department, which warned during lockdown that if physical distancing is not maintained in grocery shops, the licence of those shops would be suspended. Most of the grocery shops have put a rope outside the front desk of the shop to keep customers at a distance, but what happens outside the shop is no longer their concern. On and off, they do ask people to maintain distance but not very effectively. Even while allowing restaurants to open with facility to sit and eat, district administration was aware that observing physical distancing norm as stipulated in the SOP for restaurants was difficult to observe. In a meeting with restaurant managers, district administration officials told them to focus more on "take home" and "home delivery" system. " We do not have huge restaurants. So, we advise the restaurants to continue focusing on "take home" and "home delivery" system" said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore. District collector, Tarun Pithode, insisted that six-feet distance between tables in restaurants and food court is mandatory, those who fail to get seat to sit should carry food home. Malls, restaurants and hotels have opened post-lockdown on Monday only and are yet to start attracting crowds but once that happens, physical distancing would be the first casualty.The same logic applies to markets when all the shops start opening on all days of the week as the Bhopal Vyapari Mahasangh has been demanding." When malls can open for the entire week, why can’t shops open six days a week? We shall abide by them" said Anupam Agrawal, president of the Mahasangh. " The swelling crowd on roads and the markets has definitely contributed to spurt in coronavirus cases in the city because physical distancing norm is being ignored . We should allow this system of two days for each group of shops to continue for some more time," said a trader in New Market on the condition of anonymity. At the railway station and airport, too, despite circles drawn for the passengers at the platform or the lobby of the airport, the physical distancing norm is only followed till the train arrives or the flight is about to take off." Any train at Habibganj railway station has a stoppage of two minutes. How do you expect people to get into the train while maintaining physical distancing?" said Dileep Roy, who had come to Habibganj railway station to see off his mother to Raipur. Women, who are more particular about maintaining physical distancing, often give it up as they start looking for fresh vegetables/ fruits at the shop of a roadside vendor. And, not to forget, group of men and women in slum areas sitting and chatting in groups without wearing masks or maintaining safe distance despite the district administration reminding time and again that this kind of behaviour led to spread of the virus in Jehangirabad and many other densely populated colonies, the latest being Banganga in Roshanpura and EWS colony in Kotra. Box: Touch is basic human behaviour, people will take time to change: Experts Bhopal: For traders and customers alike, social distancing of 6 feet has been recommended by centre for disease control and prevention (CDC). Psychiatrists, however, say that touch is one of the basic components of human behaviour, thus it will take time to bring about change. Many feel it becomes impractical at times, despite good intentions. A shopkeeper in MP Nagar wishing anonymity said, “We have barricaded counters of our shops with ropes, but how to maintain social distance while taking money or giving goods to the customers? I feel 3 feet distance is more maintainable than 6 feet.” Psychiatrist Dr Satyakant Trivedi explained this behaviour as he said, “Non-verbal communication, which includes touch and proximity, is one of the major components of human behaviour. It is due to this fact that we tend to come closer. But there is no other option, social distancing needs to be maintained. For it we need continuous discussion and communication about the benefits of social distancing. Social distancing not only reduces the chances of getting us infected, but even if one is infected despite maintaining social distancing, there would be less viral load and infection would be mild.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unlock-1-0-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-malls-shops-kiosks/articleshow/76309419.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||WR begins electrification with Rajkot, Bhavnagar divisions||AHMEDABAD: With the Western Railway (WR) operating its first electric train in Rajkot and Bhavnagar divisions, these divisions have now found themselves on the map of electric traction. The WR operated the first goods train — a double stack container from Palanpur to Botad. The WR officials said that keeping pace with the nation’s mission of 100% electrification over Indian Railways, the WR has now achieved the highest electrification of 664 running kilometre during the financial year 2019-20. In Gujarat, the electrification has been accomplished on the rail route of Ahmedabad-Palanpur, Ahmedabad-Viramgam, Viramgam-Mehsana, Surendranagar-Botad-Dhola and Surendranagar-Dhrangadhra. “The Palanpur-Botad feat is a step towards electrification of route up to Pipavav port to carry double stack containers from Pipavav port to Delhi via Palanpur during the current financial year 2020-21. The WR has completed the electrification on route from Surendranagar-Botad section during March, 2020. Due to the nationwide lockdown, there were huge constraints in mobilizing resources to start electric train on this route. The team of Rajkot and Bhavnagar divisions of the WR and rail electrification’s Ahmedabad unit worked overtime to achieve the electrification,” said the WR in its press release. With the introduction of electric traction, which is pollution free and energy efficient mode of transport, the railway is expected to save about Rs100 crores per annum on fuel expenses. Meanwhile the Raiilways will also have two trips of special parcel train from Kankaria to Cuttack. The train will leave from Kankaria on June 13 at 6.30 pm and it will reach Cuttack on the third day at 2.30 am. The return train will leave from Cuttack on June 16 at 7.30 pm and will reach Kankaria at 3.15 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wr-begins-electrification-with-rajkot-bhavnagar-divisions/articleshow/76310308.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Celebrate Bonalu at home: Min||Hyderabad: Bonalu festivities, which are scheduled to commence on June 25 this year, will be kept low-key in view of the coronavirus pandemic. After a meeting with members of various temple management committees on Wednesday, animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav urged devotees to offer bonam at home. “As lakhs of people participate in Bonalu...there is a scope of the virus spreading faster in large congregations. In view of this, it has been decided that celebrations be kept at home,” Talasani said. “Prepare bonam and show it to the sun god and later keep it in the temple or puja room of the house. The priests (pujaris) will decorate mother goddess, offer puja and bonam in the respective temples of Jagadamba, Ujjaini Mahankali Devalayam, Akkanna Madanna, Lal Darwaza and all other temples of the mother goddess. Officials from the endowments department will offer pattu vastralu to the goddess as per the tradition,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/celebrate-bonalu-at-home-min/articleshow/76310235.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ‘Gully warriors’ help fight Covid-19 in Adilabad district||HYDERABAD: The Adilabad district administration has deployed ‘gully warriors’ to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. During the lockdown, their responsibility was to see that there were no violations. And now, their services are being used in different spheres to help the administration in its combat against Covid-19. Interestingly, the gully warriors helping the district administration are the same people who were caught violating the lockdown rules. “The lockdown violators were trained on the measures that were being taken to prevent the spread of the virus. They are responsible to educate people against coming out on to the roads and also help the administration,” district collector A Sri Devasena said. She said there was not a single Covid-19 death in the district though positive cases were reported from Adilabad initially. “All who tested positive have recovered. Subsequently, there have been positive cases from those who came from other states. At the end of their quarantine period and isolation, they have also recovered,” Devasena told TOI on Wednesday. Asked about a multi-disciplinary central health team’s visit to Adilabad, she said she had got no such official communication so far. “As of now, there are 21 positive cases and the patients are all recovering,” she said. It may be mentioned that central teams have identified 50 districts from various states, including Telangana, to monitor measures being taken to prevent spread of Covid-19. Official sources said Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Rangareddy and Adilabad have been identified for the purpose. Since a lot of people in Adilabad listen to All India Radio, the medium is used by the collector and officials to address people every week on the rules and inform them about medical and quarantine facilities and also the relaxation of lockdown telling them what is allowed and what is not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gully-warriors-help-fight-covid-in-adilabad-dist/articleshow/76310204.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Man gets 14 years in jail for raping teenage daughter||VADODARA: A sessions court on Wednesday sentenced a man living in Makarpura to rigorous imprisonment for 14 years for repeatedly raping his teenage daughter and impregnating her. The court of special POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act) judge S D Suthar fined the accused of Rs 10,000 and directed the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 25,000 to the rape survivor for her rehabilitation. According to the case details, the convict had raped the girl for the first time in 2012 when her mother was admitted to SSG Hospital for treatment of thyroid and the father-daughter duo was alone at home. The girl was targeted again in February 2013 when she had returned home with her father from her cousin’s wedding. For the next four years, the convict repeatedly raped her daughter whenever he got the chance and threatened her of consequences if she would tell anyone about it. In April 2017, when the girl complained of acute pain in the stomach, her mother took her to SSG Hospital where a sonography revealed that she was pregnant. She told her mother about her ordeal. The mother took her to Makarpura police station where an offence of rape was lodged and the father was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-gets-14-years-in-jail-for-raping-teenage-daughter/articleshow/76307666.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru bishop lays down strict rules for service in parishes||MANGALURU: Religious rituals, while retaining their sanctity, will perhaps lose the accompanying frills that add to their otherwordliness in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. Taking stock of the drastically altered circumstances, bishop of Mangalore Peter Paul Saldanha has prescribed a set of guidelines for all parishes within his purview. Shorter masses, brief homilies, increase in the number of Sunday masses, suspension of catechism classes and use of television screens, live streaming of masses and constituting of Covid-19 safety committees are among the provisions that he has laid down on the eve of all churches in the Diocese of Mangalore reopening their doors. Shut for more than two months, the churches will open from Saturday. The bishop has asked those priests, who may not be able to put in place the required measures in their respective parishes by June 13, to be prepared to reopen churches from June 20, which marks the start of the Holy Eucharist celebrations. Emphasising Christianity’s principles of charity, which enjoin on its followers not to become the spread of a disease, the bishop said that children below 10 and individuals above 65 were exempted from the obligation to attend mass. He said that it would be the responsibility of the parish priest to ensure compliance with all the safety norms. “All volunteers and ushers must be strictly told to wear masks, as must all the devotees who visit the church. After mass is held, the church must be cleaned with spray, sanitisers and disinfectants, while regularly touched surfaces such as pews, tables, lecterns and doorknobs will be thoroughly cleansed,” the bishop added. Worship in the times of Covid-19 *No more than three members in the choir *Offertory procession with bread, wine, gifts suspended *No long-handled collection baskets *No holding of hands during prayers *Stainless steel bowls for distribution of holy communion instead of ciboria *Feasts, novenas, charismatic praise suspended||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-bishop-lays-down-strict-rules-for-service-in-parishes/articleshow/76309617.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Take a stand on Pothireddypadu||Hyderabad: Stating that the TRS government still did not have a clear stand on Pothireddypadu, state Congress workers demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao clarify its stance on the project. Former minister and chairman of the committee against the project’s expansion, Nagam Janardhan Reddy said that the chief minister has neither criticised or spoken against the government of Andhra Pradesh, which he claimed was drawing additional water from the Krishna which belongs to Telangana. Janardhan Reddy along with committee convenor T Ram Mohan Reddy demanded that the chief minister take necessary steps immediately to stop the Andhra government from expansion works on Pothireddypadu and ensure that GO-203 is withdrawn by the neighbouring state. “Statehood to Telangana was neither brought by KCR nor given by him. At least he should try to protect the river water which actually belongs to Telangana. South Telangana will go dry if Andhra Pradesh goes ahead with its Pothireddypadu expansion plans,” Janardhan Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-take-a-stand-on-pothireddypadu/articleshow/76310266.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contact tracing far too low in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Even as testing has been ramped up in Gujarat, its contact tests per positive case — which is contact tracing — is far too low when compared to other states. The WHO has prescribed a minimum of 10 to 30 tests of contacts per Covid-19 patient.  Knowing that Gujarat has one of the highest cases, the contact tracing is far too low. The state is also behind a few other states when it comes to tests per million. States like Jammu and Kashmir have conducted more than 12,000 tests per million. Even as Covid-19 numbers rise in Gujarat, a comparative study of 10 states in the country on test rates till May 31 depicts a wide gap in Covid-19 tests being conducted in the population even as lockdown restriction are eased and there is near free movement of people between districts. Also, Gujarat and neighbouring Maharashtra have shown high tests numbers — Maharashtra (4.6 lakh tests) and Gujarat (2.11 lakh tests). Till date, Maharashtra has performed 3,558 tests per million population, while Gujarat has done 3,120 tests per million till May 31. Both the states have high test positive rates as well. Gujarat has a test positive rate of 7.92%, while Maharashtra has 13.7% . Yet not much testing is happening in the two states. Experts fear as people begin to move and interact, there will be greater exchange and spread of the virus. Other states with similar issues are Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand which are conducting far too few tests. “The testing numbers may seem to grow every day but the tests rates clearly show how many states are now testing fewer people each day than in May or April,” says a senior health official. Also Punjab, Rajasthan , Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and to some extent Tamil Nadu have shown impressive contact tracing numbers. “Ahmedabad, which has the highest concentration of Covid-19 cases, has a contact tracing of six persons per positive patient till May 19, while many districts in Gujarat were way ahead in contact tracing numbers,” adds the health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/contact-tracing-far-too-low-in-gujarat/articleshow/76310336.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: 60-year-old credits yoga for helping him beat Covid-19||PUNE: A sixty-year-old diabetic is grateful to his doctors at Bharati Hospital for his speedy recovery from Covid-19. The hospitality professional, who worked in Saudi Arabia before retiring and returning to Pune 10 years ago, suffered from dizziness and exhibited symptoms of coronavirus infection. His son admitted him to Bharati Hospital here on May 23 after he tested positive for Covid-19. The sexagenarian lives with his wife, two sons, and daughter-in-law. He claimed that yoga helped him to recover faster. "Dr Prashant Jedge and his team took good care of me. Food and medicines were given to me on time. I was told to do some yoga and PT exercises, which helped in my recovery," he said. He was discharged from hospital on June 3. He has diabetes, but his sugar levels are gradually stabilising. "Doctors have advised me not to eat oily food. Otherwise, I can eat whatever I like in small proportion," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/60-year-old-credits-yoga-for-helping-him-beat-infection/articleshow/76311175.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Sigh of relief for seafarers as Sri Lanka opens up its ports||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of Indian seafarers are now getting back to their jobs on ships at different ports across the world as Sri Lankan authorities have facilitated a crew change. A large number of trained seafarers from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, despite spending up to Rs 5 lakh on training, could not take up jobs because of the Covid-19 lockdown. Similarly, those who completed their time on various ships are also able to return to India with Sri Lanka opening up its ports to facilitate sign off. “Though our initial interest was to facilitate crew change as there are a large number of Sri Lankan seafarers who had to return, we set up an entire protocol for seafarers of any nationality to disembark or get on board ships at Sri Lanka ports,” Admiral Prof Jayanath Colombage, additional secretary to president for foreign affairs, Sri Lanka, told TOI over the phone. “Sri Lanka ports are close to the shipping lane. Ships do not have to divert for disembarkation of seafarers. Since President Gotabaya Rajapaksa said the interests of all seafarers, irrespective of nationality, must be taken care of, we have established quarantine and isolation centres for them,” Colombage said. International flights are yet to start operations but chartered flights carrying seafarers from India are using Sri Lankan airports as a hub to ferry seafarers to their destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sigh-of-relief-for-seafarers-as-sri-lanka-opens-up-its-ports/articleshow/76310247.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC hauls up pollution board over fluoride in groundwater||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday warned authorities of the pollution control board that they will be held accountable for the presence of fluoride in groundwater in and around Jeedimetla industrial area. The presence of the chemical is said to have led to consequences such as children being born with physical deformities on account of their parents having consumed the fluoride-laced water. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy which took up the case after sifting through various reports observed that industries were releasing untreated chemical effluents into the water in an indiscriminate manner. Though the pollution board had filed a report before the court in tune with an earlier direction, this was found to be incomplete. Meanwhile, residents of Jeedimetla have been complaining about bad odour that emanates during monsoon and also about the contamination of groundwater. They have been making representations to the state authorities, asking them to prevent industries from contaminating the groundwater. The bench questioned PCB counsel Shiva Kumar over the discrepancies in the report. “In TSIIC Colony, according to your own report, you say that level of total dissolved solids in the groundwater is 1,330 with a rider that acceptable limit is 500 and permissible limit is 2,000. What should we read from this? Is this condition prevailing there okay or not okay? Without indicating the normal parameters, you gave a misleading report...” the CJ said. “Your own analysis of groundwater in the area is that too much magnesium and fluoride went into groundwater. Those who consume such water will have serious health repercussions and their DNA composition too may be changed,” the Chief Justice added. The bench said it would appoint a technical expert to assist the court in the matter. “Only three industries are being prosecuted by PCB in Medchal court. From 2018 to 2020 May, the PCB did nothing to launch fresh prosecutions,” the bench said. Referring to the inspection of 200 hazardous bulk drug units in Hyderabad by PCB after the gas leak in Visakhapatnam, the bench pointed out that the PCB did not narrate the outcome of its inspection. “Air quality too is deteriorating in Hyderabad...How many errant industries were actually closed? How many prosecutions you have launched are important. Brief us (on) these things by June 24 in your next report,” the bench said while adjourning the case to June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-hauls-up-pollution-board-over-fluoride-in-groundwater/articleshow/76310181.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 11, 2020||India||Rajasthan govt puts curbs on people entering, exiting state||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday imposed regulations on the movement of people and vehicles across the state borders. The restrictions, which come into effect from Thursday, will be in place for the following seven days. No person can enter the state without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from a competent authority, while those heading out of the state must get a pass issued either from the district collector or an authorised government officer. The order is not applicable for intra-state movement. Rajasthan shares borders with Punjab, Haryana, NCR, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The order released by director general of police (law and order) M L Lather directed police officers concerned to create check-posts at all inter-state borders. “Passes for exiting the state will be granted to only those facing an emergency situation like hospitalisation in another state or to attend funeral of a family member,” the order said. During a high-level review meeting on Covid-19 on Wednesday, Gehlot said that many people who were found to be positive for Covid-19 had tested negative before they travelled out. The move has been taken after a spike in number of ca ses, especially among migrants and in rural areas. During the meet, Gehlot informed that the state recorded 2,500 cases between June 1 and June 10, the first 10-day period when the state came out of the lockdown. “The regulation is required so that our three months of hard work does not go waste,” said Gehlot. Meanwhile, the government decided to set up counters at airports, railway stations and bus stands to provide on-the-spot passes after verification of IDs. Those arriving by air have to follow the same guidelines issued by the central government. Naveen Jain, managing director of Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation said that those buses which are on the way to the state from other states carrying migrants will be affected by the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-govt-puts-curbs-on-people-entering-exiting-state/articleshow/76312057.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||22 fresh cases in Rural||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad rural has reported 22 fresh cases, taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 460 so far. Bopal, a satellite township of Ahmedabad, has recorded three new cases, one each from Aarohi Elegance, Hari Om Villa and Madan Mohan Bungalows. The Ahmedabad Rural reported two deaths both from Dholka taking the tally of Covid-19 deaths to 30. On Wednesday, a 50-year-old man and a 71-year-old woman succumbed to the virus. Jigisha Shah, president of Bopal-Ghuma Nagar Palika, said four cases were reported in four days. On Wednesday, one was reported from Aarohi Elegance, while a 50-year-old man from Hari Om Villa and a 52-year-old man from Madan Mohan Bungalows tested positive on Tuesday. A 32-year-old woman, a resident of Merigold Gala Gardaniya near Sobo Centre also tested positive on June 7. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/22-fresh-cases-in-rural/articleshow/76310329.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Maha first to have Covid-19 labs at all GMCs||Nagpur: Maharashtra achieved a unique milestone in Covid-19 testing facility on Wednesday when all 17 Government Medical colleges in the state got final approval of their Covid-19 testing laboratories. Total number of Covid-19 testing labs in state surged to 96 and daily testing capacity to more 50,000. “With VRDL lab at Nanded GMCH getting final approval for Covid-19 testing on June 10, all GMCs are now equipped in Maharashtra. Maharashtra became first state to have such labs in each of its GMC. We are having highest number of labs and highest daily testing capacity in India,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Department of Medical Education. Remarkably, all GMCs in state have RT-PCR facility, which is the most authentic way to test for coronavirus at present. Other two kinds of labs are TrueNat and CB-NAAT. Apart from Directorate of Medical Education, Department of health services and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, worked jointly to complete this task. AIIMS Nagpur played an important role in giving fast approvals to these labs. “Quarterly quality checks are being conducted to ensure proper functioning of labs as per guidelines. All approved labs send daily reports of assessments conducted to AIIMS Nagpur. We are assisting them in case of any problems,” said Dr Vibha Dutta, director and CEO, AIIMS Nagpur. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, now nine of 11 districts have their own Covid-19 testing facilities. Nagpur, Amravati, and Wardha have multiple labs while Akola, Yavatmal, Gondia, and Chandrapur have labs at respective GMCs. Gadchiroli and Bhandra district hospital has TrueNat facility. TrueNat is a small battery operated machine that requires minimal training. It can also be easily used in a smaller setting. Samples tested negative on this machine are confirmed, but for positive samples a confirmatory test is mandatory using RT-PCR machine. Kingsway Hospital in Nagpur became first private multispecialty hospital in Central India to have the testing facility on Wednesday. “We received the approval from ICMR on June 10. Now, patients at the Kingsway can be tested for Covid-19 right here,” said Dr Raju Khandelwal, hospital’s medical director. Two private labs in Nagpur already have approval for testing. One of them is using TrueNat technology. All GMCs have Covid-19 labs: A milestone for state - On March 10, IGGMCH Nagpur was the only GMC to have Covid-19 testing facility - On June 10, all 17 GMCH in Maharashtra have testing labs, total labs in state are 96 - Almost every civil and district hospital in state has Covid-19 testing facility - All kinds of labs – TrueNat, CB-NAAT and RT-PCR are approved as per capability - More than 40 private labs, hospitals also have approvals through AIIMS Nagpur - More than 50,000 samples can be tested daily in Maharashtra - DMER, MEDD and AIIMS Nagpur joined hands to ensure this achievement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-first-to-have-covid-19-labs-at-all-gmcs/articleshow/76311178.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Students sprayed with disinfectant before exam||BHOPAL: Students writing their exam at a centre in Shanti Nagar on Wednesday were only allowed to enter after they agreed to be sprayed with harmful disinfectant. The examination was held at the LGM memorial higher secondary school in Shanti Nagar. It was the second Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) school examination to be held and the district administration or authorities are yet to take notice. “For the first hour of the examination, our clothes were almost soaked with the disinfectant. Most of us were coughing. We did not want to get thrown out for being suspected of Covid-19,” said a class XII student. The students were lined up outside and a man with a backpack sprayer, like one used for agricultural purpose, sprayed chemical on them one by one. “Since we were wearing masks at least the chemical did not enter our mouth,” said a student. MPBSE gave orders to spray disinfectant on kids, says school head: Private school administrator, Chadrashekar Bharagava, claimed the disinfectant was sprayed on students following a directive on WhatsApp by the MPBSE. He said the sprayer was procured by the school and sodium hypochlorite was purchased from the nearby medical market. “If it is against the rules, the teacher and staff appointed by the district education officer (DEO), should have acted,” he said. When asked about the harmful impact of such measures on the students, he said, “I was not present when it took place. I went to a hospital recently, I too had to pass under a chemical tunnel.” DEO, Nitin Saxena, said, “There is no such order or directive to spray chemical on children or humans. Action would be taken after an investigation.” He also said that rules pertaining to sanitization are changing constantly, “It is hard to keep track.” However, he admitted that such measures could impact the performance of the students and their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/students-sprayed-with-disinfectant-before-exam/articleshow/76309458.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: New contact tracing plan will track 48-hour history of ‘pre-symptomatics’||PUNE: The state government has widened its contact tracing net to include more people who may have come close to a Covid-19 patient. According to a new policy, screenings will now be extended to those who may have come in contact with a positive individual two days before he or she started showing any symptoms. Initial contact tracing methods were mainly limited to immediate family (high-risk contacts) or outsiders (low-risk contacts). The tracing also started after a person developed symptoms. But in Pune, civic health officials said they have been using the new tracing strategy since March 18 — much before the state issued the fresh set of guidelines on June 5. Experts have said a person with Covid-19 can transmit infection hours before any actual symptoms start to show. The new tracing strategy then includes people who may have inadvertently come in contact with a “pre-symptomatic” individual. Subhash Salunke, the technical advisor to the state on Covid-19 said, “This is just another way of being doubly sure that all at-risk contacts have been screened and the chain of transmission is not left open anywhere.” On the transmission risk from pre-symptomatic patients, Salunke said, “Studies have shown that an infected person can transmit the virus before turning symptomatic. The state government wanted to plug this transmission gap. That's why the ambit of contact tracing has been widened.” Officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation said they have been exercising the newly recommended tracing method since March 18. “A central team had hinted at such a strategy when it visited Pune on March 18 to assess our contact tracing work. We saw the logic in their suggestion and started comprehensive contact tracing efforts,” said public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, who is the assistant medical officer of health, PMC. The PMC maintains a ratio of 1:10: for every positive patient, 10 high-risk and low-risk contacts are traced for screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-contact-tracing-plan-will-track-48-hr-history-of-pre-symptomatics/articleshow/76311180.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||Valedictory function at BFTS||Prayagraj: Valedictory function, held at Basic Flying Training School (BFTS) at Air Force Station-Bamrauli marked successful completion of flying training to 21 Army aviators of 205 army pilots course, on Wednesday. These budding aviators went through rigorous flying and ground training during the past five months. Established on December 16, 1987 to impart training to pilots on HPT-32 aircraft, BFTS changed its role from training flight cadets of IAF to training officers of the Indian Army, Navy and Coast Guard on July 5, 1999. Air Commodore KH Suresh, Air-II, Central Air Command (CAC), Prayagraj was the reviewing officer for the valedictory function. During the valedictory function, Air Commodore Suresh presented certificates to the graduating officers and trophies to those who excelled during the course of training. Captain Shubham Billore was awarded trophy for being first in flying, Captain Divakar Brahamchari stood first in ground subjects and Captain B Prabhu Devan won the trophy for best in overall order of merit. Squadron Leader C Shekhawat was awarded the trophy for the best instructor (QFI). While addressing the gathering, Air Commodore KH Suresh congratulated the officers, particularly those who have excelled and won the trophies.  He praised BFTS for its rich tradition of transforming young officers into skilled aviators. While highlighting the role of these pilots in the time of transforming technology in aviation, he reminded them that ‘Military aviators of helicopters have no margin for error while saving lives and evacuating people’. The reviewing officer also urged the officers to keep themselves updated to the requirement and nature of future battles. He lauded BFTS for instilling professionalism and excellence in the young aviators abiding by the institutions motto ‘Setting Standards’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/valedictory-function-at-bfts/articleshow/76307328.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||345 cases reported from western part of city in 3 days||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city has reported 345 fresh Covid-19 cases in three days, of which 174 were from Bodkavdev, Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura, Vejalpur and Thaltej, which are part of the AMC’s North West and South West Zones. The June 9 report stated that the city had 303 cases, of which over 35%, or some 120 cases were from Navrangpura, Naranpura, Vasna, Paldi, Sardar Patel stadium, Ranip Nava Vadaj, Ghatlodia, Bodkavdev, Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura, Vejalpur and Thaltej areas. Of these 120 cases, 48 were from the New West Zone, with cases reported from Shivam Monreven in the Sindhu Bhavan area and Parshwa Luxuria in Ambli. Five cases were reported from Thaltej, at Suprabhat Apartments, Mahatma Gandhi Vasahat, Suryadeep Bungalows, Samrudhi Bungalows and Teen Murti Bungalows. Jodhpur ward had eight cases, from Indraprath 4, Ambravan Society, Sajan Apartments, Shyamal Crossroads, Shetrunjay Tower, ISRO Colony, Jodhpur Gaam, Sankalp Saphire and Sarthak Tower. Vejalpur had 14 cases on June 9. On June 8, when the city reported 320 cases, there were 121 cases from the western parts. Of these, 27 were from the North West Zone and 24 were from the South West Zone. The remaining 69 cases were from the West Zone. Six cases were reported from Jodhpur ward. There were five cases from Thaltej and seven from Vejalpur. Officials said on June 7 there were 120 cases from the western part of the city, which included 55 from the West Zone, 29 from South West Zone and 36 from the North West Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/345-cases-reported-from-western-part-of-city-in-3-days/articleshow/76310330.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||In Covid times, baaraatis join in wedding virtually||Nagpur: In what may be the new normal, a ‘baaraat’ or marriage party of around 10 persons physically attended a marriage travelling from Nagpur to Bharuch in Gujarat recently while remaining were ‘present’ at the ceremony virtually as the wedding was live streamed across various social media platforms. The groom’s family members and many from bride’s side showered their blessing and congratulations on the newly wed on the live platforms. Pleasantries too were exchanged among each other through messages and emojis as Covid outbreak seem to be changing the big fat Indian wedding into a more cost-effective and moderate affair. Pankaj Amesar tied knot with Ankita on Sunday after going from Chhapru Nagar in city to Bharuch in a bus with a handful of close family members to maintain Covid distancing. The family did not wanted to postpone the marriage date for various reasons including their belief in ‘auspicious’ time. Pankaj’s elder sister Jyoti, who is settled in Nashik, said she too wanted to attend her only brother’s wedding but felt it was moral responsibility to ensure safety. “We could have got emotional and attended the marriage with family and children but that would mean exposing ourselves to the Covid threat and hence watched it live. Feelings were as warm as if we were there but more concerned about the society,” she said. Jethanand Khandwani, who also watched his nephew’s marriage online, said it was time to restrict our emotions and feelings and think about the society more. “Pankaj wanted a grand ceremony. We may hold it later after the pandemic subsides but this is the time to be more restrained. We wanted the marriage to be held as an example to all with minimum guests and formalities but no dearth of feeling good,” he said. “We also managed to save cost involved in the marriage that we can now use in a more productive way and wait for a better time to party,” said Khandwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-covid-times-baaraatis-join-in-wedding-virtually/articleshow/76449889.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Collector’s order a warning to housing societies making own rules||PUNE: The collector’s office on Wednesday issued orders reiterating that housing societies should adhere to the government guidelines and must not make independent rules to prevent domestic helps, doorstep newspaper delivery and other service providers from entering the premises. Managing committee representatives of several housing societies asked their members if the government would take responsibility if more people were infected by the virus. Responding to such arguments, collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI that stern actions would be taken against societies disobeying the government orders and introducing persona laws. “The orders have been issued. All housing societies have to adhere to the norms issued by the state government. There is no reason to falter now and they cannot make their own rules,” Ram said. Pune DCP (Crime) Bachchan Singh said it has come to notice that managements of some housing societies were framing their own regulations in contravention of the guidelines issued by the district administration and municipal corporation authorities. “The objective of the societies may be is to take maximum precautions against Covid-19, but it should not lead to harassment of residents and violation of the district authorities’ guidelines. Action will be taken under relevant sections of the law against management of such housing societies contravening the guidelines of regulatory authorities,” he added. After TOI reported on Wednesday about the rules, a housing society in Kondhwa that had drafted its own rules to prevent entry of domestic helps revoked its orders. Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchayat president Vijay Sagar said the collector’s order curbed housing societies from coming out with random rules. The collector’s order also stated that societies must not discriminate people coming back from hospitals after getting treated for the virus. Deputy district registrar A Narayan told TOI that the collector's orders would be forwarded to all housing societies. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said he would speak to the deputy district registrar for cooperative societies to help resolve the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collectors-order-a-warning-to-hsg-societies-making-own-rules/articleshow/76311186.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civic body begins drive against people without masks||AHMEDABAD: About 150 teams of the solid waste department moved round the city and issued challans to 922 people on Wednesday for not wearing masks. A majority of these included shopkeepers, vendors and car drivers who refused to follow Covid safety protocol. Director solid waste, Harshad Solanki said that majority of the women on the road were not among the violators as they are in the habit of covering their face with dupattas while driving. Most violators were from the western part of the city and especially from the educated class. He said that in majority of the cases, the teams found that people had their handkerchiefs tied round their necks and whenever they spotted any officer they would try to pull them up. Most pleaded that they felt suffocated in masks and found it hard to breathe. Solanki further said that in shops most owners kept the mask and hand and dealt with customers without the mask on, but put it on as soon as they saw AMC officials. He said that the teams did not fine single persons in cars or rickshaw drivers. However, he said rickshaw drivers must wear masks when they carry passengers. Another officer said that vendors say it is difficult for them to communicate with customers with masks on — some wore masks but pulled down near the chin and not covering the mouth or nose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-body-begins-drive-against-people-without-masks/articleshow/76310335.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Allahabad||Locusts wreak havoc in fields in Koraon, Meja||Prayagraj: Swarms of locusts attacked various villages in Koraon and Meja, destroying crops in some fields. The locusts started swarming the villages since Tuesday night and are moving westward. The locusts were wreaking havoc in villages of Karchana block when this story went to press. According to sources, the swarm is around 3km wide and one-kilometre long. The locusts arrived in Prayagraj from Mirzapur district, before which they were spotted in several villages of Singrauli and Sonbhardra districts between Monday and Tuesday. Following the attack, the district administration has swung into action. Chemicals are being sprayed across fields with the help of fire tenders is affected villages to drive the locusts away. Besides, villagers rushed to their fields with different utensils and drums and crackers to chase the insects away. As per reports, villages in Kalyanpur and Sahajnipur areas of Koraon saw swarms of locusts on Tuesday evening. “The size of the swarm grew as time passed. Within a few hours, they were everywhere and I saw them in Ledirai market,” said a local farmer Ramdeen. Spotting the insects, local residents then informed officials.  “We are trying our best to chase away the locusts for which fields are being sprayed with chemicals and loud music is being played in open fields,” said SDM (Karchana) Akansha Rana. Several villages like Dharwara, Madeni Singh kaa Pura, Tala, Hathsara and Lohandi have been affected be these insects. “We pressed three fire tenders into service and have roped in additional vehicles, courtesy local residents, to spray chemicals in fields. The exercise went on for about five hours after which the locusts flew away,” said block development officer (BDO) of the area Rama Shankar. “A smaller swarm was also spotted in Jhunsi at Chhatnag and Munsi Ka Pura village, as well as in areas of Badra-Sonauti. However, after some time the swarm proceeded towards Kachari village before disappearing westwards. We believe that the swarm entered Prayagraj from bordering villages of Madhya Pradesh,” he added. Chief development officer (Prayagraj) Ashish Kumar said, “District officials, village heads and block-level teams had been trained and briefed about what they had to do in case of a probable attack by locusts. As no major crops have yet been planted, no major damage is feared barring few a patches of vegetables. We are keeping a watch on the situation and have a buffer stock of chemicals. All neighbouring districts have also been alerted,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/locusts-wreak-havoc-in-fields-in-koraon-meja/articleshow/76307353.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||After three months, Sunderbans tourism to resume on Monday||KOLKATA: After a gap of three months, the tourism zones of the Sunderbans would be re-opened from June 15, a state forest department notification issued on Wednesday stated. The decision has brought cheers to tourists, tour operators and locals as tourism is considered an important alternative livelihood in the land of mangroves that was ravaged by Amphan on May 20. The notification comes close on the heels of a directive issued by National Tiger Conservation Authority on June 5 on re-opening of tiger reserves across the country. Sunderbans was closed to tourists from March 18. The forest department has issued a slew of measures to be followed by tour operators and tourists. Sunderbans Tiger Reserve field director Sudhir Das said capacity of each boat/launch had been almost halved, considering the Centre and state guidelines to ensure social distancing. “Thermal scanning has been made mandatory for tourists and crew members before starting trips. All tourists and crew members will have to wear masks and face shields throughout the tour,” said Das. Soumyajit Nandy of GoingWild that organises wildlife photography tours in the Sunderbans hailed the move. “Sunderbans has suffered a double blow — first the Covid-19-induced lockdown and then, the cyclone. So, this move will surely boost the local economy,” he said. Another tour operator, Indrajit Sengupta of Dakshin Rai Nature Camp, echoed him: “Since livelihood of many locals, who work as boatmen, cooks and caretakers with us, is involved, this is a positive step by the forest department. But keeping an eye on the Covid pandemic, we should follow all guidelines to ensure social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-3-months-sunderbans-tourism-to-resume-on-monday/articleshow/76310343.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan launches ‘Rozgar Setu’ portal, 79 workers get jobs||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Wednesday launched the ‘Rozgar Setu’ portal for the migrant workers, who have returned to MP following outbreak of Coronavirus pandemic. He expressed pleasure that 79 migrant workers found employment through the portal on the day of its launch itself. Chief minister, said on the occasion that the portal has been launched by the Madhya Pradesh government to provide work to the migrant workers as per their skills and efficiency. All migrant labourers have been registered on the portal. Also, such employers who need skilled /unskilled labourers for various works have also been registered, he said. Chouhan said that 7.30 lakh migrant labourers and 5.79 lakh members of their families have been registered on the portal, which means a total of 13.10 lakh labourers have been registered. Similarly, 5,246 employers / employment providers have also been registered on the portal. On the very first day of the launch of the portal, 79 labourers have been employment as per their skill, he added. Chouhan said that Madhya Pradesh is the first state in India which has completed the survey of all migrant labourers. Chief minister interacted with some labourers through video conferencing at the launch of portal. Govind Prasad Chaurasia told the CM that he used to work in a company in Mumbai and due to Coronavirus pandemic, he had to return to MP. Now he has got a job in a company of Sagar at a salary of Rs 9,500 per month through the employment portal. Satish of Bhopal was employed with a five-star hotel in Maharashtra and that now he has got a job in Bhopal. Sunil Kakodia from Maharashtra got a job at a leading infra group in the state capital. Rajesh Dhakad of Gwalior has got work in a security company in Gwalior. Chouhan extended his best wishes to all for their assignments. Chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains said on the occasion that the Rozgar Setu portal is an online employment fair. While on the one hand all the labourers are registered on the portal, different employers are also registered on the other. Employers can select labourers as per their requirements. The labourers can get their appointment letter through the portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-launches-rozgar-setu-portal-79-workers-get-jobs/articleshow/76309471.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Collective storage in reservoirs at 6.43 TMC, double of last year’s stock||PUNE: The four dams around the city added around 1.5 TMC water within the first 10 days of June, which is equivalent to one-month quota, an official from the irrigation department said. The collective stock in four dams on Wednesday was 6.43 TMC (22%) which was double than last year’s stock of 3.11 TMC (10.6%). The stock in Khadakwasla was 55.5%, in Panshet was 26% and Varasgaon was 19% of their respective storage capacities. Temghar had 0% stock. Barring Khadakwasla, the three dams recorded over 25mm rainfall each in the last 24 hours. Officials from the irrigation department said cumulative rainfall at Temghar on Wednesday reached over 300mm, while in the catchments of Panshet and Varasgaon it surged over 200mm. Inflow of water was up after heavy rains during the Cyclone Nisarga last week. Even after that, the catchments continued to record fairly good showers, officials said. The four dams can collectively store 29.15 TMC water stock. Of this, over 50% is released for Pune and the remaining for rural areas, an official said. The adequate water stock in the dams this year, prompted the irrigation department to initiate water release from Khadakwasla for summer crops on two occasions. The second release was started two weeks ago and it was expected to be stopped by mid-June. Water was flowing into the Mutha canal at around 1,100 cusec.  “Water was released twice during winter and similar rotations were planned in summer. Even after release of four rotations, the dams are left with 20% stock,” an irrigation department official said. The irrigation department said it has set aside adequate water stock to meet the city’s water requirements till July, though the civic administration is expected to use the water judiciously Low pressure water supply in some PCMC areas The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s water supply department said there would be late water supply with low pressure on Thursday evening in Chinchwad, Bijlinagar, Pimprinagar, Pimpri gaon, Old Sangvi, New Sangvi, Pimple Gurav, Pimple Saudagar, and Dapodi areas because of the water pump repair works||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collective-storage-in-reservoirs-at-6-43-tmc-double-of-last-years-stock/articleshow/76311190.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: How citizen groups mobilised to help hundreds of migrants||PUNE: Right from March, citizen groups have been actively involved in bringing relief to those heavily impacted by the Covid-19 lockdowns: people left without jobs; migrant workers forced to make their way home hundreds of kilometres away. These groups quickly spread out in their neighbourhoods. Murali Krishnan, a resident of the Raheja Vistas housing society on NIBM Road, said, “There are pockets in this area that needed immediate attention. We organised a collection box in our housing society for food items, which were later distributed by volunteers. We packed food and essential items for migrant workers in the area. This activity started from the earliest weeks of the outbreak in Pune. Fortunately, we were able to feed many.” Several housing societies also set up community kitchens to help those in need. Sangeetha Baheti, from the Willows housing society in Balewadi, said, “We set up a kitchen in our society to feed those in the migrant camps here. Between April 17 and May 26, we collected a total of about Rs 5.5 lakh from 160 flats in the society. We were able to hand out nearly 45,700 meals. We also packed food for police personnel on duty.” Residents also played a key role in pooling financial assistance. In April and May, a group of nearly 50 people from the Aureate housing society in Pimple Saudagar teamed up and contributed over Rs 30,000 to help women residents of the neighbouring Kate Wasti area with ration kits. Several of these women were working as domestic helps in the complex. “Our residents were paying them wages during the lockdown, but when these women told us that ration shops were closed, we arranged over 60 ration kits. Ours is a new housing society. It was good to see people coming together. All it took was one phone call,” said Sunil Nirantar, chairman of the Aureate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/how-citizen-groups-mobilised-to-help-hundreds-of-migrants/articleshow/76311196.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh state assembly gets ready for Rajya Sabha polls amid Covid-19 crisis||BHOPAL: Preparations for the Rajya Sabha polls amid Coronavirus pandemic has started at Madhya Pradesh state assembly. A meeting to discuss the poll procedure, while maintaining precautions due to pandemic, was held at the assembly on Tuesday. Rajya Sabha polls for three seats from MP will be held on June 19 with the Congress fielding former chief minister Digvijay Singh and Phool Singh Barraiya, while BJP are fielding former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki. Principal secretary of MP Vidhan Sabha Awadhesh Pratap Singh discussed the precautionary measures to be taken with health department, Bhopal Municipal Corporation and capital project administration officers. Measures like thermal screening, sanitisation of assembly premises and deployment of health check-up team was discussed in the meeting. Officials of departments concerned including health and municipal corporation were asked to ensure all basic facilities required to check the spread of virus. Officials said the preparations to ensure smooth functioning of the Rajya Sabha poll process would continue in the coming days. Political activity in MP, as in most states, has come to a standstill since March when the lockdown was imposed to tackle the spread of Coronavirus. Both BJP and Congress have announced two candidates each for the three RS seats in MP. As per the state’s arithmetic, both the Congress and BJP are in comfortable position to secure victory for at least one of their candidates. BJP has upper hand and is expected to bag the third seat. In the 230-member MP legislative assembly, 24 seats are vacant and a candidate needs to secure 52 votes to win. BJP has 107 MLAs while Congress has 92. The much-awaited expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, which came to power on March 23, is also on hold and may take place after the RS polls. The monsoon session of MP state assembly is also likely to be convened by July-end. The session would focus on social distancing norms for the MLAs and the assembly secretariat has already begun work on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/house-gets-ready-for-rs-polls-amid-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/76309493.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Discarded masks, gloves on Hyderabad streets cause alarm||HYDERABAD: As Covid-19 cases continue to surge, discarded masks and gloves spotted across the city have turned into a matter of concern. A Twitter user had last week posted pictures of a road littered with used masks and gloves, which can be a potential health hazard for residents and stray animals in the area. Speaking to TOI, Dhammai Padma, a GHMC sanitation worker said: “Masks and gloves are being discarded everywhere. We have been collecting several such safety kits that are dumped in open bins and roads every day. We are taking a few measures by not touching this waste without using gloves, but we are scared we might come in contact with the virus.” While research suggests that live Covid-19 virus particles can live on surface for anywhere between three hours and three days, medical experts in the city say that used masks or gloves dumped in the open can directly affect at least three people. Dr V V Ramana Prasad, a pulmonologist at KIMS Hospital said careless disposal of masks can lead to spread of the virus. “It is always better to wear a cloth mask instead of using a surgical one and discarding them unscientifically. We must ensure that we disinfect our gloves before taking them off. People don’t seem to be understanding the gravity of dumping waste in the open. This could lead to spread of the virus, which in turn will increase the risk a larger population getting infected,” said Dr Prasad. “There is a protocol to dispose PPE kits and items used to test and treat patients who are infected with Covid-19 or suspected to be carrying the virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/discarded-masks-gloves-on-city-streets-cause-alarm/articleshow/76310394.cms||Moulika.KV
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Every residential complex imposes its set of curbs, some still keep gates shut||PUNE: Across the city, housing societies remain vigilant about keeping Covid-19 at bay despite the recent relaxation in lockdown rules. Most societies located around NIBM road have come up with a set of rules for residents to follow. Nitin Shah, a resident of Sunshree Gold on NIBM post office road, said, “Regular medical check-ups are organized by the society for maids since they must be cleared to attend work. A doctor checks them for any symptoms and gives the clearance. Visitors must also go through temperature screening at the gate before they can enter the society.” Larger housing societies with gardens and play areas have asked residents to wear masks at all times on the premises.Some societies have more rigorous rules than others. At a society in Undri, visitors and house helps are still not allowed entry. “There is no temperature screening being done. They are just providing us with sanitizers at the gate,” said Rakesh Thakur, a resident of the housing society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/every-residential-complex-imposes-its-set-of-curbs-some-still-keep-gates-shut/articleshow/76311194.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra group in Dubai arranges two flights for stranded||MUMBAI: On Saturday, city residents stranded in Dubai will return home, but not on a Vande Bharat Mission flight. Maharashtrians living in Dubai, under the banner of Gulf Maharashtra Business Forum, have chartered two flights from Fly Dubai. While one will fly here, the other will go to Pune on Sunday. There are 11,300 Maharashtrians in Dubai, stranded there in the lockdown. Many had gone there on a tourist visa. “These are people who come to look for jobs. They can sustain themselves for two months, but on account of the lockdown they have been here for almost four months. Then there are those with ailments and pregnant women who want to go back,” said Rahul Tulpule, vice-president of the forum, who initiated the flight plan. A Facebook user, Dhanashree Patil, had first highlighted the plight of people from the state stuck in Dubai. “There were flights organised to Kerala and I realised it was because the community is knit strongly and works together. Several people from Maharashtra had tried individually but it did not work and so I reached out to the Maharashtra community here,” said Patil. Tulpule, who was already helping stranded Maharashtrians, contacted Patil and the duo started working together, helping people with groceries and even paying rent. He was already in touch with the Centre and elected representatives from the state to enable people to return home. “The Centre said it had no problems and so did the state, but no flights were scheduled for Mumbai though flights were going to other states,” said Tulpule. In the meantime, Tulpule managed to put several pregnant women and cancer patients on flights to Kerala, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad from where people then made their way to the state. “We sent about 25 people, but for the other states their people are a priority, so we decided to charter flights. Those who can pay will pay, the rest will be paid by us. Each flight costs US $60,000,” he said. Patil said the flights were to let the Centre know it can be done and to push it to start flights to the city and Pune. “On Vande Bharat Mission flights the order is first pregnant women, patients, senior citizens, those on visit visas and finally those who have lost their jobs. Those who are last also need to be priortised and sent home at the earliest,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-group-in-dubai-arranges-2-flights-for-stranded/articleshow/76310388.cms||Clara Lewis
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Officials to decide on opening shops in containment zones after June 15||PUNE: Officials from the civic body as well as the city police told members of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) that a decision about opening shops in containment zones will be taken on June 15 since orders as well as areas under containment zones can be reviewed and revised after every 14 days. The decision was conveyed to the traders during a joint meeting held on Wednesday. FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka said officials informed traders that they plan to create smaller containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-to-decide-on-opening-shops-in-containment-zones-after-june-15/articleshow/76311205.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 11, 2020||Pune||Cyclone affects water supply to over 100 villages in Maval||Pimpri Chinchwad: Cyclone Nisarga-triggered power disruption affected water supply to 103 villages with a population of over 83,000 in the Maval taluka. According to the June 9 report by Maval’s block development officer Sharad Mali, the power failure at water supply schemes has resulted in scarcity in 103 villages. The report suggested that the villages be supplied water through tankers. Pune Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad in a letter dated June 9 told the block development officer of Maval to resume the water supply via tanker or by using diesel generators, for which Rs 2.75 lakh would be required. When contacted, Prasad told TOI that the repair works were under way. “We are expecting the power supply to be restored within next 3-4 days, following which the water supply schemes will start functioning. Diesel generators cannot be used as many of the electric poles and supply lines have collapsed,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyclone-affects-water-supply-to-over-100-villages-in-maval/articleshow/76311198.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Private firm staffer loses Rs 2.13 lakh in online fraud||PUNE: Online fraudster(s) duped a 42-year-old man from Narhe by siphoning off Rs2.13 lakh using his credit card details on the pretext of updating his e-wallet account on March 28.  The victim, who works in a private company, approached the cyber crime station of the Pune police, after which the case was referred to the Sinhagad Road police station.. “The suspect made a call to the victim on March 28 stating that he was calling on behalf of an e-wallet firm that he subscribes to and due to KYC issues, his account would lapse soon. The caller directed him to update the e-wallet,” said inspector Sunil Takawale of the Sinhagad Road police. The caller then asked the victim to download a software on his cellphone. As soon as the victim downloaded the software on his cellphone, his credentials got automatically shared with the suspect. “The suspect then transferred the money to his account,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-firm-staffer-loses-rs-2-13l-in-online-fraud/articleshow/76311204.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Chicken prices increase to pre-lockdown levels||PUNE: The prices of chicken have risen to Rs 220-Rs 250 per kg as against Rs 72 per kg in January and an appalling Rs 5-Rs 10 per kg during the lockdown months of March and April in retail markets. Representatives of the Poultry Farmers and Breeders' Association are happy that the industry is limping back to normal. "An estimated Rs 13,000 crore to Rs 15,000 crore loss was suffered by the industry in the last three months," association president Vasantkumar Shetty said. "A fake message linking chicken to Covid-19 had devastated the market in the state. Because of this, many poultry farmers shut down their operations. As a result, there is demand and supply mismatch in the market. In the wholesale market, chicken is being sold at Rs 80-Rs 100 per kg. But since retailers are getting less supply and finding difficulties in transportation due to the current restrictions, they are selling at high rates," Shetty added. The prices, he said, will go up further in the coming days till poultry farmers restart their business. "The chicken market is yet to revive completely as hotels and restaurants are closed," he added. According to the association, the current supply of chicken in the market is around 800-900 tonnes per day as against the earlier 2,200-2,500 metric tonnes across the state. The companies which supply chicks to poultry farmers are not in a position to maintain usual supply due to financial constraints. Vasant Hinge, president, Urja chicken, one of the major suppliers in Pune district, told TOI, "I have reduced my supply by half. I used to supply about 8 lakh chicks monthly to poultry farms across the district. Now, it has come down to 4 lakh as I am not in a position to resume normal operation due to losses faced in the last three months."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chicken-prices-increase-to-pre-lockdown-levels/articleshow/76311199.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Madurai zone sees up to 70% pvt buses plying, Trichy 50%||Madurai, Trichy: Most of the private bus owners in Madurai and Trichy started bus services on Wednesday after being off the road for 78 days with the state government giving the nod on Tuesday. While around 60% to 70% of the fleet resumed their service in Madurai zone consisting of districts such as Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar, in Trichy, around 50% of the private mofussil and city buses conducted services easing the burden of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. Private buses witnessed fewer crowds than normal, which helped operators maintain social distancing. The government’s other regulations were also followed on day one. While most of the government buses operated with limited occupancy, buses in a few routes were crowded. Some of the bus operators like Sri Velmurugan Travels, which operates 30 buses, kept buses off the road. Its owner D S Velmurugan, secretary of Private Bus Owners Association Madurai, said that it would be difficult for them to maintain social distancing and follow other regulations. Moreover, they won’t be able to generate operating cost due to the restrictions. He said that the transport corporations, which operated its 50% fleet, have started operating all services on Wednesday. Private players who operated their buses may soon feel the heat and may stop the services, he said. “There was a hike of Rs4 on diesel prices during the lockdown and it will increase in coming days. It will be very difficult to operate under this condition. Around four to five operators have kept their fleet off the road,” he said. A transport official at Madurai TNSTC said that conductors are trying their best to restrict passengers to 60%, but often passengers become unruly and threaten the staff. Among the 275 private buses in Trichy, including 147 buses in the city, around 130 buses returned to the roads. Buses carried only 60% of the seating capacity. “We have deployed 20 of our staff at the Central and Chathiram bus stands to sanitise the buses. Compared to the mofussil routes, footfall in city buses in Trichy was high,” D R Dharmaraj, secretary, FOBTN told TOI. The private bus operators have planned to purchase foot-operated sanitizer dispensers for their fleets. Passengers without facemasks were not allowed to board the buses on Wednesday. The district-level private bus operators associations said that they will bear the expenses of sanitising the fleet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/madurai-zone-sees-up-to-70-pvt-buses-plying-trichy-50/articleshow/76311203.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Fire breaks out at city club||Kolkata: A fire broke out in the guest room of International Club for over two-and-a-half hours on Wednesday afternoon. Suspecting that short circuit was the cause of the fire, police said the blaze was confined to the first-floor room of the two-storey building on Shakespeare Sarani. “Three fire engines responded to the call that was made at 12.05pm. The fire was brought under control around 3pm. The exact loss is yet to be ascertained,” said an officer from the south division. But club sources later said losses were minimal. There was no one in the club at the moment as it was closed. “We had come for sanitization of the premises. We had switched on the lights and there was probably a short circuit. But neither was anyone injured nor any damage was done,” said the source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-breaks-out-at-city-club/articleshow/76310366.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second Covid patient runs away from Samras hostel||AHMEDABAD: Yet another person infected with the novel coronavirus has fled from the Covid care centre set up at the Gujarat University Samras hostel. This is the second case of a patient fleeing from the Samras hostel within a fortnight. A 30-year-old man from the Meghaninagar area of city, Prakash Patni, who was admitted to the Covid care centre on June 3, fled on Tuesday evening. On May 28, a 22-year-old man, Samir Ansari, a resident of Gareebnagar in Bapunagar, had fled from the same centre but he had returned two days later as he was bored in hiding. In Patni’s case, an FIR has been registered at Gujarat University police station, alleging that he ran away despite knowing that he was has the virus and might spread it. The FIR filed by a medical officer, Dr Harshad Patel, states, “Patni tested positive for Covid-19 on June 1 and admitted to Samras hostel on June 3. On Tuesday evening, when a nurse was taking her rounds, she found that Patni was not inside his room.” The nurse told Patel, who checked with security guards about the patient’s whereabouts but no one had any clue as to where Patni had gone. Staff tried calling his mobile but it was switched off. They tried calling his relatives but they had no information about Patni. After this, hostel authorities approached police and filed a complaint for a negligent act which may spread disease, besides adding charges under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-covid-patient-runs-away-from-samras-hostel/articleshow/76310410.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Fake currency seized, Army man among six arrested||PUNE: In an operation initiated by military intelligence, the Pune crime branch on Wednesday seized fake Indian and US currency with an estimated face value of Rs 55 crore from a rented bungalow at Sanjay Park in Pune’s Viman Nagar. Genuine notes totalling Rs 2.5 lakh were seized, too, suggesting that the plan was to circulate the fake currency with real ones on top of each bundle. Six men, including Lance Naik Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan Sahab of the military band at the Bombay Engineering Group here, were arrested on suspicion of colluding to hoard the fake currency and circulate it later. The other five accused were identified as Sunil Badrinarayan Sarda from Pune, Ritesh Ratnakar and Abdul Rehman Adul Ganik Khan from Kamote in Navi Mumbai, and Abdul Gani Rehmatullah Khan and Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan from Mumbai’s Mira Road. ACP Ashok Morale said the investigation so far had revealed that Lance Naik Alim brought the fake currency to Pune. “He had taken the bungalow on rent for Rs 23,000 a month from one Ganesh Shinde around eight months ago. He enlisted Abdul Gani to exchange the fake notes and USD in the local market on a commission basis. Gani got four others, including his 18-year-old son, on board to get customers.” Morale said military intelligence officials had been monitoring Gani’s movements on suspicion that he was running a fake currency racket. Army sources said the raid was based on a tip-off from military intelligence in J&K and the southern command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fake-currency-seized-army-man-among-six-arrested/articleshow/76312065.cms||Aseem Shaikh
June 11, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Lone tusker claims 3rd life, villagers protest||KRISHNAGIRI: A 49-year-old man was trampled to death by a lone tusker near Denkanikottai here in the early hours of Wednesday. According to the villagers, this was the third life to be claimed by the elephant in past couple of months. A forest official identified the deceased as M Srinivasan, a farmer from Melagoundanur village. The incident took place when he was heading to the uzhavar shandy in Denkanikottai with vegetables. “Suddenly, the lone tusker attacked him and trampled him to death.” While the villagers alerted the forest and police officials, they didn’t allow them to take the body from the spot, demanding relocation of the killer elephant to some other forest area. M Anumandappa, a villager, said, “Srinivasan is the third person to be killed by the lone tusker since April this year. In total, the elephant has attacked five people.” Meanwhile, Thally MLA Prakash, tahsildar K Ramachandran and other officials reached the spot and assured the villagers that they would take necessary steps to capture the elephant. “I have directed the forest officials to capture the elephant at the earliest,” the MLA said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/lone-tusker-claims-3rd-life-villagers-protest/articleshow/76311211.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drug sales dropped 8.9% in May, to improve in June||AHMEDABAD: The domestic pharma market has continued to witness negative growth with drugs sales across the country registering a decline of 8.9% in May, shows data compiled by AIOCD AWACS, a market research wing of All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD). “The Covid-19 crises has impacted the Indian pharma market, which has continued to show negative growth in May,” stated the research firm. The growth had declined by 12% in April due to lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. Gujarat is a major producer of drugs and formulations accounting for 32-33% in domestic market and 28-29% of India’s export. According to AIOCD, panic buying in chronic medicines and growth in chronic therapy area has furthered slowdown. Cardiac therapeutic segment registered a monthly growth of 3.9% as against 5.9% in April 20. Anti-diabetic segment growth came down to 1.1% in May from 6.4 % in April 2020. Anti-infectives and its associated therapies like gastro, vitamins as well as pain and analgesics witnessed negative growth ranging from 9-21%. “The numbers in May have improved as compared to April. The chronic segment is doing well although there are some issues in acute therapies mainly due to the current scenario. As things move towards normal, we are expecting the industry performance to be normal from this month,” said Viranchi Shah, senior national vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drug-sales-dropped-8-9-in-may-to-improve-in-june/articleshow/76310407.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Full-fledged ops begin at IKDRC||Ahmedabad: The Institute of Kidney Diseases & Research Centre (IKDRC), which had restricted its operations due to Covid-19, will start full-fledged functioning with precautions from Wednesday. Officials said that they will follow all mandated guidelines. Officials said that Covid and non-Covid areas have been demarcated. About 5,000 patients visit IKDRC premises while 2,000 avail of telemedicine consultations every month. While the statement did not mention transplants clearly, it’s believed cadaver and live transplants might resume with caution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/full-fledged-ops-begin-at-ikdrc/articleshow/76310411.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||‘Upasana’ at V-B temple after 84 days||Santiniketan: The weekly prayer (upasana) was performed at Kach Mandir on the Visva-Bharati premises on Wednesday after a long break. The prayer at the temple had been suspended since March 18 due to the Covid pandemic. Santiniketan Ashram was set up by Maharshi Devendranath Tagore, father of Rabindranath Tagore as a seat of Bramha dharma . Since the very beginning of Santiniketan, the weekly upasana at the temple was a part of Visva-Bharati culture. The vice-chancellor of the university, Bidyut Chakrabarty and medical super of the university hospital, Anirban Dasgupta, presided over the prayer meet, paying recognition to the frontline corona warriors. The prayer was conducted following Covid directives. Chakraborty said, “Following the ideals of Tagore, we have tried to stand beside the needy during the crisis caused by the pandemic and the lockdown. We are distributing relief materials among them twice a week. Visva-Bharati is the only university where an isolation centre, a fever clinic and other arrangements have been set up.” The students of Sangeet Bhavana (the school of music) at Visva Bharati sang during the prayer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/upasana-at-v-b-temple-after-84-days/articleshow/76310412.cms||Someswar Boral
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Samayapuram temple gears up for reopening||Trichy: Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department managing the Arulmigu Samayapuram Mariamman temple near Trichy has initiated social distancing arrangements and safety measures at the temple premises. The engineering section of the HR&CE department has made markings near the southern gate of the temple to encourage social distancing. People will have to wash both hands and legs at a handwashing facility available at the entrance. As hundial counting process is scheduled to be held on Thursday, social distancing markings were also made for counting the valuables. “We are keeping the arrangements ready adhering to the new normal. Once the state government permits us to resume public darshan, our 84 security persons with us will monitor the public movement,” an official source with HR&CE said. Post the approval, devotees will be allowed to enter the temple via south gopuram. Samayapuram temple’s west gopuram will serve as the exit way. Similarly, at Arulmigu Thayumana Swami temple in Trichy, handwash arrangements were made at the entrance of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/samayapuram-temple-gears-up-for-reopening/articleshow/76311209.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 11, 2020||Pune||Undertakings a must for workers in PCMC limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body on Wednesday tweaked some of its lockdown guidelines, allowing workers from areas outside its jurisdiction to the industrial units within the municipal corporation limits with an undertaking that they are not from any containment zone. An order issued by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner Shravan Hardikar stated that employees of all industrial units, IT firms and private establishments travelling from beyond its limits have to apply for self-declaration undertakings. The order added that the undertakings have to be approved by the PCMC additional commissioner, Ajit Pawar. Besides, the civic body stated that people could visit public gardens for three hours (5am-8am) in the morning and three hours in the evening (4pm-7pm). The order stated that markets would operate on the P1-P2 basis from 7am to 7pm. Shops on either side of a road would open on alternate days and vehicles should be parked on the opposite side of the outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/undertakings-a-must-for-workers-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/76311207.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Five public parking lots reopen after two months||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has opened five of the 23 public parking lots. Another 18 parking places will be opened in the coming days in non-containment zones. “Almost all the parking places will be opened in the near future. Right now, we have decided to open only those which do not fall in the containment zones or are located near these zones,” said Rajendra Muthe, the head of the PMC’s estate department. PMC officials stated that they had opened these lots so that those going to offices or are venturing out for some private work get parking space for cars and bikes. “As the unlock phase has started, many citizens are coming out of their homes. They are using their vehicles for commuting. The number of private vehicles on the road is high as public transport options are limited,” said a senior PMC official. As per the PMC data, the city has 23 parking lots. Muthe said all precautions need to be taken while operating these parking lots and they should be properly sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-public-parking-lots-reopen-after-two-months/articleshow/76311208.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||NGO demands state set fines for compoundable offences||PUNE: City-based NGO Parisar has written to the state transport minister Anil Parab urging him to pass the compounding notification under section 200 of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019. The letter also expresses disappointment about the failure of the state government to pass the notification almost a year after the act received the President’s assent. The section empowers state governments to set fines for traffic offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngo-demands-state-set-fines-for-compoundable-offences/articleshow/76311210.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Five trains to ferry home 9,000 Odisha workers from Telangana||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the intervention of the high court, the state and the south central railway moved quickly in tandem and arranged five Shramik Special trains to take home as many as 9,200 migrant from Odisha who were working in a brick kiln across Telangana. All the five trains would start from Secunderabad from June 11. Advocate general BS Prasad and advocate Vasudha Nagaraj informed the bench comprising Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy. The bench was hearing two PILs on stranded migrant workers filed by Human Rights Forum (HRF) leader S Jeevan Kumar and social activist professor Rama S Melkote. Speaking for the brick kiln workers, Nagaraj said that the state has indeed moved in quickly after the intervention of the high court. In addition to this, shelter was also arranged for stranded migrants at the Secunderabad railway station. While thanking the state for the response, she urged the court to direct the SCR to arrange four more trains exclusively for carrying the brick kiln workers to western Odisha. The labour department too did a good job by surveying the conditions of the brick kiln workers and informed the court that out of the 60,000 workers, all except 16,000, were sent back. This means they need more trains, she said. The bench verified with advocate general BS Prasad whether they were arranging busses to take the migrants belonging to the neighbouring states. The AG said that the state has been sending the migrants by buses and trains without any delay. The bench also directed him to arrange bigger shelters for the migrans near Secunderabad. This way you can prevent the overcrowding and unnecessary problems at the station, it added. The bench told the SCR that it has to arrange more shramik trains for migrants going to UP, Bihar, Rajasthan etc.The bench told her that SCR can collect charges from the state for all the shramik train services as was directed by the apex court. The bench told the SCR that it has to arrange more shramik trains for migrants going to UP, Bihar, Rajasthan etc and take reimbursement from the state government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-trains-to-ferry-home-9000-odisha-workers/articleshow/76310418.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||I’ve been saying BJP toppled my government: Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: A day after a video of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan went viral where he allegedly claimed that the 15-month old Congress government was toppled after instructions from BJP central leadership, former CM Kamal Nath on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on the ruling party. मै तो शुरू दिन से ही कह रहा था कि भाजपा ने मेरी बहुमत व जनादेश प्राप्त सरकार को जानबूझकर साज़िश-षड्यंत्र व प्रलोभन… https://t.co/OWcEScesCg— Office Of Kamal Nath (@OfficeOfKNath) 1591782202000“I have been saying from the very beginning that BJP deliberately brought down my democratically elected government through a sheer game of conspiracy and enticement,” Nath tweeted. मिलावट व माफ़ियाओ के ख़िलाफ़ अभियान चला रही थी , प्रदेश में निवेश ला रही थी , निरंतर जनहितैषी कार्य कर रही थी , भाज… https://t.co/1m0IaKwlzj— Office Of Kamal Nath (@OfficeOfKNath) 1591782202000“My government was waiving loans of farmers, generating employment for the youths, protecting the honour of women, running a campaign against adulteration and mafia, bringing investments in the state, continuously working for people’s welfare, which BJP could not swallow,” Nath tweeted. “BJP was afraid that all this work would make it impossible for its return to power for many years,” he added. There are 24 assembly segments in the state due for bypolls after the death of two sitting legislators and resignations by 22 Congress MLAs who switched loyalties to BJP in March, bringing down the Nath government. On Monday, CM Chouhan was addressing a party workers’ meet at the Residency building in Sanwer assembly seat. Sanwer MLA Tulsiram Silawat is one of the 22 Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists who left Congress and joined BJP. Silawat who was the health minister in the Nath government is now the minister for water resources. But after his resignation from the state assembly as Congress MLA, the seat fell vacant. He is the likely BJP candidate from Sanwer in the upcoming bypolls. On Tuesday, the viral video showed Chouhan telling BJP party workers in Sanwer, “Kendriya netritya neh tyay kiya ki yeh sarkar girna chahiye. Yeh barbad kar degi, tabah kar degi. Ab batao Jyotiraditya Scindiaji aur Tulsi bhai ke bagair sarkar girr sakti thhi kya? Aur koi tarika nehi tha (The Central leadership decided to bring down the government lest it would ruin everything. Now tell me, would it have been possible without Scindia ji and Tulsi bhai to topple the government?).” As Chouhan’s video went viral, Nath took to Twitter and trained his guns on BJP. “Now, it has been confirmed and the truth has been revealed to the people of the state about the conspiracy hatched to topple my government and the persons involved in it,” he said. “Those who claimed that the Congress government did not have majority support and fell because of the disgruntlement within the party, their lie has been exposed. Shivraj ji ran a government based on lies for 15 years. People taught him a lesson but even now he is making false promises,” the senior Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjps-plot-that-toppled-my-govt-exposed-nath/articleshow/76309521.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||Covid caution crushed in rush for booze in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Oblivious to rules, tipplers jostled outside the liquor shops that too, without face masks. Employees at liquor shops were found dealing in cash and refused to accept cards or online payments. There are 90 liquor shops in city. Out of which, 32 have been opened. Another 14 will start operating from Thursday. Excise department is directly handling the shops in Bhopal. Social distancing was comprised. Circles were marked on the floor to keep distance between customers but that to no avail. “Customers are not ready to follow the instructions. We have asked them several times to follow social distancing norms but they hardly listen to us,” said an excise official. People standing in queues were found pushing each other at a Barkhera Patahni shop. Even floor markings were missing. “How to keep a distance when there is no circle in front of the shop?" reacted a customer. Quizzed on the large crowd even on the second day of the opening of liquor shops, an employee at the shop said, “As only one-third shops are opened such a crowd is expected. In BHEL area shops are opened in Govindpura and Pathani. As people are anxious about the lockdown they are thronging the liquor shops in large numbers.” Also, it was found that shops refused to accept online or card payments. “This is strange that when govt is encouraging online payment as it is a safe option, excise department has refused to accept online payments,” said a customer Arvind Yadav. Difference in the price of liquor was also witnessed in a few shops. When TOI team visited a Barkhera Pathani shop, the price of a liquor brand of 180ml was found to be sold at Rs250, while the same liquor brand of same quantity was being sold for Rs280 in Ratibad area. Around 2,000 Home Guard personnel are deployed at different shops across the state including 100 such shops in the state capital. On several shops, private employees were spotted selling liquor. Assistant commissioner (excise), Sanjeev Dubey, however, said, “They have been hired after being instructed by the state government. Officials of excise department were there to get help from these private employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-caution-crushed-in-rush-for-booze/articleshow/76311202.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Rammohun library gets new DG||Kolkata: Ajay Pratap Singh has assumed charge as the director general of Raja Rammohun Roy Library Foundation (RRRLF), an autonomous body under the Union culture ministry, on June 8. He was handed over the charge by the former director general Vinay Kumar Srivastava. Singh told TOI, “The present times are challenging. We have undertaken the task to shift the hands-on-training programmes to a web-based module. We will also have to migrate from the print to the electronic form in the long-run.” He added that given the present situation, RRRLF is going to launch a series of Webinars for promoting quality library support. Singh was the former head of the department of library and information science, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. He has an academic experience of more than 21 years. RRRLF is the nodal agency of the government of India to support public library systems and services. It is responsible to promote public library movement. It has headquarters in Kolkata and five zonal offices in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rammohun-library-gets-new-dg/articleshow/76310423.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik shops to now remain open full time to avoid rush||NASHIK: The district administration, police and civic body have collectively decided to allow the shops outside containment zones to remain open full time to avoid rush. The decision has been taken in view if the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city Earlier, the shops were allowed to operate only between 9 am and 5 pm. Now, the shopkeepers can keep their establishments open for a longer durantion, provided they adhere to the 9pm-to-5am curfew timings. “We discussed the situation in Nashik city. It was observed that citizens were rushing to the shops to buy goods because of the limited time of operations. Therefore, we spoke to district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal to do away with the time limit. This does not appply to the shops in the various containment zones,” said district collector Suraj Mandhare. NMC commissioner Radhakrishna Game also issued a notification granting permission for shops to remain open full time. “The shops will now remain open for their entire duration. However, the conditions of social distancing and odd-even schedule will remain in place,” he said. According to the officials, the shops and establishments inside the containment zones will have to follow all the conditions rigidly. The essential shops and medical stotres have been exempted from the odd-even schedule. “This is in the interest of the people. If the relaxations do not work and the situation deteriorates, then the administration will be forced to take harsher measures,” the officials said. So far, the Nashik city has reported 490 Covid-19 cases. Of them, 284 are active patients. In rest of the district, there are currently 167 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-shops-to-now-remain-open-full-time-to-avoid-rush/articleshow/76310424.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid killed her before her first foreign trip||AHMEDABAD: On May 19, 56-year-old head nurse Catherine Christian, was the first among the nursing staff at Civil Hospital to succumb to Civid-19. For more than 24 years the Civil Hospital at Asarwa was her second home. She was nearing her retirement and a few weeks back she had her passport readied just so that she and her husband could plan their first trip outside the country to Israel and Turkey, where their younger son Rajan and his wife ran a restaurant. Her husband had retired from the AMTS. But she tested Covid-19 positive on May 11 and and succumbed to the virus on May 19. Working during disasters and pandemics was not new for sister Catherine. Her colleagues at the Civil Hospital remember how she would often volunteer for personal care if patients’ relatives could not make it to the hospital. “She used to say to patients, ‘till the time you are in this hospital and under our care you are my family’,” recalls a staff nurse who had worked with sister Catherine for nearly a decade. Sister Catherine had served in GG Hospital of Jamnagar between 1988 and 1996 and was later transferred to the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, where she served for more than two decades. Her elder son, Kenil (30) remembers how for more than 20 years she would travel from Mahemdabad to Ahmedabad. It was only in the last five years that she had shifted to a rented accommodation in Ahmedabad. “My mother was punctual at work, caring for her patients. She was very jovial and loved to socialise,” says Kenil. “When the news of Covid-19 pandemic first broke, she played a pivotal role in readying the Covid-19 isolation beds. She had warned us what was to come from her experience of handling the swine flu epidemic,” remembers Kenil. During disasters she was the person who got the wards ready for patients and deputed staff. She was given duty in Ward A-1 of the Covid-19 hospital from April 26 to May 3. She took a break for three days and then was given duty in the gynaecology ward. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, she was assigned to the gynaecology ward. She had also worked in the children’s ward. Her colleagues remember her as a disciplinarian about cleanliness and management and a true friend to many junior nurses. Sister Catherine was given a teary farewell on the morning of May 19. As her mortal remains were laid in a casket, she was given a guard of honour by her staff members and Home Guard personnel on duty at the campus as a ‘corona warrior’ who had served in the Covid-19 ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-killed-her-before-her-first-foreign-trip/articleshow/76310425.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Servitors to get masks||Bhubaneswar: Ahead of Rath Yatra, the Shree Jagannath temple administration has decided to supply masks to servitors free of cost. The temple body is likely to place a bulk order for masks with Boyanika or women self-help groups. “We need at least 5,000 masks. The design will be finalized in the next two or three days,” the temple’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar said. Servitors have been performing the daily rituals at the temple although devotees have not been allowed to enter the shrine since March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/servitors-to-get-masks/articleshow/76309538.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Two new flight services to Lucknow & Prayagraj from Pune||PUNE: The city will have two new domestic flight connections to Prayagraj and Lucknow, taking the total number of daily flight movements from the Lohegaon airport to 38. “The IndiGo flight from Pune to Prayagraj started on Wednesday. The flight arrived in Pune at 2.30am and took off for Prayagraj at 3.20am. The red-eye flight will operate six days a week. From Thursday, IndiGo will start a flight to Lucknow. It will land in Pune at 2.30pm and depart for Lucknow at 3.20pm daily,” an airport official said. On Wednesday, a total of 24 flights (both departures and arrivals) operated from Pune. Nine flights were cancelled. The cancelled flights included a SpiceJet flight from Pune to Bengaluru, an Air Asia flight from Pune to Bengaluru and a GoAir flight from Pune to Ahmedabad. A source in an airline said, “Most of the cancelled flights are slated to come to Pune from different destinations and fly from the city to other destinations. For instance, a SpiceJet flight scheduled to come to Pune from Bengaluru and then fly to Jaipur was cancelled. Similarly, a GoAir flight scheduled from Nagpur to Pune and then flying to Bengaluru was cancelled. Also, some to-and-fro flights are getting cancelled. A GoAir flight to Pune from Chennai and back was cancelled, too.” More than 250 flights have operated to and from the Pune airport after the resumption of domestic air services. Close to 25,000 passengers have flew in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-new-flight-services-to-lucknow-prayagraj/articleshow/76311213.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 11, 2020||Pune||Strengthening intra-district transport on government radar||PUNE: The state government will further strengthen intra-district transport before considering inter-district movement of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses, state transport minister Anil Parab said. "We are moving one step at a time. The intra-district movement of buses is on, but the buses are not travelling to the rural hubs. This will be allowed now. There are strict instructions to follow the regulations and new seating arrangements," Parab said on Wednesday. "When it comes to inter-district transport, we will have to wait for some time. We will first check how the relaxations for intra-district transport work," he said. Parab said a decision on resuming PMPML services in PMC areas will be taken this week. "We don’t want people in Pune not to follow the norms. The services will start soon in Pune, but with proper planning," an official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strengthening-intra-district-transport-on-govt-radar/articleshow/76311215.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 11, 2020||Trichy||All-round cheer for reverting to Tamil names Thiruchirappalli and Mathurai||Trichy/Madurai: Tamil Nadu government’s decision to replace the anglicised names of as many as 1,018 places in the state with Tamil equivalents has evoked a favourable response from Tamil scholars and residents alike. The name of Trichy district has been changed from Trichirappalli to ‘Thiruchirappalli’ while Madurai is now ‘Mathurai’. The changes have been notified in the gazette to be in effect from April 1. The effort to make the place names sound more Tamil was carried out based on the recommendations of a district-level expert committee comprising language experts. Tamil development department sources said the changes were made based on Tamil pronunciation. The renaming of Srirangam as Thiruvarangam has earned the likes of many including scholars as Tamil has replaced a Sanskrit name. “Even in the 11th century, Srirangam in literature was mentioned as Thiruvarangam. As there is one Srirangapatna in Karnataka already, renaming Srirangam as Thiruvarangam is an ideal move,” Dr F Selvakumaran, former HOD, Tamil department, St Joseph’s College, Trichy said. The prefix ‘Sri’ in Srirangam, a title of respect in Sanskrit replaced by the equivalent word ‘Thiru’ was appreciated by the residents as well.The famous Mambalasalai in Srirangam known for the mango stalls has also been rechristened Mambazhachalai. Both Tamil scholars and residents opined that people over a period of time will get accustomed to the new Tamil names. Tiruvarur and Orathanadu in Thanjavur district have been renamed as Thiruvaroor and Oratthanaadu to match the Tamil pronunciations. Muthupet and Ammapet in Thiruvaroor and Thanjavur districts respectively have been renamed as Muthuppettai and Ammapettai. Similarly, in Trichy district, Manaparai and Pettiavaytalai towns were renamed Manapparai and Pettaivaaiththalai matching their near Tamil pronunciations. Anglicized Crawford and Golden Rock have been renamed as Kirappatti and Ponmalai in Trichy city. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said the government’s efforts to change the names since 2018 by constituting a committee were heartening. The Tamil name of each village and town has a meaning and it would be better for it to be maintained with the same pronunciation. He said the government should also take the initiative to ensure that central government schemes got Tamil names as people failed to understand their purpose.Academician professor R Murali said the move had to be accepted in principle as Tamil names were spelt in different ways in English which was confusing. For instance, `K’ used to be replaced by `G’ in many place names. At the same time, the public should not be inconvenienced because of the change, like having to change the new name in the old records for bureaucratic reasons. ``Old records should be allowed to continue as they are and the new name change can be implemented in the future records,’’ he said.`Mathurai’ is a beautiful name and it is the `th’ which gives the closest English version. I am happy with the change in name,’’ said Kanagavalli, a teacher. As long as there is no change in the original Tamil name, the new rule would not cause a problem, she added. A postman of Gandhi Nagar post office in Madurai says if the spelling gives the same sound as the Tamil name, it would help many people in the delivery services like postal and courier to deliver goods faster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-round-cheer-for-reverting-to-tamil-names-thiruchirappalli-and-mathurai/articleshow/76311217.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 11, 2020||Pune||Research aids Pune varsity better QS World Ranking||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has progressed to the 651-700 slot in the recently announced QS World 2021 ranking, moving up from the 801-1000 slot in the 2020 ranking. “Our publications have gone up which means our research has also gone up. The number of international students is high and we are also getting more funding from consultancy work from both industry and the government. The perception factor of the university has also improved. An area where we have not done well is the lack of foreign faculty. This is an intrinsic constraint as we cannot have a full-time foreign faculty teaching in the university which adds to the score in such rankings,” SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said. In the QS India ranking released last year, SPPU had climbed five spots from 19th in 2019 to 14th spot. The university lost out on the ‘Institute of Eminence’ tag due to a lower QS ranking than the selected universities and institutes. All eyes are now on the National Institute Ranking Framework 2020 which will be declared on Thursday, as per a Tweet by HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday. The QS system comprises the global overall and subject rankings which name the world's top universities for the study of 48 different subjects and five composite faculty areas, alongside five independent regional tables for Asia, Latin America, Emerging Europe and Central Asia, the Arab Region, and BRICS. US and UK-based educational institutes and the ETH Zurich-Swiss Federal Institute of Technology at rank six were among the top 10. Apart from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Indian Institute of Science Bangalore and IIT Delhi made it to the top 200 list of the rankings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/research-aids-pune-varsity-better-qs-world-ranking/articleshow/76311220.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: 3 drown as van falls in well in bid to save dog||PUNE: A woman (33) drowned with her two children after the van they were travelling in fell into a roadside farm well on Tuesday night near Ashtapur village in Haveli taluka, about 35km from the city, but her husband, Sachin Bhosale (35), had a miraculous escape with minor head injury and bruises despite driving the vehicle. Assistant sub-inspector Sadashiv Gaikwad of the Lonikand police said, “Sachin lost control over the wheels in an attempt to save a stray dog, which suddenly came in front of the van. Before he could get any help, his wife Shital (33), daughter Shrushti (9) and son Shuarya (5) drowned.” Gaikwad said Sachin was a farmer from Ashtapur village. He had gone to his in-laws’ house at Rahu village in Daund on Tuesday with his wife and two children for giving them mangoes from his farm. On the way back home, they gave mangoes to their other relatives in Ranjangaon, he said. When they reached near Ashtapur around 10.30pm on Tuesday, a stray dog came in front of the van. To save it, Sachin went to the right. “The dog also moved in the same direction and forced Sachin to go further right. Sachin then lost control over the wheels and the van fell into the farm well,” said Gaikwad. Sachin’s daughter was sitting next to him. His wife and son were in the rear seats. Gaikwad said Sachin had kept window glass open on his side. “All other windows were closed. Sachin told the police that he somehow managed to come out of the well,” Gaikwad said. “The villagers pulled out the van with the help of a crane and recovered the bodies of Shital, Shrushti and Shaurya,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-drown-as-van-falls-in-well-in-bid-to-save-dog/articleshow/76311224.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Doctors’ protest leaves patients in lurch at Gandhi Hospital||HYDERABAD: The ongoing protest at Gandhi Hospital, on Wednesday, left hundreds of patients undergoing treatment at the facility without food and water for hours. Not only did they complain of the lack of basic amenities, the patients also said that no doctor paid them a visit till late afternoon. Incidentally, while the Telangana government recently said that there are only 247 patients being treated at Gandhi at the moment, sources claimed that the number is no less than 500, with 150 of them in the intensive care units. “Since the doctors’ strike began on Tuesday night, we are under a lot of stress thinking of what the consequences will be if a patient suddenly develops an emergency. For the initial few hours, not a single ward boy or staff was seen around as they all rushed to see what had happened. We expected the doctors will be back by Wednesday morning. But then we learnt, through the nurse, that doctors had decided not to report to duty,” said a patient at the hospital. Though over 110 senior doctors were on service, on Wednesday, they struggled to meet the requirement of all the patients. The hospital has a total strength of 205 senior doctors, including professors, associate professors and assistant professors. Ruing the poor state of affairs at the hospital, another patient said that there was no provision of food till 11 am. “We were not served breakfast or even tea. Every time a patient asked for tea, he/she was told that it’s on the way. A ward boy told us that there was some problem in bringing in the food as the entrances were closed due to the protests. Asking for any kind of help has now become difficult since there is hardly any staff coming in,” said another Covid-19 patient who was admitted to Gandhi Hospital two days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-protest-leaves-patients-in-lurch-at-gandhi/articleshow/76310433.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC gets complaints against 3 private hospitals||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has received complaints against three private hospitals for overcharging from patients, following which the civic body has undertaken the process of serving a notice to one of the hospitals. The private hospital concerned had also levied charges for treating bio-medical waste. “We have received three complaints against three private hospitals. We are in the process of serving notice to one three hospitals for overcharging of bills from patients,” said an NMC official. “We are also conducting an enquiry related to complaints against other two hospitals. We will take further action once we complete enquiry,” the official added. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has set up a special committee to keep a tab on private hospitals overcharging from patients and those that are not following the guidelines issued by the state government for treating Covid-19 patients. Radhakrishna Game said the state government has fixed certain charges for private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients in a bid to put a stop on overcharging. “We have also set up a separate committee that will be headed by the additional municipal commissioner,” said Game. “The committee will keep a close watch on private hospitals to ensure that they are not overcharging from Covid-19 patients. Moreover, the committee will also conduct an enquiry into the complaints registered against private hospitals,” said Game. The NMC’s health department has also sent letters to all hospitals in the city, asking them to display the rate card as fixed by the state government for treating Covid-19 patients at the entrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gets-complaints-3-private-hospitals/articleshow/76310428.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Now, Trichy city gets a third containment zone||Trichy: After five people in a house tested positive for Covid-19 in Chinna Chetti Street near Big Bazaar street, Trichy corporation established a containment zone in the vicinity on Wednesday, the third to be established here in the past week. Local body officials said that a 47-year-old man from Chinna Chetti Street had volunteered to get tested on June 8 at MGMGH as he had symptoms. Since he tested positive, swabs from eight of his family members residing in the street were collected of which four including three women tested positive. Officials said they found it difficult to track the travel history of the man as he was not fully cooperative. Since five positive cases were reported from the vicinity, a containment zone cordoning off 300 households was formed. “Health workers will check the people in the containment zone every day to see if anyone has symptoms,” a corporation official added. Already there are two containment zones in the city including at Kottapattu and Cantonment (near Bharathidasan road). There are 21 active cases in the city including a 50-year-old man from Jeeva Nagar near Madurai road and a family of three in Thiruvanaikoil. Official sources and neighbours said the family in Thiruvanaikoil had apparently celebrated a birthday party recently. Corporation sources said contact tracing was under way in both localities. As fresh cases are surfacing from areas in the city that so far haven’t reported any cases, the civic body officials were apprehensive over people from Chennai clandestinely arriving in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/now-trichy-city-gets-a-third-containment-zone/articleshow/76311223.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tutor booked for breaking Covid protocol||AHMEDABAD: A tutor named Parth Shah was rounded up by cops for running classes at his house in Galaxy Flats in Naroda on Tuesday. Naroda police said they have sent the accused for Covid-19 test before arresting him officially. Police sources said while on patrol a Naroda police team received a message that a man named Parh Shah is running a tuition class at his house and had gathered students without maintaining social distancing. Besides he was also violating the notification of closure of educational activities till a certain period by the government. Police sources said when they reached the spot on Tuesday evening they found Shah had gathered students at his home without maintaining social distancing. “We rounded him up and booked him for violating the norms of social distancing,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tutor-booked-for-breaking-covid-protocol/articleshow/76310429.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad slips in QS world rankings||HYDERABAD: Performance of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) slipped in the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings 2021 that was released on Wednesday. The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), which did not find a spot in the QS World University Rankings for the past few years, figured in the 2021 rankings. According to the latest report released by QS, UoH is ranked among world’s top universities in the range of 651-700. In the QS World University Rankings 2020, the university’s ranking was in the range of 601-650. The UoH is among the 10 institutions recognised by the ministry of human resource development as an institution of eminence (IoE).  IIT-H was among the four institutions in the country, which improved its position in the QS Rankings 2021 by securing a rank in the range of 601-650. The IIT-Bombay retained its status as country’s top institution, followed by Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. The UoH is categorised as an established medium-sized public varsity with high research intensity and comprehensive subject focus by the QS. Overall, in the 2021 edition, the UoH performed among the top 55% in the QS World University Rankings. At 293 rank globally, the citations per faculty was the strongest indicator for UoH. In citations per faculty, it is valued at 95.60 whereas the global median is 49.10. It’s citations are at 38,719 for a total of 4,196 research papers published during the period 2014-19. “UoH has again been ranked among the top global universities which is a good indicator of its performance. However, noting the slide down in some parameters that has affected the overall ranking, we will take steps to strengthen those areas. We need to perform better in all key areas of teaching and research to be among the Top 300 in the world,” said Prof Appa Rao Podile, vice chancellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-slips-in-qs-world-rankings/articleshow/76310432.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Cab drivers charge nearly three times regular fare, passengers fret||Pune: Sakshi Rajput booked a private cab as she had to drop her parents-in-law to the airport from Magarpatta City in Hadapsar. She was shocked when she was charged three times more than the normal fare for the trip. In normal conditions, she would have paid upto Rs 250 but the cab driver quoted almost three times the amount, taking advantage of the lockdown situation. Tourist cabs are fleecing citizens by overcharging them even for emergency travel to airport and hospitals. Rajput said, “I sought quotes from quite a few cab drivers and all of them told me that they would charge Rs 1,200, one way. I tried to negotiate but none of them agreed. I had to book the cab as there was quite a bit.” For a distance of 10 kms, some cab drivers are quoting fares upto Rs 1,200. Rehab Sharma, a resident of NIBM road, said, “I asked the cab driver about the unreasonable charges and he said that they have been doing no business since two months and now, since the city is opening up, it is the only time to make up for losses.” Another resident of Vishrantwadi Rupesh Bhagwat added, “The airport is just 2km away from my residence. The cab driver charged me Rs 300 for the journey on June 5. I had no option, so I made the booking and paid the high fare.” Kharadi resident Vishal Mane had to pay Rs 895 to visit a hospital about 9 kms from his residence in a private cab. “The cab driver told me that he will not have a return fare so he charged a high fare. Once the taxis are back in business, I think these private cab owners will have to stop looting people. Everybody is suffering losses in these times.” According to cab drivers, despite the government order stating monthly loan installments need not be collected, bank recovery agents are harassing drivers. Suhas Shirsat, a cab driver, said, “The recovery agents are using abusive language and bullying us to pay up instalments. We have had no business for 65-70 days. It will take time to recover yet bank representatives are not considerate enough. So, we have no choice but to overcharge.” Swarajya Cab Union’s city president Guru Katti added, “In these times, all cab owners are charging fares by their own calculation. There is no regulation as such. However, once the lockdown period is over, we will have regulated fares for all private cab owners in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cab-drivers-charge-nearly-three-times-regular-fare-passengers-fret/articleshow/76311222.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Covid-19 may snip off 25% of Std I to XII syllabi this year||PUNE: The coronavirus situation may truncate the state board’s syllabi for standards I to XII by nearly 25% this academic year. Students will be told to either learn the chapters on their own or the portion may be omitted entirely from the syllabus. The Maharashtra State Council of Education, Research and Training has almost finished reducing the content, and a report is expected from each subject committee within 2-3 days, director of the council Dinkar Patil said. On Tuesday, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal’s Tweet read, “In view of the current circumstances and after receiving a lot of requests from parents and teachers, we are contemplating the option of reduction in the syllabus and instructional hours for the coming academic year.” After the restructuring, a corrigendum of all the changes would be issued and put online. “The preliminary discussion indicates that we can cut some parts. Students will have to learn some parts by themselves, some sections which have no links in the next standard will be dropped. Some portions are repeated which can be self-learned,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-may-snip-off-25-of-std-i-to-xii-syllabi-this-year/articleshow/76311234.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Chartered flight from US on June 14||Hyderabad: US-India Solidarity Mission (USISM) is organising a chartered flight from Newark International airport, New Jersey, to Hyderabad on June 14. This private chartered flight has got necessary permissions and has been approved by the Indian embassy in the US, the organisers of the flight said on their website. USISM said the flight was being organised at the request of many stranded Indian citizens and eligible OCI card holders from US. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chartered-flight-from-us-on-june-14/articleshow/76310446.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Two-hour wait for formalities, given ample food: Infected||Hyderabad: It was the evening of May 2 when I received a call from Fever Hospital, asking me to report to the facility immediately. I had tested positive for Covid-19. Anxious, I rode myself there making a brief pit stop at home — to inform my family about the development. Thankfully, my family members packed me three sets of clothes, some food and water because till the next day morning, I wasn’t to get any of it. I reached Fever Hospital around 6 pm. Almost two hours later a doctor met me. By 9 pm, I was on my way to Gandhi Hospital. I was given a kit containing a Hazmat suit and mask before entering the ambulance. Once there, it was another two-hour wait for registration. I was on the verge of fainting by the time the formalities were over. The next day a ward boy came and handed over a new toothbrush, toothpaste and bathing soap. A nurse later came with some medicines. From that day, food and water was supplied regularly, in adequate quantity and of good quality. But I had to survive in just three sets of clothes during my six-day stay. There were others who stayed in the same clothes since they came in — no one was told to get either clothes or food. All through those days, there were four brief doctor visits. While the dormitory was in good condition, the wash rooms were dirty and the dustbins cleaned only once in two days. In fact, patients abstained from drinking too much water — though they were encouraged to do so — because they didn’t want to use the wash rooms until absolutely necessary. I opted for home quarantine on May 8. Once home, I was told that no municipal staff or anyone else had visited my house while I was in hospital. My house was not even sanitized. Since the last two days, I am in home quarantine and have not received a single call either from the hospital or the health department. However, cops from the intelligence department have called multiple times asking for details — how many patients were discharged with me, how we were shifted, if every patient got home etc. I hope to recover soon. (As told to Amrita Didyala by a Covid-19 postive patient)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-hour-wait-for-formalities-given-ample-food-infected/articleshow/76310449.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Nashik's death toll crosses 100||NASHIK: As many as six patients succumbed to Covid-19 infection in past 48 hours taking the Nashik district’s death count to 105 so far, said the district administration sources. Out of the six, three deaths were registered in rural areas while two succumbed in Nashik city. A man from Mumbai passed away due to Covid-19 infection in the city. The rural deaths were from Pimpalgaon Baswant (Niphad taluka), Nandgaon taluka and Manori in Sinnar taluka. They all died while undergoing treatment in Covid Hospitals, the sources said. Two people who died from the city were from the Naikwadi pura area, which was also a hotspot. The last person hailed from Bhandup in Mumbai and was admitted to Nashik civil hospital after being tested positive and succumbed to the infection on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/districts-death-toll-crosses-100/articleshow/76310440.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Pressure on govt to clear Rath stand||BHUBANESWAR: A day after the Orissa high court left it to the state government to take a call on the Rath Yatra amid the coronavirus pandemic, servitors of the Jagannath Temple and opposition political parties on Wednesday mounted pressure on the government to announce its stand at the earliest. The Rath Yatra, scheduled for June 23, is less than two weeks from now. The servitors, who have been pushing for the Rath Yatra without the participation of devotees, have asked the government to finalize the itinerary of the rituals as soon as possible. “We have only 12 days left for the Rath Yatra. However, everyone is in the dark about the future of the annual festival. The work on the chariot construction is nearing its completion. The government should clear the confusion to avoid chaos and resentment,” Ganapati Dasmohapatra, spokesperson of the temple’s Daitapati Nijog, told mediapersons in Puri. Earlier, the Nijog had urged the state government to host the Rath Yatra without the participation of devotees in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Dasmohapatra added, “We had proposed to the government to allow the pulling of chariots by police personnel and servitors. All rituals of the Rath Yatra should be observed inside the temple, and on the chariots when outside amid precautions,” Following the Covid-19 scare, the temple administration had for the first time observed the Debasnan Purnima festival on June 5 in the absence of devotees. The ban on religious congregation outside the temple till June 30 and strict adherence to social distancing norms may cast a shadow on this year’s Rath Yatra, especially the chariot pulling exercise. A large number of servitors are required to shift the idols of Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra from the temple onto the chariots in the Pahandi procession. This apart, a posse of policemen, too, are required to pull the chariots. It will be a difficult task to ensure social distancing during the rituals. “If the government is apprehending that there can be a surge in Covid-19 cases because of the Pahandi procession and chariot pulling, then a crowded vegetable market or grocery shop poses an equal threat. The risk has further increased after the resumption of trains, buses and flights,” servitor Ramachandra Dasmohapatra said, adding that the Rath Yatra and chariot pulling should be allowed. Uncertainty over the Rath Yatra has also triggered a political row. BJP leader Prithviraj Harichandan has blamed the state government for dilly-dallying on the Rath Yatra and said it was playing with the sentiments of the devotees. Echoing a similar sentiment, Congress leader Panchanan Kanungo sought an early response on the festival for the convenience of the people. Meanwhile, BJD spokesperson Amar Satpathy asked the opposition parties to refrain from politicising the Rath Yatra and said the government would take a decision soon after consulting Puri Shankaracharya and king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pressure-on-govt-to-clear-rath-stand/articleshow/76309559.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||Citizens’ group replants 16 damaged trees in Maidan||Kolkata: Many citizens’ groups are coming forward to restore the trees uprooted by Cyclone Amphan across the city. Rebuild Bengal, a citizens’ group, replanted 16 of 55 identified uprooted trees, some of them are more than a century old, in Maidan on Wednesday. The group that was launched as a response to the cyclone has taken up the task of replanting trees in Maidan and other green zones. “We are overwhelmed by the responses from cyclists’ groups, nature lovers, bird watchers, meditation groups. Now, we hope to widen the replantation programme,” said Gargi Maitra, one of the key members of the group. Punam Jaju of the group said, “Maidan is the lung of Kolkata and it is our duty to ensure a cleaner and greener city so that people can breathe fresh air. In this drive, we will replant 30 trees in the Maidan area. Some of these trees are as old as 100 years, with circumference of more than 123-cm” The replantation work started the day after some environmentalists cycled across Maidan and mapped all the uprooted trees, finding 30 out of more than 50 trees could be replanted. After that, permissions from army, KMC and local police were obtained. The work was done with the money collected from citizens under crowd funding by Rebuild Bengal. Concerned citizens from across the city are supporting the group to replant the trees and provide relief to the affected communities in Sundarbans. After replanting the uprooted trees, the group is also taking the initiative to plant saplings across Sundarbans and Kolkata. The trees replanted include neem, pepal, baniyan, radhachura and ashoka. Vijay Agarwal, secretary of Active Citizens Together for Sustainability (ACTS), said, “When we were children, these trees took care of us. So when we’re replanting these trees, it felt like we were taking care of our great grandmothers”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-group-replants-16-damaged-trees-in-maidan/articleshow/76310439.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 11, 2020||Coimbatore||At Rs 5cr, Kodappamund channel to be desilted||Udhagamandalam: The project of desilting the Kodappamund channel, a natural waterway running through the town and joining the lake, was launched on Wednesday by the Ooty municipality. A sum of Rs 5 crore has been sanctioned by the government for the project to cover the Kodappamund channel so as to prevent it from pollution. The pristine water body channelizes natural streams right from Upper Kodappamund and cuts through Ooty town to end at Ooty Lake. It is the main source of water for the famous lake. Of late, it was being used as a dumping point by several merchants, residents and tourists. The open channel that runs for about 3.5km is now filled with silt and garbage, apart from sewage waste. According to environmental activists, the channel is inundated with weeds, and requires immediate de-silting. Several establishments and residences also let out untreated sewage directly into the channel, which is supposed to carry clean water to the lake. This has resulted in the Ooty lake becoming one of the most polluted water bodies in the country. Inaugurating the project, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “The sanctioned amount of Rs 5 crore will be utilized for channelizing the stream water without pollution by covering the full stretch of the Kodappamund channel, besides replacing damaged drainage pipes and developing sewage treatment plants”. The channel was widened and improved following the devastating floods of 1978.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/at-rs-5cr-kodappamund-channel-to-be-desilted/articleshow/76311242.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||‘Bird chasers’ back on job to ensure safety of flights at Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: During lockdown, the Jaipur airport witnessed an increase in the movement of birds like sparrows, pigeons, crows and others. As the domestic flights resumed and international flights started arriving, the official ‘bird chasers’ are busy again in keeping the winged creatures away from the airstrip. The airport authorities have sound guns, firecrackers and other arrangements to keep them away. Also, a private company has been given a tender for migration of birds away from the airport. Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) too has written to the airports to take precautions as movement of domestic flights is increasing. “We have 16 ‘bird chasers’ who work in two shifts and each shift has eight of them working around the airport, its strip and boundary. Our first shift is from 5 am to 1 pm and second shift is from 1 pm to 9 pm,” said Manphool Singh, assistant general manager (AGM), air traffic control (ATC), Jaipur airport who is in-charge of these ‘bird chasers’ on Tuesday. Authorities said that while the movement of international and domestic flights started initially there were some problems. “Birds were surprised as in two months we merely had a few arrivals and departures of cargo flights. But when we started the movement in the initial two to three days we had a little problem,” said Singh. Chandramohan, a bird chaser, who was on duty from 5 am on Tuesday, said, “Their presence is more during early morning and late evening. That time we have to be extra cautious. We are informed about the expected arrivals and departures prior to landing and take-off. Thus we prepare with firecrackers and sound guns to keep the birds away from the air strip and its boundaries.” When contacted, Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Airport Authority of India (AAI), Jaipur, said, “We have also hired a private company that has promised to migrate these birds to 60 kilometres away from the airport boundaries. We have ample arrangement to ensure safety of the flights by keeping the birds away.” The measures taken by the authorities are deployment of bird chasers along both sides of the runway and routine inspection of operational area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-chasers-back-on-job-to-ensure-safety-of-flights/articleshow/76311239.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 11, 2020||Noida||At 100kmph, full-blown storm cools Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: For the first time in June, the mercury crossed the 40-degree mark on Tuesday and rose to a maximum of 41.5 degrees a day later. However, the heat was short-lived as the skies turned overcast on Wednesday evening and a short and intense rain spell struck Delhi-NCR. Fierce winds blew at 100 kmph in parts of east Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad ending in a number of trees getting uprooted, said Met officials. IMD said the temperatures are expected to drop to 35 degrees in the coming days with rain expected till June 15-16. “A similar spell of light rain and gusty winds may be experienced on Thursday, but the intensity will be lower,” said an official. Visuals from Mayur ViharKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the Palam station recorded wind speed of 40 kmph. “However, the thunderstorm was more intense over Noida and Ghaziabad with wind speed crossing morethan 100 kmph. There was a drop of 7 degrees in temperature at Palam reaching 30 degrees Celsius in an hour. Similarly, it dropped by four degrees at Safdarjung, from 38 to 34 degrees Celsius.” “The short spell of rain was due to a low pressure area that now exists as a trough from north Pakistan to Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation formed over north Rajasthan also added to the intense spell,” Srivastava added. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the Safdarjung observatory recorded “trace” rainfall, while Lodhi Road received 0.5mm of rainfall. The maximum temperature at Palam was recorded at 43.6 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index was in the “moderate” range on Wednesday till 4pm with a reading of 152. However, this is forecast to improve in the next few days. Reports of trees being uprooted, hoardings collapsing and power cuts came from different areas, but most of the damage was restricted to east Delhi with traffic flow being disrupted at both DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj border. Noida traffic police said a hoarding fell on DND Flyway causing an obstruction on the route. The traffic at Kalindi Kunj border was also impacted due to a tree falling on the road. Delhi Traffic Police also reported multiple instances of broken trees causing traffic disruption. The department tweeted: “Broken tree has disrupted the passage at road leading from IP flyover to Sarai Kale Khan due to which traffic flow is affected.” The monsoon report of South Delhi Municipal Corporation stated that trees fell in Aurobindo Market near Safdarjung Development Area, DDA Flats Munirka, Pocket-1 Paschimpuri, B-Block East of Kailash, A-Block and G-Block Nizamuddin West, C-Block DDA shopping complex Moolchand, Jangpura B-Block near Mathura Road and Bilaspur Camp Badarpur. Residents from Punjabi Colony in Narela complained about a tree falling on a streetlight in Sector B-4 of Pocket 6. A tree also collapsed in Mayur Vihar-II after the storm. “Broken tree is likely to fall and damage junction box. Take action before damage to junction box,” local residents tweeted to the power distribution company. Residents of Mithapur Chowk also reported about a eucalyptus tree falling on the power lines disrupting supply to the region for over an hour. Residents of Allahabad Bank Apartments, a housing society on the Delhi border, reported that a tree fell and broke their boundary wall adjoining Noida Sector 14. Sudha Sinha, president of cooperative group housing societies, said keekar trees fell down because lack of pruning had made them weak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/at-100kmph-full-blown-storm-cools-city/articleshow/76313324.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Doctors allege scant security deployment||HYDERABAD: The security deployment at Gandhi Hospital has been scarce ever since the lockdown was relaxed, junior doctors protesting outside the hospital said on Wednesday. The junior doctors said that in addition to being understaffed, overworked and distressed, they often also have to bear the brunt of patients’ anger. “This is the second time a doctor has been assaulted ever since the lockdown. After the first incident, police personnel were deployed at the hospital. But for the past one week, we have hardly seen any cops in the hospital premises,” said Dr Navyadeep, a general surgeon at Gandhi Hospital. While police authorities say that adequate security has been provided with over 200 cops posted at Gandhi Hospital, the protesters alleged otherwise. “There was a tent full of 10 to 15 policemen sitting outside the hospital and at least two cops could be seen in almost all the floors. This was soon after lockdown was announced and the number of cases were less. For the past few days, we can hardly see any police personnel in or around the building,” said Dr Keerthi, a general medicine PG doctor. The protest was held after relatives of a Covid-19 patient who died at the hospital attacked a doctor. The protesters claimed that two of the relatives entered the hospital. “At the time of the incident, there were no security personnel. We demanded immediate deployment of paramilitary forces as suggested by the Centre,” said a protester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-allege-scant-security-deployment/articleshow/76310468.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Junior doctors push way out on the street||HYDERABAD: As the protests intensified at Gandhi Hospital, the junior doctors pushed their way out on to the street when cops tried to stop them using barricades. “Awaz do, hum ek hai!” medicos from inside the premises shouted as over 300 junior doctors arrived near the gate at around 10 am. “No one was allowed inside. We wanted to speak up and march towards the main gate to go to the main road. But cops tried to close the gate,” said a junior doctor. In a bid to stop the medicos, cops thrust a barricade against them but they managed to wriggle out. “None of them was injured. We only tried to stop them from coming on the road to avoid a traffic jam,” said a constable. Another junior doctor said no one was injured. “After we rushed out and sat on the road to protest, police placed barricades. The main gate of the hospital was closed and ambulances were allowed through another gate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/junior-docs-push-way-out-on-the-street/articleshow/76310460.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 11, 2020||Gurgaon||At 100kmph, full-blown storm cools Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: For the first time in June, the mercury crossed the 40-degree mark on Tuesday and rose to a maximum of 41.5 degrees a day later. However, the heat was short-lived as the skies turned overcast on Wednesday evening and a short and intense rain spell struck Delhi-NCR. Fierce winds blew at 100 kmph in parts of east Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad ending in a number of trees getting uprooted, said Met officials. IMD said the temperatures are expected to drop to 35 degrees in the coming days with rain expected till June 15-16. “A similar spell of light rain and gusty winds may be experienced on Thursday, but the intensity will be lower,” said an official. Visuals from Mayur ViharKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the Palam station recorded wind speed of 40 kmph. “However, the thunderstorm was more intense over Noida and Ghaziabad with wind speed crossing morethan 100 kmph. There was a drop of 7 degrees in temperature at Palam reaching 30 degrees Celsius in an hour. Similarly, it dropped by four degrees at Safdarjung, from 38 to 34 degrees Celsius.” “The short spell of rain was due to a low pressure area that now exists as a trough from north Pakistan to Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation formed over north Rajasthan also added to the intense spell,” Srivastava added. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the Safdarjung observatory recorded “trace” rainfall, while Lodhi Road received 0.5mm of rainfall. The maximum temperature at Palam was recorded at 43.6 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index was in the “moderate” range on Wednesday till 4pm with a reading of 152. However, this is forecast to improve in the next few days. Reports of trees being uprooted, hoardings collapsing and power cuts came from different areas, but most of the damage was restricted to east Delhi with traffic flow being disrupted at both DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj border. Noida traffic police said a hoarding fell on DND Flyway causing an obstruction on the route. The traffic at Kalindi Kunj border was also impacted due to a tree falling on the road. Delhi Traffic Police also reported multiple instances of broken trees causing traffic disruption. The department tweeted: “Broken tree has disrupted the passage at road leading from IP flyover to Sarai Kale Khan due to which traffic flow is affected.” The monsoon report of South Delhi Municipal Corporation stated that trees fell in Aurobindo Market near Safdarjung Development Area, DDA Flats Munirka, Pocket-1 Paschimpuri, B-Block East of Kailash, A-Block and G-Block Nizamuddin West, C-Block DDA shopping complex Moolchand, Jangpura B-Block near Mathura Road and Bilaspur Camp Badarpur. Residents from Punjabi Colony in Narela complained about a tree falling on a streetlight in Sector B-4 of Pocket 6. A tree also collapsed in Mayur Vihar-II after the storm. “Broken tree is likely to fall and damage junction box. Take action before damage to junction box,” local residents tweeted to the power distribution company. Residents of Mithapur Chowk also reported about a eucalyptus tree falling on the power lines disrupting supply to the region for over an hour. Residents of Allahabad Bank Apartments, a housing society on the Delhi border, reported that a tree fell and broke their boundary wall adjoining Noida Sector 14. Sudha Sinha, president of cooperative group housing societies, said keekar trees fell down because lack of pruning had made them weak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/at-100kmph-full-blown-storm-cools-city/articleshow/76313323.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||At 100kmph, full-blown storm cools Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: For the first time in June, the mercury crossed the 40-degree mark on Tuesday and rose to a maximum of 41.5 degrees a day later. However, the heat was short-lived as the skies turned overcast on Wednesday evening and a short and intense rain spell struck Delhi-NCR. Fierce winds blew at 100 kmph in parts of east Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad ending in a number of trees getting uprooted, said Met officials. IMD said the temperatures are expected to drop to 35 degrees in the coming days with rain expected till June 15-16. “A similar spell of light rain and gusty winds may be experienced on Thursday, but the intensity will be lower,” said an official. Visuals from Mayur ViharKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the Palam station recorded wind speed of 40 kmph. “However, the thunderstorm was more intense over Noida and Ghaziabad with wind speed crossing morethan 100 kmph. There was a drop of 7 degrees in temperature at Palam reaching 30 degrees Celsius in an hour. Similarly, it dropped by four degrees at Safdarjung, from 38 to 34 degrees Celsius.” “The short spell of rain was due to a low pressure area that now exists as a trough from north Pakistan to Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation formed over north Rajasthan also added to the intense spell,” Srivastava added. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the Safdarjung observatory recorded “trace” rainfall, while Lodhi Road received 0.5mm of rainfall. The maximum temperature at Palam was recorded at 43.6 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index was in the “moderate” range on Wednesday till 4pm with a reading of 152. However, this is forecast to improve in the next few days. Reports of trees being uprooted, hoardings collapsing and power cuts came from different areas, but most of the damage was restricted to east Delhi with traffic flow being disrupted at both DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj border. Noida traffic police said a hoarding fell on DND Flyway causing an obstruction on the route. The traffic at Kalindi Kunj border was also impacted due to a tree falling on the road. Delhi Traffic Police also reported multiple instances of broken trees causing traffic disruption. The department tweeted: “Broken tree has disrupted the passage at road leading from IP flyover to Sarai Kale Khan due to which traffic flow is affected.” The monsoon report of South Delhi Municipal Corporation stated that trees fell in Aurobindo Market near Safdarjung Development Area, DDA Flats Munirka, Pocket-1 Paschimpuri, B-Block East of Kailash, A-Block and G-Block Nizamuddin West, C-Block DDA shopping complex Moolchand, Jangpura B-Block near Mathura Road and Bilaspur Camp Badarpur. Residents from Punjabi Colony in Narela complained about a tree falling on a streetlight in Sector B-4 of Pocket 6. A tree also collapsed in Mayur Vihar-II after the storm. “Broken tree is likely to fall and damage junction box. Take action before damage to junction box,” local residents tweeted to the power distribution company. Residents of Mithapur Chowk also reported about a eucalyptus tree falling on the power lines disrupting supply to the region for over an hour. Residents of Allahabad Bank Apartments, a housing society on the Delhi border, reported that a tree fell and broke their boundary wall adjoining Noida Sector 14. Sudha Sinha, president of cooperative group housing societies, said keekar trees fell down because lack of pruning had made them weak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-100kmph-full-blown-storm-cools-city/articleshow/76311273.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||At 100kmph, full-blown storm cools Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: For the first time in June, the mercury crossed the 40-degree mark on Tuesday and rose to a maximum of 41.5 degrees a day later. However, the heat was short-lived as the skies turned overcast on Wednesday evening and a short and intense rain spell struck Delhi-NCR. Fierce winds blew at 100 kmph in parts of east Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad ending in a number of trees getting uprooted, said Met officials. IMD said the temperatures are expected to drop to 35 degrees in the coming days with rain expected till June 15-16. “A similar spell of light rain and gusty winds may be experienced on Thursday, but the intensity will be lower,” said an official. Visuals from Mayur ViharKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the Palam station recorded wind speed of 40 kmph. “However, the thunderstorm was more intense over Noida and Ghaziabad with wind speed crossing morethan 100 kmph. There was a drop of 7 degrees in temperature at Palam reaching 30 degrees Celsius in an hour. Similarly, it dropped by four degrees at Safdarjung, from 38 to 34 degrees Celsius.” “The short spell of rain was due to a low pressure area that now exists as a trough from north Pakistan to Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation formed over north Rajasthan also added to the intense spell,” Srivastava added. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the Safdarjung observatory recorded “trace” rainfall, while Lodhi Road received 0.5mm of rainfall. The maximum temperature at Palam was recorded at 43.6 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index was in the “moderate” range on Wednesday till 4pm with a reading of 152. However, this is forecast to improve in the next few days. Reports of trees being uprooted, hoardings collapsing and power cuts came from different areas, but most of the damage was restricted to east Delhi with traffic flow being disrupted at both DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj border. Noida traffic police said a hoarding fell on DND Flyway causing an obstruction on the route. The traffic at Kalindi Kunj border was also impacted due to a tree falling on the road. Delhi Traffic Police also reported multiple instances of broken trees causing traffic disruption. The department tweeted: “Broken tree has disrupted the passage at road leading from IP flyover to Sarai Kale Khan due to which traffic flow is affected.” The monsoon report of South Delhi Municipal Corporation stated that trees fell in Aurobindo Market near Safdarjung Development Area, DDA Flats Munirka, Pocket-1 Paschimpuri, B-Block East of Kailash, A-Block and G-Block Nizamuddin West, C-Block DDA shopping complex Moolchand, Jangpura B-Block near Mathura Road and Bilaspur Camp Badarpur. Residents from Punjabi Colony in Narela complained about a tree falling on a streetlight in Sector B-4 of Pocket 6. A tree also collapsed in Mayur Vihar-II after the storm. “Broken tree is likely to fall and damage junction box. Take action before damage to junction box,” local residents tweeted to the power distribution company. Residents of Mithapur Chowk also reported about a eucalyptus tree falling on the power lines disrupting supply to the region for over an hour. Residents of Allahabad Bank Apartments, a housing society on the Delhi border, reported that a tree fell and broke their boundary wall adjoining Noida Sector 14. Sudha Sinha, president of cooperative group housing societies, said keekar trees fell down because lack of pruning had made them weak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/at-100kmph-full-blown-storm-cools-city/articleshow/76313326.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC registers highest property & water tax collection: Radhakrishna Game||NASHIK: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has expressed his satisfaction over property and water tax collection during the 2019-20 financial year. A total tax collection of Rs 141 crore was collected during the financial year, which included 55 crore in water taxes. Interestingly, this also happens to be the highest ever in the history of NMC. Game said that the major focus of NMC is to increase the income through the property, water, and various taxes of the town planning department. In 2018-19 financial year, the tax collection was Rs 113 crores. The rise has been by almost 24.77 percent, which has majorly been due to the recovery drive by the NMC. The civic body had also introduced the amnesty scheme for the defaulters, which received a good response as it collected Rs 50 crore through the scheme. NMC officials said due to Covid-19 they couldn’t continue the drive otherwise they would have easily reached their target of 150 crore-mark. NMC officials said that the rise in property tax up to 35 per cent to Rs 55 crore during the last financial year 2019-20, as compared to 40 crore last year. The introduction of new incentives for the prompt taxpayers who pay annual property tax during the first three months of the quarter. But the scheme has been extended by another month up to July 31 this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. A five percent concession in property tax is given to those who pay annual tax in April and May, three per cent if paid in June and two per cent concession if paid annual property tax in the month of July. NMC has over 4.50 lakh, property taxpayers, across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-registers-highest-property-water-tax-collection-game/articleshow/76310450.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CID discovers international money laundering racket’s Pakistan link||KOLKATA: Almost over a year after the Bengal CID had busted an international money laundering racket duping people with fake lottery scheme in the state, the investigating agency informed the Calcutta High Court that the accused had transferred the money to Pakistan, using hawala routes, and brought in fake currency to the state in return. The case details emerged last week after the prime accused, Touhid Alam, who was arrested along with 18 others last year, tried to take advantage of the Covid fears and moved Calcutta High Court, seeking bail. The CID opposed the bail plea through public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee. On hearing both the sides, the court dismissed Alam’s bail plea. “In my submission, I laid out the modus operandi of the gang. Many people across the state got calls and WhstApp texts from phone numbers starting with +92 or 0092 — the international calling code that belongs to Pakistan,” said Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cid-discovers-intlmoney-laundering-rackets-pak-link/articleshow/76310447.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Shift from IQ to HQ not an easy task for corporation||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation, which spent nearly Rs 2 crore in the past three months to run institutional quarantine centres (IQCs), is in a fix over the latest order which says that all residential facilities/dwelling units identified and approved by the district administration and local bodies should be treated as institutional quarantine facilities. The corporation runs around 30 IQCs, which house over 600 inmates. A preliminary audit has revealed that a total of 154 inmates are residents of neighbouring local bodies; mostly other panchayats and municipalities in the district. Only 70 inmates hail from areas under the corporation limits. The city corporation cannot discharge these persons unless a verification of facilities is done by respective local bodies. As per the proceedings issued by the district collector, those persons who want to be quarantined in any residential facility/dwelling unit shall intimate the same to the local body concerned in writing in advance. Those who are already in institutional quarantine may submit the same through the charge officer of the said institution. The local body shall verify the suitability of the same residential facility/dwelling unit through the medical officer of the primary health centre. The medical officer has to ensure that there is proper provision for room quarantine and shall ensure that the chances for disease transmission are minimal. Besides, it shall be ensured that there are no children below the age of 10, people above 65 years of age, pregnant women and other persons who are immuno compromised or with co-morbidity reside in the same residential facility/dwelling unit. The corporation officials said that a fatigued volunteer force and enormous drain on financial resources have made management of IQCs an arduous task. Besides, the local self-government department has issued instructions for periodic cleaning, supply of materials to IQCs. “With over 30 centres to manage, taking care of all these affairs with our work force on a regular basis takes a toll on our staff. There are other routine duties which are being compromised; cleaning drive, source-level reduction and with the outbreak of other diseases, our work force can’t be put to a single task,” said an official with the city corporation. The civic body now has to co-ordinate with various local bodies to ensure that protocol is followed for shifting of inmates from IQs to room isolation in houses. The facility of quarantine at the notified residential facility/dwelling unit will be made available to those who are in paid quarantine and in government run institutional quarantine and who completes seven days of stay at said facilities in the first phase. Those who are already in the institutional quarantine facilities shall be allowed to move to the residential facility/dwelling unit for the remaining days of the quarantine, once it is approved by the local self-government. It has also been directed that rapid response teams shall constantly monitor such persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/shift-from-iq-to-hq-not-an-easy-task-for-corporation/articleshow/76309591.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP crosses 10k Covid mark, cure rate 2nd highest in India||Bhopal: Just short of 12 weeks after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Madhya Pradesh, the state crossed the grim milestone of 10,000 cases on Wednesday. With 200 new cases reported, MP’s Corona count rose to 10,049. Indore (51) and Bhopal (47) accounted for nearly half this tally. Over 2,100 of these cases have come this month, after the unlocking. The heartening thing, however, is that MP’s recovery count is also rising. With 163 recoveries, the state cure tally rose to 6,892. MP is now second in the national rankings in recovery rate – beating Gujarat by a fraction, 68.5% to 68.4%. Exactly a month ago, on May 11, the recovery rate stood at 46.5%. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on Tuesday cautioned citizens to be extra cautious in the unlocking period and reiterated the importance of wearing masks. Worryingly, deaths are relatively high at 4.2%, while the national average is around 2.8%. MP’s mortality rate is second only to Gujarat (6.2%), with Tamil Nadu having the best figures at 0.8%. Seven more deaths were reported on Wednesday, two of them in Indore and one each in Bhopal, Sagar, Barwani, Rewa and Shajapur districts. New cases were in 22 districts, with Ratlam coming a surprise third (24 cases) after Indore and Bhopal. Gwalior had a dozen new Covid patients, Chhindwara 11 and Neemuch 10. There are 2,730 active patients in the state. Reports of more than 2.28 lakh samples have been received in the state so far, 4.4% of which tested positive. The administration has declared 1,034 localities in 51 districts as containment zones. MP is ramping up its Covid-fighting infrastructure and has set up 1,197 fever clinics, where primary treatment is being provided and swab samples are taken on the basis of the symptoms, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-crosses-10k-covid-mark-cure-rate-2nd-highest-in-india/articleshow/76311255.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Cops caution citizens to follow safety measures||NASHIK: CP Vishwas Nangare Patil, NMC chief Radhakrishna Game and other senior officials visited the Naikwadi Pura to sensitise people about precautionary measures to be taken on the outbreak of Covid-19. Police officers took the help of the announcement system to educate the residents of the Ajmeri Masjid. The announcement system was brought down from the Masjid and people were sensitized through it so that the message reaches to approximately 4,500 people at the same time. Police officials informed that the residents of Naikwadi Pura and those around the area were sensitized through the announcement system of the Ajmeri Masjid. The announcement system was brought down and the message reached approximately 4,500 people at the same time. Until Wednesday morning, 42 people were found infected with Covid-19 in and around Naikwadi Pura area. Nangare Patil further informed that the residents about the medical services that would be provided like medical checking of the residents, an arrangement of vegetables in their areas. Meanwhile, Wadala Naka, Pakhal Road, Khode Nagar have conducted a meeting of Maulanas and trustees of all the Masjids and appealed to them to make announcements to wear masks and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-caution-citizens-to-follow-safety-measures/articleshow/76310471.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Riots create fear: Delhi court denies bail to murder accused||NEW DELHI: Whenever a riot happens, it creates fear in the minds of people and affects those who have suffered loss of life and property that cannot be compensated in any way, a Delhi court has noted while refusing bail to an accused in the Akbari Begum murder case. Earlier, Ravi Kumar who was recently charged with rioting, murder, arson and several other offences argued he was caught in the melee and in fact tried to save himself by running away from the mob. The counsel also pointed out delay in lodging of FIR against Kumar, who was his family’s sole breadwinner. Kumar is not a threat to the witnesses in any manner and is ready to obey any condition imposed on him upon bail, it was submitted. The investigating officer opposed the bail plea and argued that the accused had been named in the chargesheet. Police had relied on an alleged video clip provided by the deceased’s family members to show the accused’s complicity in the case. Kumar was allegedly seen actively participating in the violence at Bhajanpura. Additional sessions judge Sunil Chaudhary noted that not only had there been destruction of property, but the old woman too lost her life. “So, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and gravity of the offence, I am of the view that the applicant is not entitled to bail. Therefore, the present bail application is dismissed,” the court held. Begum was with her family members when a mob barged inside her house and set it ablaze during the northeast Delhi riots on February 25. While the others managed to reach the terrace, the woman had died of asphyxiation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-create-fear-court-denies-bail-to-murder-accused/articleshow/76311290.cms||Aamir Khan
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Mother of three ends life in Maneja||VADODARA: A 33-year-old woman living in Maneja committed suicide at her home on Tuesday due to unknown reasons. The deceased Isha Desai, ran a small travel business from home. She had divorced her husband a year ago and was living with her mother and three children. She was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her bedroom with a dupatta. Police said that the woman’s mother found the body when she went to call her for lunch. “Around 2.30 pm the mother called her on her phone, but the deceased refused to come for lunch. Ten minutes later when the mother went to the bedroom, the door was locked and the woman was neither responding nor opening the door,” said a police official. Desai’s mother called a carpenter working in the neighbourhood to break the lock of the door. On breaking open the door, Desai’s body was found hanging. “We did not find any suicide note, but we have collected her mobile phone for investigation. We are checking her call logs and messages to know the reason for her extreme step,” the police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mother-of-three-ends-life-in-maneja/articleshow/76307684.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown speculation sparks panic buying in Jaipur||JAIPUR: City on Wednesday witnessed panic buying by residents following speculation that the Centre may impose another lockdown from June 15 due to surge in fresh Covid cases. Many shops saw more than usual footfall of buyers. Mridul Jain, 61-year-old housewife, said, “We have stocked essential items as a precautionary measure. During the last lockdown, we had experienced that I and my husband found it difficult to order items online. The online stores during the lockdown were taking time in delivering essential items too,” she said. The shopkeepers also agreed that people are coming out for buying ration for the whole month. They have also placed their orders for essential items with the wholesalers. The items which are in high demand include oil, flour, rice, pulses, spices, packed food etc. Rajendra Kahtegar, a Raja Park-based grocery retailer, said, “Many of the regular customers are buying groceries for up to two months as they are worried that another round of lockdown can be enforced. Most of them who are ordering or visiting are elderly people as they were the once who faced major problems during previous lockdown.” Other than grocery stores, huge footfall was witnessed at tobacco and liquor shops as many do not want to repeat mistakes like the previous time. “After the ‘news’ spread that there will be another round of lockdown, the tobacco sellers increased the prices on Wednesday. Even, the lockdown is not imposed, there will be shortage of gutkas in the city as people are buying it in large numbers,” said Ramakanth Pandit, a resident of Subash Chowk in Walled City area. Many liquor shopowners, who were witnessing less sales were also happy about the high revenue collection. Jitnedra Singh, a shopowner in Jawahar Nagar, said, “Since the time shops are open, there was an average demand of liquor. On Wednesday, many people came out to buy wine, especially cartons of beer,” he said. Watch Jaipur: As Covid-19 cases surge, lockdown speculation leads to panic buying||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-speculation-sparks-panic-buying-in-city/articleshow/76311253.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Meerut||Mills will continue operations till last sugarcane is standing in fields, says UP’s cane minister||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Facing severe backlash from Congress, BKU and RLD over a sugarcane farmer’s suicide, UP’s cane minister Suresh Rana on Wednesday told mills to continue their operations “till last cane is standing in west UP fields”. In a video conference with Saharanpur range officials, the minister said, “Smoke must continue to emanate from chimneys of these mills until the time a single cane is standing in the field.” The statement came just days after a farmer killed himself. After several rounds of sugar mills in Muzaffarnagar, Ompal, 52, could not get slips to sell his produce piled up back home. He hanged himself last week, triggering a political storm. Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi, BKU and RLD slammed the state government alleging that farmers were not getting the proper price for their crop because of the lockdown. A big protest also erupted the next day and Union minister Sanjeev Balyan rushed to the site to placate the farmers. Later Rana told TOI, “Under the supervision of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it is for the first time that 112 crore quintals of sugarcane was crushed by the mills across the state. Even nine sugar mills are still taking farmers’ sugarcane while it is the month of June, and these mills will work until single sugarcane is standing in the farming field.” When asked about sugarcane dues of the farmers, he said, “The erstwhile Samajwadi Party government paid Rs 95,000 crore worth of dues in five years. And our government has paid Rs 99,000crore in just three years.” A political row had erupted soon after the death of Ompal on Thursday evening. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi took to Twitter to slam the UP’s BJP government and accused it of not paying sugarcane dues to farmers. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) alleged that farmers were not getting the proper price for their crop because of the lockdown. The body of Ompal was found hanging from a tree in Sisauli village on Thursday evening. Later, locals kept his body on the road in protest and demanded compensation for the family members. On their part, the local administration claimed that the farmer took the extreme step due to a dispute with his brothers over property. They also said that a large chunk of his produce was purchased by a sugar mill. District magistrate Selva Kumari J had said, “The sugarcane stock of the farmer was purchased by a mill, and the remaining crop also would have been bought. It has come to light after the police investigation that Ompal had a property dispute with his brother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mills-will-continue-operations-till-last-sugarcane-is-standing-in-fields-says-ups-cane-minister/articleshow/76308469.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Union minister comes to the rescue of hospitalised medico in Kyrgyzstan||JAIPUR: Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat came to the rescue of a hospitalised MBBS student Dimple Trivedi at Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan. Trivedi, who hails from Banswara district and is suffering from renal failure and TB, will be brought to Delhi in an air ambulance on Thursday morning. She was scheduled to reach Delhi on Wednesday noon but Pakistan denied flyover permission to the air ambulance. Trivedi’s family made an appeal to the minister on Tuesday morning for her immediate evacuation due to her deteriorating health in a TB hospital in Bishkek. The minister quickly responded to the appeal and reach out to the ministry of external affairs for help. The MEA ministry contacted Indian embassy in Kyrgyzstan and by late afternoon received clearance for her return in an air ambulance. “The ambulance rushed to the Bishkek with health workers to deal with any emergency situation and was scheduled to arrive in Delhi on Wednesday at 8 am. However, the permission to fly over from Pakistan was not received till the last hour forcing the flight re-schedule after a day,” said an official at the office of the central government. The family had been informed about her ill health in May last week by the International School of Medicine College authorities. “She didn’t have any medical problem prior to this. She has been admitted in a TB hospital since the last days of May and this is a reason that she had missed the direct flight from Bishkek to Jaipur on June 1,” said Alok Trivedi, uncle of Dimple. The family has been living sleepless nights since the hospital authorities have told them three to four days ago to take her to India as her condition is fast going out of control. Trivedi is a second-year medical student who went for her education in 2017. Trivedi’s father is a priest whose main occupation is to carry out door to door rituals contacted their local lawmakers who suggested them to make a plea to the union minister. Soon the news of an ill daughter stranded in a foreign land spread like a wildfire in Banswara, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur and Udaipur who arranged funds for her treatment in Delhi. The family is thanking their stars for seeing their daughter returning from a foreign land without them making a single round to Jaipur or Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/union-min-comes-to-the-rescue-of-hospitalised-medico-in-kyrgyzstan/articleshow/76311276.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Asha workers warn of indefinite strike||NASHIK: Over 3,000 Asha workers and block facilitators (BF) have warned of an indefinite strike from July 3 if their pending demands, including hike in remuneration, are not fulfilled. While the protesting Ashas and BFs’ primary demand is to absorb them into government services, they are also demanding hike in remuneration that they are paid for their services. The memorandum of demands submitted by the Asha workers stated that they should be given a fix payment of Rs 5,000 per month and that the rate of remuneration paid to them in lieu of their work should also be increased. Furthermore, the travelling allowance and dearness allowance (TA & DA) paid to the BFs should be increased to Rs 10,000 per month from the current 7,500 to 8,250 per month. Among other things, the agitating Asha workers have also sought the attention of health department to consider if Ashas aged 50 and above and those suffering health issues such as diabetes, blood pressure and heart ailment should be assigned to Covid duty. They also demanded special remuneration for conducting health check-ups of people aged 55 and above. Asha workers said that they were visiting every household in rural areas and checking the oxygen levels of people through pulse oximeters, temperature through thermal scanner and getting the entry done in their registers. However, Ashas working in the city areas have not received any remuneration since January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/asha-workers-warn-of-indefinite-strike/articleshow/76310504.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Truck driver killed for demanding pay in Jind||JIND: A truck driver was killed and his cousin was injured when they sought their wages from their employer in Anupgarh village of Jind district on Tuesday night. The victim, Shera (25) and his cousin Balbir alias Sonu belonged to Dhariwal village in Kapurthala district of Punjab. According to the police complaint, both had gone to their employer Parveen Singh on Tuesday, who is a truck body maker, to demand wages for their work. They started drinking at a dhaba near the village along with Parveen and his friends at night. Soon they got into a heated exchange, which led to one of them being beaten to death and the other seriously injured. The accused then tied an injured Balbir with a rope and left him in a shop after downing the shutter. Someone informed the police the next day around 4 pm about the incident and a team led by Sadar police station SHO freed the injured man. DSP Chandar Pal told TOI, "We have rounded up all the four accused on Wednesday and a case has been registered against them under sections 302 (murder), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) SC/ST Act. Prima facie it came to light that one was bludgeoned to death and one received serious injuries after they demanded money for their work. The victim’s body was sent for post-mortem examination to PGIMS-Rohtak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/truck-driver-killed-for-demanding-pay-in-jind/articleshow/76310509.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-HSVP chief indicted for illegal sale of hospital site||Gurgaon: A high-level vigilance probe has indicted 12 people, including two IAS officers and three HCS officers, for their alleged involvement in irregularities in the resale of a plot earmarked for a hospital in Sector 56, thus causing huge losses to the state exchequer. HSVP had allotted the plot for Rs 71.65 lakh to Dr Prabha Manchanda to build a hospital, possession of which was given in 1997. Manchanda sold the plot to the directors of Sanjivani Life Care Medical in November 2006 for Rs 1.37 crore. As per HSVP provisions, the hospital should have been constructed within five years of land allotment. In case a plot holder fails to complete construction, HSVP can cancel the allotment. In his inquiry report, additional director general of the state vigilance bureau Subhash Yadav said that the plot should have been taken over by HSVP on account of delay in construction, but no heed was paid by the department, rather the proceedings of false demarcation and re-zoning was done. “Although such fictitious demarcation was only on papers, but it caused huge loss to the state exchequer and on pretext of it, a fresh allotment letter was issued in August 2015 and the time of construction was also extended to July 2022. This was done by the top brass of HSVP, then Huda. The government officials intentionally aided wrong-doers and defeated the statuary purpose, the construction of hospital and treatment of general public,” the report said. Apart from Dr Manchanda and the directors of Sanjivani, the probe report has named seven government officials, including two IAS officers — Anita Yadav, then Huda administrator (Gurgaon), and former estate officer BS Hooda — and three HCS officers — NS Bangad, Tarun Pawaria and Satbir Singh. The other two officials are Om Prakash and Subhash Chandra. “I was surprised to know that how financial losses have been caused to the state by the intentional involvement of officials of HSVP and their syndicate comprising touts, agents, and dealers,” Yadav said in his report, submitted to the director general of the state vigilance bureau a day before his retirement last month. Apart from the vigilance investigation, an FIR was registered against 10 people, including the two IAS officers, in the alleged scam on the direction of a city court in February this year. And Yadav has recommended clubbing of his inquiry report with the ongoing police investigation in the case. “The matter is now under investigation with the Gurgaon police commissioner,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-hsvp-chief-indicted-for-illegal-sale-of-hospital-site/articleshow/76310489.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors, nurses association extends solidarity to medicos||Hyderabad: In a show of solidarity with agitating PG doctors of Gandhi Hospital, members of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) too held simultaneous protests across all teaching hospitals in the city, including Niloufer Hospital, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital and Osmania General Hospital. TJUDA members highlighted in a representation submitted to the state health minister that the mounting pressure of Covid-19 cases on Gandhi Hospital was leading to the crumbling of already dismal infrastructure.  “It is condemnable and pathetic to see public brutally attack us at work despite all the risk the professionals are taking to serve people,” said Dr Vaddiraju Rakesh, vice-president of THANA. Meanwhile, Congress blamed the TRS government for the attack on doctors at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-nurses-association-extends-solidarity-to-medicos/articleshow/76310502.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Won’t tolerate attack on docs: Police||Hyderabad: Two accused persons were arrested and are being sent to jail, said North zone DCP Kalmeshwar S. On Wednesday, the Hyderabad Police tweeted: “Two accused who assaulted the Doctor at Gandhi Hospital last night are arrested immediately after the incident. Under any circumstances attack Medical staff will not be tolerated. Most firm and stringent legal action will be taken. In this time Doctors are our Frontline leaders” A case has been registered under Section 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC and Sections of Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and Telangana Medicare Service Person and Medicare Service Institution Act 2008. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wont-tolerate-attack-on-docs-police/articleshow/76310498.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt remits Rs 247cr to over 2L barbers, tailors, dhobis||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday launched the Rs 247 crore worth Jagananna Chedodu scheme, which provides a one-time assistance of Rs 10,000 to tailors, barbers and washermen. The amount was remitted into the bank accounts of 2.47 lakh beneficiaries under unencumbered mode which does not allow the bankers to deduct the amount towards previous loans of the beneficiaries, if any. Speaking to the beneficiaries through a video-link, the chief minister said the government was spending Rs 42,465 crore every year 3.58 crore beneficiaries through different welfare programmes. “Perhaps Andhra Pradesh is the only government, which is spending a huge amount for the welfare of weaker sections,” said the chief minister. He said these sections have suffered during the lockdown and the financial aid from the government would help them get back in the business. Speaking about the welfare programmes to be launched later this year, Jaganmohan Reddy said the government would give away the Vidya Deevena kit, including three pairs of uniform, shoes, socks, books, bags, to children studying in government schools in August. Since about 40 lakh students are going to get the cloth, the tailors would also get good work, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-remits-rs-247cr-to-over-2l-barbers-tailors-dhobis/articleshow/76308452.cms||Samdani MN
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Quarrying permit not essential for bldgs up to 20,000 sq metres||Thiruvananthapuram: In a significant move touted as a booster dose to the slackened construction activities in the state, the LDF government on Wednesday decided to exempt buildings up to 20,000 square metres from obtaining ‘quarrying permit’. As per the prevailing rules, quarrying permit is mandatory for construction of buildings of 300 square metres area or above.  The permit is given to accord sanction for removing earth from the construction site for the purpose of basement construction. To obtain such permit, the rules insist that the builder should produce ‘no-objection’ statement from the owners of nearby structures within 50-metre radius. The rules wanted them to produce revenue documents, survey map of the adjacent areas as also the environmental clearance for the quarrying permit. Union government has recently made environmental clearance not mandatory for buildings up to 20,000 square metres. There had been demand that Kerala government should emulate the Union government decision. It was after discussing in detail about such demands that the cabinet took the decision, a communique from the office of the chief minister said. Cabinet has also approved the detailed project report (DPR) of the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi high speed rail corridor, Silver Line. The approval was given with minor changes in the alignment proposed by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-rail), a joint venture of the Indian Railways and the Kerala government. The implementing agency can now approach international funding agencies such as JICA, KFW, ADB and AIIB. The feasibility report of the project had proposed the line to pass through Mahe. But as per the changes made by the cabinet, the line will be skipping Mahe. While the Kasaragod-Tirur stretch of Silver Line will run parallel to the existing rail line the Tirur-Thiruvananthapuram section will deviate from the present one. The cost of the project is estimated at Rs 63,941 crore. It is expected to be completed by 2025. Trains will be able to run up to a speed of 200 KM per hour on the two-lane greenfield corridor. Starting from Thiruvananthapuram, trains on the Silver Line will reach Kasaragod in four hours, covering a distance of 529.45 km through 11 districts. The running time between the busy Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam stretch will be one-and-a-half hours. Postings: The cabinet decided to give additional charge of KSRTC MD to Social Welfare secretary Biju Prabhakar.  Transport department principal secretary K R Jyothilal would hold the additional charge of KSRTC chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/quarrying-permit-not-essential-for-bldgs-up-to-20000-sq-metres/articleshow/76309622.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Indore||Alleged audio clip of Shivraj claims BJP decided Kamal Nath govt must fall, sparks controversy||INDORE/BHOPAL: Controversy erupted in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday over an alleged audio of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in which he purportedly says that the BJP central leadership had “decided that the Congress government in the state must fall”. Former CM Kamal Nath lashed out at BJP, saying this was proof that his government was toppled through a BJP conspiracy and not internal strife as the saffron party has claimed all along. “I have been saying from the very first day that BJP deliberately brought down my majority, democratically elected government through conspiracy and enticement,” Nath tweeted. Congress said it would approach Supreme Court and the President. “The chief minister of a state has admitted that the central government brought down a democratically elected government,” said PCC media chief Jitu Patwari. BJP has not yet commented on the controversy. Calls to senior BJP leaders for their reaction went unanswered. TOI cannot vouch for the authenticity of the recording. The audio clip was allegedly recorded during Chouhan’s address to BJP leaders of Sanwer assembly constituency on his Indore visit on June 8. Sanwer was the constituency of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s close aide Tulsi Silawat, who was key among the 22 Congress MLAs who broke away from Congress in March, and is likely to get the BJP ticket for the bypoll. Part of the 8-minute audio clip goes thus: “Kendriya netritya ne tay kiya ki yeh Sarkar girni chahiye. Yeh barbad karr degi, tabah karr degi. Ab batao Jyotiraditya Scindiaji aur Tulsi Bhai ke bagair Sarkar girr sakti thhi kya? Aur koi tarika nehi thha (Central leadership decided that the government should fall, or they would ruin everything. Now tell me, would the government had fallen without Jyotiraditya Scindia ji and Tulsi Bhai? There was no other way).” “Scindia and Silawat quit because they were ‘hurt’ by the failure of the Kamal Nath government to deliver on its promises. Now, Congress is trying to malign their image by accusing them of irregularities and scams. It is Congress that has betrayed, not Jyotiraditya Scindia or Tulsi Silawat,” it adds. The chief minister is purportedly heard placating disgruntled BJP leaders in Sanwer: “Now, elections are going to be held. Tell me honestly, if Tulsi does not become an MLA, will I remain the chief minister? Will the BJP government survive? So, it is our duty (to get Silawat elected). It is not Tusi Silawat who is contesting polls, but every BJP worker.” BJP workers are told that it is immaterial if they had fought against Silawat in the 2018 assembly polls: “Lade to lade (so what if we fought). There should be no malice. It is the duty of every worker to get Tulsi elected.” Soon after the audio clip went viral on Tuesday, Rau MLA and Congress state working president Jitu Patwari said the party or even an individual may move Supreme Court. “It is now clear that Chouhan toppled the Congress government at the instance of the Prime Minister and Amit Shah. This is a criminal conspiracy. We will move court and approach the President,” he told reporters at a press conference. “The BJP-led government at the Centre allowed Covid-19 to spread by delaying lockdown in the country to give time to Chouhan to topple the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh,” Jitu, the Rau MLA, said. “Despite suggestions given by Rahul Gandhiji to close airports, no step was taken by the Centre. Chouhan’s statements show that the central government is responsible for the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was delayed for vested interests of BJP.” “Our allegation was that a health minister, who was responsible for fighting Covid-19, got sold out to BJP and he conspired to topple the Congress government. These allegations are proven true with Chouhan’s statements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/alleged-audio-clip-of-shivraj-claims-bjp-decided-kamal-nath-govt-must-fall-sparks-controversy/articleshow/76313695.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bhopal||Alleged audio clip of Shivraj claims BJP decided Kamal Nath govt must fall, sparks controversy||INDORE/BHOPAL: Controversy erupted in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday over an alleged audio of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in which he purportedly says that the BJP central leadership had “decided that the Congress government in the state must fall”. Former CM Kamal Nath lashed out at BJP, saying this was proof that his government was toppled through a BJP conspiracy and not internal strife as the saffron party has claimed all along. “I have been saying from the very first day that BJP deliberately brought down my majority, democratically elected government through conspiracy and enticement,” Nath tweeted. Congress said it would approach Supreme Court and the President. “The chief minister of a state has admitted that the central government brought down a democratically elected government,” said PCC media chief Jitu Patwari. BJP has not yet commented on the controversy. Calls to senior BJP leaders for their reaction went unanswered. TOI cannot vouch for the authenticity of the recording. The audio clip was allegedly recorded during Chouhan’s address to BJP leaders of Sanwer assembly constituency on his Indore visit on June 8. Sanwer was the constituency of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s close aide Tulsi Silawat, who was key among the 22 Congress MLAs who broke away from Congress in March, and is likely to get the BJP ticket for the bypoll. Part of the 8-minute audio clip goes thus: “Kendriya netritya ne tay kiya ki yeh Sarkar girni chahiye. Yeh barbad karr degi, tabah karr degi. Ab batao Jyotiraditya Scindiaji aur Tulsi Bhai ke bagair Sarkar girr sakti thhi kya? Aur koi tarika nehi thha (Central leadership decided that the government should fall, or they would ruin everything. Now tell me, would the government had fallen without Jyotiraditya Scindia ji and Tulsi Bhai? There was no other way).” “Scindia and Silawat quit because they were ‘hurt’ by the failure of the Kamal Nath government to deliver on its promises. Now, Congress is trying to malign their image by accusing them of irregularities and scams. It is Congress that has betrayed, not Jyotiraditya Scindia or Tulsi Silawat,” it adds. The chief minister is purportedly heard placating disgruntled BJP leaders in Sanwer: “Now, elections are going to be held. Tell me honestly, if Tulsi does not become an MLA, will I remain the chief minister? Will the BJP government survive? So, it is our duty (to get Silawat elected). It is not Tusi Silawat who is contesting polls, but every BJP worker.” BJP workers are told that it is immaterial if they had fought against Silawat in the 2018 assembly polls: “Lade to lade (so what if we fought). There should be no malice. It is the duty of every worker to get Tulsi elected.” Soon after the audio clip went viral on Tuesday, Rau MLA and Congress state working president Jitu Patwari said the party or even an individual may move Supreme Court. “It is now clear that Chouhan toppled the Congress government at the instance of the Prime Minister and Amit Shah. This is a criminal conspiracy. We will move court and approach the President,” he told reporters at a press conference. “The BJP-led government at the Centre allowed Covid-19 to spread by delaying lockdown in the country to give time to Chouhan to topple the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh,” Jitu, the Rau MLA, said. “Despite suggestions given by Rahul Gandhiji to close airports, no step was taken by the Centre. Chouhan’s statements show that the central government is responsible for the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was delayed for vested interests of BJP.” “Our allegation was that a health minister, who was responsible for fighting Covid-19, got sold out to BJP and he conspired to topple the Congress government. These allegations are proven true with Chouhan’s statements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/alleged-audio-clip-of-shivraj-claims-bjp-decided-kamal-nath-govt-must-fall-sparks-controversy/articleshow/76311303.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon has only 83 active Covid-19 cases now||NASHIK: Malegaon has finally turned a corner in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. While at one time, it had 400 patients in various Covid-19 facilities, the textile town on Wednesday reported only 83 active patients in its wards. The densely populated town was in the news for all the wrong reasons since April 8. The daily reporting of 5-10 Covid-19 cases suddenly shot up to more than 25 cases a day and peaked at 81 a day. “The situation was very tense. However, cooperation from citizens and elected representatives, and timely action by the health and administration officials helped stabilise the number of new patients reported each day. Now, the number has dropped to a single digit,” Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare, who handled the situation in the textile town, said. Setting up of an emergency operation centre exclusively for Malegaon and putting assistant collector Pankaj Ashiya in charge of the same also helped. Also, to remove misgivings and misconceptions among people, audio and video messages by religious heads and influential people were aired on social media and at mosques. “The suspected patients – who might be positive – are now compulsory quarantined and rigorous contact tracing is done,” additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saidane, who was handed the responsibility of Malegaon, said. In the case of Malegaon, it was the middle-aged population that had been infected the most. “We analysed the situation and provided medicines, oxygen supplies and a protein-rich diet. All of this collectively helped improve the situation. The government guidelines of early discharge also brought down the load on the system,” Dr Hitesh Mahale, the additional civil surgeon, said. Mahale added, “Tests are being carried out as per the ICMR guidelines, but the number of patients has dropped.” The police also lent valuable support. “We, along with the community leaders, decided to restrict people indoors during Ramzan. People’s sacrifice ensured the situation now getting better,” SP Arti Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-has-only-83-active-covid-cases-now/articleshow/76310522.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two arrested for threatening people using a toy pistol||HYDERABAD: Madhapur police on Wednesday arrested two persons, who allegedly used a toy pistol to threaten people in Mastan Nagar and Madhapur. On Tuesday night, Madhapur police received a complaint that two persons, who were travelling in a car entered Mastan Nagar and rammed a few vehicles. When the locals stopped them, one of them brandished a pistol and threatened them. Based on the complaint, police traced the car owner, who disclosed the names of those who travelled in the vehicle. On the basis of the details provided by the owner, police arrested Chaitanya Ram (25) and relative B Venkat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-threatening-people-using-a-toy-pistol/articleshow/76311299.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Business||Bessemer, Dutch development bank pick up stake in Innoviti||Mayur.Shetty@timegroup.com Mumbai: Innoviti, a payments company that facilitates retail outlets to accept card and digital payments, has raised series-C funding led by the Netherlands-based FMO: Entrepreneurial Development Bank, and US-based Bessemer Venture Partners. Although the company did not disclose the size of the investment, a source said it was around the $18-million mark, that it raised in its series-B round from SBI FMO and Bessemer Venture Partners in 2017. Prior to the latest funding, the company had raised $25 million through various rounds of investment. Speaking to TOI, Innoviti CEO Rajeev Agarwal said the company was helping merchants extract the full power of digital payments by integrating payments with the merchants’ systems. Such intelligent solutions were not possible with standalone terminals and QR stickers, he said. “We are adding value beyond payments and helping businesses become more efficient and improve sales. We are now going to deploy resources in coming out with a category-specific solution for each retail segment,” said Agarwal. This included segments like fashion and mobile phones. He added that the company was also looking at building specialised distribution models that can support these solutions at scale by leveraging its relations with trade and industry. Innoviti processes over $6.5 billion of annualised offline merchant payment volume, which is around 5% of India’s brick-and-mortar retail sales. The focus on value-added products has translated into a 250% revenue growth over a 180% merchant volume growth since series-B funding in 2017. The company was aiming to earn an ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) profit in March this year. However, this has got pushed to the middle of the current fiscal due to the lockdown. “Innoviti has been using payments technology to find new and unique ways of helping small businesses grow efficiently. In a fast-developing economy like India, the use of technology is critical to make MSME’s competitive in the marketplace and provide them with efficient and sustainable access to financial services. We are excited about partnering with Innoviti through our recently established Ventures Program,” said FMO director (private equity) Jaap Reinking. According to Bessemer Venture Partners MD Vishal Gupta, digital payments can do far more for businesses than move money. “The usefulness of vanilla terminals and QR stickers is limited, as businesses demand more from payment solution providers, more intelligence, reliability and savings.” Following the investment, Bessemer and Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran Ventures are the largest investors in the company followed by SBI Capital and FMO. Titan Industries was among its earliest investor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bessemer-dutch-development-bank-pick-up-stake-in-innoviti/articleshow/76303995.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry to set up 6 more cyber crime police stations||Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday approved setting up of six new cyber crime police stations, one each at five police range headquarters and one at the commissionerate in Faridabad, said an official. The setting up of these police stations will cost the government Rs 14.38 crore towards pay and allowances of the staff and over Rs 1.44 crore for the purchase of equipment to curb cyber crime effectively in the state. A police spokesperson said currently, there are only two cyber crime police stations in the state — one each at the commissionerates in Panchkula and Gurgaon. Keeping in mind the number, nature and complexity of cyber crime-related complaints, which the cyber crime police stations at the police commissionerate and range level are required to attend to, the administrative department (home) had proposed to create six more such police stations in the state at Faridabad, Rewari, Rohtak, Hisar, Karnal Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-to-set-up-6-more-cyber-crime-police-stations/articleshow/76310525.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Megalithic era burial urn unearthed||THANJAVUR: An ancient burial urn dating back to the Megalithic era was unearthed near Peravurani in Thanjavur district on Tuesday. Farmers stumbled upon the urn while desilting the Ayyanar lake at Kattayankadu in the district. They informed Pattukottai tahsildar and faculties of the department of archaeological in Tamil University. On being alerted, Peravurani MLA M Govindarasu too visited the spot and enquired about the urn with the officials. V Selvakumar, head of the department of maritime history and marine archaeology at Tamil University in Thanjavur, said that the urn is estimated to be around 2500 years old. He said that many such urns could be submerged in the lake. Several such burial urns have already been unearthed in Peravurani and Pattukottai areas in the district in the recent past, he added. "People in those times utilized the urn for secondary burial. They used to store skeletal remains of cremated or buried bodies in memory of their ancestors", Selvakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/megalithic-era-burial-urn-unearthed/articleshow/76311304.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 170 cops discharged so far after recovering from Covid-19||NASHIK: As many as 170 police personnel, who were serving in Malegaon and had tested positive for Covid-19, have been discharged from hospitals so far, after they recovered from the infection. Currently, 11 police personnel are undergoing treatment. Senior officials said that of the 170 police personnel, 89 were from the Nashik rural police, 39 from Jalna State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), 10 from Aurangabad SRPF, 13 from Amravati SRPF, one from Dhule SRPF, two from Moral and Dhule Police Training School, four from Jalgaon police force and 12 from Mumbai Railway police. Many of them have resumed their duties, said senior police officials. Arti Singh, the superintendents of police, Nashik rural, congratulated all the police personnel for their recovery. Meanwhile, the SP said that most of the police personnel, who have been carrying out their duty in the textile town for the Covid-19 bandobast for over two and half months have been given rest and kept in a quarantine facility in Adgaon She recently visited the Social Welfare Department hostel at Adgaon, to meet the police personnel. She guided the police personnel on how they should take care of their health and stressed on the importance of maintaining social distance. Apart from this, the police personnel performing their duty in high-risk zones of Malegaon are counselled on increasing their confidence and doing away with the unnecessary fear of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/170-cops-discharged-so-far-after-recovering-from-covid-19/articleshow/76310549.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Display status of beds on LED boards: Delhi LG Anil Baijal||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday made it mandatory for all hospitals, nursing homes and clinics to prominently display the availability of beds on LED boards at the entrance along with the room and medical charges and details of the contact person for admission. Asking chief secretary Vijay Dev to ensure that the directions are followed, Baijal said the move will bring transparency in the system. Directed Chief Secretary to ensure that all Hospitals/Clinics/nursing homes of Delhi display availability of beds o… https://t.co/c0p3PXdgpE— LG Delhi (@LtGovDelhi) 1591788979000All hospitals and nursing homes, whether they are treating Covid-19 patients or not, will have to install the LED boards conspicuously outside their establishments at the entry point itself, the order stated. The move comes days after Delhi government launched a mobile app and a weblink to provide live data on the number of beds, ICU and ventilators available at each Covid-designated health facility. The LG has also asked the health department to ensure that data displayed on these boards is same as the one available on the mobile app and weblink. “The LG also directed Delhi Disaster Management Authority to conduct surprise checks to ensure that correct data is being displayed ,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/display-status-of-beds-on-led-boards-baijal/articleshow/76311311.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Uber resumes its airport transportation service in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Uber has resumed its airport transportation service in Thiruvananthapuram after domestic air travel became near normal. People can now choose airport pick up and drop in the city. “Riders will be able to access UberGo, Premier and UberXL for safe, reliable and convenient airport travel needs, as permitted by government guidelines,” said a statement from the multinational ride-hailing company. Ratul Ghosh, head ridesharing, east and south India, Uber, said, “We are pleased to resume services for airport travel in several cities across India. This will bring back earning opportunities for our drivers and we will constantly work with airport authorities to continue to ensure the highest possible hygiene and safety standards for our drivers and riders.” Uber has launched a comprehensive set of safety measures over the past few weeks, such as the Go online checklist, a mandatory mask policy for both customers and drivers, pre-trip mask verification selfies for drivers and mandatory driver education. It updated its cancellation policy allowing both riders and drivers to cancel trips if they don’t feel safe. Complementing these measures, Uber distributed over three million masks and 2,00,000 bottles of disinfectants and sanitisers to its driver partners at free of cost.  Last month, Uber launched a special service for frontline healthcare workers in the city as part of the company's UberMedic service in the city. When lockdown had hit transportation of healthcare workers, Uber cabs offered free rides for them to commute between hospitals and their places of residence. It was part of a global campaign of Uber to provide 10 million free rides and food deliveries free of charge to healthcare workers. Special protocols for ensuring social distancing and disinfection of cabs were in place for UberMedic service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uber-resumesits-airport-transportation-service/articleshow/76309634.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Age no bar: Online pleasure is now their lockdown leisure||Nagpur: Sources of entertainment like music videos, movies and series during lockdown are no more limited to the younger generation. The lockdown also made children and senior citizens binge watch their favourite genres. Classics, be it regional cinema, serials or cartoons, trending on digital platforms are on their watch list. Almost all age groups are now hooked to online entertainment platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar, Amazon Prime etc, especially the elderly. They are enjoying evergreen movies and songs and slowly getting the hang of entertainment on mobile screens. A teacher by profession, Kavita Shah feels that apart from the various activities she is performing in the lockdown, she loves to watch her favourite shows and series on Netflix. “I watch ‘Money Heist’ and it keeps me charged. I also like mystery and thriller series. It helps kill the monotony of work from home (WFH) and other household work. I also like to watch standup comedy,” she said. For writer Swati Sani, the lockdown is helping her in writing her fifth book. Apart from watching series, she loves to listen to audio books and podcasts. “I’m enjoying listening to audio books and podcasts (Amazon audible) during my one hour exercise in the morning and also while doing my daily chores.” she said. Mrunal Naik, project head at SGR Knowledge Foundation, has been enjoying a variety of series, cinema and thriller webs on all the online platforms. “We enjoy an array of series such as the Mentalist, Grays Anatomy, House of Cards, Suits etc. It’s entertaining and there is so much to learn from them,” she said. Her mother-in-law Vijaya, too, has a list of her favourites that she can’t do without. ‘Permanent roommates’ is her favourite. Senior citizen Pushpa Guhe wasn’t aware of online entertainment earlier. But now, she watches all of her favourite regional cinema, old Hindi and Marathi songs. Even doting parents are allowing their children to watch lighthearted shows and series. “My kid enjoyed watching Ketie and Alexa, Mind the Malhotras and some family drama shows that we all can relate too,” said Arumita Pawa, a lecturer. Student Nirmal Kaur made elders in her family watch and enjoy shows, classic cinemas and music videos on online platforms. It was a new discovery for the elderly. “These online video platforms are filled with all types of drama, thrill, romantic and comedy movies. I watch with my family. It has helped us in improving our bond and keeping even the elderly in a cheerful mood,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/age-no-bar-online-pleasure-is-now-their-lockdown-leisure/articleshow/76310608.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala reports two covid deaths, 65 new cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala recorded 65 new cases on Wednesday and confirmed two more deaths due to Covid-19 in Thrissur and Kannur, taking the total positive cases to 2,160 with 19 deaths, including the disputed one in Mahe. Thrissur native Kumaran (87) who expired on June 7, tested positive. The second death is of 70-year-old P K Muhammed of Iritty who passed away in Pariyaram Medical College, Kannur. He had returned from Muscat. His son has also tested positive. A 33-year-old patient, admitted at medical college hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, committed suicide inside the isolation ward. He tested negative once and was awaiting the result of second test. But, he had jumped quarantine and was brought back to the hospital on Tuesday. Till date, 905 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals while 1,238 active cases are being treated at various hospitals. Of the new cases reported in state, 34 came from abroad and 25 from other states. Five more people were infected via contact. More positive cases were reported in Kozhikode, 10 in the day. Nine cases in Thrissur (one- expired), seven in Malappuram, six each in Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad, four each in Kollam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Wayanad and Kannur, three each in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam and one in Alappuzha were declared positive. At present 2,10,592 persons are placed under surveillance, of which 2,08,748 are under home/institutional quarantine and 1,844 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. Till date, 98,304 samples (including augmented and private lab samples) were sent for testing of which 93,475 were negative. Apart from above, 24,508 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers as part of sentinel surveillance and 22,950 samples tested negative. During the past 24 hours, 4,689 samples were tested in state. Palakkad has the maximum number of active cases at 178, followed by Malappuram (176), Kannur (124), Thrissur (123), Kasaragod (91), Kollam (89), Kozhikode (81), Thiruvananthapuram (78), Alappuzha (76) and Pathanamthitta (74). Meanwhile, test results of 57 patients under treatment were declared negative. Of the lot, 13 are from Kannur, 11 from Kasaragod, seven from Alappuzha, six each from Pathanamthitta and Wayanad, four from Kollam, three each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode and two each from Kottayam and Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-reports-2-deaths-65-new-cases/articleshow/76309637.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Road accidents spike after govt eases lockdown in Tamil Nadu||TRICHY: After a steep decline in April, road accident rate in the state has slowly started to increase since May 17, when lockdown norms were relaxed. Compared to the period between March 24 and May 17, road traffic accidents increased by almost double after May 17 in the city. Lockdown due to Covid-19 left all the arterial roads and the bypasses deserted bringing down the number of accidents. Between March 25 and April 30, the city witnessed only 13 cases, which included a fatal accident. The number was nearly one-fourth of the cases registered during the corresponding period last year. But, the scene changed after May 17 when all types of vehicles occupied the roads once again as the government eased the lockdown norms. Vehicle movement increased further after June 1 as the government allowed vehicle movement within the districts in the zones. Going by the latest data, Trichy city witnessed 19 accidents between March 25 and May 16, whereas 31 accidents including six fatal cases were recorded between May 17 and June 9. A police officer in Madurai said that Madurai city recorded only five accident deaths in April, whereas the death has increased to eight in May. The officer said that even this figure is low for Madurai, which usually witnesses more than 15 accident deaths. Few others blame the government’s decision to restart alcohol sales. Trichy east co-ordinator of Makkal Needhi Maiam S R Kishore Kumar attributed the reopening of Tasmac shops to the rise in the number of road accidents. “Drunken driving is the main reason for the accidents,” he said. While speeding is also termed a reason for accidents, a section of motorists had weird reasons that they developed a habit of driving vehicles fast on empty roads during the lockdown. Even after the relaxations, they had the tendency of driving their vehicles fast leading to accidents. Social worker Paul Guna Loganath said that the motorists were least bothered about the road traffic rules. “All they know is that they have an accelerator and brake in their vehicle. Riding the bike or driving the car in full throttle unmindful of the safety of others is the norm. They have no idea how to manage the crisis on the road,” he said. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, V Varadharaju said, “Accidents occur on highways and on city roads. It is highly tragic to lose a life on the roads. People should adhere to traffic rules,” he told ToI. However, he said there was 25% dip in accidents between January 1 and June 8, compared to last year. Fatal accidents also came down by 18%. (With inputs from Devanathan Veerappan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/road-accidents-spike-after-govt-eases-lockdown-in-state/articleshow/76311306.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 11, 2020||World||JK Rowling says she is survivor of sexual assault||LONDON: "Harry Potter" author JK Rowling revealed on Wednesday she has been a victim of domestic abuse and sexual assault. The celebrated British writer said in a blog post that she was disclosing the information to give context to her controversial past comments about transgender women. "This isn't an easy piece to write," Rowling said in a 3,695-word essay on gender identity and her own troubled past. "I've been in the public eye now for over twenty years and have never talked publicly about being a domestic abuse and sexual assault survivor," Rowling wrote. "This isn't because I'm ashamed those things happened to me, but because they're traumatic to revisit and remember." Rowling caused a scandal by tweeting last weekend about "people who menstruate". "I'm sure there used to be a word for those people. Someone help me out. Wumben? Wimpund? Woomud?" The tweet forced "Harry Potter" star Daniel Radcliffe to apologise to trans women who may have been offended by Rowling's remark. "Transgender women are women," Radcliffe wrote in a post for The Trevor Project website. The feud dated back to comments from December in which Rowling expressed support for a woman who had lost her job over what her employer deemed to be "transphobic" tweets. Rowling said on Wednesday that "accusations and threats from trans activists have been bubbling in my Twitter timeline" ever since. "Huge numbers of women are justifiably terrified by the trans activists; I know this because so many have got in touch with me to tell their stories," she wrote. Rowling ended her post by affirming that she was "a survivor (and) certainly not a victim". "I haven't written this essay in the hope that anybody will get out a violin for me, not even a teeny-weeny one," she said. "I've only mentioned my past because, like every other human being on this planet, I have a complex backstory, which shapes my fears, my interests and my opinions." Rowling said she had spent many years thinking about trans issues because of her own troubles with gender identity when she was young. "When I read about the theory of gender identity, I remember how mentally sexless I felt in youth," she wrote. "As I didn't have a realistic possibility of becoming a man back in the 1980s, it had to be books and music that got me through both my mental health issues and the sexualised scrutiny and judgement that sets so many girls to war against their bodies in their teens." The 54-year-old said she spent a period feeling "ambivalence about being a woman" before learning that "it's OK to feel confused, dark, both sexual and non-sexual, unsure of what or who you are". She also argued that "the current explosion of trans activism" has resulted in too many people undergoing gender reassignment surgery without giving it sufficient thought. "I want to be very clear here: I know transition will be a solution for some gender dysphoric people, although I'm also aware through extensive research that studies have consistently shown that between 60-90 percent of gender dysphoric teens will grow out of their dysphoria," she said. "So I want trans women to be safe. At the same time, I do not want to make... girls and women less safe." But she also stood up for her right to speak freely about an issue that she said has been with her throughout life. "As a much-banned author, I'm interested in freedom of speech and have publicly defended it, even unto Donald Trump," she wrote. Rowling's books have been banned in parts of the world because of their association in some cultures with witchcraft and the occult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/jk-rowling-says-she-is-survivor-of-sexual-assault/articleshow/76312095.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fake notes of Rs 55 crore value seized in Pune; jawan among 6 held||PUNE: In an operation initiated by the Military Intelligence (MI), the Pune crime branch seized fake Indian and US currency notes of Rs 55 crore face value from a bungalow at Sanjay Park in Vimannagar on Wednesday. Six men, including a serving Lance Naik attached to the military band unit at the Bombay Engineering Group here, have been taken into custody in connection with the seizure. The counting of the counterfeit notes was on till late Wednesday night, but the police estimate the face value of the currency to be Rs 55 crore. On its part, the Army Southern Command estimated the seizure at a face value of Rs 10 crore, in a statement released late in the evening. “It would seem the plan was to circulate these fake notes in the market by using a layer of genuine notes on top,” a police officer said, pointing out that actual currency worth Rs 2.5 lakh was also seized from the bungalow. Army sources said the action was based on a tip-off from the MI officials in Jammu and Kashmir and the Southern Command, who contacted city’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve. The six arrested men were being questioned over the source of the fake currency and other details. Police identified the six men as Lance Naik Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan Sahab (36), Sunil Badrinarayan Sarda (45) from Pune, Ritesh Ratnakar (43) and Abdul Rehman Adul Ganik Khan (18), both from Kamote in Navi Mumbai, Abdul Gani Rehmatullah Khan (45) and Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan, both from Mira Road, Mumbai. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI, “So far, Indian currency of various denominations totalling Rs 43.4 crore and 4.2 crore US dollars in face value have been seized. The quality of the notes will be checked in due course by experts. Many of the notes are marked ‘Children Bank of India’.” Late in the evening, the Army Southern Command, which is headquartered in Pune, issued a release which read: “The Southern Command Intelligence wing along with crime branch, Pune, carried out a successful joint operation in Vimannagar and busted a fake currency racket on Wednesday. Six people, including five civilians and a soldier, were apprehended with fake Indian and foreign currency to the tune of approximately 10 crore.” The release said a pistol was also recovered during the operation. When contacted, Shisve said, “The currency notes seized looked very similar to genuine notes. We are interrogating the suspects to trace from where the notes were printed and secured.” Additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale said, “Investigations so far have revealed that Lance Naik Alim brought the currency to Pune. He had taken the bungalow on a monthly rent of Rs 23,000 around eight months ago from its owner Ganesh Shinde. Alim had taken the help of Abdul Gani to exchange the notes and US dollars in the local market on a commission basis. Gani later took the help of the other four men, including his son, to get customers for the exchange of notes,” he stated. Morale said, “The MI officials were monitoring Gani’s movements on suspicion that he was running a fake currency racket. After the MI’s tip-off, we sent a decoy with Rs 25 lakh cash to meet Gani near S P College. Gani checked the genuineness of the notes given by the decoy and together they drove to the bungalow to strike an exchange deal. Once they were in, our police team led by senior inspectors Rajendra Mohite and Anjum Bagwan raided the bungalow.” An army officer, who did not wish to be named, told TOI, “A specific input was received from a source in a West Asian country that a huge consignment of fake currency is being pumped into Pune for anti-national activities. This got the MI and the police to act together.” The officer said, “We had to take help from a hawala operator in Mumbai, who got in touch with one of the suspects to offer his services to circulate the fake notes by using his resources in Pune, Mumbai and other cities. The suspects took some days and finally agreed on Wednesday to strike a deal. Based on the specific inputs, we jointly laid a trap and arrested them with the fake notes,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fake-notes-of-55cr-value-seized-in-pune-jawan-among-6-held/articleshow/76311314.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Two PSUs step in to bridge digital divide||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Smartphones, tablets and laptops have become the need of the hour for school students instead of books, water bottles, umbrellas and school bags, ever since the government launched e-classes due to Covid-19 outbreak. In the wake of unavailability of affordable devices in the market for the low- and middle-income families, two government public sector undertakings have decided to help their staff purchase the digital devices at an affordable cost. The Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC) and the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) have extended interest-free loans up to Rs 21,000 for their employees for buying the e-learning devices. The PSUs have also entered into negotiations with another government firm, Coconics, a private-public partnership company supported by the state government, to supply educational laptops at Rs 11,000 per unit. The PSUs have also negotiated with another private player to supply the devices for the employees. “The idea came when one of our casual employee was heard requesting another one for a spare smartphone for the education of his child. When we inquired, the availability of gadgets in the market had also come down due to huge demand and the supply chain disruption in China,” managing director of KSINC and KIIDC, N Prasanth said. Also, many of the parents are in office and they may not be able to share their smartphones with their children. Hence, most families are feeling the requirement of an additional gadget, Prasanth said. The employees can either purchasing the devices from negotiated suppliers or any other suppliers of their choice, by availing the interest-free loans. While employees above the pay scale of Rs 35,000 can avail up to Rs 15, 000 as loan, those in the pay-scale below Rs 35,000 will be offered a loan up to Rs 21,000. The loans will be repayable from August in 12-15 instalments. While the model of the educational laptop manufactured by Coconics is pending for BIS approval, (expected in another three months), the company has agreed to provide another laptop at the same rate, which can be returned once the educational model is supplied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/two-psus-step-in-to-bridge-digital-divide/articleshow/76309650.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Physical filing of suits, cases resumes at Trichy courts||Trichy: The district court in Trichy has permitted advocates to file fresh suits and other category of cases through drop boxes in the main campus and in taluk courts from Wednesday after more than two-and-a-half months of lockdown due to Covid-19. The boxes will be available for filing between 11am to 1pm. As advised by the principal district judge in an official memorandum on June 8, advocates and advocate clerks dropped the petitions kept in the sealed envelope into the boxes placed near the IV additional sub-court. The court had already made it clear that except lawyers, their clerks and the police, no litigant or any person will be allowed for any activities on court campus. There was no change in the existing process of filing of applications for bails and anticipatory bails through e-mail. Litigants can utilize the e-filing facility launched newly. Party-in-persons can file the cases only through email. The court advised the litigants and their counsels to place the papers and records pertaining to the cases in the envelope and seal it properly. Details of the court, purpose of the paper filed, name, address, mobile number and email of the advocates concerned should be written on the envelope. All new plaints, appeals, original petitions, petitions, written statement, counter, vakkalath, private complaints, charge sheets, memo of appearance, copy applications and stamp papers shall be dropped in the boxes. The closed envelops will be taken for scrutinizing at 1pm on the third day to avoid the possible infection of Covid-19. While filing of cases, application and return of cases will be intimated to the counsels through SMS, the returned papers, ready certified copies and return of documents will be handed over to the advocates concerned from 2.30pm to 4.30pm on Tuesday and Thursday. Inquiry pertaining to the newly instituted and pending cases will be heard through video conference facility. The facility has also been made available at Manapparai, Lalgudi, Thuraiyur, Musiri and Srirangam Taluk courts in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/physical-filing-of-suits-cases-resumes-at-trichy-courts/articleshow/76311312.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan Congress MLAs at resort to prevent BJP ‘poaching’||JAIPUR: The state Congress on Wednesday convened a meeting of its MLAs and independents supporting the party at a resort ahead of Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. The move came after the party received information that the BJP has started approaching its MLAs with ‘lucrative’ offers. The Congress MLAs were asked to come to the chief minister’s official residence at 8, Civil Lines. Later, they were shifted to the posh Shiv Vilas resort on the outskirts of Jaipur at Kukus in buses. The meeting got over around 11.30pm. Around 115 MLAs had attended it and were given the choice of either staying at the hotel or going home as they had come unprepared for a stay. The MLAs were asked to come to the hotel at 5pm on Thursday for another meeting, said a leader. Speaking to the media after the meeting, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that while the state was fighting to save lives and livelihood, some people were trying to destabilise the state government. “Attempts are being made to bribe MLAs with offers of Rs 10 crore and an advance of Rs 5 crore in Jaipur,” he said. BJP is a fascist party and has no faith in democratic values, he alleged. Meanwhile, Congress central leaders, including party chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and AICC secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Vivek Bansal, reached Jaipur in the evening. Talking to TOI over the phone, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande said, “I am now in Nagpur and will reach Jaipur by Thursday.” When asked about reports that some party MLAs have been receiving calls from BJP, he said, “It is not new.” Party leaders said the MLAs were asked to come to Jaipur for training before Rajya Sabha elections. The BJP has been allegedly wooing them with lucrative offers in Gujarat and the party had shifted some MLAs to Mount Abu in Rajasthan. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had recently lambasted BJP for orchestrating defection in the Opposition even as the country was battling Covid-19. Instead of fighting corona pandemic, he alleged that the BJP government at the Centre has been busy plotting the fall of Opposition-ruled state governments. He said there were reports of amounts, ranging from Rs 25 to 35 crore, being offered to Congress MLAs in Gujarat to resign. The CM said that after Madhya Pradesh, an attempt is being made to destabilise the Maharashtra government. However, in Rajasthan it would be quite difficult as the difference between the ruling party and the Opposition is very high, he said. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the RS elections, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. The BJP had forced elections to Rajya Sabha by putting up an additional candidate, hoping to make dent in the ruling party. The saffron party ruling the Centre is short of majority in the upper house. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six who defected to the party from BSP last year. The party also enjoys the support of 13 Independent MLAs and two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party and an MLA of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). BJP has a strength of 75 MLAs, including three MLAs of the Rashtriya Loktantik Party (RLP). The CPM has two MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-cong-mlas-at-resort-to-prevent-bjp-poaching/articleshow/76314270.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress MLAs at resort to prevent BJP ‘poaching’||JAIPUR: The state Congress on Wednesday convened a meeting of its MLAs and independents supporting the party at a resort ahead of Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. The move came after the party received information that the BJP has started approaching its MLAs with ‘lucrative’ offers. The Congress MLAs were asked to come to the chief minister’s official residence at 8, Civil Lines. Later, they were shifted to the posh Shiv Vilas resort on the outskirts of Jaipur at Kukus in buses. The meeting got over around 11.30pm. Around 115 MLAs had attended it and were given the choice of either staying at the hotel or going home as they had come unprepared for a stay. The MLAs were asked to come to the hotel at 5pm on Thursday for another meeting, said a leader. Speaking to the media after the meeting, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that while the state was fighting to save lives and livelihood, some people were trying to destabilise the state government. “Attempts are being made to bribe MLAs with offers of Rs 10 crore and an advance of Rs 5 crore in Jaipur,” he said. BJP is a fascist party and has no faith in democratic values, he alleged. Meanwhile, Congress central leaders, including party chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and AICC secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Vivek Bansal, reached Jaipur in the evening. Talking to TOI over the phone, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande said, “I am now in Nagpur and will reach Jaipur by Thursday.” When asked about reports that some party MLAs have been receiving calls from BJP, he said, “It is not new.” Party leaders said the MLAs were asked to come to Jaipur for training before Rajya Sabha elections. The BJP has been allegedly wooing them with lucrative offers in Gujarat and the party had shifted some MLAs to Mount Abu in Rajasthan. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had recently lambasted BJP for orchestrating defection in the Opposition even as the country was battling Covid-19. Instead of fighting corona pandemic, he alleged that the BJP government at the Centre has been busy plotting the fall of Opposition-ruled state governments. He said there were reports of amounts, ranging from Rs 25 to 35 crore, being offered to Congress MLAs in Gujarat to resign. The CM said that after Madhya Pradesh, an attempt is being made to destabilise the Maharashtra government. However, in Rajasthan it would be quite difficult as the difference between the ruling party and the Opposition is very high, he said. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the RS elections, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. The BJP had forced elections to Rajya Sabha by putting up an additional candidate, hoping to make dent in the ruling party. The saffron party ruling the Centre is short of majority in the upper house. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six who defected to the party from BSP last year. The party also enjoys the support of 13 Independent MLAs and two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party and an MLA of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). BJP has a strength of 75 MLAs, including three MLAs of the Rashtriya Loktantik Party (RLP). The CPM has two MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-cong-mlas-at-resort-to-prevent-bjp-poaching/articleshow/76311315.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan Congress MLAs at resort to prevent BJP ‘poaching’||JAIPUR: The state Congress on Wednesday convened a meeting of its MLAs and independents supporting the party at a resort ahead of Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. The move came after the party received information that the BJP has started approaching its MLAs with ‘lucrative’ offers. The Congress MLAs were asked to come to the chief minister’s official residence at 8, Civil Lines. Later, they were shifted to the posh Shiv Vilas resort on the outskirts of Jaipur at Kukus in buses. The meeting got over around 11.30pm. Around 115 MLAs had attended it and were given the choice of either staying at the hotel or going home as they had come unprepared for a stay. The MLAs were asked to come to the hotel at 5pm on Thursday for another meeting, said a leader. Speaking to the media after the meeting, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that while the state was fighting to save lives and livelihood, some people were trying to destabilise the state government. “Attempts are being made to bribe MLAs with offers of Rs 10 crore and an advance of Rs 5 crore in Jaipur,” he said. BJP is a fascist party and has no faith in democratic values, he alleged. Meanwhile, Congress central leaders, including party chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and AICC secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Vivek Bansal, reached Jaipur in the evening. Talking to TOI over the phone, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande said, “I am now in Nagpur and will reach Jaipur by Thursday.” When asked about reports that some party MLAs have been receiving calls from BJP, he said, “It is not new.” Party leaders said the MLAs were asked to come to Jaipur for training before Rajya Sabha elections. The BJP has been allegedly wooing them with lucrative offers in Gujarat and the party had shifted some MLAs to Mount Abu in Rajasthan. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had recently lambasted BJP for orchestrating defection in the Opposition even as the country was battling Covid-19. Instead of fighting corona pandemic, he alleged that the BJP government at the Centre has been busy plotting the fall of Opposition-ruled state governments. He said there were reports of amounts, ranging from Rs 25 to 35 crore, being offered to Congress MLAs in Gujarat to resign. The CM said that after Madhya Pradesh, an attempt is being made to destabilise the Maharashtra government. However, in Rajasthan it would be quite difficult as the difference between the ruling party and the Opposition is very high, he said. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the RS elections, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. The BJP had forced elections to Rajya Sabha by putting up an additional candidate, hoping to make dent in the ruling party. The saffron party ruling the Centre is short of majority in the upper house. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six who defected to the party from BSP last year. The party also enjoys the support of 13 Independent MLAs and two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party and an MLA of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). BJP has a strength of 75 MLAs, including three MLAs of the Rashtriya Loktantik Party (RLP). The CPM has two MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-cong-mlas-at-resort-to-prevent-bjp-poaching/articleshow/76314267.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 11, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan Congress MLAs at resort to prevent BJP ‘poaching’||JAIPUR: The state Congress on Wednesday convened a meeting of its MLAs and independents supporting the party at a resort ahead of Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. The move came after the party received information that the BJP has started approaching its MLAs with ‘lucrative’ offers. The Congress MLAs were asked to come to the chief minister’s official residence at 8, Civil Lines. Later, they were shifted to the posh Shiv Vilas resort on the outskirts of Jaipur at Kukus in buses. The meeting got over around 11.30pm. Around 115 MLAs had attended it and were given the choice of either staying at the hotel or going home as they had come unprepared for a stay. The MLAs were asked to come to the hotel at 5pm on Thursday for another meeting, said a leader. Speaking to the media after the meeting, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that while the state was fighting to save lives and livelihood, some people were trying to destabilise the state government. “Attempts are being made to bribe MLAs with offers of Rs 10 crore and an advance of Rs 5 crore in Jaipur,” he said. BJP is a fascist party and has no faith in democratic values, he alleged. Meanwhile, Congress central leaders, including party chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and AICC secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Vivek Bansal, reached Jaipur in the evening. Talking to TOI over the phone, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande said, “I am now in Nagpur and will reach Jaipur by Thursday.” When asked about reports that some party MLAs have been receiving calls from BJP, he said, “It is not new.” Party leaders said the MLAs were asked to come to Jaipur for training before Rajya Sabha elections. The BJP has been allegedly wooing them with lucrative offers in Gujarat and the party had shifted some MLAs to Mount Abu in Rajasthan. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had recently lambasted BJP for orchestrating defection in the Opposition even as the country was battling Covid-19. Instead of fighting corona pandemic, he alleged that the BJP government at the Centre has been busy plotting the fall of Opposition-ruled state governments. He said there were reports of amounts, ranging from Rs 25 to 35 crore, being offered to Congress MLAs in Gujarat to resign. The CM said that after Madhya Pradesh, an attempt is being made to destabilise the Maharashtra government. However, in Rajasthan it would be quite difficult as the difference between the ruling party and the Opposition is very high, he said. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the RS elections, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. The BJP had forced elections to Rajya Sabha by putting up an additional candidate, hoping to make dent in the ruling party. The saffron party ruling the Centre is short of majority in the upper house. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six who defected to the party from BSP last year. The party also enjoys the support of 13 Independent MLAs and two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party and an MLA of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). BJP has a strength of 75 MLAs, including three MLAs of the Rashtriya Loktantik Party (RLP). The CPM has two MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-cong-mlas-at-resort-to-prevent-bjp-poaching/articleshow/76314269.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Media point to stay shut during assembly session||Vijayawada: The media point in assembly would remain closed and restrictions would be imposed at the lobbies for this session, starting June 16, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. This would prevent crowding. Speaker Thammineni Seetharam is, however, yet to give his approval. Sources in the assembly said visitors’ galleries too are likely to remain closed. Officials have advised the speaker to issue directions to all MLAs not to address the media in the assembly premises or use the media point to avoid crowd during the session. The MLAs have also been asked to keep their supporters outside the assembly premises and keep the lobbies clean. “No visitor would be allowed during this session. All the visitors’ galleries would remain closed,” a senior official of the assembly told the TOI. The official said the supporters of MLAs would also not be allowed into the lobbies during the session. The assembly premises would be sanitized regularly during the session and legislators will have to undergo full-body sanitisation while entering the assembly, the official said. The session would start with governor Biswabhushan Harichandan addressing the members on June 16. Later, the session would be adjourned for the day and resume the next day. The business advisory committee of the assembly would meet after the Governor’s address and decide the agenda for the session, the sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/media-point-to-stay-shut-during-assembly-session/articleshow/76308534.cms||Gopi Dara
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Maha returnees allege false positive results, forcible isolation||MANGALURU: A group of youths, who returned from Maharashtra to their native place Renjala, a remote village at Karkala in Udupi district, have alleged that they were forcibly admitted to an isolation hospital almost 25 days after their return, even though they tested negative for Covid-19.“We had finished 14 days of institutional quarantine and 10 days of home quarantine. The swab tests were negative. However, Asha workers knocked on our doors, informing us that we had tested positive. After two to three days of hospitalisation, we were discharged and sent back home. During the stay at hospital, we were not given any medicine,” the youths told TOI. They said their first sample reports were negative but without testing the second time, they were informed that they were infected with coronavirus. “A single sample cannot be tested multiple times. Yet the Udupi district administration declared our first sample as both negative and positive in a gap of a few days,” the youths alleged and questioned whether Udupi district administration is are forcibly isolating people without reason. In a similar incident, a Udupi resident said that he had returned home after finishing 14 days of institutional quarantine but 10 days later Asha workers came and informed him that he had tested positive for Covid-19. The person is now admitted at an isolation hospital in Udyavara. A few others complained that quarantine stickers were put on their houses unnecessarily. Former minister Pramod Madhwaraj said that he too came across posts about forceful isolation in the social media. “Negative people testing positive and vice versa in short spans could be an issue with the sample testing centre. The district administration should give clear reports and not mislead,” he said. Baseless allegation: DC When TOI contacted Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, he said all the allegations are baseless and far from truth. “The district administration has never isolated anyone without testing positive for Covid-19. All 946 cases so far are admitted after the reports showed them positive. About 95% cases were asymptomatic. We will file cases against those who are spreading rumours and fake allegations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/maha-returnees-allege-false-positive-results-forcible-isolation/articleshow/76310268.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||157 Covid patients discharged on coast||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Dakshina Kannada recorded four Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, while Udupi, for the second day in succession, recorded no positive cases. Udupi however still tops the state chart with a total 946 positive cases, while its active cases has since dropped to 486, with the discharge of 155 patients on Wednesday. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that a 3-member task force has been set up in gram panchayats to monitor those in home quarantine. In urban areas, ward level committees will fulfil this task, he said. Flying squads have been given the responsibility of filing cases under The Epidemic Diseases Act, against people who violate quarantine norms. Revenue and health officials, as well as police personnel will visit sealed houses daily, as per a new arrangement, and submit a report, he said. The Seva Sindhu portal will provide automatic approval for people from other states, barring Maharashtra, wanting to enter Karnataka. Those from Maharashtra need to obtain permission from the respective DCs, he said. Their health check-up will be conducted at the border, and they should proceed directly to the district receiving centres. The district has 6 receiving centres at Kaup, Brahmawar, Byndoor, Kundapur, Udupi and Karkala, he said. To reduce the number of people visiting the DC’s office at Manipal, the district administration introduced a helpline number. People who have work at the DC’s office, rather than going there in person, may call 0820-2574931 or 0820- 2571500 and get their work done. Staff at the helpline will note public queries and revert to them with action taken by the district administration. To submit documents, one may WhatsApp it to 9880831516 or email it to udupidc.helpline@gmail.com. The four cases that Dakshina Kannada recorded, included two people who had returned from Saudi Arabia and two others from Maharashtra. There are 97 active cases in the district, against 212 total positive cases, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh. Two patients, including a teenager, were discharged from Wenlock Hospital on Wednesday, said the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/157-covid-patients-discharged-on-coast/articleshow/76310457.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Gritty 85-year-old beats Covid-19||NASHIK: An 85-year-old woman with comorbidities has defeated the deadly novel coronavirus and recovered from the ailment. The doctors and the hospital staff of the Evangeline Booth Hospital at Ahmednagar cheered as she walked out of the hospital after being discharged on Wednesday. The woman, a patient of diabetes and hypertension, is a resident of Mumbai and was on a visit to her relatives place at Shrigonda taluka of Ahmednagar. “On June 1, she was admitted to the Covid care centre at Shrigonda with mild fever and breathlessness. But after she tested positive for Covid-19, she was shifted the ICU of Ahmednagar Civil Hospital the same day since her respiratory problem became severe,” said health officials. A senior doctor said her oxygen saturation was below 80%. “We kept her in the ICU for three days and gave her oxygen support. She was not put on ventilator,” added the doctor. After her condition stabilised, she was shifted to the isolation ward at Evangeline Booth Hospital. “She was treated with hydroxychloroquine, tamiflu and vitamin C at the hospital,” added health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gritty-85-year-old-beats-covid-19/articleshow/76310570.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 spike forces Rajasthan to seal state borders for 7 days||JAIPUR: As Covid-19 cases increased with relaxations in lockdown, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday once again imposed regulations on the movement of people and vehicles from across the state borders. The restrictions will be in place for the next seven days. As per the order, no person can enter the state without an NOC from a competent authority, while those heading out of the state must get a pass issued either from the district collector or the person concerned. The order is not applicable for intra-state movement. Rajasthan shares borders with Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The order released by director general of police for law and order M L Lather directed police officers concerned to create check-posts at all inter-state borders. “The pass for exiting the state will be granted to only those facing any emergency situation like hospitalisation in another state or to attend the funeral of a family member or a close relative,” the order said. The regulation will come into effect on June 11. During a high-level review meeting at his residence on Wednesday, Gehlot stated that several people whose corona tests were negative before travelling to the state were found to be positive later. “By the time they tested positive, they had come in contact with several people here. It has come to the notice that several persons have travelled from hotspot areas in the state without undergoing Covid tests and they turned out to be spreaders in local areas,” Gehlot said at the meeting, while directing home department officials to release the revised SOP. The move has been taken after a spike in the number of cases, especially among migrants and in rural areas. During the meet, Gehlot said the state had recorded 2,500 cases from June 1 to June 10, the first 10-day period when the state has come out of lockdown. “The regulation is required so that our three months of hard work shouldn’t go to waste,” said Gehlot. Later in the day, the home department released the SOP stating that all persons moving outside the state have to obtain a pass from any of the following authorities: collector or district magistrate, commissioner of police/DCP/SP, sub-divisional magistrate, superintendent of police or the local police station. Also, counters will be set up by the district administration at airports, railway stations and the bus stands to provide on the spot passes after due verification of IDs to travellers. Those arriving by air have to follow the same guidelines issued by the central government. Naveen Jain, managing director of Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation said that those buses which are on the way to the state from other states carrying migrants will be affected by the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-19-spike-forces-raj-toseal-state-borders-for-7-days/articleshow/76314257.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 spike forces Rajasthan to seal state borders for 7 days||JAIPUR: As Covid-19 cases increased with relaxations in lockdown, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday once again imposed regulations on the movement of people and vehicles from across the state borders. The restrictions will be in place for the next seven days. As per the order, no person can enter the state without an NOC from a competent authority, while those heading out of the state must get a pass issued either from the district collector or the person concerned. The order is not applicable for intra-state movement. Rajasthan shares borders with Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The order released by director general of police for law and order M L Lather directed police officers concerned to create check-posts at all inter-state borders. “The pass for exiting the state will be granted to only those facing any emergency situation like hospitalisation in another state or to attend the funeral of a family member or a close relative,” the order said. The regulation will come into effect on June 11. During a high-level review meeting at his residence on Wednesday, Gehlot stated that several people whose corona tests were negative before travelling to the state were found to be positive later. “By the time they tested positive, they had come in contact with several people here. It has come to the notice that several persons have travelled from hotspot areas in the state without undergoing Covid tests and they turned out to be spreaders in local areas,” Gehlot said at the meeting, while directing home department officials to release the revised SOP. The move has been taken after a spike in the number of cases, especially among migrants and in rural areas. During the meet, Gehlot said the state had recorded 2,500 cases from June 1 to June 10, the first 10-day period when the state has come out of lockdown. “The regulation is required so that our three months of hard work shouldn’t go to waste,” said Gehlot. Later in the day, the home department released the SOP stating that all persons moving outside the state have to obtain a pass from any of the following authorities: collector or district magistrate, commissioner of police/DCP/SP, sub-divisional magistrate, superintendent of police or the local police station. Also, counters will be set up by the district administration at airports, railway stations and the bus stands to provide on the spot passes after due verification of IDs to travellers. Those arriving by air have to follow the same guidelines issued by the central government. Naveen Jain, managing director of Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation said that those buses which are on the way to the state from other states carrying migrants will be affected by the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-19-spike-forces-raj-toseal-state-borders-for-7-days/articleshow/76314259.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 spike forces Rajasthan to seal state borders for 7 days||JAIPUR: As Covid-19 cases increased with relaxations in lockdown, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday once again imposed regulations on the movement of people and vehicles from across the state borders. The restrictions will be in place for the next seven days. As per the order, no person can enter the state without an NOC from a competent authority, while those heading out of the state must get a pass issued either from the district collector or the person concerned. The order is not applicable for intra-state movement. Rajasthan shares borders with Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The order released by director general of police for law and order M L Lather directed police officers concerned to create check-posts at all inter-state borders. “The pass for exiting the state will be granted to only those facing any emergency situation like hospitalisation in another state or to attend the funeral of a family member or a close relative,” the order said. The regulation will come into effect on June 11. During a high-level review meeting at his residence on Wednesday, Gehlot stated that several people whose corona tests were negative before travelling to the state were found to be positive later. “By the time they tested positive, they had come in contact with several people here. It has come to the notice that several persons have travelled from hotspot areas in the state without undergoing Covid tests and they turned out to be spreaders in local areas,” Gehlot said at the meeting, while directing home department officials to release the revised SOP. The move has been taken after a spike in the number of cases, especially among migrants and in rural areas. During the meet, Gehlot said the state had recorded 2,500 cases from June 1 to June 10, the first 10-day period when the state has come out of lockdown. “The regulation is required so that our three months of hard work shouldn’t go to waste,” said Gehlot. Later in the day, the home department released the SOP stating that all persons moving outside the state have to obtain a pass from any of the following authorities: collector or district magistrate, commissioner of police/DCP/SP, sub-divisional magistrate, superintendent of police or the local police station. Also, counters will be set up by the district administration at airports, railway stations and the bus stands to provide on the spot passes after due verification of IDs to travellers. Those arriving by air have to follow the same guidelines issued by the central government. Naveen Jain, managing director of Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation said that those buses which are on the way to the state from other states carrying migrants will be affected by the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-spike-forces-raj-toseal-state-borders-for-7-days/articleshow/76311321.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Delhi||Meet the voice of the corona caller tune||NEW DELHI: For crores of Indians, Jasleen Bhalla is now a familiar voice, her smooth tone audible as soon as you dial any number on your cell phone: “Coronavirus se aaj poora desh lad raha hai, yaad rahe humain bimari se ladna hai, bimaar se nahi (The entire country is fighting against coronavirus, but remember we have to fight the disease, not the patient)." On Tuesday, the 40-year-old from Delhi who lent her voice to the now-iconic caller tune told TOI that she was as surprised as the rest of us when her message first started playing on cell phones. “I had actually recorded the message for a production house in the last week of March, I didn’t know it was meant for a public campaign. Now I can’t help but feel a certain sense of pride whenever I hear it,” said Bhalla, as she sat in her flat in Alaknanda which doubles up as her office, equipped with soundproof windows and acoustic foam mounted on walls. “It’s here that I recorded the voice-over,” said the English graduate from Delhi University’s Khalsa College, who has since recorded the same message in English and Punjabi as well. “Each time the Indian Council of Medical Research updates its information, I have to record a fresh voiceover like the time they changed social distancing norms from two feet to six feet.” Bhalla has been a voice-over artist for 10 years and her services have been used by Delhi Metro, SpiceJet and IndiGo among others. In fact, it’s Bhalla’s voice guiding you to the right door during peak hours on Delhi Metro — “The doors will open on your left, please mind the gap”. But she admits that none of her previous gigs felt as important as her latest one. “My family knows it’s me on the other end of the cell phone so in a way it has made them more cautious about following guidelines, wearing masks and using sanitisers.” Bhalla was told pre-recording that the message needed a responsible tone, it had to push people to follow norms. “That came easy for me. I’m the child of an Army officer, I was taught discipline and responsibility at a young age,” said Bhalla, adding that she herself has only stepped out of the house twice in the last two months. Watch Meet Jasleen Bhalla who lends her voice to corona caller tune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/meet-the-voice-of-the-corona-caller-tune/articleshow/76311324.cms||Rohan Dua
June 11, 2020||Vadodara||Uncertain future? To-be in-laws in love end lives||Palanpur: A man in his forties and his son’s to-be mother-in-law allegedly committed suicide in a village of Sabarkantha district on Wednesday. Bodies of Jayanti Thakarda and Jagruti Thakarda were found hanging from a tree on the outskirts of Didhiya village of Khedbrahma taluka. Investigation revealed that the duo had fallen in love after the formal engagement of Jayanti’s son and Jagruti’s daughter. In fact, Jayanti and Jagruti eloped from their native Therasana village on June 8. Sabarkantha superintendent of police (SP) Chaitanya Mandlik said, “Prima facie it looks like uncertainty about long-term relationship and acceptance by the society led them to take the extreme step.” “Jayanti is already married twice and was living with his second wife after divorcing his first. His son from the first wife was engaged to Jagruti’s daughter,” said deputy superintendent of police Dineshsinh Chauhan. On Wednesday morning when the bodies were found, investigators initially could not ascertain the identity of the duo. A steel cannister was found near the bodies which had Jayanti’s name inscribed on it. “We inquired about the name in the nearby villages and learnt about their identity,” said a police official. Pravin Patel, sarpanch of Therasana village, said, “They had eloped around a fortnight ago too, but returned home due to lockdown. They again eloped on the evening of June 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/uncertain-future-to-be-in-laws-in-love-end-lives/articleshow/76307716.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Barbers at Kashi ghats hope for biz revival||Time: Around 8am on Monday, June 8, 2020 Place: Manikarnika Ghat, the ‘mahashamshan’ (cremation ghat) in Kashi, where pyres are said to keep burning always Scene: Barbers sitting with their tools in the verandah of the office of their 76-year-old guild, Shri Nai Committee Manikarnika Ghat, along with sanitizer and mask as new additions, waiting for clients as Unlock 1.0 has begun. The committee, established in 1944, had 64 ghat barbers as members, but today there are just 12. Unlike other barbers working in saloons and beauty parlours, these ‘ghat’ barbers exclusively perform rituals like ‘mundan sanskar’ and shradh (last rites) on the banks of the holy Ganga. “Ek to waise hi humare bachche is dhandhe mein aana nahi chahte hain, upar se is lockdown ne to humari kamar hi tod di (Our children don’t wish to join this profession, moreover this lockdown has broken us completely),” said Kishan Thakur, a middle-aged barber, whose son is studying in an English medium school and aims to pursue some other profession. Kashi’s traditional ghat barbers, who are already facing challenges due to change in social mindset, have been hit hard by long Covid-19 lockdown. The barbers are solely dependent on their ‘yajmans’ (clients) and pilgrims. As the ghats have been wearing a deserted look due to lockdown restrictions, their income has been nil, making their life miserable. “Ye to Ganga maiyya aur Baba Vishwanath ki kripa hai ki hum jee rahe hain (It is the grace of Mother Ganga and Baba Vishwanath that we are alive),” said Sandeep Sharma, president of the committee. “We stayed home during lockdown and had no income. Now, we have started gathering at the ghat with hope of some earning. But it seems ‘achchhe din abhi door hain’ (good days are still away),” said Sunil Sharma, lamenting that the earnings in their occupation have already been shrinking rapidly due to changes in society. There is another category of ghat barbers at Manikarnika ghat who offer their service only to people coming with funeral processions. “We give our services round-the-clock,” said 81-year-old Fauzdar Sharma, who works in day shift, while his brother Santosh Sharma remains present at ghat during night hours. They are also members of same committee, but sit separately. They are in a better position as the arrival of bodies for cremation continued during lockdown also, though in far less numbers. “Before lockdown, over 200 bodies used to reach the ghat for cremation per day,” said Fauzdar, adding that the arrival of bodies from outside stopped during lockdown reducing the number to 20-25 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/barbers-at-kashi-ghats-hope-for-biz-revival/articleshow/76285219.cms||Binay Singh
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||PPEs on, nurses, staff return to start pvt hospital OPDs||Nagpur: Unlock-1 is bringing life back to normal for many. Private hospitals have opened their out patient departments (OPDs) and planned surgeries are now being conducted routinely. This is helped by the fact that most private hospitals in Nagpur rely on local nurses and technical staff, unlike nurses from Kerala in other metro cities. So, hospitals in city are not facing any crunch of nursing or technical staff at least for now. “We neither discontinued any staff nor introduced any pay cuts during lockdown. We are working at the same strength. For about two months, we had only emergency cases. Now, everything is coming to normal. So, we have enough staff to deal with patients,” said Dr Sameer Paltewar of Meditrina Hospitals. He said PPE kits are also available at competitive prices in markets now. “Unlike during lockdown, we have enough PPE kits available in open markets. Protective gear gives a sense of safety and encourages people to get back to work,” he said. Vidarbha Hospital Association chairman Dr Ashok Arbat said nurses, attendants and technicians, who had either discontinued or resigned due to Covid-19 fear, are coming back and joining duties. “Stigma for Covid-19 is receding at least for medical staffers. Earlier, family members of many staffers working on contract basis were reluctant to send them to hospitals. As the lockdown is now over, many of them are coming back,” said Dr Arbat. He observed, though, city hospitals are still not getting the number of patients they used to during normal days. “Many hospitals beds are still vacant. In Nagpur, private hospitals are treating all non-Covid patients, but not many people are turning up at OPDs. Secondly, patients from other states are not coming to Nagpur due to travel restrictions. So, many hospitals have introduced alternate day working for staffers,” Dr Arbat said. Workers, on the other hand, are excited to join back their jobs. “During lockdown 1 and 2, family members aggressively opposed us, so many of us had to discontinue working. Police also used to stop and ask for identity card, which many of us don’t have. So, many had stopped working,” said Ajay Bagde, an attendant in a local hospital. Ajay has joined back at work from June 1. Why no shortage in Nagpur Local strength| Hospitals in Nagpur rely mostly on local nursing/technical staff (not from Kerala) Need to work| Local people are joining back their duties in unlock-1 as everyone wants to work Living with Corona| Stigma about Covid-19 is now receding at least in hospital staff Sense of security| PPE kits and masks are now available in open market at competitive prices Less workload| other state patients are still not coming in regular numbers, many hospitals are vacant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ppes-on-nurses-staff-return-to-start-pvt-hospital-opds/articleshow/76310599.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||With eye on monsoon, GHMC to raze dilapidated buildings||Hyderabad: No casualties were reported when a wall collapsed in Punjagutta on Wednesday. The incident occurred on the same day when Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) began identifying the dilapidated buildings. The drive is part of its monsoon action plan. Many dilapidated buildings identified are in Charminar, Goshamahal, Secunderabad and Khairtabad. “We are preparing a circle wise list of dilapidated buildings. On Wednesday, we served notices to buildings in dilapidated condition and asked those living in them to vacate,” said a GHMC official. “I instructed the officials to prepare a list of buildings which are structurally unfit and ensure all dilapidated buildings are demolished,” said GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-eye-on-monsoon-ghmc-to-raze-dilapidated-buildings/articleshow/76310614.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Alliance Air to connect Nashik with 3 cities||NASHIK: Air India’s subsidiary Alliance Air has announced that it will start flight operations from Nashik from June 12, connecting to Hyderabad, Pune, and Ahmedabad respectively. The flight will be operational on all weekdays and the booking for the same has already started from Tuesday evening. “We have received permissions from the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and start operations from Nashik in all three sectors,” said sources from Alliance Air. The airfare for Nashik-Pune and Nashik-Ahmedabad will be Rs 1,208 and Rs 1,680 each, while for Nashik-Hyderabad it will be Rs 2,835. A private airline Trujet has already started its Nashik-Ahmedabad flight from May 27. The flights will begin from Nashik airport almost two-and-a-half months after the relaxation in lockdown.  The 72-seater flight will take off from Hyderabad at 8.00 a.m. and will land at 9.45 a.m at Ozar airport, Nashik. From here, it will depart at 10.15 am and will land at Ahmedabad at 11.30 am. The flight from Ahmedabad will take off at 4.00 pm and land in Nashik at 5.15 pm. While a departure from Nashik will be at 6.00 pm and will land in Pune at 7.15 pm. From Pune it will take off at 8.00 pm and land in Nashik at 9 pm. The departure from Nashik will be at 9.25 pm and will land at Hyderabad at 11.10 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/alliance-air-to-connect-nashik-with-3-cities/articleshow/76310585.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru doctor develops Covid Guard to monitor patients||MANGALURU: A Mangaluru-based paediatrician, in association with a healthcare solutions provider, has developed Covid Guard, a wearable technology which helps the authorities monitor contacts and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Paediatrician Dr B Shantharam Baliga, the brain behind ‘Covid Guard Home Quarantine and Asymptomatic Case Monitoring System’, told TOI that the technology can reduce the expenditure to the government and also avoid controversies that could arise out of using smartphones for monitoring. “Covid-19 controlling measures are predominantly surveillance. Community participation and compliance to such measures are key to the success of control measures. However, data from the daily bulletin shows that quarantine rules are not followed. An estimate done in Mysuru indicates that the treatment cost of asymptomatic person is Rs 20,000-25,000, while the ICU charge for 14 days is Rs 3.50 lakh. A large number of asymptomatic patients and contacts can be treated at home. This needs 24x7 vigilance and monitoring, which is humanly impossible. Embracing technology to ensure compliance to rules and regulations to prevent the virus spread is the way forward,” Dr Baliga added. Covid Guard, developed by RTWO Healthcare Solutions, can be worn on wrist or leg. It helps the authorities monitor contacts and patients and those home-quarantined. “Tracking quarantined persons through mobile phones is not a mistake-proof process. There can be instances wherein people either switch off the phones, or do not carry it during the quarantine period. The tamper-proof Covid Guard cannot be removed. The device, which has geo-fencing technology, will alert the authorities when the person removes it. The device, which creates history of a patient or quarantined person, can be upgraded to monitor vital signs and oxygen levels in blood, thereby recognising possible complications early and also reduce the risk of transmission,” he said, adding that the field trials can be started if the government sanctions funds for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-doctor-develops-covid-guard-to-monitor-patients/articleshow/76309831.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP leader Raghava Rao, son join YSRC||Amaravati: Former minister Sidda Raghava Rao joined YSRC in the presence of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy at his camp office on Wednesday. Raghava Rao is the second most prominent leader from Prakasam district to quit TDP after Chirala legislator Karanam Balaram and his son Venkatesh. Speculations are rife that several other TDP legislators will join YSRC shortly. Raghava Rao’s family members, including his son and brothers, too joined YSRC on Wednesday. Raghava Rao, who has business interests in granite industry, was the TDP treasurer for many years. Hailing from Vysya community, Raghavarao is a non-controversial leader who maintained a good rapport with people from all the parties. His joining is likely to strengthen the YSRC support among the Vysya community. Although, granite firms owned by Raghava Rao had come under vigilance probe in the last few months, he said his decision to join the YSRC has no link to the probe. He said he was satisfied with the welfare programmes being implemented by the party and that there was no point in continuing with TDP at this juncture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-leader-raghava-rao-son-join-ysrc/articleshow/76308541.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Rajkot||Nine arrested for theft from construction site||RAJKOT: Nine residents of Nagwa village in Diu were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing construction materials from a government’s site. Police said the stolen material consisting of cement, granite, stones, bamboos and sand was worth lakhs of rupees. According to the police, the project was that of the beautification of a garden near Nagwa beach. The construction work was suspended after the lockdown was imposed, and the contractors and workers left the construction material at the spot before leaving the site. “As the material was left unguarded, the villagers started stealing. When the contractor found the material to have been stolen, he approached us with the complaint. We carried out a door-to-door search operation in Nagwa village and found the culprits who had committed the crime. We also recovered three tractors full of stolen material,” said Pankaj Tandel, inspector with Vanakbara police station. The arrested accused have been identified as Dhanji Bamania (35), Dhanji Vira Bamania (40), Dhanji Ramji Bamania (40), Babu Solanki (30), Kishan Bamania (30), Rama Bamania (52), Prakash Bamania (36), Dilip Bamania (30) and Shailesh Bamania (35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nine-arrested-for-theft-from-construction-site/articleshow/76308549.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 spike forces Rajasthan to seal state borders for 7 days||JAIPUR: As Covid-19 cases increased with relaxations in lockdown, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday once again imposed regulations on the movement of people and vehicles from across the state borders. The restrictions will be in place for the next seven days. As per the order, no person can enter the state without an NOC from a competent authority, while those heading out of the state must get a pass issued either from the district collector or the person concerned. The order is not applicable for intra-state movement. Rajasthan shares borders with Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The order released by director general of police for law and order M L Lather directed police officers concerned to create check-posts at all inter-state borders. “The pass for exiting the state will be granted to only those facing any emergency situation like hospitalisation in another state or to attend the funeral of a family member or a close relative,” the order said. The regulation will come into effect on June 11. During a high-level review meeting at his residence on Wednesday, Gehlot stated that several people whose corona tests were negative before travelling to the state were found to be positive later. “By the time they tested positive, they had come in contact with several people here. It has come to the notice that several persons have travelled from hotspot areas in the state without undergoing Covid tests and they turned out to be spreaders in local areas,” Gehlot said at the meeting, while directing home department officials to release the revised SOP. The move has been taken after a spike in the number of cases, especially among migrants and in rural areas. During the meet, Gehlot said the state had recorded 2,500 cases from June 1 to June 10, the first 10-day period when the state has come out of lockdown. “The regulation is required so that our three months of hard work shouldn’t go to waste,” said Gehlot. Later in the day, the home department released the SOP stating that all persons moving outside the state have to obtain a pass from any of the following authorities: collector or district magistrate, commissioner of police/DCP/SP, sub-divisional magistrate, superintendent of police or the local police station. Also, counters will be set up by the district administration at airports, railway stations and the bus stands to provide on the spot passes after due verification of IDs to travellers. Those arriving by air have to follow the same guidelines issued by the central government. Naveen Jain, managing director of Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation said that those buses which are on the way to the state from other states carrying migrants will be affected by the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-19-spike-forces-raj-toseal-state-borders-for-7-days/articleshow/76314258.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Congress suspects some of its Bihar allies may jump ship before polls||NEW DELHI: Congress is sceptical of the political moves of some of its Bihar allies who are raising the ante against Rashtriya Janata Dal of Lalu Prasad and suspects that they may be angling for the ‘third front’ that ‘rivals’ may spring up for the state elections later this year. Amid murmurs of dissent from minor Bihar parties — RLSP of Upendra Kushwaha, VIP of Mukesh Sahni and HAM of Jeetan Ram Manjhi — who contested as part of the RJD-led alliance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, top Congress sources said their posturing against projection of RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial face has to be taken with a pinch of salt. “Manjhi appears to be paying serious thought to the proposal of ‘third front’. It may be the gameplan of our rivals to create division in opposition votes. The CM face may not be the only provocation as is being projected. There is more to the show of dissent by some of the members,” a senior Congress strategist said. Congress’s allusion to “rival design” suggests that the ruling camp in Bihar may orchestrate the new front. While such a front was earlier planned by election strategist and former JD(U) member Prashant Kishor, nothing has come of it yet. Congress is optimistic that RLSP will stay on with the opposition alliance. Kushwaha is bitterly anti-Nitish Kumar, a reason why he also left the NDA which had made him a minister at the Centre. But some others are seen to be negotiating elsewhere too. These minor outfits are said to be against Tejashwi’s projection as the CM face. They want to lobby with Congress to argue the case against Tejashwi. But RJD is also learnt to be talking to the Left parties to expand the social justice tent that the ‘grand alliance’ represents. A senior Congress manager said, “The talks on nitty-gritties and final shape of alliance, besides the leadership issue, will take some time. By then, it will also be clear who wants to go where.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-suspects-some-of-its-bihar-allies-may-jump-ship-before-polls/articleshow/76312100.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 11, 2020||Rajkot||China clay worth Rs 1.23cr mined illegally, three booked||RAJKOT: Receiving information about rampant excavation of China clay in Kalyanpar and Lalsari village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district, the state mine and mineral department officials carried out two different raids four days ago. Here the officials detected illegal mining of the precious clay to the tune of Rs1.23 crore. Police, on Wednesday, booked three accused identified as Gopal Patel, Sultansinh Solanki and Akhap Chaudhary, who had been committing the mineral theft for the past one month. The accused were booked on the complaint of Jayesh Pomale, royalty inspector with the state mine and mineral department. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused. “From a government’s land in Kalyanpar, the accused had allegedly excavated 3,956 metric tonne China clay, while in Lalsari village, the accused had allegedly dug out 21,814 metric tonne China clay,” said an official from Rapar police station. Apart from the illegally excavated cache of China clay, the state mine and mineral department officials also seized an earth mover and a loader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/china-clay-worth-rs-1-23cr-mined-illegally-three-booked/articleshow/76308565.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nashik||Panel: Jalgaon’s high death rate due to late detection||Nashik: Late detection of cases coupled with pre-existing health issues of sizeable number of patients are apparently leading to high Covid-19 fatalities in North Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district, revealed a committee formed on the instructions of state health minister Rajesh Tope. The minister recently reviewed the Covid-19 scenario of Jalgaon and directed the administration to form a panel to ascertain the reasons for high death rate. The initial findings of the five-member death audit committee that the Jalgaon administration has formed stated that Jalgaon has earned the dubious distinction of having the worst Covid-19 fatality rate in the state. While the fatality rate of the district is 10.4%, the state average is 3.6% and national average is 2.8%. The panel, comprising well known medical practitioners, is led by Dr Deepak Patil. Sources within the death audit committee told TOI that so far the panel members have examined 75 files of deceased Covid-19 patients. A total of 126 Covid-19 patients have died so far in the district. The remaining 51 files would be scrutinized within the next few days before the report is handed to the district collector Avinash Dhakne. The committee is examining patients files to find out details such as age, underlying health issue, line of treatment by doctors at the hospital, etc. The panelists are also speaking with the bereaved families to understand for how long the patients had Covid-like symptoms and skipped undergoing tests. “There is certainly late detection of positive cases that is leading to many patients dying in the district. The health conditions of such patients deteriorated to such an extent that it became virtually impossible for their recoveries,” said a panel member requesting anonymity. The committee found out that 50% of the patients whose files they have examined were over 60 years of age. “The lives of many of these Covid-19 victims could have been saved had they come forward to be tested for the infection,” added panel sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/panel-jalgaons-high-death-rate-due-to-late-detection/articleshow/76289724.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Huts set ablaze, four injured in clash between two groups||Varanasi: At least seven hutments were set ablaze while massive damage was caused inside 14 houses of the scheduled caste dominated locality of Bhadethi village in Sarai Khawaja area of Jaunpur district following a clash between the local natives and a group of other community on Tuesday night. Four persons suffered injuries in this clash. After pacifying the situation, Jaunpur police lodged a named FIR against 57 persons of one group under sections of IPC and SC Act, said IG Varanasi range Vijay Singh Mina adding, that 35 accused have been arrested by Wednesday afternoon while search for others is on. In view of tension gripping the village, a heavy police force was deployed while a team of officials also camped in the village to assess the loss. On Tuesday evening some children of Bhadethi village had taken their buffaloes in a field near the pond of Bhadethi village, where children of other community were also present with their goats. It is alleged that while grazing there, a buffalo hit a goat leading to a fight between the children of both the communities. When the children returned, people of the other community reached SC dominated area and a heated argument took place between both the groups. Situation was normalised after intervention of the gram pradhan. However, at around 8pm over 100 persons of the other community raided the SC dominated locality again and attacked the locals after brick-batting started between them. Afterwards the assailants started ransacking houses and also set hutments on fire. On getting information, Sarai Khawaja cops reached there. Sensing gravity of the matter, a heavy force was called from other police stations while district magistrate Jaunpur Dinesh Kumar Singh, SP Ashok Kumar and other officials also reached there. After pacifying situation police rushed the injured persons to the district hospital. Mina said that four injured persons of the SC dominated area were admitted to the hospital while in a view of sharp deterioration in condition of a 16-year-old boy doctors referred him to Varanasi. On Wednesday morning, the IG also reached Bhadethi village to monitor the situation. He said that on receiving complaint from the people of SC dominated area a named FIR was lodged and 35 accused were arrested. Raids are continuing to nab other accused, he said adding, Jaunpur officials has started assessing the loss due to setting hutments on fire and ransacking homes in order to initiate process of providing financial assistance to the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/huts-set-ablaze-four-injured-in-clash-between-two-groups/articleshow/76307613.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Agra||Train guard posted at Tundla railway station tests positive for Covid-19 while on leave||AGRA: A 55-year-old train guard posted at Tundla has been tested novel coronavirus positive. He was on the leave and had left for his hometown, Gangapur city, on June 3 as his wife was ill. Three days later, the guard fell ill and gave his sample for testing to local health authorities. On Tuesday, he was tested positive. It was then that Gangapur city administration alerted local railway authorities of Tundla and Firozabad. Following the alert, at least six railway staffers who came in direct contact with the guard were quarantined. Guard’s last duty record revealed that on May 29-30, he was captain for a mail train between Kanpur central and Tundla. Meanwhile, two more staffers of Firozabad health department were tested positive, taking the number of positive people to 319 with 231 recovered and 19 deaths. Meanwhile, in another neighbouring district Kasganj, two more were tested positive taking the tally to 26 with 15 recovered cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/train-guard-posted-at-tundla-railway-station-tests-positive-for-covid-19-while-on-leave/articleshow/76308558.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Polavaram work picks pace as migrant workers return||AMARAVATI: In a significant development, migrant workers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, who left for their home towns in the last few weeks, have started returning to the Polavaram project site helping the state government to put the project work back on the fast track. Senior officials in the irrigation department said that Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil), Polavaram project contractor, has managed to return them to the worksite within weeks of leaving the site. Meil arranged special trains and buses to bring them back. The project work has picked up pace following their return. “The construction work for the world’s largest spillway has gained further momentum. Apart from the work related to spill channel, approach channel, pilot channel, earth-cum-rockfill dam and 1, 2, 3 gap work are on the fast track. We are confident of completing the project within the deadline” said Sathish Angara, general manager, MEIL. The spillway will facilitate a flow of 50 lakh cusecs flood water. Currently, the world’s largest spillway belongs to Three Gorges project in China that has a capacity of 47 lakh cusecs. Usually March-May period is peak season for irrigation project work. But due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Polavaram project had experienced some bottlenecks as labour went back to their native villages, said Angara. About 2,000 migrant labour working for the Polavaram Project went back to their native states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Orissa, compelling the company to continue work with the available few labourers. He said that Covid-19 had its effect not only on labour, but has also affected the supply of steel, cement and other raw materials. As the whole logistic system came to a standstill during April and May, it resulted in several obstacles for the project work. He added that they have organized a medical camp for labour in association with the district health department, and all the required tests are being done regularly at the camp. “Nearly 1,21,647 CuM of work related to spillway and 79,378 CuM of spill channel work have been completed,” said Angara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/polavaram-work-picks-pace-as-migrant-workers-return/articleshow/76308564.cms||Samdani MN
June 11, 2020||Nashik||2 booked for operating spa in Nashik||NASHIK: The Gangapur police on Tuesday booked two people for allegedly operating a spa centre in the Gangarpur Road area despite ban on such activities in view of lockdown. Police said that the suspects were booked under various sections of the IPC including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). According to police, they carried out the raid after receiving a tip-off about a massage centre that was operating at Sri Ganesh Kuber Complex, Thatte Nagar of Gangapur Road, despite ban on spa and saloons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-booked-for-operating-spa-in-nashik/articleshow/76310590.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Repatriation plan needed for stranded Goans: GFP||Panaji: The decision to allow all those entering the state, including seafarers, to opt for home quarantine, is a victory for those who brought relentless pressure upon the state government for the same, Goa Forward Party (GFP) said on Wednesday. While welcoming the government’s “change of heart”, GFP president Vijai Sardesai said the next step is to put in place a detailed repatriation plan to bring back all Goans who are stranded abroad. “This is a victory for all Goemkarwadi forces who were uncompromising on their stand that Goemkars deserved better from their insensitive and unresponsive government, and demanded justice in the face of step-motherly treatment meted out to them in contrast to the red carpet laid out for non-Goans,” Sardesai said. The state government’s new SOP will benefit all repatriated Goans, seafarers and non-resident Goans, who upon arrival, often had to take a Covid-19 test and stay at paid quarantine facilities. Goa Seamen’s Association of India (GSAI) had filed a writ petition before the high court saying that the state government was discriminating between the seafarers and other persons returning to Goa. GSAI founder president of Dixon Vaz has welcomed the government’s decision to do away with the mandatory 14 days paid quarantine that had been imposed only on seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repatriation-plan-needed-for-stranded-goans-gfp/articleshow/76311332.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Jaipur||More deaths in Rajasthan during Unlock 1.0 than other lockdown phases||JAIPUR: In the first 10 days of Unlock 1.0, the state has reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in comparison to the four phases, individually, during the lockdown stage in the state. There has been 65 deaths in the past 10 unlock days. In comparison, there had been 15, 56, 60 and 63 deaths, respectively, in the four phases of the lockdown period. During the same 10-day unlock period, 2,769 cases have been reported at an average of 277 per day. The increasing number of deaths and new cases during the unlock phase is giving sleepless nights to authorities which have now decided to restrict the entry of people into the state as well as leaving it. In the last two days, the state reported more than 350 cases daily, which is happening for the first time since the outbreak. Collectively on Tuesday and Wednesday, 734 persons have been found infected with the virus. The pace at which the cases are increasing has alarmed the state government to take corrective measures. Since June 5, cases are constantly increasing. On June 6, 14% more cases were reported than June 5. Similarly, there was a 3.5% increase on June 7 and 5.7% increase in cases on June 8. The percentage of increase in cases took a significant 33% jump on June 9 in comparison to June 8. However, on June 10, the cases have been slightly less in comparison to June 9, but still it is the second highest reported in a single day. Health minister Raghu Sharma appealed to the people to follow social distancing, wear masks and to take other protective measures to prevent the risk of getting infected. “The WHO has clarified that till they have a vaccine for Covid-19, you have to protect yourself from getting infected. We are trying to find out why cases have increased recently. In Unlock 1.0 phase, any sort of carelessness can lead to risk of life for any person,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-deaths-in-state-unlock-1-0-than-during-each-lockdown-phase/articleshow/76311331.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Home-grown Coconics to launch student laptop||KOCHI: Kerala’s home-grown original equipment manufacturer (OEM) brand Coconics, which launched three laptop models with multiple variants in Amazon last week, is hoping to shake-up the student segment. The public-private initiative, in which both Keltron and KSIDC hold stakes, would soon launch a student laptop at an affordable price of around Rs 12,000. With the demand for laptops and tablets growing, Coconics expects to garner a good market share despite being a new player. The Work From Home situation has added another dimension.“This is going to be our prestigious model and it would have best specs in the segment,” said Sreejith Nair, CEO, Coconics. The company had plans to launch the model earlier but could not because of delay in BIS certification process caused by the lockdown. The base student model with Intel Celeron processor would have pre-loaded Ubuntu OS. UST Global has 49% stake in the company while 2% is held by Acceleronlabs (an Intel India Maker Lab accelerated startup). Keltron has a 26% stake while KSIDC has 23%. “Three models and their variants are available in Amazon since last week. So far, the response is good,” said Nair. The mid-end models, Enabler, Xtreme and Gymnast are competitively priced. “Now, there is a shortage in the market. We positioned ourselves strategically during the Covid lockdown period and speeded up our process despite the limitations,” he said. The factory at Manvila in Thiruvananthapuram had opened in October last year and the firm had initially supplied 3,800 laptops for colleges and various government institutions. The facility has the capacity to manufacture 2.5 lakh laptops every year and around 900 daily. “We have been operating with limited staff for the past few months as social distancing norms have to be followed,” he said. Coconics has plenty of distribution enquiries and channels would be set up soon. “As of now, we are not looking at growth. We just want to sustain. But it looks like we would hit a good growth. We could hit close to Rs 12 crore in four months of operation,” said Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/home-grown-coconics-to-launch-student-laptop/articleshow/76309683.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Age no bar: Online pleasure is now their lockdown leisure||Nagpur: Sources of entertainment like music videos, movies and series during lockdown are no more limited to the younger generation. The lockdown also made children and senior citizens binge watch their favourite genres. Classics, be it regional cinema, serials or cartoons, trending on digital platforms are on their watch list. Almost all age groups are now hooked to online entertainment platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar, Amazon Prime etc, especially the elderly. They are enjoying evergreen movies and songs and slowly getting the hang of entertainment on mobile screens. A teacher by profession, Kavita Shah feels that apart from the various activities she is performing in the lockdown, she loves to watch her favourite shows and series on Netflix. “I watch ‘Money Heist’ and it keeps me charged. I also like mystery and thriller series. It helps kill the monotony of work from home (WFH) and other household work. I also like to watch standup comedy,” she said. For writer Swati Sani, the lockdown is helping her in writing her fifth book. Apart from watching series, she loves to listen to audio books and podcasts. “I’m enjoying listening to audio books and podcasts (Amazon audible) during my one hour exercise in the morning and also while doing my daily chores.” she said. Mrunal Naik, project head at SGR Knowledge Foundation, has been enjoying a variety of series, cinema and thriller webs on all the online platforms. “We enjoy an array of series such as the Mentalist, Grays Anatomy, House of Cards, Suits etc. It’s entertaining and there is so much to learn from them,” she said. Her mother-in-law Vijaya, too, has a list of her favourites that she can’t do without. ‘Permanent roommates’ is her favourite.Senior citizen Pushpa Guhe wasn’t aware of online entertainment earlier. But now, she watches all of her favourite regional cinema, old Hindi and Marathi songs. Even doting parents are allowing their children to watch lighthearted shows and series. “My kid enjoyed watching Ketie and Alexa, Mind the Malhotras and some family drama shows that we all can relate too,” said Arumita Pawa, a lecturer.Student Nirmal Kaur made elders in her family watch and enjoy shows, classic cinemas and music videos on online platforms. It was a new discovery for the elderly. “These online video platforms are filled with all types of drama, thrill, romantic and comedy movies. I watch with my family. It has helped us in improving our bond and keeping even the elderly in a cheerful mood,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/age-no-bar-online-pleasure-is-now-their-lockdown-leisure/articleshow/76310631.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 11, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Boy, 5, found murdered about 2 months after killing of his cousin||AGRA: A five-year-old boy was found murdered just stone’s throw away from his house in a village in Etah district, just two months after his cousin of the same age was killed. The alleged murders took place in Dharmpur village of Sakrauli area in Etah. Prashant was playing outside his house when he went missing on Tuesday afternoon. His family members found his body after 30 minutes of search. There was a strangulation mark around his neck. Based on his father’s written complaint, an FIR under IPC section 302 (murder) was lodged against unknown persons, a police officer said. Kritpal Singh, SHO of Sakrauli, said, “Nearly two months ago, Prashant’s cousin, Satyapal, who was of his age, was allegedly murdered and three men were sent to jail. We are probing the matter if both the murders are connected."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/boy-5-found-murdered-about-2-months-after-killing-of-his-cousin-also-five/articleshow/76308569.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: SEB identifies 10 routes booze smugglers are using in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: Continuing their drive against liquor and sand smuggling, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials have identified over 10 routes in Vizianagaram district which bootleggers are using to smuggle the illicit liquor (hooch) into the district from neighboring Odisha. Vizianagaram district shares its borders with Koraput and Rayagada districts of Odisha. The government’s decision to raise the price of bottled liquor and reduce the number of liquor outlets to wean people away from liquor has created an opportunity for some people living along the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB). They have been brewing the hooch and supplying to parts of Vizianagaram district. Speaking to TOI, ASP of SEB, Vizianagaram, N Sreedevi Rao said their top priority is to curb the inflow of hooch from Odisha to Vizianagaram. “We are in the process of identifying all the routes, which connect Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and where the smuggling is taking place. So far we have identified 10 routes,” she added. In the enforcement driver conducted from May 16 till data, the SEB sleuths in the district have seized 2,208 litres of illicitly distilled liquor and destroyed more than 4,100 litres of jaggery wash. They nabbed over 75,000 people on charges of brewing and transportation of hooch and seized over 60 vehicles, Sreedevi Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-identifies-10-routes-booze-smugglers-are-using-in-vzm/articleshow/76308574.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Students can enter state by showing SSLC, PU hall ticket: Min||Mangaluru: Hall tickets issued to students from outside Karnataka, appearing for their SSLC examination commencing on June 25, and the II PU English examination on June 18, will be considered a valid document to enter Karnataka. These students need not apply for a pass separately, said minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar. The SSLC examinations will conclude in Karnataka on July 4. The minister, who toured the length and breadth of the state, to review preparedness for the SSLC examination, said the issue of students appearing for the examination from across the border, especially Kasaragod, figured prominently in his discussion with officials of the department of public instruction, zilla panchayat and BEOs in Udupi on Tuesday. There are around 16 entry points to Dakshina Kannada from Kasaragod, the minister said. As part of the arrangement for the students,DPI officials and department of PUE Board will arrange for buses at the border, to take the students to their respective examination centre, and drop them back at the border, on every day that the examination is held. “We have a list of students who need some form of transport to reach their examination centre, and arrangements will be made accordingly, in conjunction with the transport and police departments,” he said. With the coast and Malnad regions prone to flooding during the monsoon, necessitating students to cross dangerous rivulets to reach their exam centres, Suresh Kumar said the department has also kept a list of such students ready. They will be housed in various hostels till their examinations are over, he said. The department will also provide students with a handbook of do’s and dont’s in the run-up to the examinations, he said, advising them to focus on their preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-can-enter-state-by-showing-sslc-pu-hall-ticket-min/articleshow/76308582.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bengaluru||3.1k asymptomatic cases infected only 344 other people||BENGALURU: While the global scientific community debates the proportion of Covid-19 transmission from asymptomatic persons, Karnataka’s Covid-19 data throws up some interesting insights: One, the probability of getting infected from an asymptomatic person is at least five to ten times less likely compared to that from a symptomatic person. Two, the death rate is low among asymptomatic persons compared to those with symptoms. Data analysis of Covid-19 cases as on May 31 by the Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room points out that the virus spread per patient in asymptomatic cases is 0.11 compared to 1.42 in symptomatic cases. IAS officer War Room in-charge Munish Moudgil said: “We were looking at how many contacts of Covid-19 patients were turning positive. On May 31, we had 3,181 asymptomatic cases and our analysis revealed that these persons had spread the virus to 344 persons, the spread-per-patient being 0.11. On the other hand, there were 353 symptomatic cases on May 31 and these had spread the virus to a whopping 503 persons, the spread-per-patient being 1.42.” Even with regard to deaths, the numbers were low in asymptomatic cases. Of the 64 deaths reported till June 8, only six were asymptomatic cases, while 22 were symptomatic. The remaining had history of SARI and ILI. ”This shows that asymptotic has a significantly lower rate than those with symptoms,” Moudgil said. This, perhaps, is the first data set available in the country on infectivity by asymptomatic and symptomatic persons. The data will play a crucial role in determining future policy with regard to quarantine and other measures aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19. In fact, 97% of the active cases (3,248 as on Tuesday) were asymptomatic in Karnataka, with a majority of them being those who have returned from other states. Speaking to TOI, medical education minister (Covid in-charge) K Sudhakar said: “Going by the data we can say that there is no major spread of virus in the state from asymptomatic cases. In fact, asymptomatic cases are not causing any fear for us. However, we cannot conclude that transmission from asymptomatic persons is not happening at all.” Meanwhile, experts feel the state government can revisit its mandatory 14-day quarantine policy as a majority of the cases are asymptomatic and of them around 3,100 are returnees from Maharashtra. “As a precautionary measure to check if they develop any symptoms we have continued with 14 days of home quarantine for interstate returnees. Though it is learnt that infectivity through asymptomatic persons is practically nil, we need to be cautious. A meeting is to be held on Friday for various issues including this and the government may come up with fresh guidelines,” said Dr M K Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid-19 technical committee. According to Dr C N Manjunath, nodal officer, labs and testing, Covid-19 taskforce, the Covid-19 scenario is evolving, dynamic and hence SOPs get modified often. “The duration of 14 days of quarantine for a person who has no symptom is excessive. It should be thought about. Sitting at home for 14 days may also have its own impact. However, in the coming days, persons who are on quarantine who can afford will get the test done on their own,” said Dr Manjunath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-1k-asymptomatic-cases-infected-only-344-other-people/articleshow/76309675.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Rajkot||Chargesheet filed against woman gangster||RAJKOT: The Amreli police has filed a 21,000 pages chargesheet against the notorious gangster Sonu Dangar and her aides under the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GCTOC) Act The chargesheet, which is the first under the anti-terror law in Gujarat, was filed in the Savarkundla additional sessions court in Amreli on Tuesday. The chargesheet was filed after getting the mandatory approval from state home ministry. Investigating officer and DySP of Savarkundla K J Chaudhari said, “We invoked GCTOC against this gang because they operate an organized crime syndicate by terrorising people. They have committed 61 serious offences in multiple districts of Gujarat in last 10 years. We have submitted scientific and documentary evidence before the court.” Police said Dangar and her aide Shivraj Vichhiya were the gang leaders of this ‘organized syndicate’, who had spread terror in Amreli, Rajkot, Gir-Somnath, Ahmedabad, Surat and Patan. The gang is involved in crimes ranging from murder, attempt to murder, extortion, kidnapping, money laundering, land grabbing and smuggling of arms and explosives, the chargesheet states. It was on March 9 that Amreli police had invoked GCTOC against the gang and the chargesheet was filed within 82 days. Police recorded statements of 18 witness before magistrate under IPC section 164 and submitted these in the chargesheet, apart from that the statements of 25 government witness and forensic experts. Apart from Dangar and Vichhiya, those chargesheeted are Shailesh Chandu, Dadu Chandu, Ashok Boricha, Balsinh Boricha, Vanraj Vala, Narendra Khuman and Gautam Khuman are charge sheeted. Investigators said multiple offences and chargesheets in other offences did not deter this gang to carry out its unlawful activities. Amreli police removed large swathes of government land that was encroached upon by this gang in Savarkundla and near-by villages In December last year, Dangar was arrested from a Udaipur hotel within 48 hours of circulating a video on social media, threatening Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai and a lady police sub-inspector of Savarkundla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chargesheet-filed-against-woman-gangster/articleshow/76308580.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||KTC buses to pick up 41 Goans from Mum airport||Panaji: Flying out of Maldives, 41 passengers from Goa are expected to land at the Mumbai airport on Thursday. To ensure that they don’t get stuck in the metro, two buses of the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) have been deployed to pick them up upon arrival to be brought to Goa. “This is being done so that they don’t venture out of the Mumbai airport at all,” KTC, managing director, Venancio Furtado said. He further said that as per guidelines for international arrivals, including for quarantine arrangements, issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) guidelines, international arrivals must go on mandatory quarantine as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. “If these passengers are not picked from the airport, they will be quarantined for seven days in Mumbai itself. The state government has directed us to ensure that these passengers are not stranded in Mumbai. We are therefore picking them up from the airport parking lot itself and directly bringing them to Goa,” he said. According to Health Ministry guidelines, before boarding international travellers would have to give an undertaking that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days – self paid seven-day institutional quarantine, followed by seven-day isolation at home. On Tuesday, eight buses ferrying Goans from Mumbai arrived in the state. “These were passengers that had arrived from Rome, Italy,” Furtado informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-to-pick-up-41-goans-from-mum-airport/articleshow/76311342.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||HC suspends Vasco court functioning||Panaji: The high court on Wednesday suspended the functioning of the court at Vasco for two weeks in view of increase in the number of Covid patients in Mormugao taluka and declaration of Mangor Hill as a containment zone. The decision is taken following the directions of the administrative committee of the high court. Remand work and extreme urgent civil and criminal court matters of Vasco court jurisdiction will be taken up by one of the judges working at Vasco court on rotation basis from Margao, within the premises of the district and sessions court, Margao for the next two weeks,” the decision states. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-suspends-vasco-court-functioning/articleshow/76311333.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Govt should waive off bar licence fee, ensure interest-free loans to hospitality industry’||City’s hotel and restaurant industry is going through a tough time, forced as it was to remain closed for more than two months. President of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Ludhiana, Amarveer Singh spoke to Mohit Behl on the issues concerning the hospitality industry and challenges being faced by the entrepreneurs. What is the present situation of hotel and restaurant industry in the state and particularly in Ludhiana? As many as 1,360 hotel and restaurants are registered as members with our state body and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, approximately 30% have permanently shut down their operations as they were unable to bear any further losses. In addition to this, there is almost equal number of those who are on the brink of closure. In Ludhiana, the situation is tougher: barring our city, everywhere in Punjab banquet parties for 50 guests have been allowed. In Ludhiana, only community centres are allowed to host parties, not hotels and restaurants. If this ban is not lifted, soon there certainly will be more closures and more jobs will be lost as several hospitality units will go bankrupt. Moreover, the state government has still not allowed dine-in service in hotels and restaurants whereas even the hotspots of Covid-19, like Delhi, are allowing the hospitality industry to start dine-in services. It is a mystery why our government is not ready to allow this particularly when every member has spent money on training the staff and getting safety equipment. What are the major problems being faced by the hotel and restaurant industry? Major component of expenses of our industry are our spower bills and already the power tariff in Punjab is among the highest. Hotels and restaurants are allotted only commercial connections under which per unit is charged between Rs 12 and Rs 13, which means bills worth lakhs of rupees every month even if our unit is closed. So during the lockdown period of almost two and half months, we have been billed a hefty amount that we are unable to pay, as we did not earn a single penny during this period. We are getting no help from the government for battling this situation. In some states, government has waived off bills for three to six months. Regardless of our repeated requests, the state government has failed to address our demand of giving concession in annual bar fees, which is Rs. 4.70 lakh. We have been charged full fees for the year for bar license where as for almost three months we could not operate. But in some states, the hotel industry has been given waiver of even six months of bar license fees. In the wake of the changed business conditions, what is your biggest demand? Today’s situation is such that world over hotels and restaurants are the worst sufferers due to outbreak of Covid-19. Already unbearable losses have been incurred and the situation is unlikely to change for at least an year or so, until a sure shot remedy for ovid-19 is found. If we compare our industry with our counterparts in other countries, their governments have been very prompt to act. Already, financial aids up to several thousand crores have been given by them to the hospitality industry so that they can at least be able to pay the salaries of the staff and manage other expenses. Some countries have even introduced interest-free loans for repayment period of minimum three years. But sadly, as far as India is concerned, there has been no such hand holding by the governments — whether its Centre or state. It is our plea to the governments that if they cannot provide any kind of financial aid, they can at least provide interest-free easy loans to the hospitality industry. In addition to this, the power rates should be reduced for us or our connections should converted into small power (SP) connections under which the rates of power are charged from Rs 5-7 per unit. The bar licence fees for at least one quarter should be waived off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-should-waive-off-bar-licence-fee-ensure-interest-free-loans-to-hospitality-industry/articleshow/76309698.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Maoists ransack forest office, thrash guards in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: The rebels of banned Communist Party of India (Maoists) damaged a forest beat office at Gatta Jambia in Etapalli taluka of Bhamragarh division, just around 700 metres from police station, in sensitive south Gadchiroli in the early hours of Wednesday. The Maoists also assaulted two forest guards Govinda Dohtare of Gatta Beat and Raju Zore of Kunjemarka Beat. The rebels decamped with guards’ personal belongings including mobile phones. They also set bike of one of the guards on fire. Police said around 15 armed Maoist guerrillas had into the office and ransacked the place. They damaged some files and also brought down portions of the walls. A tin shade in front of the office was also broken. An officer said the Maoists seemed to have carried out the ransacking to protest against construction of road connecting to the remote Gatta Jambia. “In 2016, they had damaged road construction vehicles. Even now they warned the guards against helping the government to bring roads and electricity here,” said the officer. “These guards were also engaged in survey for lands to be made available to MSEDCL for setting up some posts and equipment to bring electrical connectivity in these remote localities,” said the officer. It is learnt the forest guards had rushed to the police station to report the matter. “The guards were administered first aid and also counselled as they were in shock. They are still reeling under fear,” said the officer. Senior forest officials were engaged in conducting inspection at the site along with police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maoists-ransack-forest-office-thrash-guards-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/76310659.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Noida||SC caps interest rate at 8% for Noida realtors||NEW DELHI: In a big relief to real estate companies, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to cap the interest rate at 8% for delay in payment of land cost. At present, the Noida authorities charge interest rate of 15-23% for such delay by builders. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit said there is need to “give impetus” to the real estate sector and relief should be granted to builders as many of them are struggling to survive due to slowdown in economy and the Covid-19 pandemic. It said charging a reasonable rate of interest of 8% will enable them to complete the housing projects. It passed the order on a plea of Ace Group of Companies which alleged that various projects are stalled and became dormant due to excessive lease rent, penalty and interest charged by the authorities. It contended that SBI MCLR (Marginal Cost of Funds-based Lending Rate) rate of interest for three years is only 7-8%, and Noida authorities be directed to reduce the rate of interest. “Considering the current state of real estate and in order to give impetus to such housing projects and mainly considering the plight of home buyers and as pointed out by Noida and Greater Noida Authorities that of 114 plots allotted from 2005 onwards, most of the projects are incomplete, we direct that the rate of interest on the outstanding premium and other dues to be realised in all such cases be at the rate of 8% per annum and let the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities do a restructuring of the repayment schedule,” it said. Welcoming the apex court verdict, President of National Real Estate Development Council of Uttar Pradesh and Chairman of Supertech Group R K Arora said the order is a solace to the ailing sector. "The authorities have been charging interest compounded half-yearly, resulting in an effective rate of approximately 20% per annum which is not viable from business point of view, and the liquidity crisis with the real estate sector is largely attributable to this wrong and excessive interest rate," he said. He said capping interest rate at 8% would enable the developers to complete the stuck and delayed projects and help approximately one lakh home buyers. The court noted that Noida and Greater Noida Authorities have allotted over 114 plots since 2005 to various group housing societies but more than 60% of projects have not been able to come up so far. While 81 plots were handed over the possession on payment of 10% of the total premium, only 29 of them were completed. The authorities are not issuing completion certificates to such projects and they are not able to realise the outstanding dues. The court, however, made it clear that if the builders failed to clear the dues within reasonable time, the concession granted will be withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/sc-caps-interest-rate-at-8-for-noida-realtors/articleshow/76311335.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Weavers in East Godavari seek help||KAKINADA: The lockdown has rendered many weavers jobless in the handloom sector in East Godavari. About a lakh people from the sector have urged the government to provide them with employment. There are 18,000 looms in East Godavari. A major section of weavers work under master weavers. And a reasonable percentage of people work in the cooperative sector. Following the coronavirus lockdown, which affected transportation, master weavers stopped giving the weavers work due to lack of marketing and transport. As far as the cooperative sector was concerned, failure of the AP State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society, popularly known as APCO, to procure stock from the weavers affected their business. For instance, there are 50 cooperative societies in the district that have unsold stocks worth Rs 7 crore. Every year the social welfare department purchases about four lakh bedsheets for hostels through APCO. This year, APCO did not give orders to the societies. Speaking to TOI, chairman of State Federation of Weavers’ Cooperative Societies, Donthamsetty Virupaksham, said the social welfare department is planning to buy bedsheets for hostels from the private sector weavers of Tamil Nadu that is made on power looms. He said there are 80,000 unsold bedsheets with cooperative societies. He said the government should protect their livelihood and provide employment to skilled weavers even though the weavers are happy with Nethanna Nestham scheme, which provides the weavers with Rs 24,000 as annual financial assistance. He pointed out that that just like the Telangana government has started distributing sarees to BPL women on Bathukamma, the Andhra government too should introduce a scheme to protect the livelihood of the weavers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/weavers-in-east-godavari-seek-help/articleshow/76308590.cms||Samson Raj
June 11, 2020||Trichy||MKU research team invents ventilator-cum-respirator||Madurai: A research team from the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has invented a new, simple and modernized ventilator-cum-respirator device (LIDS-VR) that would help prevent the spread of coronavirus while providing continuous oxygen supply for frontline workers, infected patients and healthy people.MKU vice-chancellor professor M Krishnan said a team of experts - Dr T Arockia Doss, department of physics and Dr B Ashokkumar, department of genetic engineering, invented this device (LIDS-VR). They demonstrated the device in front of Dr N Sivasubramanian, former senior scientist, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), who has appraised the invention.LIDS-VR works by providing a high concentration of oxygen into the available air within the device by oxy scavenger, when an AC electromagnetic field is applied. More than 33% oxygen is generated inside LIDS-VR within 11 seconds. It is portable and weightless and also has nano-circuits with sensors. There are two types of LIDS-VR available (with and without sensors by mobile applications), which have the ability to automatically regulate according to the patient’s requirement, a statement said.Normally, a respirator is used to protect a person, who is working in an area with chemicals or germs and protect the respiratory system by filtering out dangerous substances from inhaled air and maintain a constant pressure in the lungs.A ventilator on the other hand circulates fresh air by a mechanized device that enables the delivery or movement of air and oxygen into the lungs by an extra O2 cylinder and electric motor power. Though portable ventilators are available an O2 cylinder has to be carried along with it or use a high-cost membrane for separation of oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mku-research-team-invents-ventilator-cum-respirator/articleshow/76311336.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Two men commit suicide in MCH Covid isolation ward||Thiruvananthapuram: Two suspected cases of suicides were reported at the deluxe pay ward of Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, which functions as an isolation ward for suspected/confirmed cases of Covid-19. One is a 33-year-old man, who was brought to the hospital as a Covid patient and recovered recently and the other is a 38-year-old man, who was brought here on Tuesday night and was awaiting his test results. The recovered Covid-19 patient from Anadu near Nedumangad had run away from hospital on Tuesday, the day he was to be discharged. He was caught from near his home and brought back. A nurse who brought him prescription to be taken after discharge found him hanging round 11.30am on Wednesday. He was rushed to a critical care unit, but could not be saved. The man was admitted to the hospital on May 29 with Covid symptoms. He was an alcoholic and was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state. When the hospital authorities tested his swab, his test results turned positive. Though he had travelled to Tamil Nadu a day before for buying spurious liquor, health officials are yet to trace the source of his infection. Police said that as per official communication from MCH authorities, he had turned negative in the last two tests following which they were planning to give him discharge. The procedures for the discharge were going on when he sneaked out of the hospital. He caught a rickshaw from MCH to reach Thampanoor from where he took a bus to Anadu. However, before he could reach home, locals spotted him and informed police and health officials, who took him back to the hospital. Hospital sources said they had given him counselling before admitting him again. A police officer attached to MCH police station said the entire family of the deceased has been quarantined. Health Minister K K Shailaja asked health principal secretary to conduct a probe and file a report on both the suicides. State Human Rights Commission too has registered a suo motu case and has sought an explanation from the medical education director and superintendent of MCH. Murukesan (38), the second person who allegedly killed himself, was found hanging in the evening in his isolation ward. He was from Nedumangad and was brought to MCH on Tuesday night with symptoms of Covid-19 and was under observation. He too had reportedly taken a trip to Tamil Nadu recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/two-men-commit-suicide-in-mch-covid-isolation-ward/articleshow/76309730.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Reopen Vasco markets, businesses: DMA chief||Vasco: The director of municipal administration Dr Tariq Thomas met the councillors and staff of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Wednesday and impressed upon them not keep the municipality shut and it is part of the essential services. “Learn to live with the virus. If it remains for a year, we cannot think of shutting for that long. The municipality has to provide services and generate income,” he said. It may be recalled that on Tuesday, the MMC staff had demanded that the municipality be shut it for a week after a staffer tested positive for Covid-19. From Wednesday only 33% staff were called on duty. The chairperson Raut said that this arrangement will continue for a few more days and staff will be called on duty every alternate day. Thomas also asked the councillors to request shopkeepers and businessmen to reopen their shops and businesses. MMC chairperson Nanadadeep Raut said, “Before going to the public, we will hold a meeting with all councillors to decide whether we should request the markets to open.” Meanwhile, the Covid-positive patient who escaped from Khariawaddo was traced in his village at Bagalkot-Karnataka and was admitted to the hospital there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reopen-vasco-markets-businesses-dma-chief/articleshow/76311350.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 11, 2020||Goa||Can’t allow wrongs, drama: Mauvin on woman’s video||Panaji: With the transport department under public glare over a recent viral video, minister Mauvin Godinho on Wednesday termed the incident as ‘drama’ and said illegalities cannot be accepted. In the video, a woman was seen wailing outside the transport department’s head office in Panaji because her papers were not being processed by officials. “We cannot bow to illegalities just because you create drama. The entire thing is illegal. When you don’t fulfill the criteria, how can we give justice? We cannot give justice to something that does not fit in the criteria,” said the transport minister. The woman, who has been identified as Prashanti Palyekar, is heard saying that she had been visiting the department since December-January to get her papers cleared. She alleged that her requests were being rejected by the transport officials despite inspections being carried out twice. Palyekar operates five two-wheeler vehicles in Anjuna under the rent-a-bike scheme. She was issued the license on January 11, 2015 whose validity expired on January 10, 2020. The site inspections were conducted by transport officials on February 11 and March 2, this year. The department clarified that Palyekar has not complied with six of the several requirements of the standard operating procedure laid down by the state government. These are non-compliance of the required size of the office, non-provision of the nature of financial resources, maintenance of some records and licence display. “In view of these deficiencies, the renewal could not be approved on June 8,” assistant director of transport, Francisco Vaz said. The video also evoked a reaction from the leader of the opposition, Digambar Kamat who took to Twitter to demand intervention from chief minister Pramod Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-allow-wrongs-drama-mauvin-on-womans-video/articleshow/76311344.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: From collecting garbage to night patrolling, this RWA shows the way||BENGALURU: From lifting garbage and running delivery errands to patrolling the complex at night, the residents’ welfare association at Provident Sunworth Apartment Complex on Mysuru Road-Nice Junction has donned many hats. For Provident Sunworth Apartment Owners Association, the hard work, coordination and planning began on March 22 with the Janata Curfew and continued during the lockdown. Residents now say measures put in place will continue. Mahaveer Tuppad, secretary of the association, while sharing their experiences for TOI’s My Society Pride campaign, said residents of the 1440-odd flats stood the test, thanks to excellent coordination between the board members and volunteers. “Our 16-member board, with help from some volunteers, was able to carry out all tasks like clearing garbage in the absence of support staff,” Tuppad said. Sarita Prabhu, a board member, said the situation was new, but they focused on ensuring residents had access to basic amenities and essentials. “We had to do everything at short notice,” she said. Vedamurthy, another board member, said from restricting movement of residents to fixing timings for them to visit the milk booth and grocery store, the RWA did not leave any stone unturned and followed government guidelines diligently. “Social distancing norms were new to us all, but we ensured everyone followed,” he said. But strict adherence was also aided with compassion for senior citizens, some of whom were bedridden. The members formed a WhatsApp group especially for them. “They would keep the garbage out and send a picture in the group. Volunteers would then go and collect it. For senior citizens living alone, we delivered things to their doorstep,” Vedamurthy said. In the absence of support staff, residents had to dispose of waste in a segregated manner at a particular spot every day. “We also disposed of used masks separately,” he said. A rapid action team was formed to deliver essential to those in home quarantine. Tuppad said the entire RWA team juggled work from home schedules and RWA responsibilities exceptionally. Around 20 volunteers chipped in with daily chores. Like many others, the RWA helped farmers sell their produce through cashless transactions within the complex. While security and housekeeping staff were housed in unoccupied flats, the RWA also housed staff of a neighbouring supermarket after it announced that they would have to close since the staff could not travel to work. The clubhouse was used to stock supplies for the supermarket. While the RWA relaxed payment of maintenance charges for some residents, some owners paid five times more to support the complex. It organized a ‘Go Mechanic’ session where mechanics were called to help residents fix their vehicles. A local veterinarian was also invited to treat 22 pet dogs and four cats on. Though restrictions are being lifted, residents say they will continue to follow safety norms. “The government has lifted the lockdown, but the virus is still around. So, we must stay alert,” Vedamurthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-collecting-garbage-to-night-patrolling-this-rwa-shows-the-way/articleshow/76309712.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Pune||Heavy rain, landslides in Pune's ghat areas on Saturday: IMD||PUNE: Days after Cyclone Nisarga battered parts of the state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heavy to very heavy rain from June 12. Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra are on an orange alert for June 13 when heavy rainfall could trigger landslides in the ghat areas, IMD officials told TOI on Wednesday. This is also when the monsoon is set to enter Mumbai and Pune, the weather officials said. The weather bureau has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over Konkan-Goa and Madhya Maharashtra, and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Marathwada and Vidarbha on June 12-13 with moderate rainfall in Pune city. The lack of rain in interior Karnataka, Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh will bring the monsoon to Maharashtra on June 11-12, instead of the earlier expected date of June 10. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI that the monsoon’s onset conditions over south Konkan, in parts such as Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, are already favourable. But the adjoining parts of north interior Karnataka, Rayalseema and coastal Andhra Pradesh have not been getting much rainfall. He added, “While declaring the monsoon’s onset over Maharashtra, we need spatial continuity. Unless north interior Karnataka, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalseema get rain, it is difficult to declare the monsoon’s entry into South Konkan in Maharashtra.” Kashyapi said rainfall in Maharashtra will start increasing from June 11, including Pune district and city. “We have forecast heavy rain in isolated places in the ghat areas in Pune district on June 12 and heavy to very heavy rain in isolated places in the ghats in Pune district on June 13. Rainfall in Pune city is also likely to increase during this time,” he said. The low pressure area over east-central and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal is likely to move west-northwestwards and become well marked during the next 48 hours. “Under the influence of this low pressure area, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall accompanied by isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over central India during June 11-13, including Maharashtra,” Kashyapi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-rain-landslides-in-ghat-areas-on-saturday-imd/articleshow/76311343.cms||Neha Madaan
June 11, 2020||Delhi||‘Release balance loan amounts to Amrapali buyers’||NEW DELHI: In a bid to generate funds to complete Amrapali Group’s stalled housing projects in which more than 46,000 homebuyers have booked flats, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed banks and financial institutions to disburse the remaining amount of home loans which could be used for completing the construction work under its supervision. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit also directed that the home loans of the buyers be restructured and they be charged interest rate as fixed by the Reserve Bank of India. The estimated cost for construction of all pending housing projects is Rs 8,500 crore and the amount recoverable from home-buyers and buyers of commercial areas is Rs 3,700 crore (43% of the cost). Banks and financial institutions had stopped release of home loan after construction work got stalled due to financial crisis in the Amrapali Group, triggered by diversion and siphoning off of funds by its promoters. The loan accounts were declared non-performing assets (NPAs). The apex court said that the loan accounts being declared as NPA would not come in the way of release of funds after RBI told the bench that it is not binding and banks have the flexibility to continue the loan accounts. “We direct the banks and financial institutions to release loans to homebuyers, whose loans have been sanctioned, notwithstanding the fact that their accounts are declared as NPAs. Let there be a restructuring of the loan amount. It may be released under the current norms of RBI for releasing loans and rates fixed by RBI,” the bench said. It has been around one year since the SC took over the management of the Group and appointed senior advocate R Venkataramani as receiver to manage its affairs, but construction work remained sluggish due to fund crunch as NBCC, which has been given the task to complete the projects, refused to invest while buyers were not able to clear their dues with banks rfusing to disburse money. Prodded by the SC to release Rs 500 crore for the projects out of the Centre's real estate stress fund, SBI Capital, which manages the fund, had told the court last week that it was proposing to set up a Special Purpose Vehicle through which funding will be done. UCO bank also agreed to fork out Rs 2,000 crore by keeping the unsold inventory of 5221 units in various Amrapali projects as mortgage. The bench rejected the plea of Noida and Greater Noida Authorities to release the FAR, which was available to the erstwhile Amrapali Group. As home buyers are approaching various forums, including consumer courts against NBCC, the court directed the PSU will be immune to any proceedings. "NBCC is asked by this court to complete the projects. It is not liable for any legal action. In view of the order that has been passed by this court, NBCC is immune from any such actions, and we request the courts/ Consumer Redressal Commission and other authorities not to permit impleadment of NBCC as respondent and not to issue summons to NBCC as they are doing the work under the supervision of this court and are not answerable to any other court, tribunal, authorities," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/release-balance-loan-amounts-to-amrapali-buyers/articleshow/76311349.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||MTR woman guard assaulted for action against illegal grazing||Nagpur: A woman forest guard was assaulted by a member of relocated family in Pastalai in Gugamal division for seizing cattle grazing in the core of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati district.Sources informed that on June 2, forest guard of Churni beat Anjali Aathave was on routine patrolling round in compartment number 36 when she noticed five domestic cattle grazing in the core area. Aathave issued a preliminary offence report (POR) and seized the cattle and placed them at Vairat camp for further action. These cattle belonged to Sakharam Dhandekar.On June 5, when Aathave was on her way to Vairat, Gangubai Dhandekar, wife of Sakharam, confronted her and asked why she had initiated action and seized cattle. Dhandekar allegedly abused Aathave and also physically assaulted her.Aathave reported the matter to seniors and a complaint was filed at Chikhaldara police station as well as with controlling officers. Police have recorded statements of the accused and further action is underway.Gugamal ACF RK Patwari said, “The accused’s kin Lalman Dhandekar is police-patil and currently resides in Pastalai. There have been numerous complaints lodged with district administration against Dhandekar regarding illegal activities.”The core area of MTR under Gugamal wildlife division has 12 villages. Of these, Koha and Kund were rehabilitated in 2003-04 and Vairat & Churni in 2011-12. Dolar, Memana, Mangiya, Rora and Pastalai have been taken up for rehabilitation since 2017-18.Of these villages, Dolar and Memana have been fully relocated while relocation of Rora and Mangiya is going on. Besides, 98% of Pastalai has been rehabilitated. The Dhandekars are the only ones who have refused to move out despite accepting Option–I package (voluntary relocation).Pastalai consisted of 155 families of which 150 families have been rehabilitated at Yewata and Vadgaon Fattehpur about 18 months ago. The remaining five — Dhandekars and kin — are not moving out.These families belong to group of beneficiaries who have settled at Vadgaon Fattehpur under Option-1 package comprising Rs10 lakh per family. However, they are not moving out to the new site citing flimsy reasons, sources said. These five families are living in the tiger reserve core area and are regularly involved in illegal grazing, tree felling and damage to wildlife habitat. The area where Dhandekars live has presence of sloth bears, leopards, as well as tigress with cubs. Ignoring the potential danger these animals pose to the families, they are refusing to relocate, said sources adding that they have been filing “fake” complaints against forest officers.“Lalman Dhandekar is not leaving the place for simple reason that he will lose the job of police-patil,” said patwari. When all others from the village have already shifted, for whom Dhandekar will work, asked the patwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mtr-woman-guard-assaulted-for-action-against-illegal-grazing/articleshow/76310671.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Fire in rice bran godown, firemen fight for more than 12 hrs||Ludhiana: Fire department officials have been battling for more than 12 hours to douse a fire in a rice bran godown in Rasoolra village of Khanna. Kuldeep Sudan, owner of the godown, said on Wednesday morning at around 6am, he got the message about fire in the godown and rushed to the spot. He added that he called fire department officials after which fire tenders reached the spot. The owner said he will come to know about the exact loss after fire stops. Fire officer Khanna, Yashpal Rai, said at around 8.15am they got information about the fire after which a team of nine firemen and officers along with three fire tenders reached the spot. He added that till now 50 to 60 vehicles of water have been used to control the fire and they are still trying to fully control it. Fire officer said there was no loss to human life, only loss to the property. He added that oil comes out of the rice bran so there are chances of fire due to heat, but exact cause of fire will be ascertained after they doused the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fire-in-rice-bran-godown-firemen-fight-for-more-than-12-hrs/articleshow/76309720.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Widow of Covid-19 man tests +ve after giving birth to girl||Varanasi: After death of her husband due to Covid-19, a woman was later found infected with coronavirus after giving birth to a healthy baby girl in Chandauli district. District magistrate Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal confirmed that the sample of the window of Covid-19 patient had been taken on May 30 and she delivered a healthy baby on June 9. But, she was infected after her test report was received from Banaras Hindu University lab on Tuesday night. Her baby is healthy and the woman is being treated in Varanasi, he added. The woman and her husband had returned home in Amra village of Dhanapur area from Nasik in Maharashtra with their three children on May 15. On becoming symptomatic, her husband had given his sample for laboratory test on May 27 and with the arrival of his report he had been admitted to ICU of BHU hospital in Varanasi. However, he died during the course of treatment on May 30 after which his contact tracing process was started and the sample of woman, who was pregnant, was taken on the same day. With the woman confirmed as infected the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Chandauli reached to 40. Of these 18 have become cured while number of active patients now is 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/widow-of-covid-19-man-tests-ve-after-giving-birth-to-girl/articleshow/76307670.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Case against 45 employers for deserting staff||Margao: Acting on a complaint lodged by the South Goa district administration, Fatorda police have booked an offence against 45 employers for “deserting” their employees during the time of the pandemic. They have been charged under Section 188 of the IPC for violating orders of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) during the lockdown period. Mamlatdar of Salcete, Prataprao Gaonkar in his complaint to the police said that the shelter home at the Jawaharal Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, was closed down on Sunday after all the migrants housed in it were sent to their native states by Shramik special trains, the last of which departed that evening. However, after over a hundred migrants gathered outside the stadium on Sunday night, “it was revealed upon inquiry that most of the migrants were deserted by their employers there (after) informing them that they would be taken care of in the shelter home, without any knowledge of the district collector.” “All the employers will be summoned to the police station and interrogated, following which necessary action will be initiated,” South Goa SP Arvind Gawas told TOI. The South Goa district administration faced flak from some activist groups after the shelter home at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium was abruptly closed down on Sunday leaving hundreds of migrants trying to get inside. The shelter home has since been reopened and over a 1,000 migrants are presently accommodated in it. Sources in the shelter home said that hundreds of migrants wanting to return to their native states have been landing outside the stadium seeking accommodation in the shelter home every day, since Sunday. “The employers are deserting their employees and they land up outside the shelter home. It becomes a problem in arranging for their meals when several hundreds land up at the shelter home without any prior notice,” said an official. “However, we ensure that everybody inside the shelter home gets the meals.” Sources said that the district administration was working on a travel plan to send the migrants to their native states. South Goa collector Ajit Roy also urged the employees to take proper care of their employees. “It’s a violation of MHA guidelines if employees are abandoning their employees. They have to take care of them, especially now when almost all economic activities are back to normal in Goa. No one should abuse or misuse the system,” Roy had said on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/case-against-45-employers-for-deserting-staff/articleshow/76311354.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: ANMs to monitor vitals of persons with underlying conditions every three days||VIJAYAWADA: Amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to focus on the aged and persons suffering from chronic diseases for effective comprehensive surveillance and targeted prevention efforts, as well as keeping the pandemic-related mortality rate in check. The government has already collected data on persons with underlying health conditions and the elderly by leveraging its nearly three-lakh-strong volunteer network through its multiphase door-to-door fever surveys. Now, the government will take advantage of the same data for its tailored and enhanced surveillance of these categories for better outcomes. The decision was preceded by an analysis into Covid-related casualties, which highlighted the fact that people with comorbidities and immuno-compromised persons are more vulnerable to develop complications from the disease. In an instant order released by the state health department on Wednesday, the ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife) are asked to check on the elderly and people with comorbidities once in every three days. During the visit, the ANMs will record vitals such as temperature, blood oxygen saturation levels, blood pressure and sugar levels. The vital signs as well as the details of the visit will be recorded in the ‘ANM’ App. The ANMs can seek the assistance of ward/village secretariat employees in achieving the objective. Irrespective of clinical signs and symptoms, all vulnerable people residing in containment and buffer zones will be tested for Covid-19. Furthermore, they will also be provided with zinc supplements to boost immunity. Their family members will be advised not to allow them to venture out into public spaces. Esential requirements, such as shopping for groceries, may be carried out by others in the family. However, if only vulnerable people are living in the house, their neighbours or relatives may be alerted for getting them essential supplies. The required medicines for underlying comorbid conditions for these vulnerable sections will be supplied at their doorstep by the ANMs at free of cost once every fortnight. During the earlier comprehensive door-to-door surveys, the state health department had identified 32,792 suspected cases and tested all of them for Covid-19 but only nine were diagnosed with the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anms-to-monitor-vitals-of-persons-with-underlying-conditions-every-three-days/articleshow/76308674.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Cial has most no. of repatriation flights in a day||Kochi: The Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) received six repatriation flights on Wednesday, which is the highest number of evacuation flights on a single day after the lockdown started. Around 1,320 passengers, mostly from the Middle East, reached Cial in the flights — five chartered flights and one Vande Bharat mission flight. Out of the six flights, five were from destinations in the Middle East and one was from London via Doha. The first flight to reach on Wednesday was the Qatar Airways’ chartered flight from London (QR7483) that reached Kochi via Doha at 1.22am. There were 280 passengers who embarked from both London and Doha. Gulf Air flight (GF 7270), which was scheduled to arrive from Dammam, and Indigo flight (6E 9181) from Sharjah were cancelled, while Air Arabia operated a special repatriation flight from Sharjah, which was not been listed earlier. The Air Arabia (G9 425) touched down at 5.36am on Wednesday with 166 passengers onboard. Emirates flight (EK9834) from Dubai arrived at 4.56pm with 350 passengers onboard. The Saudi flight (SV 774) from Riyadh reached at 6.15pm. Air India-operated flight (AI 964) from Jeddah, carrying 350 passengers, arrived at 6.49am. The Vande Bharat flight of Air India Express (IX 1446) from Salalah landed at 7.57pm with 177 passengers. Cial expects to receive 1,600 passengers in seven repatriation flights on Thursday. There will be four relief flights from Kuwait alone on Thursday. Jazeera flight (J9 1405) is scheduled for 1.20am landing with 160 passengers. Kuwait Airways flight (KU1351) will arrive at 4am with 320 passengers and Jazeera flight (J9 4905) will touchdown at 7am with 160 passengers onboard. The Go Air flight (G8 7066) from Kuwait via Bengaluru will land at 4pm with 180 passengers. SpiceJet flight (SG9993) from Abu Dhabi is expected to arrive at 3am with 183 passengers. Air India Express flight from Singapore (IX 483) will land at 10.15pm after a stopover at Madurai with 177 passengers while Air India flight (AI 1938) from Dammam will land at 6.50pm with 400 passengers onboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-has-most-no-of-repatriation-flights-in-a-day/articleshow/76309768.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur quarantine centre lacks basic facilities: Inmates||Thanjavur: The inmates of a quarantine facility set up at a newly constructed building in Vallam in Thanjavur district alleged that it lacked even basic amenities. The facility is among the several facilities in the district to quarantine people arriving from different parts of the state and from outside the state. The inmates of the facility blamed the officials for sending them there without ensuring that the building had proper facilities in place. One of the inmates who arrived at the facility on June 8, alleged that when he was brought to the building the rooms didn’t even have beds and mattresses. There were no buckets or mugs in the toilets and there was no proper lighting facility in the rooms, he alleged.“It is a newly constructed building and was not ready for use when we arrived here. It was the inmates who swept and cleaned the floor. Rooms and halls were full of dust. Since there is no boundary wall for the building there is no security for the people staying here. There is also a honeycomb in the building and we fear being attacked by the bees”, said one of the inmates on condition of anonymity. When contacted, the district collector M Govinda Rao told TOI that it was a newly constructed tenement and that he has directed officials to provide the things necessary. “I visited the facility and now it has the required basic amenities”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-quarantine-centre-lacks-basic-facilities-inmates/articleshow/76311365.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Problem tiger captured, tigress found dead||Chandrapur: The problem tiger of Tadoba, KT-I, responsible for five human kills was tranquillized and captured on Wednesday evening close to Chaiti talav near Kolara gate on boundary of core and buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve. PCCF and field director TATR, NR Pravin told TOI that tiger KT-1 had killed the bait laid near the lake in the morning and gone back into the jungle. “The beast returned in the evening and the team waiting on the machan darted it precisely before capturing it,” he said. A rouge tiger in buffer zone of the park had killed five people including two women in the last four months. After two of the human kills happened in last three days at Kolara and Bamangaon, an expert technical committee analysed the data and identified KT-I as the problem tiger. PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar issued orders to capture the problem tiger on Tuesday following recommendation from the committee. A team comprising ACF Mahesh Kore, veterinary wildlife officer Dr Ravikand Khobragade, members of Rapid Response Team of TATR and staffer under the leadership of deputy director, TATR (core) undertook the tracking and search operation in the forest. They soon determined the area of tiger’s movement and laid bait in its track near the Chaiti talav. Field director Pravin claimed that the captured beast is a healthy adult male. The tiger will be sent to Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur as it cannot be released back into the wild. In yet another incident, a full-grown tigress was found dead close to busy Sitarampeth-Kondegaon road in Moharli range of buffer zone under TATR on Wednesday morning. Livestock development officer PD Kadukar carried out the post mortem on the spot in presence of TATR officials, PCCF and NTCA representatives. Field director Pravin claimed that post mortem findings remained inconclusive as the body was completely petrified and hence cause of death could not be ascertained. He ruled out poaching claiming that all the vital body parts are intact. Vets have collected the viscera samples for forensic analysis. The incident has put question mark over patrolling and safety of wildlife in highly protected TATR, as carcass lied near the busy Sitarampeth road for 4-5 days undiscovered. It’s the fifth tiger death in Maharashtra this year. Four of the deaths have occurred in Tadoba landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/problem-tiger-captured-tigress-found-dead/articleshow/76310690.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 11, 2020||Rajkot||Sarpanch, husband caught taking bribe||RAJKOT: A woman sarpanch and her husband were caught red handed while accepting Rs 5,000 bribe in Madhav Hill area of Bhavnagar on Tuesday night. Police said the accused, identified as Jula Solanki, had demanded the bribe on behalf of his wife Hansa Solanki, the sarpanch of Nava Juna Mandhiya village of Bhavnagar taluka. “The accused had demanded the bribe from the complainant in order to provide him no objection certificate from the village panchayat for setting up an industrial unit in the village,” said an official from Bhavnagar ACB. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sarpanch-husband-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/76308684.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Rising transport cost keeps people off the streets in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Commuting in the city has become a costly affair. With buses off the road, commuters, now, have to rely only on cabs and auto-rickshaws, who have used the opportunity to raise their fares. With the easing of the lockdown, commercial establishments are back in business. Although malls and restaurants have opened since June 8, they have registered low footfall till now. It seems that besides Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), which runs city bus services, has postponed resuming services. Around 15,000 passengers depend on RTC. “The city bus is a cheaper mode of public transport. Bus route connectivity is very good in the city and we are facing problems in the absence of bus services,” said SK Shammi, a private sector employee staying at Bhavanipuram. Share auto, another popular public transport, too, has become costlier, with the police restricting number of passengers to three. Auto drivers said Covid-19 had affected their livelihood. “We should be very cautious as Covid-19 cases are rising. We are providing hand sanitizer and seating only three passengers. But still, people are hesitating to board auto-rickshaws. Share auto fare has gone up by 40 per cent to avoid losses and it has impacted occupancy. The government should reduce fuel price to support us,” said M Nagendra, an auto-rickshaw driver from Labbipet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rising-transport-cost-keeps-people-off-the-streets-in-vij/articleshow/76308650.cms||Venu Lanka
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Atwal urges PM to help workers stuck in Kuwait||Ludhiana: After the Times of India highlighted the issue of hundreds of youths from the state, including from Ludhiana district being stuck in Kuwait, after their employers took their passports, former Lok Sabha deputy speaker Charanjit Singh Atwal on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take necessary steps to bring the stranded workers back. In a letter to the PM, Charanjit Atwal said 600 Punjabis were working for a private firm by the name of KGL based in Pharmania. He said the workers were in a miserable condition because they were not being paid salaries and could not exit their workplace because their passports were in the possession of the company management. He said he had received representations from the relatives of the workers, who were demanding that their next of kin be repatriated to Punjab. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/atwal-urges-pm-to-help-workers-stuck-in-kuwait/articleshow/76309746.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||11th century panels discovered in Krishna||Vijayawada: A farmer accidentally discovered four ancient panels engraved with the images of goddess Durga while digging a hole to install a borewell at his farmland in Utukuru village, Krishna district, on Tuesday. As word spread, villagers thronged at his land to offer their prayers. Speaking to TOI, E Sivanagi Reddy, an archaeologist explained that the idols likely date back to 11th century CE. And going by the engravings the panels usually come in a set of seven, which are commonly known as ‘Saptamatrikas’, which roughly translates to ‘seven mothers’. “The Saptamatrikas are part of the Shakti cult. Its followers worship all the seven goddesses together at Shaivaite temples,” Reddy told TOI. Matrikas are the different forms Adi Parashakti and personified powers of different devas, she added. The forms include, Brahmani from Brahma, Vaishnavi from Vishnu, Maheshvari from Shiva, Indrani from Indra, Kaumari from Skanda, Varahi from Varaha and Chamunda from Devi. The panels show four-handed goddesses in a seated position on their vahanas (vehicles) holding weapons. “These Saptamatrikas has been a trend from 11th century to 14th century CE across several Shiva temples. Perhaps, once there used to be a temple in that place which might have fallen into ruin and was eventually buried,” Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11th-century-panels-discovered-in-krishna/articleshow/76308689.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen seek exclusion of exports from turnover in MSME definition||Ludhiana: A meeting of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) was organised on Wednesday to discuss the issues related to the industry. The major problem identified by the businessmen has turned out to be the inclusion of exports in the turnover limit set for defining the category of industry under the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Act. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, said, “We welcome the Union government’s move to modify the definition of MSME, under which the new turnover limits have been set to determine category of the industrial unit like micro, small and medium. However, exports are still being counted in the turnover criteria, whereas it should be excluded from being added to the turnover and should not be used as the criteria to decide the category of the industrial unit.” Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, “It was recently announced by the central government that in the new definition of MSMEs the firms having a turnover of up to Rs 250 crore, excluding the exports and investment of Rs 50 crore in plant and machinery, will be considered as an MSME unit. But while notifying the same, the exclusion of exports has not been mentioned anywhere, so we request Nitin Gadkari, Union minister of MSME to exclude the exports from turnover by amending the notification and renotifying the same at the earliest.” Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, senior vice-president of the association, said, “Until the definition of the MSME is properly formulated along with clearly defining each and every aspect, including the exports turnover, the proper benefits for which each unit, whether small or large, is entitled will not be able to avail anything. The government must implement all necessary suggestions, including proper notification about exclusion of the exports from turnover criteria in defining MSMEs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-seek-exclusion-of-exports-from-turnover-in-msme-definition/articleshow/76309776.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Patna||Migrants in Bihar to get job alerts via mobile app||PATNA: The Bihar government is developing a mobile application through which returnee migrant workers will get notification for job vacancies in various industrial units in the state based on their mapped skills. A database containing the skill-mapping details of migrants and the specific requirements of various industries will be built into the app being developed by the industries department. It will match a job seeker suited for an available job and an offer will be directly sent to the workers on their registered mobile number. “The details of workers generated through skill-mapping is being uploaded in the Shram Sansadhan (labour resources) portal of the industries department. As of now, the existing industrial units are manually sending their requirements to district industries centres, who are furnishing them the details regarding availability of workers of the required skills in the corresponding district,” industries minister Shyam Rajak told TOI on Wednesday. “But this process started with the commencement of skill mapping work will be automated as the department is developing a mobile application through which workers will directly get job alerts,” he added. According to the information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar, artificial intelligence technology will also be used for job-matching for returnee migrant laborers. “The database based on skill mapping is being uploaded and the industries also feed their requirement of manpower on this portal for job-matching purpose. Plans are afoot to use artificial intelligence for job-matching, following which messages will be sent on mobile phones of workers. The workers will get choice of different vacancies and they can choose their job and an offer will be sent to them accordingly. The system for the same is being upgraded,” Anupam said. An estimated 29 lakh people, mostly migrant workers, have returned from various states since the lockdown owing to the Cobid-19 pandemic. As per official figures, more than 21 lakh people have returned by Shramik special trains since May 2. Others have returned via road, either by hitch-hiking or even walking. The state government initiated the process of skill-mapping of returnee migrants soon after they started returning and were accommodated in quarantine centres. As per figures available with industries department, around 16 lakh skilled and semi-skilled workers have been identified in the skill- mapping works, which is in the final stage at present. Out of the 16 lakh skilled and semi- skilled workers, around 8.40 lakh workers have been identified as construction workers, 57,000 tailors, 41,000 carpenters, 4,000 food processing workers and 1,400 handicraft workers among others. Rajak said, “A Chhattisgarh based egg-hatchery firm and a biscuit manufacturing firm have also confirmed to set up their units in Bihar. The hatchery will soon sign a memorandum of understanding for setting up their unit in Muzaffarpur district, which will employ 1,000 workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-in-state-to-get-job-alerts-via-mobile-app/articleshow/76309490.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Courts ‘quarantine’ documents for 24-36 hrs||Nagpur: Following ‘directions by Bombay high court’, the city’s industrial and labour courts are strictly keeping documents filed by lawyers in a separate box from 24 to 36 hours, to avoid spread of Covid-19 among staffers.This directive, though, goes against the World Health Organisation (WHO) opinion, which rejects the possibility of the virus being transmitted through paper. Confirming that the HC’s directives were being strictly followed in all these courts, Vidarbha Labour Law Practitioners Association (VLLPA) president Shreyas Zinzarde said the city has five industrial and four labour courts.“The directives were basically issued by the Supreme Court to quarantine documents and avoid spread of the deadly disease. According to them, the virus wouldn’t survive on paper surface for over 24-36 hours, and therefore, they avoid touching them for that much time,” he said.He clarified that even if lawyers take all care, by wearing gloves and sanitizing places where the documents are kept, the person receiving it wouldn’t know this. “The documents are handled by multiple persons till they reach the judges,” he told TOI.Justifying the directive to not touch the documents, assistant registrar for five industrial and four labour courts PN Chede told TOI that they were taking all precautions to stop anyone getting infected inside the court premises due to documents.“The HC has also directed to prevent crowding in the courts. The lawyer is allowed to bring only one petitioner inside the court.”Explaining the emergent hearings, Chede said these would be conducted through video conferencing. “We’re opening an e-filing centre on the ground floor in a couple of days. Lawyers can register cases online and hearings would be held through video conferencing,” he said.Applauding the registry’s move, lawyer Vikram Marpakwar questioned those who were objecting to it. “I believe that courts shouldn’t be reopened in haste when the number of Covid-19 cases are spiralling in the city. Even if courts are allowed to function, hearings should be conducted via video conferencing. Unfortunately, lawyers who’re not techno-savvy are opposing the registry’s move.”Stressing that lives of poor workers and their union leaders were precious, he said there was no such urgency of cases in both courts, and therefore, no one should be put at risk. “Those demanding reopening of courts themselves sought repeated adjournments of cases all these years. I fail to understand what’s the urgency. The registry is doing the right job and anyone having urgency should opt for online filing,” he said.COURTING CHANGE* Lawyers would drop case documents in separate box kept with registry* No official touches them for 24 to 36 hours to avoid spread of infection* After that, documents would be scrutinized for proper documentation & annexures* If no objections are received from registry, lawyers are called for hearing* Actual hearings with only one client present, while maintaining Covid distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/courts-quarantine-documents-for-24-36-hrs/articleshow/76310687.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Maharashtra returnees taking detour to escape institutional quarantine||BENGALURU: Much to the shock of health officials, several passengers from Maharashtra, which is a Covid-19 red zone, are flying into Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) via Mangaluru, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad to evade the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine. BBMP officials have traced over 75 such violators and booked cases against them. On June 1, the state government declared that passengers flying into Karnataka from Maharashtra will go into a week of institutional quarantine, followed by home quarantine. According to sources at KIA, air passenger count from Maharashtra to Bengaluru was slowly reducing over the last ten days. “We noticed an increase in people flying in from Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Mangaluru. A detailed examination revealed some passengers from Maharashtra are flying into KIA taking a detour through these green zones in order to avoid paid institutional quarantine. They hide the first boarding pass and show the airport authorities only the one for the second leg of their journey,” revealed an airport official. Thereafter, these passengers walk away with home quarantine seal on their hand. “The Seva Sindhu acknowledgement form doesn’t reveal the fact that these passengers had booked their tickets from Maharashtra. With a large number of disembarking passengers waiting to clear quarantine formalities and medical tests, it’s practically impossible to verify every person’s port of origin,” another airport official added. BBMP sources said in many cases, members of Resident Welfare Associations called the Palike’s control room to alert about Maharashtra returnees skipping mandatory institutional quarantine. “The BBMP team sent many such people to institutional quarantine and some have even been booked for violating health department rules. In some cases, health officials inspected home-quarantined persons with elaborate details from Seva Sindhu portal and found that they had originally come from Maharashtra and took a detour to avoid institutional quarantine,” said a Palike official. The seal for home quarantine, institutional quarantine and green or red zone is marked with indelible ink as soon as a passenger arrives at Bengaluru airport. But the ink is said to be of poor quality, resulting in it fading away. This poses a great risk as people can easily wipe the seal and venture out. “Unlike the electoral inking process, which is a mark on the finger, the ink here needs to be poured on the pad and the seal is put using a rubber stamp. It mixes with the ink on the pad and gets diluted and the end result doesn’t serve the purpose,” said a health department staffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/maharashtra-returnees-taking-detour-to-escape-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/76309750.cms||Petlee Peter
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Crowds queue up from 3am for Tirumala temple darshan tokens||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which administers the affairs of Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala, was forced to issue darshan tokens till June 17 on Wednesday following an overwhelming response from devotees who queued up at the token issuing counters from as early as 3 am. The temple will open its doors to devotees from across and outside the state on Thursday following three days of trial run. The TTD had earlier announced that it would facilitate darshan for about 6,000 devotees per day. While 3,000 tickets can be booked online, the remaining 3,000 would be issued over the counter under current booking quota in Tirupati. The 60,000 online tickets released by TTD for the month of June got exhausted within two hours on June 8. The response was equally big for the over-the-counter tickets as well, with devotees queuing up outside the ticket counters at Srinivasam, Vishnu Nivasam and Bhudevi complexes in Tirupati from as early as 3 am on Wednesday, forcing the TTD’s vigilance and security wing to rush extra staff to the three venues to control the crowd and ensure people observed social distancing. “Though issuance of tokens was scheduled to start at 6 am, hundreds of devotees started queuing up from 3 am itself. By 8 pm when the counters closed, around 14,800 darshan tokens were issued to devotees under slots till June 14,” TTD chief vigilance and security officer Gopinath Jatti told TOI. Jatti appealed to devotees to follow the prescribed norms and cooperate with the authorities. “All devotees will have to go through mandatory thermal screening at Alipiri checkpoint. Without darshan tokens, they will not be allowed to enter Tirumala. Wearing masks is compulsory. Devotees also must adhere to social distancing norms during their stay in Tirumala. Elderly above 65 years, children below 10 years and pregnant women will not be allowed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crowds-queue-up-from-3am-for-tirumala-temple-darshan-tokens/articleshow/76308705.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Teen ends life as mom stops her from going out due to corona threat||Nagpur: Ashlesha Raut, 16, who has appeared in Standard X exam this year, ended life after she was stopped from venturing out from home by her mother due to corona threat. The incident took place at Ashok Samrat chowk in Ambedkar Nagar on Tuesday.On Monday, Ashlesha’s mother Ashwini had reprimanded her for wanting to go out in the locality. She had angrily asked her to stay inside as it was unsafe to step outside with the spike in coronavirus cases in the city. The mother had declared that everyone was supposed to stay home and go out only when absolutely necessary.On Tuesday Ashlesha and her younger sister were having fun and dancing after putting the TV on. While dancing Ashlesha told the younger sister to film how she ends her life. She also asked younger sister to increase the volume of TV as she headed inside the kitchen.As the younger sister went towards the TV to raise the volume, Ashlesha climbed atop the fridge to reach for the ceiling fan in the kitchen. After tying herself with the fan suing a scarf, she jumped off the fridge.Family sources said the two sisters stayed alone at home for most part of the day as their parents are employed at different private companies at MIDC.“Ashlesha’s younger sister was stunned to see the older girl had really hanged herself,” said a family source. “Ashlesha was a fun-loving girl. It is difficult to think she ended her life over such routine scolding by mother,” said a relative.Some family members who lived in adjacent home rushed to rescue her. Her uncle rushed Ashlesha to hospital but she was declared dead.Wadi police was informed by the control room. Police said no suicide note was found. A case of accidental death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teen-ends-life-as-mom-stops-her-from-going-out-due-to-corona-threat/articleshow/76310695.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Azamgarh reports fourth Covid-19 death||Varanasi: The fourth death due to Covid-19 in Azamgarh district was confirmed on Wednesday with the arrival of the laboratory test report of a man who had returned from South Africa recently and had died on June 6. Apart from him, one more migrant was tested positive on Wednesday while two were found infected on Tuesday. With these developments, the total figure of Covid-19 cases in Azamgarh district has reached 160, said chief medical officer Dr PK Mishra adding, 75 patients have become cured while four died. Now, active cases in the district are 81. After receiving the lab test reports, the CMO said, “A native of Jolhapur village in Bilariyaganj block of district, who had returned from South Africa, had died on the way to hospital on June 6. After collecting his sample the body was preserved in mortuary. When the lab test report was received on Wednesday it became clear that he was infected. Following these developments de was cremated as per Covid-19 protocol at Bhaduli Ghat.” As per the reports received on Wednesday, another migrant of Gajendrapatti village of Koyalsa block, who had returned home from Noida on June, had also been found infected. Before it two more persons were also found positive on Tuesday in the district, added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/azamgarh-reports-fourth-covid-19-death/articleshow/76307723.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Court stays proceedings in case against 14 protesters||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday granted interim stay on further proceedings on the chargesheet filed before a trial court against 14 people involved in a protest at Madurai.Justice B Pugalendhi passed the order and adjourned the case to further date for hearing. According to the prosecution, when the police officials were involved in security duty at West Veli Street-RMS Road junction at Madurai on May 22, 2018, the petitioners gathered unlawfully despite an order passed by the Madurai city commissioner of police and staged a protest against the Tuticorin police firing incident. Since the petitioners were reluctant to disperse after warning, police had registered a case and arrested them. Subsequently, police filed a chargesheet filed before the Madurai judicial magistrate (JM) II court. The petitioners stated that a false case was registered against them. Since the case has been posted for trial on June 24, the petitioners moved the high court Madurai bench.In another case, three people - T Akarathi, K Manuel Amalraj and P Jegan alias Jeganathan, moved the high court seeking to quash and stay further proceedings on a chargesheet filed against them for distributing pamphlets. A case was registered against the petitioners for distributing the pamphlets in front of a college in Madurai in 2017, seeking support from the students for organising a human chain protest against the hydrocarbon project. Justice B Pugalendhi granted interim stay on further proceedings on the chargesheet filed before the Madurai JM II court and adjourned the case to a further date for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-stays-proceedings-in-case-against-14-protesters/articleshow/76311375.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Lonar lake turns pink, scientists probe the cause||NAGPUR: In an interesting phenomenon, the 56,000-year-old Lonar crater sanctuary lake in Buldhana district has turned red/pink and become a hot topic of discussion among forest department, scientists, and nature lovers. The 77.69 hectare lake area is part of the Lonar sanctuary that totals 3.66sqkm. It is famous as world’s largest basaltic impact crater. Two other similar ones are in Dhala and Ramgarh in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan respectively but both are relatively unknown. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+ Read AlsoWhy a 56,000-year-old lake has turned pinkIt's unique composition could be why the Lonar Crater Lake in Mahrashtra has taken on a pinkish-reddish hueWatch Maharashtra: Lonar lake in Buldhana turns pink, scientists probe the cause||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lonar-lake-turns-pink-scientists-probe-the-cause/articleshow/76310704.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 11, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu boy, 6, bites gelatine stick by mistake, killed||TRICHY: A gelatine stick went off in the mouth of a six-year-old boy killing him after he mistook it for an eatable and took a bite of it, in Alakarai village near Thottiyam on Tuesday night. Police have arrested three people and booked two others including the boy’s father in this connection. Police said the deceased B Vishnu Dev was the son of Boopathi whose elder brother Gangadharan brought three gelatine sticks from the manager of a stone quarry near his village on Tuesday for fishing in the Cauvery. He along with his relatives Tamilarasan and Mohanraj went for fishing with two of the sticks, but left one behind at his house. Vishnu Dev visited Gangadharan’s house in the evening and, mistaking the stick for a snack, bit it when it exploded. The boy died on the way to the government hospital in Thottiyam. The family chose to hide the incident from the police and cremated the body in the graveyard later in the night. However, deputy superintendent of police, Musiri division, K K SenthilKumar got information about the incident and police subsequently launched a probe on Wednesday. They arrested Gangadharan, Mohanraj and quarry manager Selvakumar who provided the gelatine while Boopathi and Tamilarasan are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-boy-6-bites-gelatine-stick-by-mistake-killed/articleshow/76311371.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard caught in poachers’ net dies||Chandrapur: A leopard was killed after getting trapped in a net laid for poaching wild boar in Saoli range on Wednesday morning. The leopard was alive when local forest guard found it trapped in the net, but by the time help arrived the beast had died of injuries sustained while trying to free itself. “Unidentified poachers had laid a net in compartment no. 1534 under Shirshi beat of Saoli range on Tuesday night. An adult male leopard got trapped into the net and got further tangled up in desperation to free itself. A forest guard noticed the leopard tangled in the net and he informed officers. A team from Saoli range office rushed to the spot. However, the leopard died of rib-injuries it suffered in frantic efforts to free itself,” said divisional forest officer, Chandrapur division, Ashok Sonkusre. Post mortem was carried out in the presence DFO Sonkusre, RFO, Saoli range, Gajanan Dhade and representatives of PCCF and NTCA. Veterinary doctors confirmed the death due to internal injuries. DFO Sonkusre ratified the net was laid for herbivore poaching, but leopard got trapped into it. The department has started investigation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-caught-in-poachers-net-dies/articleshow/76310746.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Woman tests positive a day after discharge||Palakkad: A 60-year-old homemaker, who was discharged from a Covid-19 observation centre in the district after 18 days, tested positive a day after returning home. The authorities at the observation centre in Lakkidi near Ottapalam committed a serious lapse by discharging the woman on Monday without waiting for test results that came on Tuesday. She was one of the primary contacts of her close friend who tested positive after returning from Coimbatore on May 21. The ward-level observation committee had put six family members of her under observation in the centre. Since the homemaker developed symptoms of Covid-19, her swab sample was sent for testing. The woman and six other family members were discharged on Monday, but the result came on Tuesday, returning negative. Now all the family members were shifted back to observation centre and their swab were collected for testing. The serious lapse on the part of the health department in discharging the homemaker and her family members from hospital has put the entire family and their contacts in great risk. Municipality suspends ops After it became a containment zone, Cherpulassery Municipality has suspended all public services from Wednesday due to the fear of community spread of Covid-19. Municipality secretary said all services to the public were suspended till further orders. Community health  centre closed Cherpulassery community health centre was closed down as two of its health workers were tested Covid-19 positive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-tests-positive-a-day-after-discharge/articleshow/76309787.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Nine more arrested in Vijayawada gang clashes||VIJAYAWADA: Another nine persons involved in the sensational gang clashes were traced and arrested by cops at various locations in the city on Wednesday. The arrested persons include Shaik Hussain (26), Patan Mahaboob Basha (19), Yalaganti Eeswara Rao (21), Nalluri Naveen Babu (25) and Abdul Baaji (25). According to police sources, these five are associated with Manikanta alias Pandu’s gang. Four others--S Venkateswara Rao (23), Battineni Anand Krishna (24), Gundu Naga Durga Prasad (22) and K Nagaraju--belong to deceased Thota Sandeep’s gang. Cops said that two separate cases were filed against them pertaining to the gang clashes that took place on May 30 at Patamata station limits and the new arrested will be associated to the case. On Wednesday, cops took all the accused who have been arrested so far to the spot where the clashes took place and organised a ‘scene reconstruction’ as part of the investigation. “Including the nine arrested on Wednesday, the total arrest count has increased to 33. Most of them are below 30 years of age and many of them are students,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nine-more-arrested-in-vijayawada-gang-clashes/articleshow/76308708.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt aid reaches only 40,000 drivers||BENGALURU: It’s been over a month since chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced that 7.7 lakh autorickshaw and taxi drivers in Karnataka would be given a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 each. However, only a small percentage of the targeted beneficiaries has received the relief amount so far. Transport department records show it has received applications from 2.2 lakh drivers. Of this, compensation has been processed for only 40,000 drivers. Additional transport commissioner L Hemanth Kumar said: “We have processed transfer of compensation of Rs 5,000 each to 40,000 drivers at a cost of Rs 20 crore. We need a total of Rs 110 crore to provide compensation to 2.2 lakh drivers, but we have received only Rs 60 crore from the government so far.” A total of Rs 387 crore is required for 7.7 lakh drivers. Kumar said many transactions are failing because of various reasons. “We have reported 103 failed transactions, meaning the amount wasn’t credited to the driver’s account. There are some technical issues, including inactive bank accounts,” he said. Hit by Covid-19 and the nationwide lockdown, auto and taxi drivers have been waiting for the one-time compensation. Many say they are struggling to make ends meet aspassengers are avoiding autos and cabs because of the virus scare. Though many drivers have placed plastic sheets between the front and rear seats to ensure social distancing, people are mostly using private transport. According to the transport department, drivers should have a valid licence, badge, Aadhaar card and bank account to be eligible for the relief amount. C Sampath, general secretary, Adarsh Autorickshaw Taxi Drivers’ Union said: “Since May 23, our association has helped around 2,200 drivers fill forms online, of which only 600 have received the promised money so far.” He said the government should also provide compensation to those who don’t have a commercial badge. “Many drivers are not eligible since they don’t have a badge,” he said. Tanveer Pasha,leader of a cab drivers’ association, said: “Many drivers are facing technical glitches.” He said some are facing difficulty entering chassis and DL details in the online application. “The department should resolve all technical issues and ensure the relief amount reaches the beneficiaries without further delay,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-aid-reaches-only-40k-drivers/articleshow/76309771.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||UT nod to new excise policy, to come into force from July 1||CHANDIGARH: UT administrator V P Singh Badnore has approved the amended excise policy for 2020-21. The policy will now come into force from July 1 till March 31, 2021. The excise and taxation department will now conduct e-auction of liquor vends before June 30. A senior UT official said the amended excise policy 2020-21 would help the administration earn more than Rs 600 crore as revenue.Excise levies on country liquor have not been increased and excise levies on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) have been increased by approximately 10%. To promote low alcoholic content beverages i.e. beer, wine and particularly to boost the Indian wine industry, licence fee has not been increased and kept at Rs 12,000 for the whole year. Further, the label registration fee of wine has been reduced from Rs 10,000 per brand to Rs 7,500 per brand. The policy states that the excise duty of microbrewery has not been increased and will remain Rs 30 per bulk litre. The licence fee of microbrewery, restaurants, pubs and bars has also not been increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-nod-to-new-excise-policy-to-come-into-force-from-july-1/articleshow/76310699.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Burglar on the prowl in Vuyyur town||VIJAYAWADA: A spate of burglaries across Vuyyur town has thrown a major challenge for law enforcement agencies in Krishna district. According to Vuyyur town police, the miscreant has been meticulous in leaving minimum clues behind as the focus has been to steal cash. Initially, the miscreant first broke into a TVS Showroom and rather than stealing any goods, he stole the cash kept in the drawers. After which, he destroyed hard disks that stored the CCTV footage by drowning it in water. Cops said that similar modus operandi was seen at other establishments on Tuesday night at Neelima Enterprises and Nagasiva Electronics where none of the electronic goods were touched and only the cash taken. Cops had brought in clues team and dogs squad to track the whereabouts of the accused. The dogs could trace till Veerammatalli Temple in the town. Cops said that they are keeping an eye on various CCTV footages in the area to track suspicious movements in the region. A team led by Vuyyur circle inspector Nagaprasad has been investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/burglar-on-the-prowl-in-vuyyur-town/articleshow/76308722.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown blues again after 42 wards sealed||Vijayawada: A week after stringent restrictions were eased, the city once again went into a lockdown with 42 wards declared containment zones on Tuesday night. Major commercial neighbourhoods including One Town and Governorpet were deserted on Wednesday with officials ensuring containment orders were implemented. Authorities of the roads and buildings department erected barricades on arterial roads after boundaries of the new zones were demarcated. Normalcy had been returning to the city after the state government lifted most restrictions as part of ‘Unlock 1.0’ a week ago. Following the new guidelines issued by the Krishna district collector, about two-thirds of the city now falls under a containment zone. Meanwhile, officials with the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) along with city police carried out surprise inspections at One Town and urged shopkeepers to not open their establishments until further orders. Daily wage earners and employees at wholesale markets in the area, however, worried about the loss of livelihood that the reimposition of the lockdown would bring, “Shops reopened a week ago and we have strictly followed physical distancing. Shops closed all of a sudden with containment orders issued by the collector and we again lost our livelihood. State government should help daily labourers if it continues the lockdown,” said K Narayana Gupta, who works at a wholesale stationery shop in Pulipativari Street in One Town. Commercial establishments at Gandhi Nagar and Satyanarayana Puram remained open despite being declared containment zones. Construction activities, which had resumed, were stalled in containment zones. Public transport took a hit as well, with cabs withdrawing their services and autorickshaws disappearing off the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-blues-again-after-42-wards-sealed/articleshow/76308717.cms||Venu Lanka
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||Four new Covid-19 cases found in city, tally 246||Varanasi: Four new Covid-19 positive cases came to light in the district on Wednesday, taking the tally to 246. Of it, 152 have been cured while four have died. Now, the city has 80 active cases. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “A total of 229 test reports were received from BHU lab on Wednesday in which four were positive. A 37-year-old man of Krishna Nagar Colony in Manduadih and his wife have been tested positive while sample of couple was collected for lab test after the husband suffered fever.” A 48-year-old housewife of Bhavanipur area in Shivpur was found as infected, he said adding, she had returned home from Ghaziabad by car and on noticing symptoms she had turned up for giving sample. A lawyer of Awadhgarvi area in Sonapura locality, who is already admitted at BHU hospital for treatment of other ailment, was also tested positive, he added. With the addition of these four the total number of positive cases in the district reached 246, he said adding, three patients have been cured and discharged from BHU hospital, after which the number of recovered cases has reached 152. Krishna Nagar colony of Manduadih area was declared as new hotspot after which total number of hotspots in the district reached 125. Of i,t 61 have turned to green zones after which number of active hotspot has left as 64. Report of 511 samples is awaited from BHU lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-city-tally-246/articleshow/76307748.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Watch out: Lamp oil sold as cooking oil||Madurai: Food safety officials from Madurai district have started cracking the whip against oil manufacturers and traders, who sell lamp oil by misbranding them as cooking oil and cheating customers. Manufacturers had printed the phrases like for ‘lighting purpose only’ and ‘external purpose only’ on the pack but not prominently and only in English to cheat consumers and escape the law, say officials. The lamp oil pack is also misleading as groundnut pictures are printed on the pack. Officials say they have unearthed the practice of mixing cashew husk oil, available at cheap price with palm oil to sell it as groundnut oil. Designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said that they found large scale sale of the lamp oil in rural areas such as T Kallupatti and samples were sent for testing. Legal action will be taken against manufacturers, he said. Food safety officials recently seized a large quantity cashew husk oil from a manufacturing unit in Madurai city. Cashew husk oil is carcinogenic agent and can potentially affect eyes since there is a practice of putting gingelly oil on eyes while taking oil bath, particularly infants. It has teratogenic properties, which lead to miscarriage among pregnant woman, Somasundaram said. Cashew husk oil cannot be allowed in lamp oil also since under the Blissful Hygienic Offering to God (BHOG) initiative, only edible quality items should be used for abishekam, since there is a practice of consuming it. Food safety officials said that efforts are underway to use exclusive colour for lamp oil. They have urged consumers to be wary of oil they purchase at markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/watch-out-lamp-oil-sold-as-cooking-oil/articleshow/76311384.cms||V Devanathan
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Orchestra artists seek relaxation of norms for weddings, temple fests||Madurai: Members of the Tamil Nadu Medai Mellisai Kalaignargal Sangam (stage light music orchestra artists association) have appealed to the state government to relax norms to conduct weddings and to reopen temples so that their livelihood will not be affected. They submitted the petition through the Madurai district administration on Wednesday. Madurai district secretary of the association, S Mathialagan said there are 48 troupes in the association with more than 300 artists directly employed by them. “Dependent on weddings and temple festivals we have business only six months a year from March to August. With this income we have to run our family throughout the year. Peak business is in June and July,” he said. He recalled that this season was so packed that they had two events on a day – weddings in the morning and temples festivals in the evenings. “This year, my troupe was booked for 22 events for which advanced was paid, but now cancelled. We are clueless what to do due to the lockdown,” he said. The artists requested the government to relax norms for weddings and temple festivals similar to relaxation for other industries in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/orchestra-artists-seek-relaxation-of-norms-for-weddings-temple-fests/articleshow/76311379.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Govt staff tells guv to restore HBA scheme||Panaji: The Goa government employees association has urged governor Satya Pal Mailk to get the state government to review the closure of House Building Advance (HBA) scheme to government staff. In a meeting with the governor, the association members said that the employees are dependent on the benefits under the scheme to fulfil their dream of owning a house. A delegation led by association president Prashant Devidas, stated that government employees with limited resources are already finding it difficult to cope with inflation after the government abolished certain allowances and froze dearness allowance. Around 5,500 employees have availed the HBA facility as per their basic salary at the rate of 2% interest, Malik was informed. “The employees whose HBA loans are sanctioned have already executed agreement for sale by paying the margin amounts for the purchase of their houses and they are been pressed for payments from the builders,” the association stated in their memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-staff-tells-guv-to-restore-hba-scheme/articleshow/76311396.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||8-month pregnant woman killed by husband||Patiala: An eight-month pregnant woman died hours after she was stabbed by her husband in Rajpura division of Patiala district. She was stabbed on Tuesday evening, but succumbed to injuries along with her baby in the womb, on Wednesday morning. The deceased has been identified as Saroj, 21, who was living with her husband in a rented house from the past few years. The police said Saroj was admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala after she was stabbed twice by her husband. The couple landed in heated argument on Tuesday evening. The accused has been identified as Ganga Kumar, 24, who used to work as a labourer and fought with his wife over petty issues. On Tuesday evening, they again landed in heated arguments following which the accused stabbed his wife in the womb and then in her back and ran away. The police said the body has been handed over to the family members after the post-mortem. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8-month-pregnant-woman-killed-by-husband/articleshow/76310707.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||First Amrut park of city is ready; residents happy over its completion||Ludhiana: The barren chunk opposite Lodhi Club has now turned into a lush green space in one year, where residents are enjoying free time during morning and evening hours. Under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) funding, this green belt has been developed in J block, Rajguru Nagar and is a first of its kind in the city. However, the civic body is yet to take over the belt because there is shortage of funds and staff to maintain the park. The park has come up on 4.24 acres, where separate space has been designated for swings of children and separate paths have been created for public to walk. During morning and evening hours there is a rush in the park as area residents visit it for spending some leisure time. Junior engineer of horticulture wing of MC Kripal Singh said the park was ready and it had been developed beautifully, but they are yet to take over it. He said for maintaining this park there is a requirement of at least 12 people and already there is a scarcity of staff in the wing. He said the authorities would decide what to do with this belt. Meanwhile, the residents are elated over completion of this park. Harjit Singh, a resident of Rajguru Nagar, said, “We have other parks in the locality, but this is big one and we enjoy a lot here. There is a need to develop some more barren lands into green space so that pollution level of city could decrease and residents could become healthy.” Another resident from BRS Nagar, Sonia Verma, said it was good that green belts had been developed beautifully but it should be well maintained. She said only development was not enough, but its maintenance was equally important. Meanwhile, councillor from ward number 73 Seema Kapoor shared that the development of green belt near Lodhi Club had given benefit to at least 6,000-7,000 people living in J block of Rajguru Nagar and Housing Board colony, because there were very small parks. She said it was a big park for the residents to enjoy their free time. The process to develop these parks had started in 2017 but it took almost a year to finalise the detailed project reports because the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC) was monitoring the work. The entire 2018 and first three months of 2019 were wasted in tendering process and finalising the contractor. In June 2019, the work started, which was complete now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/first-amrut-park-of-city-is-ready-residents-happy-over-its-completion/articleshow/76309791.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Many economically weaker section seats still vacant in private schools||CHANDIGARH: Seats in many private schools under the economically weaker section (EWS) category are still vacant. Unlike every year, the UT education department is yet to take step towards filling these seats. According to sources, a file in this regard was moved from the district education office to the director school education office around two weeks ago, but no action has been taken yet. Alka Mehta, district education officer, said, “The matter has been kept pending due to Covid-19.” She, however, did not share how many seats are vacant in private unaided schools of the UT Chandigarh under EWS category. According to Section 12 of the Right to Education Act, all private unaided schools have to reserve 25% seats for children belonging to the EWS category from the neighborhood and provide them admission from class I onwards. There are nearly 730 seats reserved under the RTE Act in 56 private schools in the city. In UT, these seats are offered to children from the EWS categories and children from disadvantaged groups. Every year, after schools finish the admission process, the UT education department seeks details of vacant seats under the RTE Act from private schools and then advertises the same in an effort to get these filled. This was usually done in the month of March or April, but this year, due to coronavirus pandemic, the same has been delayed. But, the process is yet to be done. Every year, parents of the eligible children are asked to submit a registration form. The admissions are then done in a centralised manner. The process of filling the EWS seats at entry level in private schools had begun in December 2019 and concluded on February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/many-ews-seats-still-vacant-in-pvt-schools/articleshow/76310710.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 11, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: One death, 243 new cases take Bihar's tally to 5,698||PATNA: One more death and 243 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the toll to 34 and the total number of coronavirus patients in the state to 5,698. With 2,933 recoveries, the active cases now stand at 2,729. “The deceased was a Darbhanga native. He was admitted to AIIMS-Patna and died there. Though he had come from outside the state, he did not reach Darbhanga,” said Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM. Health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said, “The 59-year-old deceased had returned from Maharashtra and had history of diabetes, hypertension and other diseases.” According to a health department official, the man was admitted at AIIMS-Patna on June 6 and died on Tuesday night. As per information shared by the health department, coronavirus cases on Wednesday were reported from across 30 districts with maximum 56 cases from Purnia. Other districts with large number of cases included Madhubani, Saran and Bhojpur with 19 cases each, followed by Bhagalpur with 17 cases, Munger with 13 cases and Madhepura and Kishanganj with nine cases each. A 33-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman tested positive for the virus in Patna, however, their location was not shared by the department. State health secretary Kumar informed that altogether 1,09,483 samples have been tested so far and in the past 24 hours, 219 new cases have come. In the same time period, 164 people have recovered. Also, of the total positive cases, 3,989 are migrants who returned to the state after May 3. Lokesh said testing capacity has been increased and now test is being done across 32 districts, except for Sitamarhi, Vaishali, Sheohar, Araria, Sheikhpura and Samastipur. “Testing facility will be provided in two more districts by Thursday and till June 13, Covid-19 test will be done across all the districts,” Lokesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-death-243-new-cases-take-state-tally-to-5698/articleshow/76309516.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mysuru||Girl,7, flies alone from Hyderabad, mother receives her in Mysuru||MYSURU: An unaccompanied 7-year-old was among the several air passengers who arrived at the Mysuru airport on Tuesday. Syeda Umme Hani travelled alone from Hyderabad to Mysuru as her parents Syed Abdul Umair and mother Arjuman Banu waited with bated breath for nearly two hours. Hani was greeted at the airport by her mother who saw her after three months. Hani’s father is a businessman in Hyderabad while mother, a clinical pharmacologist, lives in Mysuru. Hani, a student of Flos Carmeli Convent, Kesare, in north Mysuru, had travelled with her father to Hyderabad in mid-March during her holidays, while her younger brother and mother stayed in Mysuru. Soon after, nationwide lockdown was announced restricting inter-state movement. “Hani came running on seeing me at the airport and she hugged me for over seven minutes,” said Arjuman. “We had not seen each other since March 16. As there was restriction of inter-state movement and travellers had to undergo quarantine for a period on their return, we were caught in a tricky situation. Then, we decided to allow her to travel solo after flight services were resumed,” she added “It was her first flight journey. She wanted to return to Mysuru as it was a long stay away from mother. She agreed to travel alone,” Arjuman said. Alliance Air employees helped Hani in the journey, said the mother. Mysuru airport director R Manjunath confirmed to TOI that the girl had travelled unaccompanied in the Alliance Air flight from Hyderabad to Mysuru on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/girl7-flies-alone-from-hyderabad-mother-receives-her-in-mysuru/articleshow/76308742.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||No water supply in Chandigarh parts tomorrow||CHANDIGARH: Due to replacement of old water supply pipeline with the MS pipeline at roundabout of Sectors 14, 15, 24 and 25, there will be no water supply on June 12 in the afternoon and evening. The MC has advised the residents to store adequate water in the morning. The supply of water in Sectors 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21-A, 22 A and B, 23 A and B, 24 A and B and 25 on June 12 will be normal in the morning and there will be no supply in the afternoon and evening hours. On June 13, the water pressure will be normal in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-water-supply-in-city-parts-tomorrow/articleshow/76310722.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Collector acts tough to aid Covid-19 patient’s burial||THRISSUR: The body of Dinny Chacko from Chalakudy, who died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, was buried at St Sebastian Church, Thachudaparambu, in the district on Wednesday evening, ending uncertainties over his last rites. The issues were resolved finally after district collector S Shanawaz issued an order under the Disaster Management Act, and other rules relating to the containment of infectious diseases, saying the body will be buried at the St Sebastian Church, which is the local parish of Chacko. Chalakudy tahasildar E N Raju said the body was buried in a deep pit dug at the Church cemetery, with tight police protection, and in presence of officials from the health and revenue departments as well as the authorities of the Chalakkudy municipality. The church authorities and some believers had raised objections against the burial of a Covid-19 patient in the church cemetery which was using concrete vaults for burying the body. They had argued that the cemetery was on a marshy land which had experienced two floods in 2018 and 2019, and a digging deep pit in that watery plot would be impossible. Some residents had given a petition to the tahasildar and they also filed a petition at the munsif court against the burial of the body. Meanwhile, collector S Shanawaz held talks with Irinjalakkuda Bishop Mar Pauly Kannookkadan and local church officials. Subsequently, the possibility of burying Chacko’s body at St Mary’s Church, Kuzhikkattussery, which is the parish of his wife, was also explored. The possibility of burying the body at Chalakudy Big Church was also explored. But the authorities of both the churches declined permission for the burial. Finally, the body was buried at the St Sebastian Church, as per the order of the district collector who is also the district magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collector-acts-tough-to-aid-covid-patients-burial/articleshow/76309827.cms||T Ramavarman
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||MC employees throw caution to winds while holding protest||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation employees under the banner of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee staged a protest for two hours at zone D office of the MC in Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday. However, the residents were disturbed by the protest as they had come for their works at the MC offices, but the employees did nothing for at least two hours. The employees claimed that they had gathered for a few major demands, out of which one was GPF of employees. They claimed that the civic authorities were cutting this amount from their salary but it was not being deposited in their accounts regularly, due to which employees were facing problems, especially after retirement when they do not get funds. Another issue raised in the protest was about installation of GPS in all vehicles for monitoring of movement. The employees claimed that they were not against installation of GPS in the vehicles, but then authorities should not force the employees to work after 5pm and there should be five days a week work schedule and timings should be from 9am to 5pm. Sources, however, revealed that sudden decision of this gate rally was taken by the employees because there was pressure on the MC staff to conduct a survey of paying guests, hostels and migrant quarters in city, so that property tax could be imposed on the owners, but employees are not willing for the same. The protest was staged to give a warning to the authorities concerned as employees are afraid of getting infected with coronavirus. Other demands included permanent jobs to drivers and sanitation staff, medical insurance worth Rs 50 lakh to employees working in field, along with Rs 10 lakh compensation in case of death, treatment facility to the employees, etc. The civic employees claimed that they worked really hard in the past three months despite coronavirus and in every field they provided services, but when it comes to fulfilment of their demands the authorities stepped back. Meanwhile, in the end the employees also burnt the symbolic effigy of the MC administration for doing fake promises with employees. The MC commissioner, K P Brar, took the memorandum from the employees and assured them that their demands would be fulfilled after reading all points and finding these to be genuine. Social distancing ignored In their protest against the civic body they seemed to ignore the directions of the government for avoiding mass gathering anywhere to avoid spreading of coronavirus because in their protest many employees from all four zones participated and were seen standing or sitting together in groups at the protest site. Though Union leaders kept on making requests for maintaining social distancing, but it did not serve any purpose. Residents made to suffer A resident of BRS Nagar, Karamjit Singh, said, “I had come to deposit property tax but when I went inside the suvidha centre, the staff was not available. I asked whether tax will be collected or not but did not get any satisfactory reply to the same.” He said he will have to come back again, which is very difficult for him. He claimed that the employees should raise their demands but not at the cost of general public. Another resident from Mahavir Enclave, Kamal Bhatia, had come to get UID number for his property. He said, “The government is instructing the public for maintaining social distancing even at home, then how these employees were allowed to gather in large numbers. I had to get UID number for my property and in this humid weather it is not possible to make rounds of MC offices.” He said the employees should at least give routine services to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-employees-throw-caution-to-winds-while-holding-protest/articleshow/76309800.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||RTI activist sits on hunger strike to protest corruption in bldg & B&R branches||Ludhiana: Raising voice against rampant corruption in the building branch and bridges and road (B&R) department of the civic body, RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal sat on a one-day peaceful hunger strike outside zone D office of the MC at Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday. He alleged that due to corruption among the officials of both branches, losses worth crores were caused to the public exchequer. He further alleged that building branch officials were working in connivance with violators and were allowing illegal constructions to get completed with non-compoundable violations. Rohit said officials did not take action against permanent encroachments made upon public land worth crores. He claimed that huge losses were being caused to the public exchequer by the B&R department by laying sub-standard roads in various area of the city. He mentioned that Section 269 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, stated it was the foremost duty of the officers concerned of the building branch to demolish the constructions having non-compoundable violations after issuing notice against the same. However, working on the contrary, after issuance of the notices, no further compliance of the issued notices was done by them for reasons best known to them. He further claimed that difference between the new electricity connections issued by the power department and new building plans approved by the building branch can bring clarity about the carelessness of the civic officials in taking action against the violators. He said after his complaints against illegal construction work the assistant town planner at the headquarters issued several letters to the officials concerned and in his letters, he clearly mentioned that in case officials did not remove the structures in their areas, then it will be taken as if they are also involved in these illegal construction works. He said from these officials letters it was clear that senior officers were well aware of the rampant corrupt practices among staff. Rohit said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had given the directions to remove all encroachments. However, since January 1, 2016, till date, less than 100 encroachments had been removed and almost 5,000 permanent encroachments were still pending and had not been removed by the officers concerned. Sabharwal also mentioned that B&R department officials were constructing roads in the entire city almost every year and recently when the quality of a few roads was checked, it had come to light that contractors did not use material as per norms, which clearly showed a nexus between the officials and contractors because no action was taken against any of the two. He said several crores were spent in the past few years but after seeing the condition of roads, nobody could tell that funds had been spent on these. He demanded that vigilance inquiry over the aforesaid matters should be recommended so that all the facts may come at the front. Later in the afternoon, mayor Balkar Sandhu and Congress councillor Mamta Ashu reached zone D and took memorandum from the RTI activist. They told him that they were already working on the nexus of employees with violators in the building branch and very shortly action would be taken against the erring officials. Following this, the activist ended his one-day hunger strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rti-activist-sits-on-hunger-strike-to-protest-corruption-in-bldg-br-branches/articleshow/76309812.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chennai||What TN did right and where it went wrong||Chennai: About a week ago, when Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 dashboard showed the state was racing towards 30,000 positive cases, Greater Chennai Corporation quietly rolled out technology-based manoeuvres to contain the spread. The GCC’s strategy involved GPS trackers wherein people in containment zones in parts of north Chennai were monitored. Every time, someone moved 50 metres, the tracker would beep. The strategy teams went another step forward and introduced tele-medicine to residents in the area.But the hi-tech surveillance and health monitor comes a little too late. Royapuram (Zone 5 of the Chennai corporation) stands out as a blot in Tamil Nadu’s war against Covid-19. With positive numbers racing to more than 5,000, close to 15% of the state’s total number of cases, the zone is an example of how the outbreak should not have been handled. "We have been fighting hard to educate people on social distancing and importance of wearing masks," said fisheries minister D Jayakumar, in-charge of Zone 5. "Royapuram is an old town, congested and densely populated. We are now using technology to check the spread," said the minister.Tamil Nadu had begun its Covid innings well — scrupulously screening its initial travellers, scouring the state for the 1,000-odd Tablighi Jamaat members who were infected during a conference in Delhi. "We started off really well, with Tamil Nadu’s strong healthcare system keeping it ahead of the pack," said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, a member of the chief minister-led task force committee. The state’s three-pronged strategy of surveillance, testing and contact tracing drew appreciation. It was meticulous, conscientious and transparent. The initial strategy was built on a sound public healthcare system and a strong lab infrastructure with its network of medical college hospitals keeping pace with the rapidly changing ICMR testing norms, said Kaur."We put down the lockdown on time. It was well-timed to blunt the cases going up in an exponential fashion," said infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, also a member of the task force to battle Covid headed by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami. "It was beautiful for two weeks until we realised we didn’t have a sound social security system and that we hadn’t given a thought to our migrant labour force and livelihood issues," said Dr Ramasubramanian.Soon, as the caseload rose sharply, the system began to crumble. The Koyambedu cluster was a shocker. Chennai messed up in its slums in the northern parts of the city where congested lanes and homes provided a fertile breeding ground for the infection. The virus exploded in north Chennai where residents cocked a snook at social distancing and compulsory donning of masks. Elsewhere in the state, as the Koyambedu cluster carriers spread out to their native towns and villages, the virus hit the hinterlands. The state was further tested with the exodus of guest workers. Tamil Nadu began to flounder. "I don’t blame the government. If you have not played the game before, you don’t know the rules and you don’t play it well enough," said well-known epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, who is also a member of the National Task Force-constituted research committee on Covid.Lack of coordination within and across government departments and the 10-odd committees proved to be another set back. While the Covid blueprint appeared impressive, the execution through various levels of bureaucracy was flawed. Then came the decision to reduce the number of samples being tested. The numbers were erratic for a significant part of May when the lockdown continued to be strict. Experts say, TN missed the golden opportunity to contain the spread during lockdown when businesses were shut and people were forced to stay indoors. "Added to this, there was gross indiscipline and social irresponsibility. There was no adherence to social distancing, as we saw in the case of the Koyambedu cluster, and people refused to wear masks," said Dr Ramasubramanian. The mammoth job of tracking down contacts too slowed down with an overworked team. While the government and its massive workforce slogged on the ground, people refused to cooperate.And, finally, a lack of transparency in adding up the Covid positive numbers, mortality figures and admission that the state may have slipped up in vision and strategy began to show at the last mile — the hospitals. The growing challenge for the government now is to provide the increasing number of Covid patients good and affordable healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-tn-did-right-and-where-it-went-wrong/articleshow/76310713.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Security guard arrested for murdering cop||Tuticorin: A security guard has been arrested for the murder of a policeman in Tuticorin city. The incident took place near the MGR Park on Sunday evening. The victim, K Pungalingam, 48, suffered stab injuries on his stomach on Sunday and died at the Thoothukudi government medical college hospital on Wednesday. Police said the accused Selvam is a security guard at the MGR Park in Tuticorin. The policeman was not on duty and was also drunk when the incident took place. Preliminary inquiries revealed that an argument broke between the policeman and the security guard. In a fit of rage, the guard stabbed the policeman. The accused then left the place while Pungalingam remained there for more than four hours. A murder case was registered against Selvam, superintendent of police for Tuticorin district, Arun Balagopalan said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/security-guard-arrested-for-murdering-cop/articleshow/76311393.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Six Panchkula mobile units to collect Covid samples in three shifts||PANCHKULA: After spurt in Covid-19 cases in Panchkula, six mobile units will work in three shifts in the containment and buffer zones to collect samples in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said a roster of six mobile units have been made, which will have doctors and lab technicians. The mobile units will take random sampling, especially in the containment and buffer zones. She said the mobile unit 1, working from 8 am to 12 pm, will have Dr Nidhi along lab technician Rajesh Sharma. The unit 2 will work from 12 pm to 4 pm and will have Dr Poonam along with lab technician Surender Sandhu and the unit 3 will work from 4 pm to 8 pm and will have Dr Parul along with lab technician Amrit Pal Singh. Similarly, in mobile unit 4, Dr Priyanka will be available with lab technician Rameshwar Sharma and will work the next day from 8 am to 12 pm, the mobile unit 5 will work from 12 pm to 4 pm and will have Dr Monika Basin along with lab technician Rajesh Kamboj and the unit 6 will work from 4 pm to 8 pm and will have Dr Ambika along with lab technician Pradeep Kumar. All these six teams will work on rotational basis in various areas and collect samples to make sure no suspect is left behind. The move has been taken to make sure the containment and buffer zones are danger free. “Our focus is to test as many persons as we can from the resources we have. I appeal people to inform the health department regarding their travel history,” said the CMO. A total of 43 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula, with 17 active cases. Over 5,500 samples have been tested so far in the entire district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-pkl-mobile-units-to-collect-covid-samples-in-three-shifts/articleshow/76310718.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 11, 2020||Chennai||Anbazhagan passes away on his birthday, 1st MLA to die of coronavirus||CHENNAI: DMK MLA J Anbazhagan, who passed away on his 62nd birthday at a hospital here on Wednesday, became the first legislator in the country to die of Covid-19. The Chepauk constituency member was admitted to a private hospital on June 2 after he complained of breathing difficulties. He later tested positive for Covid-19. His mortal remains were laid to rest at Kannammapet burial ground in the city. A three-time MLA, Anbazhagan was DMK’s Chennai west district secretary. A bold loyalist of the party and its leadership, Anbazhagan always spoke his mind. If his speeches within the party forum reflected the thoughts of party workers, his oration in the state assembly rattled ruling benches.  “His condition deteriorated rapidly on Tuesday night. We could not bring him back,” said a senior doctor of Dr Rela Institute and Medical Centre in Chromepet. Doctors said his condition remained critical throughout his stay. “He was on ventilator. At one point, he required lesser oxygen, and we thought he was responding well. But he had too many comorbidities,” said a doctor. “ During the first phase of lockdown, for 20 days he remained at home and even advised others to stay in their homes,” said J Karunanidhi, Anbazhagan’s brother and a former DMK councillor of Chennai Corporation.  “As lockdown continued and desperate calls started coming from people, he became busy in personally distributing aid to people in Chepauk and Triplicane, which had a few Covid-19 affected streets,” his brother said. “Around 10 days before he got admitted to hospital, he had dysentery. He consulted his doctor over a video call and took medicines. He later developed cold and fever but kept running around, organizing relief. On May 29/30, he addressed a meeting of zonal secretaries in his district over ‘zoom’ and directed us to celebrate Kalaignar’s birthday (June 3) as ‘food distribution day’. He was not able to speak freely even then. Still, he continued with his work and as his condition worsened he decided to visit the hospital and the delay eventually cost him his life ,” recalls Karunanidhi, a DMK zonal secretary for T Nagar. He said Anbazhagan had lung-related problems over the past six months and had frequent bouts of cold. Anbazhagan, who even dabbled in film distribution for some time and produced a Tamil film, had friends cutting across parties. The condolences that poured in through the day just went to prove that. Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami led the people in expressing their condolences to the legislator’s family member.  Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and MNM president Kamal Haasan called DMK president M K Stalin to share the grief. MDMK general secretary Vaiko, TNCC president K S Alagiri and AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran were among others, who offered their condolences. (With inputs from Pushpa Narayan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anbazhagan-passes-away-on-his-birthday-1st-mla-to-die-of-virus/articleshow/76310715.cms||D Govardan
June 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Durga temple greets 2k devotees on reopening||Vijayawada: The Kanaka Durga temple reopened for darshan for the public on Wednesday, despite the area being marked part of a containment zone by district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz on Tuesday. Indrakeeladri hilltop, where the temple is situated, has been marked as the boundary of a containment zone. Around 2,000 devotees visited the temple, following social distancing guidelines. The sudden order on containment zones had an impact on the number of devotees who came to the temple. Those who did, complained of a lack of transport facilities. Darshan started in the early hours of Wednesday. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas and panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy had darshan of Goddess Kanaka Durga and offered special prayers. Ramachandra Reddy said he prayed for the prosperity of the state and its ability to overcome Covid-19. Temples authorities ensured that social distancing was followed in queues. Hand sanitizers were placed at multiple locations in the temple and each devotee was thermally screened before entering. Temple staff wore masks, hand gloves and other safety gear while carrying out duties. Temple authorities distributed pulihora and dadhyojanam (curd rice) in sealed packets as ‘prasadam’ for devotees. Temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu requested devotees visiting the temple to wear masks. Online ticket sales have received a massive response from devotees, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-greets-2k-devotees-on-reopening/articleshow/76308736.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Thieves steal ATM having Rs 16L in SUV||Mohali: Mohali police here have registered a case against some unknown miscreants for stealing a Punjab National Bank’s (PNB)ATM from near the Dappar Toll Plaza on the Chandigarh-Ambala expressway. According to the police officials, the incident took place around 2am on Wednesday. “The miscreants, who came in a SUV, first damaged the two CCTVs installed in and outside the ATM booth. They then fled away with the ATM which contained around Rs 16 lakh cash,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulwant Singh, investigating officer. He said they received information from the bank manager, Ashish, and they rushed to the spot. “We are sure of the number of miscreants involved in the crime. Search is going on,” said the ASI. One of the sources revealed that a similar incident took place around two to three years ago at the same ATM. A case has been registered under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc), 427 34 of the Indian Penal Code at Lalru police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thieves-steal-atm-having-rs-16l-in-suv/articleshow/76310712.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||TN chamber objects plastic ban||Madurai: Tamil Nadu chamber of commerce and industry has strongly objected GO (MS) No. 37 issued by the Tamil Nadu government on June 5 that bans all usage of plastic for primary packaging. Its senior president S Rethinavelu said no viable and cost-effective alternative has been found for plastic for packaging food products, especially for vacuum packaging for more shelf life, nitrogen blown packaging to maintain crispness of the product and to protect from bacteria and germs. The chamber stated that the sudden withdrawal of exemption on all usage of plastic bags is done at the most inappropriate time. Chamber president N Jegatheesan said that with no adequate financial resources to erect new machinery amid pandemic, even if an alternative material is found, industries in Tamil Nadu may opt for permanent closure or shift their units to other states. They made an appeal to chief minister to immediately suspend the GO and protect industries and consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-chamber-objects-plastic-ban/articleshow/76311385.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Proposal to upgrade MC workshop prepared||Ludhiana: The civic body officials have prepared a proposal to get MC workshop upgraded, which will cost around Rs 46 lakh to the civic body. The proposal will be kept in the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) meeting scheduled for June 13. The officials claimed that upgrading of workshop is required at the most due to its present condition. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had also inspected the MC workshop at Hambran Road a few months back and he had also found several shortcomings in the workshop. At that time employees had requested for the upgrading of the workshop. There are around 290 types of various vehicles and machines with the MC and when it comes to repair of these vehicles the workshop is not equipped to deal with the same. There is lack of equipment as well as junior engineers and SDOs, so other officials are handling additional charge of this workshop. But the officials have demanded IIT educated diesel mechanic, auto electronic, welder, helper, etc. The employees have demanded a moveable auto van in the workshop. Now, it depends upon the F&CC members whether to give nod to this proposal because financial condition of the civic body is not good and they will allow the upgrading of the workshop or not will be seen in the meeting. Meanwhile, another agenda to be discussed in the meeting included appointment of two IT programmers because majority of the work of the civic body was based on computers now and in future also many other works would go online, so IT programmers were required in the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/proposal-to-upgrade-mc-workshop-prepared/articleshow/76309823.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Private bus services resume easing crowd in govt buses||Madurai, Trichy: Most of the private bus owners in Madurai and Trichy started bus services on Wednesday after being off the road for 78 days with the state government giving the nod on Tuesday. While around 60% to 70% of the fleet resumed their service in Madurai zone consisting of districts such as Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar, in Trichy, around 50% of the private mofussil and city buses conducted services easing the burden of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation.Private buses witnessed fewer crowds than normal, which helped operators maintain social distancing. The government’s other regulations were also followed on day one. While most of the government buses operated with limited occupancy, buses in a few routes were crowded.Some of the bus operators like Sri Velmurugan Travels, which operates 30 buses, kept buses off the road. Its owner D S Velmurugan, secretary of Private Bus Owners Association Madurai, said that it would be difficult for them to maintain social distancing and follow other regulations. Moreover, they won’t be able to generate operating cost due to the restrictions. He said that the transport corporations, which operated its 50% fleet, have started operating all services on Wednesday. Private players who operated their buses may soon feel the heat and may stop the services, he said.“There was a hike of Rs4 on diesel prices during the lockdown and it will increase in coming days. It will be very difficult to operate under this condition. Around four to five operators have kept their fleet off the road,” he said. A transport official at Madurai TNSTC said that conductors are trying their best to restrict passengers to 60%, but often passengers become unruly and threaten the staff.Among the 275 private buses in Trichy, including 147 buses in the city, around 130 buses returned to the roads. Buses carried only 60% of the seating capacity. “We have deployed 20 of our staff at the Central and Chathiram bus stands to sanitise the buses. Compared to the mofussil routes, footfall in city buses in Trichy was high,” D R Dharmaraj, secretary, FOBTN told TOI.The private bus operators have planned to purchase foot-operated sanitizer dispensers for their fleets. Passengers without facemasks were not allowed to board the buses on Wednesday. The district-level private bus operators associations said that they will bear the expenses of sanitising the fleet.“Crowded TNSTC buses witnessed less crowds after private buses started operations. We can ensure social distancing now as more buses are on roads,” a TNSTC official in Trichy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/private-bus-services-resume-easing-crowd-in-govt-buses/articleshow/76311399.cms||V Devanathan
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Phenyl in water at quarantine centre: 3 held||Ludhiana: The police arrested three men on Wednesday on charges of attempt to murder after they mixed phenyl in drinking water tank of a quarantine centre in Jodhewal area here. According to cops, one of the accused wanted to avenge the arrest of his brother in December 2019 in snatching and theft cases. The accused have been identified as Guniya, alias Nitika Khunsi, 25, Gaurav, 25, and Simran, 24, of Krishan Colony. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of constable Gurpinder Singh, who was on security duty at the centre. He said on Monday, he smelled phenyl in water and went to check the tank. On questioning, area residents said they had seen the three accused near the tank. “Guniya is a man, but has been living as a transgender with Gaurav and Simran,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/phenyl-in-water-at-quarantine-centre-3-held/articleshow/76310733.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||NH 105-B: AAP alleges land scam||Chandigarh: Punjab unit of AAP on Wednesday demanded a time-bound inquiry into “a multi-crore land scam” in National Highway 105-B connecting Bathinda, Moga, Jalandhar and Jammu. Addressing mediapersons, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged that land mafia, under the patronage of certain leaders of the ruling party, including a cabinet minister, had committed a fraud not only with farmers, small landowners but also caused a huge financial loss to the state exchequer. He said that NH 105-B on Bathinda-Amritsar Highway would connect Jalandhar-Jammu highway through Baghapurana-Moga-Dharamkot, for which land of various villages, including Dharamkot, Moga, Baghapurana, Jaito and Rampuraphul constituencies was acquired. Cheema said as per the sale deed, the first notification for the identification of the land was issued on January 10, 2020. However, those at the helm of the project, knew about it even before the notification was issued. The second notification was issued on May 21, 2020 and the final on May 22, 2020. He said money transaction worth Rs 350 crore was done in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nh-105-b-aap-alleges-land-scam/articleshow/76310726.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Patient murder: Two cops suspended for negligence||Cleared/130 Words Madurai: The Madurai city police have placed two policemen under suspension for negligence, in connection with the murder of a patient who was undergoing treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). The policemen were identified as Suresh and Laxman attached to the GRH police station. They were posted on duty when a gang of six gained entry into the annexe building on Monday and hacked to death V Murugan, 40, from Karumbalai. The Madhichiyam police had registered a case and arrested five people including a minor. Police sources said there were 13 CCTV cameras in the building, but, most of them were not functional. It came to light when the police tried to access footage of CCTV cameras. On being alerted, authorities of GRH have assured to fix the CCTVs, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/patient-murder-two-cops-suspended-for-negligence/articleshow/76311397.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth ends life||Udupi: A youth allegedly committed suicide inside his boat anchored at Malpe harbour on Tuesday night. The deceased is Bhagyaraj, 27, a resident of Pavanjigudde in Badanidiyoor, Bailakere, near here. According to the police, Bhagyaraj had taken a loan to build a house and purchase a fishing boat, a few months back. However, due to the lockdown, he suffered heavy losses in business, and was facing financial problems, due to which he allegedly hanged himself inside his own boat. A case of unnatural death has been filed at the Malpe police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-ends-life/articleshow/76308769.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||No compromise on quality of medicines, says Balbir Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said in a bid to check quality measures in medicines and medical products, there is a need to take stern action against violators selling substandard products. In a review meeting with the food and drug administration (FDA), the minister said there should be no compromise with the quality of medicines as it is the duty of the FDA to ensure proper compliance of regulations across the state. The details of action taken by the FDA were shared with Sidhu. The role of FDA in making essential drugs available during the lockdown period was also reviewed. Kahan Singh Pannu, commissioner, food and drugs administration, apprised the meeting that the FDA has collected 50 samples of sanitisers for quality checks and registered about 11 FIRs under the Essential Commodities Act for selling sanitisers at higher rates than the prices fixed by the Government of India. Pannu said during the first quarter (January to March), 2,421 inspections were carried out and 724 samples were drawn for test and analysis, out of which 38 samples were found of substandard quality. While drugs worth Rs 10.5 lakh were seized due to various contraventions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 67 licences were suspended and 2 licences were cancelled. The minister said to avoid any shortage of essential drugs in the state, suitable arrangements have to be done in getting adequate stock of all types of medicines. The state drug controller-cum-joint commissioner, FDA, Pardeep Mattu said the quality of the drugs, cosmetics, and other products is being regulated through the drugs control officers in each district of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-compromise-on-quality-of-medicines-says-sidhu/articleshow/76310737.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Clear pending VAT, GST refunds as soon as possible’||Ludhiana: The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) has expressed disappointment over the state taxation department’s inability to clear the pending VAT and GST refunds of businessmen. Office-bearers of the association organised a meeting and flayed the department for the delay and have requested the state government to intervene in the matter and get the pending refunds of both VAT and GST disposed of at the earliest. CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said, “A meeting of our steering committee was held to discuss the major problems being faced by the state’s industry and it emerged that the pending GST and VAT refunds have become the biggest problem for businessmen. What is even more embarrassing for the state taxation department that it has been almost three years since VAT regime ended in the country but even then the refunds dating back to that time are still held up” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU , “Clearing VAT and GST refunds should be the top priority of the state government. In addition to this, the state government should also restart mining so that raw material for construction industry is made available and fixed charges on the power bills should be waived till December 2020. Our another demand is that the state government should bring back labour from other states at its own expense and draft a policy of quarantine for such workers and no action be taken against the industrial units if any such worker who is returning is found positive.” According to JS Bhogal, publicity secretary of the association said, “Government must bring a policy for one time settlement of C-forms and it should be ensured that rate of electricity should not to be hiked in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/clear-pending-vat-gst-refunds-as-soon-as-possible/articleshow/76309833.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Engineer uses WFH time to disinfect villages||MADURAI: A software engineer from Bengaluru has been helping villages in his native Virudhunagar district disinfect streets with a customised equipment, making the most of the work-from-home facility offered by his company. A Krishnakumar, 40, who works in a multinational company, is also a progressive farmer cultivating fruits, vegetables and greens in his native Melathulukkankulam village in Kariapatti taluk. He used to visit his farm on weekends, but when his company encouraged its staff to work from home as part of Covid-preventive measures, he grabbed the opportunity and decided to help the society he belongs to. Krishnakumar is already one among the farmers chosen by a tractor-manufacturing firm called TAFE to provide free tilling to farmers hit by the pandemic. Recently, a Covid-19 case was reported from Perali village next to Melathulukkankulam. When he saw local body workers using hand pumps for disinfection, he thought he could chip in with a better alternative. He spoke to TAFE officials and got a tractor and boom sprayer, which is used to spray pesticide in crops like grapes. With this, he has been spraying disinfectants in villages in his Kariapatti block for the past couple of weeks. “The concerned local body will provide disinfectant chemicals and water and I go to every street to carry out disinfection. The equipment can reach up to the first floor of a house. It has a capacity to spray 200 litres of disinfectant in 30 minutes, thus completing the work in a short time,” Krishnakumar said. Earlier, he demonstrated the facility for the Virudhunagar district administration and received appreciation. He said he is now being invited to villages in Aruppukkottai taluk as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/engineer-uses-wfh-time-to-disinfect-villages/articleshow/76311400.cms||V Devanathan
June 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Restart hearing of appeals before revenue courts: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed that revenue courts headed by financial commissioners in Haryana restart hearing of matters, especially appeals filed by sarpanchs against their suspension. However, HC clarified that such courts can also be started online and parties can be heard via video-conferencing through their mobile phones. It also ordered that appeals filed before revenue courts by sarpanchs against their suspension have to be decided within two weeks. As of now, the revenue courts, which are headed by senior IAS officers of the state having the rank of financial commissioner, in Haryana have not been functioning in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. HC’s Justice Rajbir Singh Sehrawat passed these orders on Tuesday while disposing of several petitions filed by sarpanchs who were suspended by the deputy commissioners concerned for various reasons. As the appellate jurisdiction against suspension orders is before the revenue courts of financial commissioners (presently non-functional due to Covid-19), they were not able to challenge their suspension orders and were forced to approach HC. “If physical hearing is not possible, then petitioners can be heard through virtual hearing. If any one of the petitioners has not furnished his/her mobile number, then the authorities can ask such petitioner to furnish the mobile number so as to grant them hearing through video-conferencing,” Justice Sehrawat stated in his orders. The judge, however, clarified that if any charge is taken from any one of the petitioners (sarpanchs) in the meantime, pursuant to their suspension orders, then the same shall not affect the status of petitioner in any manner whatsoever. “The said arrangement shall be taken only as a temporary administrative step and this fact itself shall not invite any more consequences of any kind qua the petitioners,” ordered the HC. The petitioners have pleaded that the statutory appellate authorities did not give them any hearing despite the fact that their status as elected representatives of the electorate of their respective villages has been put under a clog by administrative orders. Haryana additional advocate general Ravinder Singh Dhull said now work in government offices had started and appeals filed by petitioners would be duly considered and a final decision taken at the earliest. Even those petitioners, who have alleged that their appeals were not accepted, can refer them now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restart-hearing-of-appeals-before-revenue-courts-hc/articleshow/76310741.cms||Ajay Sura
June 11, 2020||Madurai||78 new Covid cases in south TN, 37 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: Southern districts continued to register a high number of Covid-19 cases by adding another 78 on Wednesday, most of them local, while the central districts recorded 37 new cases. Southern region is now just two shy of 2,000 while the central districts have a total of 1,094 cases. Tuticorin district had the highest number of cases at 23 among which only one was imported while the rest were local. The total number of cases in the district is now 389. Madurai reported 10 new local cases taking the overall Covid-19 positive cases in the district to 343. Seven of them were local cases while three cross notified to Chennai where they had their residential addresses. The local cases included a 42-year-old woman from Sellur, 37-year-old woman from Tallakulam, 55-year-old man from K Pudur, a 27-year-old man from Meenambalpuram and 42-year-old man from Race Course who had travelled by car from Chennai to Madurai. Theni district reported nine new cases, Dindigul three, Kanyakumari 10, Ramanathapuram eight, Tirunelveli seven and Virudhunagar five new cases. In the central region, Trichy district recorded 12 news cases, five of whom were from the same family in Chinnachetty street in the city. A 47-year-old man tested positive and the infection spread to four of his family. However, officials remained tight-lipped about the source of infection. The other patients were from Thiruvanaikovil, Sirugambur, airport quarantine and other areas. Tiruvarur recorded 14 new positive cases taking the district count to 83. Of them, five of a family including a 45-year-old woman attended a baby shower function of their relative after which they turned positive. In Thanjavur, two people turned positive while in Nagapattinam, the tally has gone to 92 with four new cases. Pudukottai district also recorded five more new cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/78-new-covid-cases-in-south-tn-37-in-central-districts/articleshow/76311403.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||History-sheeter succumbs to injuries after police encounter||Gorakhpur: A history sheeter Vipin Singh died during treatment at Lucknow hospital on Wednesday after he was injured in police encounter in Gorakhpur on Tuesday night. Police is looking for his aides. Two pistols with bullets were recovered from his possession. “Vipin was a history sheeter from Shahpur area of Gorakhpur and had cases of murder and other crimes against him in Shahpur, Pipraich, Gulriha and Chilutal police stations of Gorakhpur. During lockdown, he came out of jail on bail,” said SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta. On Tuesday, as per police, Vipin and his two aides reached the house of a property dealer Ashish Prajapati aka Chotu in Jhungia area and started firing. However. no one was injured. After this, the trio reached the house of Ashish’s friend Arun Nishad in Shahganj who is also a property dealer. They opened fire at Arun’s house, injuring Arun’s 40-year-old brother Deepchand. On hearing the sound of firing, villagers reached the spot and began to chase the three miscreants. The three of them then fired at a 12-year-old boy Aditya, son of Raju Sharma of Shahganj. After being informed, police rushed Vipin to BRD Medical College, from where he was referred to Lucknow’s PGI hospital. Vipin died during treatment on Wednesday in Lucknow. Efforts are on to nab the other two miscreants who had escaped during encounter, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/history-sheeter-succumbs-to-injuries-after-police-encounter/articleshow/76307790.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Rajkot||Uncertain future? To-be in-laws in love end lives in Gujarat||PALANPUR: A man in his forties and his son’s to-be mother-in-law allegedly committed suicide in a village of Sabarkantha district on Wednesday. Bodies of Jayanti Thakarda and Jagruti Thakarda were found hanging from a tree on the outskirts of Didhiya village of Khedbrahma taluka. Investigation revealed that the duo had fallen in love after the formal engagement of Jayanti’s son and Jagruti’s daughter. In fact, Jayanti and Jagruti eloped from their native Therasana village on June 8. Sabarkantha superintendent of police (SP) Chaitanya Mandlik said, “Prima facie it looks like uncertainty about long-term relationship and acceptance by the society led them to take the extreme step.” “Jayanti is already married twice and was living with his second wife after divorcing his first. His son from the first wife was engaged to Jagruti’s daughter,” said deputy superintendent of police Dineshsinh Chauhan. On Wednesday morning when the bodies were found, investigators initially could not ascertain the identity of the duo. A steel cannister was found near the bodies which had Jayanti’s name inscribed on it. “We inquired about the name in the nearby villages and learnt about their identity,” said a police official. Pravin Patel, sarpanch of Therasana village, said, “They had eloped around a fortnight ago too, but returned home due to lockdown. They again eloped on the evening of June 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/uncertain-future-to-be-in-laws-in-love-end-lives/articleshow/76308811.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cleanliness is service for advocate sanitising places of worship||VISAKHAPATNAM: With questions around hygiene assuming significant amid the pandemic, practising advocate, mountaineer and state National Service Scheme (NSS) awardee MGM Khan has taken upon himself the task of single-handedly sanitising places of worship of different religions. Through his act, the 27-year-old hopes to make residents and authorities at places of worship realise the importance of cleanliness as a safeguard against the coronavirus. An exercise that started off as a santitising service in mosques during Ramzan on May 10, soon extended to temples, churches and gurudwaras in Vizag city. So far, Khan has sanitised 22 mosques, 11 temples, eight churches and a gurudwara using around 1,500 litres of sanitising spray (a solution of sodium hypochloride, ammonium chloride and camphor). His target is to utilise one lakh litre of non-alcoholic sanitising solution and include Anganwadi centres in clean-up drives in future. For temples, Khan went a step forward and mixed a few drops of the holy Ganges water from the upper reaches of Gangotri, which he had collected in January while on a mountaineering and skiing course at Uttarkashi. “Initially, some people of my community asked why I am bothered about cleaning churches and temples. The Quran Hadees directs us to serve humanity. I felt it is my responsibility to extend social service for humanity because Covid-19 can attack followers of any religion and hence all these places need cleansing. Also, I am inspired by Ratan Tata’s words who said the motto of 2020 is not about earning but about living and I believe prevention is always better than cure,” said Khan, who is also a yoga teacher. Many places of worship have offered to pay him for his service, but Khan has refused and accepted Rs 2 as a symbolic gesture. He has spent nearly Rs 50,000 so far and carries on his back a 20-litre spraying machine while setting out for work. “As more people came to know, I recently got offers from a Christian minority body to sanitise 50 churches and I also intend to offer my service to the Jain temple authorities. But all places of worship should maintain a sanitising machine and get the premises and interiors sanitised every week,” said Khan. The 27-year-old advocate, who has an MSc yoga degree from Chennai, an MA psychology degree from Andhra University (AU) and an LLB from AU Law College is currently pursuing an LLM from NBM Law College, thanked his family for supporting his endeavours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cleanliness-is-service-for-advocate-sanitising-places-of-worship/articleshow/76308781.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC stays NGT proceedings against KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday stayed the ongoing proceedings against MAUD minister KT Rama Rao filed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), Chennai, by Congress MP A Revanth Reddy. A bench of Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice P Naveen Rao gave this interim order after hearing a petition filed by KTR who described the petition as politically motivated and far from the truth. The bench stayed the proceedings before NGT and issued notices to the state and Revanth and adjourned the case. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy, who appeared for the minister, told the bench that the farmhouse at Janwada does not belong to the minister. “None of the records in the revenue department shows the minister as the owner... and yet NGT chooses to issue a notice to KTR,” the counsel said. Owner of the building, B Pradeep Reddy, too filed a separate plea before the court. KTR’s counsel also brought to the notice of the court, the case booked against Revanth for making baseless allegations in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-stays-ngtproceedings-against-ktr/articleshow/76310743.cms||---
June 11, 2020||India||Alleged clip of Shivraj fans political row in Madhya Pradesh||INDORE/BHOPAL: Controversy erupted in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday over an alleged audio of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan in which he purportedly says that the BJP central leadership had “decided that the Congress government in the state must fall”. Former CM Kamal Nath lashed out at BJP, saying this was proof that his government was toppled through a BJP conspiracy and not internal strife as has been claimed. “I have been saying from the very first day that BJP deliberately brought down my majority, democratically elected government through conspiracy and enticement,” Nathtweeted. Congress said it would approach Supreme Court and the President. BJP has not yet commented on the controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/alleged-clip-of-shivraj-fans-political-row-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/76312107.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Hubballi||Man ends life by jumping into pyre||KARWAR:A man in Yellapur taluk allegedly jumped into a pyre that he had prepared, in a forest on Wednesday. Shivaram Ramakrishna Hegde, 60, a resident of Konknakoppa in Yellapur taluk, was suffering from cancer since a long time. He was a farmer. He was suffering from acute pain, and was said to be fed up with life, said sources. He had made up his mind to die, and was consuming very less food for the last two months. On Wednesday, his family members found him missing and went into the nearby forest to search for him. His clothes were found in the forest, and an extinguished pyre was found nearby. His remains were found in the pyre, said sources. A case has been registered in the Yellapur police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-ends-life-by-jumping-into-pyre/articleshow/76308796.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Goa||Abandoned vehicles in city yet to be auctioned||Panaji: To add to the woes of the state capital, which has already seen dengue cases before the onset of the monsoon, are over 150 abandoned vehicles dumped in its jurisdiction. These vehicles, which occupied precious parking spots in and around the city, were towed to the Campal Parade Ground during the lockdown for the purpose of auction, but continue to be left there. Corporator of ward 11 Soraya Pinto Makhija, told TOI that vehicles need to be moved out of the city to Bainguinim without delay. “We are worried that during the monsoon, the scrapped vehicles will serve as a breeding ground for mosquitoes and lead to vector-borne diseases. They need to be auctioned and removed from Parade Ground immediately,” she said. Mayor of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), Uday Madkaikar, said the vehicles were not towed directly to Banguinim in order to facilitate owners to claim them. When asked about the danger of mosquito-breeding, he said fogging would be taken up on the ground. The North Goa Collector has already given the go-ahead for the auction of 25 of these vehicles, Madkaikar said. “The process of valuation of these vehicles is on by the PWD. As soon as we receive the valuation report, a public notice will be issued and the vehicles will be auctioned,” he said, adding that CCP is waiting for a proclamation from the collector to go ahead with the auction process for the rest of the vehicles In the meantime, the corporation is imposing a fee on owners who show up to claim the abandoned vehicles. “We have asked four-wheeler owners to pay Rs 5,000 and two-wheeler owners Rs 1,500 to take their vehicles back. This is because we paid an agency Rs 2,000 to tow each vehicle to the ground. We have also taken an undertaking from the owners that they will not abandon their vehicles in the city again,” Madkaikar said. Vehicles that are not claimed will ultimately be shifted to Bainguinim. In the past, the corporation had stated that all abandoned and scrapped vehicles would be shifted to Bainguinim. The high court recently took cognisance of garbage dumped on the Campal Parade Ground and sought answers from the corporation. It stated that this could propagate dengue and malaria cases at a time when the state’s health infrastructure is grappling with a rise in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/abandoned-vehicles-in-city-yet-to-be-auctioned/articleshow/76311408.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Varanasi||AIIMS to treat Ramgarh Tal, check mosquito growth||Gorakhpur: AIIMS Gorakhpur will set up a committee to ascertain the types of mosquitoes and larvae in the Ramgarh Tal (lake) so that it could be treated accordingly and the area could be saved from mosquito-borne diseases like Japanese encephalitis, dengue and malaria. The lake is spread over 1,800 acres and there are chances of growth of mosquitoes in the area . “AIIMS has taken this step to check mosquito-borne diseases. A committee will be formed soon and research will be conducted on the pollution in lake water and growth of mosquitoes and larva present in it so that the water and the area could be treated with suitable anti-larva chemicals. Our main focus will be on Japanese encephalitis and a separate research will be conducted on it, said AIIMS executive director Dr Surekha Kishore. Head of community medicine department of AIIMS Prof Harishchandra Joshi said that the committee will be constituted under the community medicine department. It will test the water of Ramgarh Tal lake located in city as it is the place where mosquitoes could easily grow. The area is hit be mosquito-borne diseases, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/aiims-to-treat-ramgarh-tal-check-mosquito-growth/articleshow/76307803.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Villages impose lockdowns as Covid-19 triggers self-preservation||PANAJI: As Covid-19 continues to make inroads into the state’s hinterlands, the villages of Goa—from Paliem in the north to Poinguinim in the south—have taken matters in their own hands and gone for self-imposed lockdowns. With the state government refusing to bring in fresh measures to contain the spread of virus, over 10 villages so far have announced their own lockdowns and feel they have been left to fend for themselves. CM Pramod Sawant’s flippant remarks like “Goans have a strong immune system” and “bhivpachi garaz na (no need to fear)” on the Covid-19 crisis and differing voices by his own ministers have done little to reassure the villages. “I along with my panch members have requested establishments to remain shut and people to stay home,” Paliem sarpanch Uday Gawandi told TOI. Paliem is close to the Maharashtra border. On Wednesday, Shiroli in Sattari taluka joined the ever-growing band of villages, announcing a 14-day lockdown within its jurisdiction. The trend started on Monday, in the rural hamlet of Guleli. Soon, Ugem in Sanguem, Poinguinim in Canacona, Pale in Bicholim, Usgao in Ponda and Paliem in Pernem talukas announced their own lockdowns. TOI had frontpaged a report on Wednesday showing how Covid-19 positive cases have moved from the Mangor Hill containment zone to far-flung corners of the state in just a week. Cases began to surface in rural Goa after at least 19 health workers and an equal number of government employees tested positive over the past few days. ‘Everyone has given a positive response to our call to shut’As of Wednesday, Goa had 320 active cases, most linked to Mangor Hill, according to the government. Opposition members and MLAs within the ruling dispensation, too, have urged Sawant to impose a wider lockdown and bring in stricter measures to contain the spread of the virus. Paliem opted for the five-day self-imposed lockdown after a government employee residing in the village reportedly tested positive for Covid-19. “Everyone has given a positive response to our call, and all establishments are closed. They have assured us that they will remain closed for the next four days,” said Gawandi. At the other end of Goa, Canacona has imposed similar measures after a family of three, including a Kadamba Transport Corporation driver, tested positive for Covid-19. The Canacona Municipal Council and the panchayats of Shristhal and Poinguinim decided to close the local market for four days, with the Poinguinim panchayat appealing to locals, vendors and shopkeepers not to come out. All shopkeepers, vegetable and fruit vendors operating within the Canacona municipal limits agreed to keep their shops closed for four days till Sunday. The first Covid-19 cases to surface in Goa’s hinterland were at Morlem and Guleli, on the periphery of Goa’s border with Karnataka. The health department quickly initiated a contact tracing team to Sattari to screen all contacts of the positive patients. However, secretary for health Nila Mohanan said there was no need for a lockdown in these villages. But in a clear rebuff to Mohanan, as soon as the cases were confirmed, the few shops in Guleli quickly downed their shutters and asked all residents to self-isolate themselves. Morlem and Keri soon followed suit, imposing a four-day lockdown in panic. “Coronavirus has reached us, and for our own protection, the village has opted to keep all shops closed,” Keri panch Laxman Gauns said. Pale, too, observed a self-enforced lockdown on Wednesday after a woman staying at Chawdi-Pale tested positive for Covid-19. Sarpanch Prashila Gawde said that villagers decided to close all shops and other businesses on their own. “The panchayat will convene a special meeting to discuss the issue of the virus and whether to continue with the lockdown after reports of the remaining family members are received,” Gawde told TOI. On Tuesday, Usgao in Ponda imposed a two-day shutdown after two health workers working at the Vasco urban health centre tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The same day, Rane said state government was monitoring the spread of the virus in Sattari and Usgao. “Covid-19 tests will be conducted in certain areas of Morlem panchayat, including Shiroli and Guleli,” Rane said in a statement on social media. However, the statement has done little to reassure residents, and local public transport unions have decided to go off the road in Usgao out of fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/villages-impose-lockdowns-as-virus-triggers-self-preservation/articleshow/76311404.cms||---
June 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: ENC launches submarine rescue system||VISAKHAPATNAM: A Deep Submergence Rescue Vehicle (DSRV) complex was inaugurated at Visakhapatnam by Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, flag officer commanding-in -hief of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) on Wednesday. The DSRV Complex is designed to accommodate the newly-inducted Submarine Rescue System with state-of-the-art facilities to store DSRV assets in a rescue-ready state. The DSRV system consists of a Submarine Rescue Vessel, a Remote Operations Vehicle, Side Scan Sonar and associated equipment. It also has Diver Decompression Chambers and hyperbaric medical equipment to decompress submariners after being rescued from a sunken submarine. The DSRV system can be rapidly mobilised by air or road to facilitate submarine rescue operations even at distant locations. The Indian Navy has inducted two such systems, which will provide rescue cover to submarines on the western and eastern coasts. Currently, there are about 40 nations that operate submarines, out of which only a few have any form of submarine rescue capability. The third generation Indian Navy submarine rescue capability can be called upon to assist during submarine contingencies of other navies in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). In another development, Commodore Neeraj Uday took over as Commanding Officer of INS Kalinga, the premier Missile Base of Indian Navy from Cmde Rajesh Debnath at a ceremonial parade on Tuesday. He also assumed duties of station commander of Naval Station Bheemunipatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/enc-launches-submarine-rescue-system/articleshow/76308809.cms||---
