June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM Leader PK Kunjananthan dies at 73||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Senior CPM leader PK Kunjananthan died in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. He was 73 years old. He was a member of CPM Panoor Area Committee since its formation and a close associate of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He was serving a life sentence for conspiracy charges in the murder of RMP leader TP Chandrasekhar. He was the 13th accused in the case. Kunjananthan was undergoing treatment for stomach ailments for the past two years. His condition worsened two weeks ago following which he was put on ventilator support. He breathed his last around 9pm. In March this year, the state high court had suspended his sentence and had granted a three-month bail to undergo specialised treatment as per the recommendations of a medical board. Kunjananthan was arrested in July 2012 and he was convicted by court in January 2014. His time in prison was controversial for the amount of time he spent outside availing frequent paroles. He even attended party conferences after coming out on parole. Despite his absence owing to his imprisonment, the party had elected him as a member of CPM Panoor Area Committee. Sources close to the deceased said that his body will be taken to his home in Kannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-cpm-leader-pk-kunjananthan-dies-at-73/articleshow/76329642.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||For intimate scenes, serial actors might be asked to hug mannequins||KOLKATA: Mirroring the realities in the storyline of serials seems to be one of the smartest ways out for the Bengali small screen industry that resumed shooting after 87 days. That’s exactly what writer-director Leena Gangopadhyay did when she wrote the episode of “Sreemoyee” that resumed shooting on Thursday.  At least for this serial, the dialogues have been written in such a way that actors have to maintain social distancing. “We shot a scene with a character called Sankalpa. He is down with fever and has to be hospitalized,” says Gangopadhyay. Though she refuses to say if the character will be shown as a patient infected by Covid-19, she mentions that dialogues have cleverly written keeping in mind the health guidelines that have been issued for patients complaining of temperature. “So, when someone wants to come close and check his temperature, Sankalpa asks the person to stay away and says: ‘Don’t come. Tumi kachhe esho na karon ekhon Corona hochhe’,” says Gangopadhyay. Parno Mittra gets ready to shoot for 'Kora Pakhi' On the sets, not more than 35 people are present. The thermal check is being done at entry points. Everyone on the sets has masks on. Only while shooting, actors are allowed to remove them. Does it psychologically impact actors to shoot without a mask while everyone around doesn’t need to remove them? “If you’ve been a part of relief work, you are already in the middle of everything. So it’s not really the fear of the virus. I guess, it’s just weird getting back to work after three months,” says actor Parno Mittra, who begun shooting for “Kora Pakhi” on Thursday. The work atmosphere, she says, has been impressive. “Everything is sanitized. I’m taking all sorts of safety measures. I’m driving to work instead of using the production pick up drop. I have my own sanitizer and all the other things required,” Mittra adds. Ushasie Chakraborty, who will be going to shoot for “Sreemoyee” on Friday, is a little tense. “It was clear that I wanted to begin shooting. However, I admit to being tad anxious. It’s not that during this lockdown I have been staying in isolation. I have gone out and have volunteered for a community kitchen set up by a few friends. Yet, when I think of shooting without a mask on, I feel a little nervous. In fact, I have also spoken to friends who are in the medical profession to understand what my health hazards can be like when I shoot this way and where hospital beds will be available should I get infected,” Chakraborty says.  A minimum of six-ft distance has to be maintained between two actors while shooting. Face shield and PPE kits have been made compulsory by some production houses for technicians coming close to the actors. Frequent sanitization of props/ set/ costume is being done. Disposable cups and plates are also being used. Most of the cast and crew are carrying their own food. A lot of actors are carrying their clothes back home and doing make up on their own. Every set has one dedicated person to monitor that the guidelines are being followed.  None of the “Sreemoyee”, “Mohor”, “Nakshikata”, “Kora Pakhi” and “Jionkathi” serials written by Gangopadhyay have any intimate scenes. So, that automatically ensures social distancing. In case of scenes involving a family, it has been written in a way so that the characters don’t need to stand close to each other. Shooting in progress on the sets of 'Sreemoyee' Others are planning to use mannequins in case of shots that have to show actors hugging each other. According to Sani Ghosh Ray, who produces ‘Phirki’, ‘Dhrubotara’, ‘Sanjher Bati’ and ‘Irarbatir Chupkatha’, “Everyone has been very cooperative. For the hugging scenes, we were planning to use cheat scenes and use mannequins for those characters who have their back to the camera,” says Ghosh Ray. So, the actor facing the camera will actually be embracing a mannequin that is in costume!  In the changed rules, child actors below 10 are not allowed to shoot. Hence, Mahi Singh, the protagonist of “Phirki”, isn’t there on the sets. “We are missing Mahi but had to change the track in the new circumstances,” Ghosh Ray says. Most of the actors above 65 have opted out of shooting. But septuagenarian Dulal Lahiri, who acts in “Mohor”, is keen to return after July 15. “I’m glad the youngsters have come back and have begun shooting. I too am waiting to return. Given my age, I want to wait till the middle of July before I got back to shooting,” Lahiri says.  Meanwhile, Arka Ganguly, who produces “Jionkathi”, has bought washing machines. “Earlier we had people to manually wash the costumes. Since the costumes now need to washed daily, they are being trained to operate the machines. We are trying to get units which people can operate themselves and procure the masks,” Ganguly says. PPE kits and face shields have been given to many too. “In our unit, at least 15 people were given face shields and PPE kits,” Ganguly adds. Incidentally, the number of episodes shot on the first day have not gone down from what it was earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-intimate-scenes-serial-actors-might-be-asked-to-hug-mannequins/articleshow/76329548.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||#UnlockingDiaries: Kolkata goes shopping for change||From offering attractive discounts to displaying products on video calls, shops are going all out to woo customers ever since they received the government’s nod to reopen from June 8. Coping with losses in the wake of the lockdown as well as Cyclone Amphan, traders are desperate to get business back on track and have implemented safety measures like thermal screening, regular sanitisation, mandatory wearing of masks and social distancing to provide a safe shopping experience. Though the first week saw very few customers, traders are hopeful of a revival what with Durga Puja coming up. CT toured some of the most popular shopping hubs in Kolkata to get a sense of what people are stepping out to buy the most in #Unlock1.0. Gariahat MarketIn demand: Cotton saris, shorts, half-sleeved cotton panjabis, rubber slippers, hair products “We’ve sold a few printed cotton saris that can be worn at home. Customers are going for affordable options priced below `1,000,” said Disha Roy and Shaswata Paul from a garments shop. Sanjoy Saha of a renowned sari showroom said, “Bengalis love to shop and they missed the chaitra sale. So, we are hopeful they will compensate for that this Puja.” Shop owner Joydeb Nag is offering up to 50% discount on saris. Also in demand are half-sleeved cotton panjabis, kidswear, infantwear, shorts and basic lingerie. “Many women are buying sports bras as they are exercising more in the lockdown,” said a shopkeeper. While there is no demand for cosmetics, many are interested in hair grooming products. Rubber slippers, chappals and running shoes are popular too. “Belts are also selling as people’s weights have been fluctuating in the lockdown,” said another shopkeeper. New MarketIn demand: Infant wear, comfortable clothes for home, lingerie, cosmetics “The sale of clothes for newborns is good. Since schools are closed, clothes for children to wear at home are in demand,” said shop owner Sanjoy Motwani. Basic lingerie products are popular but not the fancy ones. “There are orders for shampoos, conditioners, deodorants and other skincare products, but now with malls and restaurants reopening, I’m sure people will buy more grooming products,” said Amartya Shaw from a cosmetics shop. Hitesh Adwani, who sells dress materials, said, “The demand is gradually picking up. Fashion designers are buying dress materials in bulk.” DakshinapanIn demand: Saris, dresses, blouses “We are getting 2-3 customers a day. But the regulars are buying on video calls and WhatsApp. We deliver their orders by courier,” said Chandoni Basu, owner of a clothing shop. Another shop, which specialises in saris from Andhra Pradesh, is home delivering the orders. “I think it will take months to get the business back to normal. Since we are all government-run shops, we haven’t increased our prices,” said manager Korada Rohini. Metro PlazaIn demand: Kidswear, slippers "There is a steady demand for casual T-shirts and track pants for kids, but no takers for partywear," said shop owner Hemant Asher, who is content despite low sales. "People are mostly coming in for casual slippers. I wouldn't say that the market is good, but it is catching up fast," said Zeeshan Ali, another shop owner. New stocks have started arriving. AC MarketIn demand: Kidswear, homewear, shorts, T-shirts, tank tops, loungewear “It’s been just four days since the market reopened. There are hardly any customers. So, we are not even thinking of ordering new stocks until the old one is cleared. The few who are coming are mostly looking for general items that can keep you comfortable at home. It will take around 10 days to understand what the demand is like,” said Harish Agarwal, owner of a garments shop for women. Vardaan MarketIn demand: Watch batteries, essentials "Nearly 70% to 80% of the shops are open, but customers are missing. We have got a few requests for changing watch batteries and repairing of watches. We paid all our staff from our savings as it was necessary to open the shop. I think it will take at least three months to get business back on track,” said Wasim, owner of a watch shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlockingdiaries-kolkata-goes-shopping-for-change/articleshow/76329094.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 12, 2020||India||Troops in high readiness all along LAC as more military talks lined up||NEW DELHI: India has further cranked up its operational military readiness all along the ‘northern borders’ after initially being caught off-guard by the well-planned multiple intrusions by Chinese soldiers early last month, even though hectic negotiations at Lt-General levels are on to defuse the major troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh. Sources on Thursday said all Army units and IAF airbases geared towards the three sectors of the unresolved 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) — western (Ladakh), middle (Uttarakhand, Himachal) and eastern (Sikkim, Arunachal) — are “fully activated” in response to the major PLA military build-up in different places along the border. “A close watch is being kept to cater for any contingency, including more muscleflexing by China in some new sectors. Nothing is being left to chance,” a source said. The forward border management posture of our troops from Ladakh to Arunachal will be maintained as long as the PLA does not withdraw its forces from close to the LAC,” a source said. The 33 Corps (headquarters at Sukna in West Bengal) in the eastern sector, for instance, has moved forward its units under the 17 (Gangtok), 27 (Kalimpong) and 20 (Binnaguri) Mountain Divisions (each division has 10,000-12,000 soldiers) to their ‘operational alert areas’ much ahead of their yearly schedule. This came after Indian ISR (intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance) platforms detected the “abnormal” PLA military build-up just before the rival troop confrontations erupted in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley region and Gogra-Hot Springs area in eastern Ladakh as well as the Naku La sector in north Sikkim in early-May. Concurrently, the Army also inducted several additional battalions, along with artillery guns and other heavy weapon systems, into Ladakh to back the Leh-based 3 Infantry Division there, as was first reported by TOI last month. But with another set of meetings slated between local commanders in eastern Ladakh over the next few days, India remains hopeful of restoration of status quo ante with PLA troops withdrawing from the face-off sites in Indi an territory and de-inducting the military build-up in their own territory. A little bit of disengagement has already taken place in the Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs areas, with a mutual troop pull-back of around 1-2 km at the confrontation sites there, after the June 6 meeting between 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin. But there is still a long way to go before there is actual deescalation on the ground. Pangong Tso, for instance, remains a bone of contention. All Indian patrols going west to east from ‘Finger-4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs separated by a distance of 8 km) have been blocked by the PLA since early-May. Indian soldiers for long have patrolled till the Finger-8 area, where the LAC runs north to south, as was reported by TOI earlier. “Military talks are underway for a reciprocal and sequential withdrawal and deinduction of forces. But it’s likely to take time. We don’t visualise much difficulty in Galwan and Hot Springs, but Pangong Tso will be tough,” the source said. Watch India, China engaged in talks to resolve border tensions in eastern Ladakh: MEA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/troops-in-high-readiness-all-along-lac-as-more-military-talks-lined-up/articleshow/76330778.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 12, 2020||India||MEA dismisses USCIRF report, says it is biased||NEW DELHI: Responding to criticism of India in the report on international religious freedom for 2019 published by the US state department, India said on Thursday that it saw no locus standi for a foreign entity to pronounce on the constitutionally protected rights of Indian citizens and that the panel had exhibited its bias and lack of understanding. The US Commission on International Religious Freedom’s (USCIRF) reports on India and its minorities have been a regular friction point with the Indian government vigorously rejecting its critical commentary. In an indicator to its formal response, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had written to BJP MP Nishikant Dubey that the USCIRF has been known to make “prejudiced, inaccurate and misleading observations” on the state of religious freedom in India. “We do not take cognisance of these pronouncements and have repudiated such attempts to misrepresent information related to India,” he wrote while confirming that visa requests by the Commission teams had been denied. On India, the report underscored the importance of respecting religious freedom and promoting tolerance and mutual respect throughout the year with the ruling and opposition parties, civil society and religious freedom activists, and religious leaders belonging to various faith communities. It referred to the decision to make Jammu and Kashmir a Union territory last August and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) while detailing its concerns. On Thursday, the MEA said this has been India’s principled position. The report, said the government, is published annually by the state department as part of its legal requirement to the US Congress and is an internal document of the US government. “India’s vibrant democratic traditions and practices are evident to the world. The people and government of India are proud of our country’s democratic traditions,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “We have a robust public discourse in India and constitutionally mandated institutions that guarantee protection of religious freedom and rule of law,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-dismisses-uscirf-report-says-it-is-biased/articleshow/76330855.cms||---
June 12, 2020||India||ICMR: Only 0.7% of population in 83 districts exposed to Covid||NEW DELHI: Less than 1% — 0.73% to be precise — of the population has been found exposed to Covid-19 infection in the results of the first part of the sero-survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in 83 districts and the low prevalence saw the government assert that there was no community transmission in India even though incidence may be higher in containment zones or hotspots. Sharing the results of the sero-survey (blood-based tests to check for Covid-19 antibodies), ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said, “There is a heightened debate around this term — community transmission. Having said that, I think even the WHO has not given a definition for it. And, as we have also shown, India is such a large country and the prevalence is so low. In urban and containment areas, it may be slightly higher. But India is definitely not in community transmission.” The second part of the survey — to estimate the scale of transmission in containment zones in hotspot cities like Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai and others — is still going on. The survey under discussion on Thursday relates to the situation till April 30. Covid-19: Live updatesThe ICMR conducted the serosurvey in May and the data is based on reported Covid-19 cases till April 25. The assessment that this reflects the situation in April-end is based on the calculation that it takes up to two weeks for the infection to manifest itself. The government cautioned that a limited spread also means a large proportion of the population is still susceptible. “There is no room for complacency. No one should let their guard down and states must continue with contact tracing, testing and containment strategies,” a government source said, adding there was a tendency among some sections of people to consider the threat to have passed. “So far, the incidence is not very high and containment is intended to stamp out high levels of local transmission,” he said. The first part of the survey — to assess the magnitude of Covid-19 spread in the general population across the country — involved 83 districts with 28,595 households visited and 26,400 individuals enrolled under it. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news ICMR said data from 65 districts had been compiled till now and this might the biggest serosurvey conducted anywhere. Findings of the survey also showed the risk of the spread was higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas. In urban areas, the risk of spread was 1.09 times higher, whereas in urban slums, it was 1.89 times higher than rural areas. It also showed that the fatality rate among those surveyed was very low, at 0.08%. Watch TOI Daily: Only 0.7% of population in 83 districts exposed to Covid, says ICMR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-only-0-7-of-population-in-83-districts-exposed-to-covid/articleshow/76330864.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 12, 2020||India||Stimulus package as large as Pakistan’s GDP: India on Imran offer||NEW DELHI: After Pakistani PM Imran Khan’s offer to extend the benefit of his cash transfer scheme to Indians, the government on Thursday reminded Khan that India’s recently announced stimulus package alone was as large as Pakistan’s GDP. The foreign ministry said Pakistan was better known for making cash transfers to bank accounts outside the country rather than giving to its own people. “Clearly, Imran Khan needs a new set of advisers and better information. We all know about their debt problem (almost 90% of GDP) and how much they have pressed for debt restructuring,” the MEA spokesperson said. “It would also be better for them to remember that India has a stimulus package which is as large as Pakistan’s annual GDP,” the spokesperson added. Khan had offered to share with India Pakistan’s experience of implementing its “successful” cash transfer programme following reports of how poor people in India were battling poverty because of the coronavirus lockdown. Khan said his government had successfully transferred Rs 120 billion in nine weeks to over 10 million families in a “transparent manner”. “I am ready to offer help and share our successful cash transfer programme, lauded internationally for its reach and transparency, with India,” he had added. Watch Our stimulus package equals Pakistan’s GDP: India on Imran Khan’s ‘offer’ to help||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stimulus-package-as-large-as-pakistans-gdp-india-on-imran-offer/articleshow/76330952.cms||---
June 12, 2020||India||Tata Memorial does 494 cancer surgeries during lockdown||MUMBAI: At a time when cancer treatment has slowed down across the world due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai has set a sterling example by successfully operating on 494 cancer patients during the lockdown, many of them with conditions that made them susceptible to the novel coronavirus, such as advanced age, diabetes or hypertension. The 494 surgeries for different cancers were performed during a five-week span starting from the date of the nationwide lockdown. The hospital’s effort — perhaps the largest such body of work in cancer surgery in the world during the pandemic — is being printed in the ‘Annals of Surgery’, one of the best known medical journals for surgery. “No lives were lost. Only six of these patients tested positive for Covid but they didn’t need ICU care,’’ said Tata Memorial deputy director Dr Shailesh V Shrikhande, who heads cancer surgery. It wasn’t easy to go ahead with the surgeries given that the city is now referred to as the country’s Covid capital. However, the hospital, which works under the central department of atomic energy, soldiered on because of the huge disease burden. “There are about a million new cancer cases in India, of whom around 0.2 million require surgery. In the absence of surgery, most will experience disease progression with resultant mortality. Given that death due to Covid in India is 0.99 per million of population with case fatality rate of about 3%, cancer mortality in absence of definitive surgery will far exceed the mortality due to Covid,” said the authors in the research article. Moreover, most patients had pre-booked for surgery. Many were from outside Mumbai and were already here when the lockdown was announced. “Only 36% of these patients were from Mumbai or the rest of Maharashtra. The majority — almost 64% — were from outside,’’ said Dr Shrikhande, the lead author. “These were compelling enough (reasons) to continue major cancer surgeries,” said the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tata-memorial-does-494-cancer-surgeries-during-lockdown/articleshow/76330993.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 12, 2020||Pune||Youngsters up style quotient with quirky designer masks||PUNE: Mask has become a compulsory accessory as well as a fashion statement. Youngsters are wearing masks themed on their favourite television shows, movies, or printed with iconic dialogues from pop culture. Divesh Mehta, AVP, marketing and communications, Wear Your Opinion, a clothing brand which has added fun face masks to the list of products it manufactures, said, "The idea is to make wearing a mask bit quirkier and in style so that one becomes comfortable with the same. Mixing pop culture statements with the current situation creates an apt design. While we add humour to our masks, we also send subliminal messages, asking people to follow quarantine, maintain social distancing and, overall, be cautious." "Statements like ‘Bilkul Riks Lene Ka Nahi’ are more towards being cautious and ‘Bulati Hai Magar Jaane Ka Nahi’ is an appeal to follow quarantine, lockdown rules. Rohin Santaney, co-founder and director, The Souled Store, which has partnered with brands like Marvel, DC, and Disney to manufacture themed apparel, has also taken to producing masks. "Our best selling piece is the vintage Disney mask, which features the beloved Disney characters. The joker mask is also very popular, so is the Punisher. Customers also love the Bella Chao printed mask," he said. These masks are three-layered, made with a cotton-polyester blend that claims to give enough protection while being reusable, said Santaney. But for visiting places where chances of infection are high, these masks will not do, you need a KN 95 mask with higher protection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youngsters-up-style-quotient-with-quirky-designer-masks/articleshow/76330307.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Recovery faster than expected: Airbnb||BENGALURU: Domestic travel has recovered much faster than expected on Airbnb as people opt for locations that are within driving distance, relatively cheaper, and also offer longer duration stays. This is being observed even as younger travellers look to work from a different home after three months of lockdown, said Airbnb co-founder Nathan Blecharczyk in an interview with TOI. The home-sharing platform, which is one of the world’s most valued startups at $31 billion, has already seen more domestic bookings (people travelling within the country) globally for the two and a half weeks ending on June 3 as compared to the same period last year. “In fact, domestic travel globally on Airbnb is now greater than the same time last year,” Blecharczyk said. According to him, the recovery in travel will be uneven as Covid-19 is “inevitably a prolonged event” and people are still reluctant to take a flight. While the pandemic has ravaged the travel sector, Blecharczyk added that companies focused on “international or business travel might be slower to recover than those who focus on consumers (leisure travel) and domestic”. “Although we have seen recovery faster than we budget for, we kind of budgeted for a real worst-case scenario. And fortunately, we’re seeing a much better outcome than what we forecasted,” added Blecharczyk. The company has started an effort to target domestic travel with the “Go Near” category. In India, where Airbnb has 80,000 listings, the platform is seeing an increase in searches for stay options near metros — like Alibag, Lonavala and Panchgani near Mumbai — even though Goa and Rajasthan have historically been popular markets for the company. Airbnb also said that in India, 70% of the visitors are searching for dates starting from July for driving holidays, experiential travel, and rural & farm stays as states are expected to open travel restrictions. Domestic accounts for 51% of Airbnb bookings originating from India. “Domestic has always been a big part of our India business. And I would expect during this period to see a big shift in that direction,” said Blecharczyk. With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, Airbnb raised $2 billion at reportedly a lower valuation of $18 billion to shore up its balance sheet. Besides, it laid off 25% of its workforce and suspended its marketing, which had an annual budget of $800 million as the business took a nosedive. “We went from growing roughly 35% year over year in terms of revenue to losing almost 80% of our revenue in the span of a few weeks here,” said Blecharczyk, talking about the impact of Covid-19 on the business. He said Airbnb finds itself in a better position in the travel space as homestays are “private, more secluded, don’t have a public lobby”, especially for those travelling with family — giving a more “controlled environment”. This, as compared to hotels that are deriving 30-35% business from business travellers, some even higher because of conferences. Airbnb, which was also planning to go for a much-watched IPO this year before the pandemic, said that it is still a possibility. “Nothing’s off the table. I think we’re ready to go public when the market is ready. ....And waiting for unanswered questions… to get more clarity on them, like, how fast is the recovery? Are we going to see a second wave or not?” said Blecharczyk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/recovery-faster-than-expected-airbnb/articleshow/76329306.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 12, 2020||Business||More sectors adopt digital channels: TCS||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: The emergence of Covid-19 has resulted in many sectors adopting digital channels, said TCS chairman N Chandrasekaran at the company’s first-ever virtual annual shareholder meeting on Thursday. The options which were “secondary” and “nice-to-have” have become primary channels and in some instances, the “only channels”, said Chandrasekaran, emphasising that this was the transformation the company spoke about five years ago when it said “default is digital”. TCS is the first Indian listed company to hold its annual shareholder interaction over video conferencing after the government relaxed rules because of human mobility restrictions triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Otherwise, in a normal, non-virus year, investors and non-investors travel from different parts of the city and elsewhere to the Birla Matoshree auditorium in south Mumbai to attend TCS’s shareholder meeting. On Thursday, 1,283 people from Ahmedabad to Boston to Coimbatore logged in from their homes to see and hear Chandrasekaran’s response to their questions. The chairman, on his part, made TCS House, the company HQ, the venue to address shareholders. “The sharp shift in consumer preferences has now forced enterprises to significantly accelerate their digital transformation initiatives,” said Chandrasekaran, who was flanked by TCS CEO Rajesh Gopinathan and company secretary Rajendra Moholkar. Though the pandemic reversed the positive momentum the company saw in the first half of fiscal 2020, Chandrasekaran said that digital technologies will play a more enhanced role in the post-Covid world as sectors adapt to the new normal, which would also help TCS to bounce back. Whatever an enterprise does physically will have to be “reimagined”, said the chairman, responding to one of the 27 speakers’ queries. The shareholder interaction, conducted over NSDL’s online platform, lasted 2 hours and 45 minutes, but lacked the repartee between the management and shareholders, which otherwise is seen during the physical meetings. Many entities will be hosting their annual shareholder meetings over video conferencing in the coming days. An awaited AGM is of RIL, which sees the biggest congregation of stock market participants at the Birla Matoshree auditorium. Since RIL has not announced its AGM date, it remains to be seen if RIL will follow TCS in conducting its shareholder interaction online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/more-sectors-adopt-digital-channels-tcs/articleshow/76329560.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||Daily wager hangs self, probe underway||Haridwar: A 28-year-old man committed suicide in Rishikesh by hanging self from a tree on Friday. His body was found by the locals who informed the police. The deceased has been identified as Jeetu, a resident of Kalika Dhal falling under Rishikesh police station jurisdiction. Jeetu was a daily wager. SHO Rishikesh police station Ritesh Shah informed that no suicide note was found from the spot and investigation is ongoing. “His body has been sent for autopsy,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/daily-wager-hangs-self-probe-underway/articleshow/76348153.cms||MS Nawaz
June 12, 2020||Patna||PU extends submission date for online forms till August 14||PATNA: Revising its academic calendar, Patna University (PU) has extended the last date for online submission of application forms for admission to different undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses till August 14. Earlier, the deadline was June 20. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the heads of departments and principals of colleges held under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor H N Prasad on Thursday. “The schedule has been changed due to non-publication of results of Degree Part III (honours) examinations of PU and Class XII exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education as well as some state boards. PU is likely to clear its pending exams in July and publish the results soon,” registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra told this newspaper. According to the revised schedule, admission to all the UG and PG courses, both under the conventional as well as self-financing modes, will be completed by September 21. The induction meet of the newly admitted students will be held between September 28 and 30 and classes will commence on October 1. While admission to the three-year degree courses (conventional and self-financing modes) as well as the PG programmes (self-financing mode) will be done on the basis of combined entrance tests from August 21 to September 5, students will be admitted to the conventional PG courses simply on the basis of marks obtained in the last qualifying examinations. The entrance tests for admission to BSc, BCom and BA courses will be conducted on August 22, 24 and 25, respectively. While Magadh Mahila College has been authorized to hold combined entrance test for admission to BA and BCom programmes, Patna Science College will conduct the entrance test for the BSc course. All the colleges and PG departments of the university have been asked to update their websites and upload the admission prospectuses to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-extends-submission-date-for-online-forms-till-august-14/articleshow/76326667.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Patna||Relieved that I rebuilt Nalanda varsity: Nitish||PATNA: JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday said he is elated with the fact that he was instrumental in re-establishing international Nalanda University, which many historian claimed was destroyed by Turkish invader Bakhtiyar Khilji during his stay at Bakhtiyarpur, where he (the CM) was born. Addressing a virtual meeting of party workers and functionaries in five districts, including Patna and Nalanda, Nitish said, “I was born in Bakhtiyarpur town in Patna district. Some historians say that Bakhtiyar Khilji set ablaze world-renowned Nalanda University while staying at Bakhtiyarpur town, though few other historians differ with the claim. Whatever may be the truth, I am happy that I was born in the same Bakhtiyarpur town and I re-established the university.” Enumerating on the ambitious Ganga water lift scheme, under which fresh water from Ganga river is being taken to Gaya, Bodh Gaya and Rajgir towns, Nitish said, “It is a historical project aimed at round-the-year availability of Ganga water in these towns known for their religious and tourism potential.” The JD(U) chief asked party workers and functionaries to spend 90% of their time and efforts in spreading awareness about such ambitious schemes and initiatives undertaken by his government in last 15 years. He asked the party workers to spread awareness about projects and schemes of the state government, including availability of electricity, drinking water and toilet in every household and, steps taken for women empowerment among others. JD(U) national general secretary and water resources minister Sanjay Jha, party’s national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh, Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav also addressed the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/relieved-that-i-rebuilt-nalanda-varsity-nitish/articleshow/76327504.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 12, 2020||Patna||Bidding process for key bridge over Kosi starts||PATNA: The Union ministry of road transport and highways on Thursday initiated bidding process for a 6.9km-long bridge over the Kosi river connecting Naugachia and Madhepura. State road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav said the key bridge in north Bihar would be constructed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 1,169 crore. “The four-lane bridge will be constructed as part of NH-106. Its total length along with approach road is around 28.9km. It will be seventh bridge over the Kosi bridge,” Yadav told TOI, adding the bidding process for the bridge would be completed in five months. As per a statement issued by the RCD minister, land acquisition for construction of the bridge and its approach road has already been completed. “The last date for inviting bids for this project will be September 9 and the bridge is targeted to be constructed in a period of three years from the date of awarding the contract to selected agency,” Nand Kishor said. The minister said there would be 55 spans of 126 metres in the bridge. “Small bridges will also be constructed between Udakishunganj in Madhepura and Bihpur in Bhagalpur district as part of the project,” he added. “We are thankful to the Centre for sanctioning this project. The state government will provide all necessary support in execution of the project,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bidding-process-for-key-bridge-over-kosi-starts/articleshow/76328578.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Indore||Four arrested with 27 country-made pistols||Indore: Crime branch officials on Thursday have seized a major consignment of illegal weapons and arrested four persons in this connection. Police recovered 27 illegal country-made pistols and 10 country-made revolvers along with 10 live cartridges from the possession of the arrested accused. Of the four arrested, two make weapons while the other two are responsible for smuggling. Crime branch has seized over 106 illegal weapons until now in past three actions this year. Police had received information that Mangal Singh Sikhligar, 30, a resident of Signoor village in Khargone district, was headed to Indore to deliver a consignment of illegal weapons. A team was sent to spot and the accused was rounded up and four pistols and two revolvers were seized from his possession. After questioning, Mangal Singh gave more information about the people he was going to supply the weapons to. Mangal has a criminal record and several similar cases have been registered against him at various police stations. Later, another accused Dinesh Vaskale, 23, was arrested and eight pistols and three revolvers along with three cartridges were seized from his possession. He said that he acted as an agent and supplied weapons to the customers from Sikhligars. Cases have been registered against Dinesh at Annapurna police station and he is a habitual offender. Meanwhile two Sikhligars including Monu alias Amarjeet Singh Dangi, 25 and Vikas Singh Badole, 21, were arrested from Sanawad of Khargone and Bhikangaon respectively. Police recovered eight pistols and three revolvers along with three cartridges from Amarjeet Singh and seven pistols and two revolvers along with two cartridges from Vikas. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/four-arrested-with-27-country-made-pistols/articleshow/76329385.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Relaxations fine, but people should be wary of Covid-19’||PATNA: Amid spike in Covid-19 cases in the state over the past 11 days, people from a cross section of society, including teachers and doctors, said many relaxations under Unlock 1.0 were uncalled for. Shabnam Bhowmick, academic head at a private school in the city, said many people forgot social distancing norms after the large scale relaxations came into force on June 1. “The government as well as residents should realise that shopping, eating out and worshipping at religious places can wait for some time. Though the concern over falling economy is understandable, lives of people should be given priority more than anything else,” she said. Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the government should impose stricter rules as people are not maintaining social distancing norms voluntarily. “We cannot stay under lockdown for lifetime. Hence, giving relaxations was important, but there should have been plans. For instance, cops should stop people from roaming in groups,” he said. DM Diwakar, a social scientist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said there should be a scientific basis for every action during such pandemic. “I am highly disappointed with relaxations that have been given under Unlock 1.0. When cases were few, nationwide lockdown was imposed, but when they are at peak, lockdown has been lifted. Looks like the government is doing things without proper planning,” he said. Dr Vinay Kumar, a senior doctor and president of Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna, said it is very important to impose stricter rules. “Keeping in mind the situation in other states, where even senior officials are not getting medical bed, I fear that a similar situation might prevail in Bihar in the coming days,” he said. Even industry bodies, traders and working officials, who were earlier concerned about the falling economy of the state, want stricter rules. P K Agarwal, president of Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI), said, “Now that the Centre has given powers to the state government, the authorities concerned should decide what should be prioritized. Economy is important, but everything must be balanced in order to have a better tomorrow.” Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo said in spite of taking risks in order to earn a livelihood, traders are not earning enough. “The unlock has hardly brought any difference. People hardly visit the shops. There’s no benefit of risking our lives when the result is next to nil. Hence, the government should either come up with stricter rules or impose lockdown,” he said. “We can’t have a normal life during a pandemic. Instead of blaming the government, people should contribute their part in order to prevent the spread of the virus,” said Manisha Kumari (23), a resident of Das Company area in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/relaxations-fine-but-people-should-be-wary-of-covid-19/articleshow/76326684.cms||Archi Rani
June 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: As Unlock 1.0 unfolds, universities told to hold pending exams in September||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Thursday directed the vice-chancellors (VCs) of different universities to hold all pending examinations and declare the results in September and October. While interacting with the VCs of Patliputra University, Magadh University, Jai Prakash University and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University through videoconferencing, Chauhan said all admissions should be done online in order to start the next academic session on time. “It should be ensured that no college admits students beyond its sanctioned strength, failing which strict disciplinary action will be initiated against the defaulters,” the chancellor added. He further pointed out that steps should be initiated for getting all the colleges serving as quarantine and isolation centres for the Covid-19 suspects thoroughly sanitized with the help of the district administration so that there is no difficulty in conducting classes or exams when the institutions reopen. The chancellor may also extend the academic hours with a view to completing the courses of studies. He directed his principal secretary to constitute a three-member committee to render some concrete suggestions in this regard. He also pleaded for sending a team of academics to some premier institutions outside the state and study the process of imparting an effective and meaningful online education. “After getting the report of the team, both classroom teaching and online teaching will be made available for students,” Chauhan said. He pleaded for bringing uniformity in the conduct of examinations, setting of questions and evaluation of answer sheets in different universities of the state. For this purpose, he directed the principal secretary to form a committee of VCs to recommend suitable steps. He also asked the VCs to furnish to the state education department the details of vacancies of assistant professors in different subjects after getting clearance of roster from the office of the commissioner concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-unlock-1-unfolds-universities-told-to-hold-pending-exams-in-september/articleshow/76326651.cms||B K Mishra
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ramchandra Guha, Gujarat govt cross swords, again||AHMEDABAD: Historian Ramchandra Guha had yet another run-in with the BJP government in Gujarat, after he quoted communist writer Philip Spratt, saying that although Gujarat is economically progressive, it is culturally backward unlike West Bengal, which may not be economically progressive, but is culturally advanced. Earlier, in 2018, Guha announced that he would be joining Ahmedabad University as professor. However, within days, he tweeted saying that he will not join the university “due to circumstances beyond my control”. Earlier this year, Guha tweeted saying the ruling party made it impossible to take up the stint at Ahmedabad University. On Thursday, Guha stirred a hornet’s nest by putting out a tweet, “Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province… Bengal in contrast is economically backward, but culturally advanced. Philip Spratt, writing in 1939.” "Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province... . Bengal in contrast is economically b… https://t.co/T556K6TR2q— Ramachandra Guha (@Ram_Guha) 1591842951000The tweet came in for widespread criticism even as Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani shot back, tweeting, “Earlier, it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians. Indians won’t fall for such tricks. Gujarat is great, Bengal is great… India is united. Our cultural foundations are strong, our economic aspirations are high.” Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians.… https://t.co/14qmEYeTtK— Vijay Rupani (@vijayrupanibjp) 1591860874000Keeping the twitter exchange alive, Guha sarcastically tweeted, “If the Gujarat chief minister is so easily confusing the historian with a dead writer being quoted, the State of Gujarat must indeed be in safe hands”. If the Gujarat Chief Minister is, at this moment in history, (a) so keenly following the tweets of a humdrum histor… https://t.co/vLNV8UXfAW— Ramachandra Guha (@Ram_Guha) 1591870243000Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also jumped into the fray, tweeting that in 1939, when Philip Spratt, belonging to Communist International wrote what Guha has quoted, the Maharaja of Jamnagar saved 1,000 Polish children. Guha responded back with the same sarcastic tweet, saying, “... even the FM is obsessing about a humdrum historian’s tweets. The economy is surely in safe hands.” I thought it was only the Gujarat CM, but now it seems even the FM is obsessing about a humdrum historian's tweets.… https://t.co/gjQ708i5pz— Ramachandra Guha (@Ram_Guha) 1591871663000Although Guha went on to clarify that he posts quotes by others because he finds them interesting, and it is not necessary that he endorses what he is quoting, he quipped, “Reserve your praise or your anger for the ghost of the person being quoted”. Statutory warning; when I post quotes by others found in the course of my research, I do so because I find them arr… https://t.co/FJw9N5FLDK— Ramachandra Guha (@Ram_Guha) 1591865110000Even as the uproar over his tweet comparing Gujarat and West Bengal had not died down, Ramchandra Guha, quoting the writer Spratt again, tweeted, “In a free India, democratic Gandhism would be put to its most difficult test. It might be that the non-violent way towards a civilised society would prove itself. It is perhaps more likely that an effective dictatorship of the right would be set up… Philip Spratt, 1939.” "In a free India, democratic Gandhism would be put to its most difficult test. It might be that the non-violent way… https://t.co/hQC6vHfYhZ— Ramachandra Guha (@Ram_Guha) 1591861279000Philip Sprat was a Communist writer sent by the British arm of Communist International to spread communism in India. He subsequently became a friend and colleague of M N Roy, who founded the Communist Party in India. After an announcement was made in October 2018 of Guha’s appointment as Shrenik Lalbhai Chair Professor of Humanities at Ahmedabad University, members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad staged protests in Ahmedabad. Within days, Guha announced that he would not take up the job, and it was only earlier this year, on February 3, that he elaborated, stating that the ruling BJP had made him impossible to take up the stint at Ahmedabad University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ramchandra-guha-gujarat-govt-cross-swords-again/articleshow/76329476.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Personal loan sanctions to get tougher||MUMBAI: Obtaining personal loans is set to get tougher in the post-Covid-19 era as banks tighten credit policy and customer-selection norms. According to credit information company TransUnion Cibil, approval rates are likely to decline for all key retail lending product categories. TU Cibil has used the 2008-09 financial crisis as a benchmark, to predict a fall in the approval rates for all retail lending product categories. “Based on an historical analysis of consumer payment hierarchy, when facing financial distress, consumers pay mortgages first, then personal loans and cards are the last product to be prioritised in terms of payment obligations relative to those other products,” TU Cibil said in a report on outlook for Indian credit. According to the report, default rates will move up most in personal loans and credit cards, while home loans and auto loans will see less of a shift. This will result in lenders being more selective in the latter two categories. Extrapolating from the 2008-09 crisis, TU Cibil said the drop in approval rates then was most acute for personal loans (-30%) and loans against property (-28%). “While we expect a drop in approval rates for all major retail products due to lenders likely tightening their credit policy and customer selection norms, given the inherent risk of products like loans against property and personal loans, we anticipate a greater decline in approval rates for these products,” said TU Cibil VP Abhay Kelkar. The inability of some consumers to pay their debts after the moratorium period ends is likely to adversely impact their scores, and consequently the default probability may see a rise. For other personal loans where there is physical collection involved, adherence to social distancing norms and limited field travel may impact overall lender collection efficiency, increasing roll rates, the report observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/personal-loan-sanctions-to-get-tougher/articleshow/76329406.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Patna||NTPC’s Kahalgaon unit reaches out to the needy||BHAGALPUR: Apart from routine commitment of generating electricity round-the-clock, Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station (KhSTPS) of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has also endeavoured to help out the underprivileged section of society during the Covid-19 crisis by reaching out to them as well as taking steps to prevent spread of the virus in Kahalgaon sub-division. Realising the severity of the problem, which has severely affected marginal families, the KhSTPS has distributed 80 metric tonnes of rice, 54 metric tonnes of wheat flour, 30 metric tonnes of pulses and 14 metric tonnes of salt as ration kits among the residents of 22 panchayats covering about 34 villages in Bhagalpur in Bihar and Godda district in neighbouring Jharkhand. All such works were done under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities of NTPC. NTPC officials said ration was also provided to Kahalgaon and Pirpainti block officials for distribution among returnee migrant workers at the quarantine centres. They said ration kits and face masks were provided to 1,700 families of contractual workers, domestic helpers and people residing in rehabilitation colonies. “Various steps, like placing 20 hoardings, 3,000 posters, distributiing more than 20,000 pamphlets and running public address system were taken in the six panchayats covering 18 villages for spreading awareness about the COvid-19 pandemic and steps to be taken to prevent spread of the virus,” manager (human resources), KhSTPS Sourav Kumar said. He added that other works done under the CSR initiative included distribution of 55,000 soaps and sanitisers to returnee migrant workers and other needy people. Besides, more than 25,000kg of bleaching powder was used for sanitising 25 villages under 10 panchayats and in Kahalgaon town areas. “It was also made mandatory for each person to wash their hands and sanitize before entering the plant,” Sourav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ntpcs-kahalgaon-unit-reaches-out-to-the-needy/articleshow/76326754.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vadodara||Doctor among five persons to succumb to Covid in Vadodara||Vadodara: Just when there was some silver lining in the Covid-19 situation with only one death per day till Wednesday evening, including one person from outside the city, Thursday brought bad news again with around five suspected victims.While the deaths will be declared only after the death audit reports are prepared and examined, sources said that four suspected victims were elderly persons and one was young. One of the elderly victims was also a doctor. The official figure of deceased, however, stands at 47 of which only seven have died due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death.The results of 183 tests conducted since Tuesday night led to the identification of 39 more Covid-19 cases in Vadodara city and district. Those who tested positive include eight from rural areas of the city and the remaining 31 from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. The city limits saw the highest number of cases from north zone where 15 tested positive. This was followed by the south zone with 10 cases, four cases from the east zone and two from the west zone.With the fresh cases, the total number of persons who have tested positive in the city and district went up to 1,447. Thirty-two more patients were discharged on Thursday from various facilities including home quarantine. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 927.The remaining 473 active cases include 382 persons who are stable and 53 on oxygen. The condition of 38 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines was serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/doctor-among-five-persons-to-succumb-to-covid-in-vadodara/articleshow/76326626.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Patna||Gaya district official tests Covid-19 positive||GAYA: A senior district official tested Covid-19 positive late on Wednesday evening. The official was initially put in isolation at a facility near Bodh Gaya. However, after he complained of uneasiness, he was shifted to Gaya- based Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH), which has been declared as Covid dedicated hospital. Sources said the condition of the official is said to be stable. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, however, said there was no cause to panic. Asked whether officials working in close proximity of Covid-19 positive officer have also been quarantined or isolated, the DM said that prima facie, no such need is felt as the physical distancing norms were strictly maintained at the meetings attended by the said official and the office room was effectively disinfected after each meeting. In another Covid-19 related development, a criminal case has been instituted against two doctors of ANMMCH on the charge of violating the standard operating procedure (SoP) notified for institutional quarantine of foreign returnees. The case has been registered with the medical college police station. “The case has been registered under section 188 of the IPC and the provisions of Disaster Management Act,” DM Singh said. A foreign returnee was allegedly recommended home quarantine instead of institutional quarantine. The two doctors are alleged to have attempted to get the foreign returnee skip the mandatory institutional quarantine. “The home quarantine move was thwarted,” said Naresh Jha, additional district magistrate-cum-nodal officer of Covid management at ANMMCH. The home quarantine foreign returnee tested Covid positive and the two doctors along with the hospital superintendent were kept in isolation. Meanwhile, the doctors against whom the case has been registered have tested Covid negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-district-official-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76326773.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Patna||In jail, Lalu still a force in state politics||PATNA: “Jab tak rahega samosa mein aloo, tabtak rehega Bihar mein Lalu (I will be in Bihar till there is potato in samosa),” he once said about himself. Lalu turned 73 on Thursday. The maverick politician known for his sense of humour and witty one-liners is serving jail term in fodder scam cases since December 2017. Yet he remains the most feared opposition politician for the ruling NDA in Bihar and their main target ahead of the assembly elections due in October-November. Is it because Lalu out on parole or bail, like a ‘Djinn’ (ghost) out of confinement, will win back the extremely backward caste (EBC) and other backward caste (OBC) votes, which CM Nitish Kumar has assiduously nurtured since ending the RJD’s 15-year rule in 2005? Though Lalu’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar told TOI over phone from Ranchi that he had no immediate plans to pursue Lalu’s bail matter, he did not rule out any such possibility either. Nitish, in his first virtual meeting with JD(U) workers on Sunday, asked them to tell the youths of Bihar about the “jungle raj of ‘pati-patni’ (Lalu and Rabri Devi) when people even feared to tread outside their homes after sunset”. Political analysts see Nitish’s appeal to his party workers in the context of then JD(U) national vice-president Prashant Kishor’s remarks that ‘Generation Z’ is not even aware of “Lalu-Rabri raj” and it would be of no use raking up the issue in the coming elections. NDA under Nitish’s leadership has chosen to fight the 2020 polls on 15 years of RJD “jungle raj” versus 15 years of NDA rule of “development with justice”, which, Nitish says, has pulled Bihar out of ‘bhay’ (fear) and established ‘bharosa’ (trust) in society”. Nitish refers to the “pati-patni” rule almost daily in his virtual meetings since June 7. Even Union home minister Amit Shah targeted Lalu and obliquely his heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in his first virtual rally on June 7. For Nitish, Tejashwi is not his match. And he had made this clear when he had cajolingly told his former deputy on the floor of the assembly last session to sit down “Apke pitaji bolte to achcha lagta. Aap baith jaiye (I would have liked it had your father (Lalu) said this. Please sit down,” Nitish had told Tejashwi the leader of opposition. Why Lalu still matters so much for the ruling combine when his son Tejashwi is leading the opposition alliance, asks senior RJD leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui and himself answers it. “It’s Lalu phobia which haunts those who believe in status quo. They are scared of Lalu because he will raise the issues related to the poor and creamy layer in reservation. Lalu never compromised with social justice. Why no one talks about Srijan scam, Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, but only reminds people of fodder scam? Talk to the migrant workers and they will say had Lalu been there, they would not have faced such hardships in returning home from other states due to the lockdown and coronavirus,” Siddiqui told TOI on Thursday. RJD MP and party spokesperson Manoj Jha said even after 15 years if JDU and BJP have to bring in Lalu ji, this simply shows the hollowness of their achievements. “Nitish ji or Sushil Modi ji (BJP) must thank Laluji. Had he not come to power, their political character might have been different. They (NDA) should not forget that in 15 years, a whole new generation has come up with own aspirations. BJP-JD(U) combine has summarily failed to address or even understand those aspirations. “People now ask why the state failed its own migrant workforce for over a month? Why it criminalized them? Why the government is clueless about huge unemployment scenario? And yes, whether Laluji is there during the elections or not shall depend on the legal procedure. But his name causes enough anxieties for our opponents,” Manoj told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-jail-lalu-still-a-force-in-state-politics/articleshow/76327348.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Multiplexes to see occupancy halve in FY21||Mumbai: Multiplex occupancy levels in FY21 are expected to fall to 15% from 32% in FY20, which will result in these companies reporting losses in the current fiscal, according to rating agency Crisil. Multiplexes are expected to bleed even assuming they open in the second quarter of the current fiscal and there is a gradual recovery. That is because, even after the lifting of the lockdown, social distancing norms will reduce effective seating capacity, while fear of enclosed spaces will keep moviegoers away from cinemas for a while. While ticket sales account for two-thirds of revenue, food & beverages and advertisements, which account for the rest are also expected to take a hit because of the reduced footfall. “Occupancy rates of multiplexes could halve to 15% this fiscal, compared with over 30% in the past two fiscals. Their high operating leverage, in turn, would lead to a sharp fall in profitability and cause ebitda-level losses this fiscal. That compares with an average operating profit of 17-19% seen through fiscals 2018-2020,” said Crisil senior director Sachin Gupta. With operations halted, multiplex operators have invoked force majeure in their lease agreements. However, the validity of this action is yet to be established. “They have also deferred maintenance and capex outlays. But these measures won’t help much once operations are restored. High fixed costs would mean operating losses could increase on lower occupancy,” said Crisil. Cinema halls were among the first businesses to shutter because of the pandemic-induced restrictions, well before the nationwide lockdown was promulgated. Recently, multiplexes were in the news for opposing the move by film producers to directly release the movie on over-the-top (OTT) platforms. “We see both platforms co-existing and the current disruption as temporary. The presence of OTT will have no material bearing on the credit profiles of multiplexes, which have seen robust revenue growth over the past few years despite the economic slowdown and faster adoption of OTT content,” Crisil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/multiplexes-to-see-occupancy-halve-in-fy21/articleshow/76329319.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||NIRF rankings: Guj institutions shine||Ahmedabad: Gujarat-based universities and institutions have put up a stellar performance in the all National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Ranking 2020 released by the Centre on Thursday. While Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad has outperformed IIM Bangalore to regain the top position as the best management institute of the country, Gujarat University made a surprise entry at number 60 in the list of higher education institutes in the overall category. IIM-A’s position has improved from last year as it lost the first position to IIM-Bangalore in NIRF 2019 rankings. This year, IIM-Bangalore has been ranked second. Gujarat University did not even figure in the top 100 names in overall rankings in the NIRF 2019 list. This time, apart from the overall rankings list, the varsity has also found a place at number 44 in the list of top varsities in the country. This year, it is the only varsity from Gujarat in the top 100 list. “Gujarat university has made this possible through their hard work and systematic planning at all fronts. Their achievements go to show how state universities can perform despite several constraints that are not faced by private universities and national level institutions. I am proud to be a part of this journey of Gujarat university in making it happen,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education. Himanshu Pandya, professor of botany and former vice-chancellor of GU, said that various initiatives by him like setting up a research facility at GU along with incubation centres and helping the government form a framework for a new startup policy have improved the education quality and infrastructure in the state. Last year, another state-run varsity, Anand Agriculture University, had ranked 96 in the overall ranking of institutes in India. In the overall rankings list, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Gandhinagar, has moved up the ladder from 51st position last year to 35th. It is also ranked at 24th in the list of top engineering colleges in the country. IIT-Gandhinagar is joined by another institution from Gujarat in the top 100 list - the Surat-based Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, which is ranked at 54. Apart from these, Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology and Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda are ranked at 111 and 116 respectively. Other institutions from Gujarat which have bagged a spot in the top 100 rankings in various categories include Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT) University, Gujarat National Law University (GNLU), Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA), P D Patel Institute of Applied Sciences (Changa) and Nirma University, among others. Cept University, which did not participate last year, has been ranked at number four in the architecture category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nirf-rankings-guj-institutions-shine/articleshow/76329440.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Auto retail down 80%-90% in May||Chennai: With sales skidding, auto dealers are asking vehicle manufacturers to increase their margins to a minimum 7% of the selling price of the vehicle, from the present 2.4% to 6%. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA), the apex body for auto dealers, has written to SIAM (Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers) asking for an immediate increase in margins to help dealers tide over the demand slump caused by corona pandemic. The latest FADA numbers for May shows that on a YOY basis, two wheeler retail sales were down nearly 89%, three wheelers over 96%, cars and SUVs 87% and trucks and buses nearly 97%. Currently 60% dealerships and 80% workshops are open but big metro markets like Delhi-NCR, Mumbai and Chennai are still not fully functional. Some vehicle companies including Maruti, Hyundai, Honda, M&M, Tata Motors, Honda and Toyota pay between 2.4%-6% margin money while two wheeler companies pay 4%-6% and truck and bus companies pay 1%-3% . BMW and Mercedes Benz pay around 5%-7.5% while Harley Davidson and Triumph top the margin chart with 11.4%-14.6% and 8.3%-9.7% respectively. Industry sources say some companies like Maruti, M&M, Ford, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India, Ashok Leyland and Daimler India Commercial Vehicles have indicated they are evaluating an increase in dealer margins or commissions. “Auto dealerships in India are operating at an average net profit level 0.5%-1% of total turnover with a few best case scenarios at 1.5% and in the past 15 months even this thin margin has taken a beating and 50%-60% dealers are now under financial stress,” said Ashish Harsharaj Kale, president, FADA. India is among the lowest auto margin countries globally. Passenger vehicle dealer margin range in the US is 8%-10%, UK 6%-8%, Russia, Gulf and South Africa 12%-14%, China 9%-11% and France, Germany, Italy, Spain 13%-14% said a FADA communication to its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-retail-down-80-90-in-may/articleshow/76329625.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 12, 2020||Business||SBI divests 2% in life arm for Rs 1,500cr||Mumbai: Banking leader SBI is divesting 2.1% from its stake in SBI Life Insurance, translating into 2.1 crore shares of the company, through the offer for sale (OFS) route. SBI is offering the stake at a floor price of Rs 725 per share, aggregating a little over Rs 1,522 crore, or about $202 million, the term sheet for the deal noted. The floor price is at a 2% discount to SBI Life’s closing price of Rs 741 on NSE on Thursday. Through a stock exchange notice, SBI said it was offloading the stake to meet markets regulator Sebi’s minimum shareholding norm. SBI Life’s shareholding structure as of March 2020, disclosed on the BSE, shows that public shareholding is at 37.2%. Currently, SBI, along with BNP Paribas Cardif, its foreign joint venture partner, holds 62.8%. The institutional and HNI parts of the offer will open and close on June 12 while the offer for retail investors will open and close on June 15. Nomura is the joint broker for the offer. The other brokers are SBI Caps Securities and HSBC Securities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-divests-2-in-life-arm-for-rs-1500cr/articleshow/76329593.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Software startup Postman’s valuation up 5x at $2bn||BENGALURU: Software startup Postman has raised $150 million led by New York-based Insight Partners, along with participation from existing backers Nexus Venture Partners and CRV, in a deal that values it at about $2 billion. The transaction will make the six-year-old startup, which has offices in San Francisco and Bengaluru, the second-most valued India-US software company after Freshworks, which is worth $3.5 billion. The development comes amid a slowdown in fund-raising for startups due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a year after Postman was valued at $350 million in June 2019. This would mean that the startup’s valuation has risen by 470% in the period. The company was founded in Bengaluru in 2014 by three engineers — BITS Pilani graduates Abhinav Asthana and Abhijit Kane with NSIT Delhi’s Ankit Sobti. Asthana and Sobti had worked together at Yahoo India. Postman has developed a tool that helps software developers build, design, and collaborate on APIs (application program interfaces), which are powerful codes that allows applications to talk with one another. Now the platform is used by more than 11 million developers and 500,000 companies worldwide, including Microsoft, Box, Twitter. “Developers all over the world are rapidly transitioning from the code-first mindset to an API-first mindset with Postman being the centre of this revolution,” said Asthana. The development comes as more investors are likely to bet on the software space, given the increased digitisation of services across industries due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a joint report by Google and US-based VC firm Accel, by 2025, India is likely to become a $10-billion revenue industry, with an 8% share of the global software as a service (SaaS) market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/software-co-postmans-valuation-up-5x-at-2bn/articleshow/76329349.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 12, 2020||Business||Top domestic pharma companies in US probe for price-fixing||MUMBAI: Domestic majors — including Sun Pharma, Lupin and Aurobindo Pharma — along with US biggies Sandoz, Pfizer and Mylan have been charged with price-fixing and collusion on topical dermatology medication in a fresh lawsuit filed in the US. This joins an earlier US probe charging domestic majors — including Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy’s, Zydus Cadila, Glenmark and Emcure — of a serious price-fixing conspiracy, which is pending with the courts. Under this, several US states had accused major players of a serious price-collusion, widening an earlier lawsuit filed in December 2016 by adding more drugmakers and medicines. The charges, if proven, may incur huge litigation and financial burden on the companies, experts sid. Others mentioned in the complaint include Mumbai-based companies Wockhardt and Glenmark. The fresh lawsuit, a copy of which is available with TOI, clocks over 500 pages and has been filed on June 10 by over 40 US states. It accuses 26 companies of inflating prices of 80 generic dermatology drugs, with rates spiking by 600% to 2,000% in some cases in 2014 to get a larger market share. Topical products include any drug that is administered by means of contact, most often with an external body surface, including creams, lotions, gels, ointments and solutions. “Our exposure to dermatology has been less than 5% of the US business and we were relatively late entrants. Apart from this, we can’t comment on a matter that is subject to litigation,” a Lupin spokesperson said. Emails sent to other companies did not elicit a response till the time of going to press. The development led to a fall in Sun Pharma’s stock by 5% to Rs 474, Wockhardt by 4% to Rs 249, and Glenmark by over 4% to Rs 384, Lupin 1% to Rs 919 and Aurobindo also over 1% to Rs 786 the BSE on Thursday. The charges are backed by over eight million investigative documents, and more than 300 subpoenas to various telephone carriers with phone calls and text message reports for numerous companies and individuals throughout the generic pharma industry. The lawsuit says companies consistently and systematically, over a period of several years, engaged in contracts, combinations, and conspiracies that had the effect of unreasonably restraining trade, artificially inflating and maintaining prices, and reducing competition in the generic industry throughout the US. It adds collusion has been rampant among manufacturers of generic topical products, from at least 2009 through early 2016. Manufacturers of generic topical products typically face higher barriers to entry because technical hurdles associated with demonstrating bioequivalence to branded products are more time-consuming and expensive, and manufacturing costs are high compared to other types of generic drugs. The greater barriers to entry generally associated with topical products limit the number of competitors in any particular topical product market, creating an environment that is ripe for collusion, it says. Many topical products have only two or three competitors. As a result, the sales and pricing executives at these companies know each other well and have used those business and personal relationships as a means to collude to limit competition, allocate customers and, significantly, raise prices on dozens of generic topical products. The larger and more prominent topical manufacturers — including Taro (Sun Pharma’s subsidiary), Perrigo, Fougera (now Sandoz), and Actavis — had long-standing agreements over the course of several years not to compete for each other’s customers and to follow each other’s price increases. Once the competitors had their “fair share” of a particular drug market, it was time to increase prices. However, generic drug manufacturers have publicly argued that significant price increases were due to a myriad factors, such as industry consolidation, FDA-mandated plant closures, or elimination of unprofitable generic drug product lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-domestic-pharma-cos-in-us-probe-for-price-fixing/articleshow/76329470.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 12, 2020||Patna||Patna:Elderly make most of free time, take up new hobbies||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic may have confined the elderly to their houses, but many of them are utilizing this time by taking up hobbies or learning something new. Even during Unlock 1.0, they have been advised to stay at home as they are at a higher risk of contracting coronavirus. Retired professors, Santosh Kumar (78) and his wife Bharti S Kumar (73), who live in a flat at Rajendra Nagar, are making the most of the current situation. “We are busy attending webinars, reading books and preparing for lectures on Covid-19,” Santosh told TOI over the phone on Thursday. The family, which also has a 100-year-old member, Santosh’s father Raj Kumar Vaish, stays at home and avoids inviting guests “for safety reasons”. He said, “My dad, who did his postgraduation two years ago, always wanted to pen a book. Right now, he is busy writing something, but we have no idea what it is.” Santosh also stays connected with his granddaughters, Suhani and Tara, who live in Singapore through WhatsApp. He said, “I keep in touch with them and often solve their queries. I also teach my helper, a young boy named Gaurav, who is pursuing his graduation and lives with us.” Septuagenarian Yadunandan Tripathi, a resident of Bankmen Colony in Chitragupta Nagar, has found a new hobby — terrace gardening — these days. “My father used to go for morning and evening walks every day, but now that he is staying at home, he has started growing plants. At present, his plant family has almost 200 members,” said Yadunandan’s daughter Sushma. She added, “We do not allow outsiders to meet our father. But if it is important, we make sure that the visitor is sanitized and maintains distance from us.” Instead of taking up a new hobby, sexagenarian Rashida Arif is giving culinary lessons to her daughters-in-law and granddaughters. “All my grandchildren are here and we are having a lot of fun. They are also learning how to cook the traditional recipes that I know,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-make-most-of-free-time-take-up-new-hobbies/articleshow/76326732.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 400 people test positive on second straight day||PUNE: Eleven more patients succumbed to Covid-19 while 418 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, taking the case and casualty counts to 10,812 and 460, respectively, in the region so far. Of the fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits added 292, while Pimpri Chinchwad added 97. The rural areas of Pune had 29 new patients of the virus infection. As for the deaths, three were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. The deceased included a 70-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 31-year-old man from the Ramtekdi area, a 75-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 44-year-old man from the Dhankawadi area, a 54-year-old man from the Ganj Peth area and a 56-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth. An 82-year-old woman died at the District Hospital Aundh. PMC health officials said the collection of swab samples had gone up in the last two days. On Thursday, 2,043 swabs were collected and were sent for testing, while 1,949 samples were collected on Wednesday. Rigorous contact tracing had been under way in the containment zones and vulnerable spots, the officials said. They said 207 patients were discharged on Thursday after they were declared cured. About 216 patients were critical, of which 53 were on ventilator support. About 2,582 active patients were being treated at various hospitals and Covid centres in PMC limits, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-400-people-test-ve-on-second-straight-day/articleshow/76330311.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 12, 2020||Patna||Patna airport terminal extension area likely to be ready in July||PATNA: The authorities at the Jay Prakash Narayan International Airport here claimed on Thursday that a part of the ongoing extension work of the terminal building is in the final stages and will be ready for passengers handling in August. The areas in the terminal building where extension work is targeted to be completed by July 30, include a structure on the eastern side of the portico, the conveyor belt area and the security hold area. Officials said six more check-in counters will be added after the completion of the ongoing extension work. Airport director Bhupesh C H Negi told TOI on Thursday that the superstructure of the extended area on the eastern side of the terminal building has been constructed and internal furnishing works is being done at present. “The passenger handling capacity of the terminal building will increase by 2.5 lakh per annum after the additional structure is ready, addressing the issue of space constraint at the airport,” Negi said. He added that the extended area in front of the terminal building will be used for check-in as well as security check purposes. K S Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, AAI Patna, said an additional area of 2,000 square meter will be added with the extension of the terminal building. “The much awaited modification or extension work of existing terminal building to address the space constraints till we get a brand new terminal building in 2023, is nearing completion. With this, we hope to meet the customer expectations,” stated a tweet made by Patna airport’s Twitter handle on Thursday. The ambitious project for the extension of the terminal building is being executed utilizing funds to the tune of Rs 1,216 crore allocated by the Centre to the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The two-storey structure will have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor. Vijayan claimed that though the extension work were affected owing to the lockdown, many auxiliary buildings under the project are targeted to be ready by March next year. “Around 50% of the work is completed in most auxiliary buildings. A multi- level parking lot with 400-car capacity is targeted to be ready by March. It will be a ground+ 5 floors structure with a shopping complex proposed on fourth floor. Similarly, a new residential area of the airport is targeted to be ready by March,” he said. He added that a new air traffic control tower and fire station are also targeted to be made ready by March. “Three hangars are proposed to be constructed, out of which two are ready. The works on third hangar will also commence soon,” Vijayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/terminal-extension-area-likely-to-be-ready-in-july/articleshow/76328476.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Schools to begin online weekly tests from Monday||PATNA: In a bid to regularize the current academic session, which has gone haywire due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most city schools are relying more on online classes and conducting weekly as well as periodic tests. Students are also adjusting to the new normal by buying new set of books and studying at home. St Michael’s Primary School student Sameeksha Mishra, who studies in Class V, is gearing up for her weekly tests that will start from June 15. “The 25-minute online test will be conducted in the presence of parents. The teacher will write the questions on a white board. We will jot down the answers in a notebook and send them to our class’s WhatsApp group,” Sameeksha told this newspaper. Notre Dame Academy’s Sanskritri Parmar said her periodic tests would begin from June 15. “We are being given digital study materials through WhatsApp,” the Class VIII student added. Meanwhile, amid speculations that schools may reopen in a month, the authorities concerned have claimed that they are making all necessary arrangements. St Michael’s High school principal Fr Armstrong Edison said, “If the government decides to reopen schools, we are prepared. The authorities should, however, enforce additional rules for educational institutions by reducing the number of students attending the classes.” Parents, on the other hand, are having a tough time looking after a lot of things at home. Kankarbagh resident Smita Verma said, “Teaching children at home is far more difficult than one can imagine. In order to make sure that my kids study on time, I have prepared a routine for them. Recently, I bought their books and have started teaching them as well.” Kadamkuan resident Pritee Prasad has adapted to the new normal even if “it was quite difficult in the beginning”. “From monitoring my son’s online classes to teaching him, I am doing it all,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-to-begin-online-weekly-tests-from-monday/articleshow/76326707.cms||Archi Rani
June 12, 2020||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation may ‘tax’ households for garbage collection||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) may levy ‘user charge’ on households for door-to-door garbage collection. The proposal is likely to be tabled in the next PMC board meeting on June 16. According to PMC officials, around Rs 8.15 crore holding tax has been collected from households in the fiscal 2020- 21 so far amid the lockdown. It is almost 55% lower than the amount collected during the same period previous year. “The PMC has deputed a private firm to collect the holding tax as well as ‘user charge’,” a PMC official said. After the relaxation in the lockdown, the private firm has resumed the holding tax collection from June 1, as there was a lukewarm response from the residents to pay the tax online. Patna mayor Sita Sahu told this newspaper on Wednesday that in the last fiscal, the PMC had earned up to Rs 18 crore through holding tax by June 8. “Unfortunately this time, only Rs 8.15 crore has been collected till Monday. Now, a proposal has been drafted to collect the garbage fee along with the holding tax from each household,” she said. “We have no proper mechanism to collect user charges for garbage collection as of now. To regularise this source of income for PMC, we will ask the private firm to collect garbage fee as well. We are yet to decide whether it will be annual or monthly collection,” the mayor said. As per the PMC official, altogether 33,482 households have paid holding tax till June 8, whereas the private firm collected Rs 63,23,149 from 2,177 households on Tuesday. Moreover, 20,278 households still haven’t paid holding tax, compared to the period till June first week last fiscal. According to executive officers of PMC circles, Rs 1.65 crore holding tax was collected from New Capital circle, Rs 1.86 crore from Patliputra circle, Rs 1.79 crore from Kankarbagh circle, 1.71 crore from Bankipore circle, Rs 38 lakh from Patna City circle and Rs 47 lakh from Azimabad circle as on Tuesday. The PMC has set the target to collect Rs 110 crore tax this fiscal and cover 4 lakh households. It targets Rs 15 crore revenue collection through door-to-door waste collection. Previous year, the civic body collected Rs 60.8 crore through holding tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-may-tax-households-for-garbage-collection/articleshow/76328496.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 12, 2020||Business||SBI moves NCLT to recover Anil Ambani's personal guarantee||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) has moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), seeking to recover loans disbursed to the Anil Ambani-led group of companies from a personal guarantee given by Anil Ambani. The bank has filed two applications under section 95(1) to nominate a resolution professional for insolvency resolution process of personal guarantor — Ambani. The case list on the NCLT New Delhi principal bench website has two cases by SBI for urgent hearing. Section 95(1) allows a creditor to apply either by himself or jointly with other creditors, or through a resolution professional, to the court for initiating the insolvency resolution process. The application has been filed even as lenders have approved bids for the group’s telecom companies. According to banking sources, the action by SBI appears to be aimed at staking their claim on personal assets before international creditors get them. Last month, a UK court had directed Ambani to pay nearly $717 million to three Chinese banks pursuing recovery of funds owed to them. The matter pertained to a guarantee extended by him to a corporate loan availed by Reliance Communications in 2012 as part of refinancing. Ambani had, however, denied executing any personal guarantee in favour of the Chinese lender ICBC. Sources said that the guarantee was in the range of Rs 1,200-1,300 crore. A spokesperson for Ambani said, “The matter relates to a corporate loan availed by Reliance Communications Limited (RCom) and Reliance Infratel Limited (RITL) and is not a personal loan of Mr Ambani.” He added that the RCom and RITL resolution plans were approved by 100% of their lenders in March 2020. “These resolution plans are awaiting the approval of NCLT, Mumbai. Mr. Ambani will file suitable replies, and NCLT has not given any relief to the petitioner,” he added. In January this year, lenders received bids for RCom, Reliance Telecom and Reliance Infratel. UV Asset Reconstruction Company has emerged as the highest bidder for RCom and Reliance Telecom, including real estate assets, enterprise and data centre business with a bid of a little over Rs 16,000 crore. Senior brother Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio had emerged the highest bidder for Reliance Infratel with an offer of Rs 3,609 crore. The assets on sale included the airwaves in the 850MHz band in 14 of India’s 22 telecom circles, while Infratel has about 43,000 telecom towers, optic fibre lines and data centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-moves-nclt-to-recover-anils-personal-guarantee/articleshow/76329633.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Facing political oblivion, will old warhorses make it to Team UP BJP for Derby 2022?||LUCKNOW: As UP BJP leaders and workers eagerly wait for the announcement of office-bearers under the state presidentship of Swatantra Dev Singh who will spearhead the party in the electoral battle of 2022, it is also being hotly debated whether the saffron veterans would be rehabilitated? State elections are due less than two years from now. The list of such leaders who would call the shots in the past, but are out of favour now, is very long. It includes at least three former state chiefs -- Laxmi Kant Bajpai, Om Prakash Singh and Vinay Katiyar. Besides, there are Satyadev Singh, once a powerful organising secretary -- the post currently held by Sunil Bansal -- and Ramashish Rai, former national president of the Bharitya Janata Yuva Morcha. They all played key roles in establishing the party in the state, but are in political oblivion nowadays. In late 80s, 90s and early 2000, 'Bajrangi' Vinay Katiyar, who headed the Bajrang Dal for long and enjoyed popularity next to then BJP face Kalyan Singh for leading the Ayodhya movement, is now hardly involved in the organisational activities. In the old BJP, he had been a Lok Sabha member from Faizabad and also represented the party in Rajya Sabha. But in the new BJP, Katiyar has been shuttling between courts and CBI offices for facing criminal cases for his alleged role in the demolition of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya in December 1992. Laxmikant Bajpai was the UP BJP president before Keshav Prasad Maurya, who is now deputy chief minister. When Bajpai had assumed the office of state BJP he could be spotted riding his scooter on streets of the state capital, openly mingling with party workers and supporters. He is now restricted to his home district Meerut and the party hardly uses him. Evey time his name was discussed for being included in the list of probables for MLC or MP, he was ignored all the time. Bajpai has now even stopped coming to the party’s Lucknow headquarters, say insiers. Om Prakash Singh used to be a powerful Kurmi leader from East UP and one of the senior leaders from the OBC community raised by Kalyan Singh. Kalyan, a Lodh and Om Prakash Singh's combine succeeded in dispelling the general impression of the BJP being a 'Brahmin-Bania' party by taking OBCs to the mainstream and expanding the party base in rural pockets. Om Prakash Singh had also fought against the `apartheid' within the BJP to bring to an end the hegemony of upper castes in the BJP’s top echelons. Similarly, Satyadev Singh, once a powerful general secretary of the BJP, is struggling hard for his political survival and is hardly seen in the party's Lucknow office. Satyadev was not only the organisational general secretary, but headed the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha at the national level and Pramod Mahajan, Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Dharmendra Pradhan all had worked under him. Ramashish Rai, who also headed the BJP’s Yuva Morcha as national president and emerged as popular face of the Bhumihars in the BJP, is facing oblivion despite being on the frontline of the BJP leadership for long. The BJP constitution categorically states that former presidents of the party would be invited for meetings and be part of the executive, but it probably does not apply in UP, says a veteran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/facing-political-oblivion-will-old-warhorses-make-it-to-team-up-bjp-for-derby-2022/articleshow/76330512.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 12, 2020||Allahabad||One more dies of Covid, district toll now 5||Prayagraj: With the death of a 27-year-old man, the toll due to Covid-19 in Prayagraj district reached five on Thursday. The deceased, a resident of Pathertaal, post Khajoori in Koroan block, was tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Wednesday and died at SRN hospital early Thursday. He was also suffering from liver and lung diseases. Nodal officer and Additional chief medical officer Dr. Rishi Sahai told TOI that the youth, who had returned from Lucknow on June 4 and went to SRN hospital on June 8 after having serious illness, was tested positive on Wednesday and breathed his last on Thursday. With this death, the toll due to coronavirus infection in city has gone up to five. Moreover, a 57-year-old man from Jaunpur, who was also tested positive for infection on Wednesday and undergoing treatment at SRN hospital, also died of Covid 19 infection on Thursday morning. By Thursday evening, three more persons, including a 15-year-old boy, tested positive for Covid-19. The new patients included two brothers. Health department officials said that the two brothers who had returned from Bhiwandi on May 30 and were advised home quarantine. Their samples were collected on June 7 and they tested positive for novel coronavirus in the city on Thursday. They are residents of Mauaima. The brothers were taken to Covid-19 Level One Hospital for treatment. The two are asymptomatic. The third new case was a 15-year-old boy Naini resident, whose mother had tested positive last week. With this, two more hotspots were added to the list pf hotspots in the city. Within 10 days of this month from June 1 to 10 — as many as 40 positive cases and one death have been reported in Prayagraj district. The tally of infected patients has reached 137 while there are only 33 active cases. While 96 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals, five of the patients have died so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/one-more-dies-of-covid-district-toll-now-5/articleshow/76327135.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Das meets CEOs of rating agencies||TNN Mumbai: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das met with the CEOs of top credit rating agencies in the country through video conference on Thursday to get their view on the financial health of debt issuers. In a statement issued here, the RBI said that in the meeting the governor sought the rating agencies’ assessment of the macroeconomic situation and outlook on various sectors, including the financial sector. He also asked the agencies what are the major factors that affect ratings in the current context and sought their feedback on ways to further strengthen the process and improve engagement with key stakeholders. The rating agencies are understood to have told the governor that they expect slippages after the moratorium ends. However, the government guarantee schemes have brought relief to small businesses. For loans to large industry, the credit rating would depend on when they could get back to full capacity and the kind of restructuring they receive. Rating agencies had also expressed their concern over the impact of court orders on repayments. The RBI meeting with the agencies comes three weeks after markets regulator Sebi asked them to upgrade the rating of a paper within 90 days of regularisation of payment. Sebi had reviewed the norms for credit rating in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown leading to an increased irregularity in repayments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/das-meets-ceos-of-rating-agencies/articleshow/76329582.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC Bar president moves SC against contempt proceedings||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat High Court Advocates Association (GHAA) president Yatin Oza on Thursday rushed to the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the Gujarat HC’s decision to initiate contempt proceedings against him for terming the high court ‘a gambling den’.Senior advocate Oza called the high court a gambling den at a press conference on June 5, while he was accusing the court registry of giving priority to the cases of rich litigants. A bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria on June 9 initiated contempt of court proceedings against Oza for his “scurrilous” and “scandalous” remarks.Oza challenged the HC’s order stating that the observations made by the high court were without hearing his side and had left little scope for bipartite arguments even when it begins the proceedings.What prompted Oza to rush to the SC was the HC’s request to the chief justice to place his case before the full court and let all the judges decide whether his stature of designated senior counsel should be divested. The HC has also asked the Bar Council of India and the Bar Council of Gujarat for necessary consideration in advocate Oza’s case with regard to the alleged contemptuous remarks on the court administration during the time of the lockdown.Oza’s advocate in the SC, Purvish Malkan said the HC’s reference to the full court and Bar councils for consideration over the senior counsel’s designation is an ex-parte decision. The court ought to have heard the lawyer before coming to a conclusion to issue such directions. “This is an ex-parte presumptive order and all observations made by the high court are ex-parte. This is the main challenge before the Supreme Court,” he said.While the hearing in the apex court is not certain in this week, Chief Justice Vikram Nath late on Wednesday evening responded to the Bar president’s letter expressing grievances over the registry’s functioning. A three-judge panel set up to verify Oza’s claims stated that the grievances were baseless. The panel praised the registry for working overtime while court hearings are taking place through video conferencing and the HC has resorted to e-filing of petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-bar-president-moves-sc-against-contempt-proceedings/articleshow/76329677.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for immigration fraud of Rs 40k||Chandigarh: The UT police have registered a case against the owner of a travel agency for allegedly duping a Sector 20 resident on pretext of providing work visa for the UK. No arrest has been made in the case so far. Surjit Singh, resident of Sector 20, alleged that Satish Kumar, owner of Shirgul Rudra Tourism Pvt. Ltd, Sector 34, had cheated him of Rs 40,000 on the pretext of providing work visa for the UK. However, the accused neither provided him work visa, nor returned his money. The police have registered a complaint against Satish Kumar. Efforts are on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-booked-for-immigration-fraud-of-rs-40k/articleshow/76329377.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||Kids clothes and toys fly off shelves as retail stores open||Chennai: Sowmya K, mother of a 2-year-old, made one of her first stops at a kids clothing store after retail stores began selling non essentials. “My son had outgrown his t-shirts last bought in February. Now I have bought stock to last me another six months, should the rules come back,” she added. Outgrowing their previous size and also having their usual summer activities cancelled, parents are spending more on their kids, resulting in pushing up demand for clothes and toys. For apparel retailers, the kids collection is seeing a 50%-70% rise in demand in the last month while some brands are seeing the segment go back to pre-Covid levels. Madura Fashion and Lifestyle, a business unit of Aditya Birla Fashion Retail, is seeing a tripling in demand compared to pre-lockdown times. “This also compensates for missed birthdays and the absence of usual summer vacation. and the kids collection in Allen Solly Kids is seeing a spurt in demand for Zoom birthday parties too,” said Vishak Kumar, CEO, Madura Fashion and Lifestyle. Flipkart-owned Myntra is seeing a 1.6x jump in purchase of kids clothes compared to the pre-Covid business levels, while Benetton sees kids’ categories perform better than others categories. Its sales at stores of kids clothes are up by 20% compared to pre-Covid times. “For example, at our Panchkula store, our per day sales are equivalent to pre-Covid times but kids wear is doing better than other genders,” said Sandeep Chugh, CEO and MD, Benetton India. Besides clothes, toys too are seeing an increase in demand, with specific demand for educational toys. Excess of screen time because of online classes and the absence of outdoor activity has led to a demand for toys. Jeswant R, CEO, Funskool, sees a jump in demand for board games and toys. “Compared to February, May saw a pick up in parents purchasing early education toys from our brand Giggles and also educational board games. As a result, business was at 60% of those levels and in June, it is going up to 70%,” he added. Kids activity boxes platform Flintobox is also seeing doubling of March numbers for activity boxes, especially for the age groups 2 to 6, says co-founder, Arun Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kids-clothes-and-toys-fly-off-shelves-as-retail-stores-open/articleshow/76329679.cms||Aparna Desikan
June 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Convicts make PPE kits in Motihari jail||PATNA: Hands that took a life, in some cases multiple lives, are busy stitching life-saving protective gear for Covid-19 warriors. Within the confines of the Motihari Central Jail, there’s a select group of convicts who have volunteered to stitch personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for health workers and police personnel in East Champaran district. One of them is a 50-year-old murder convict, Md Akbar, who was awarded the life term four years ago. “He is an excellent tailor. He learnt the art of stitching from fellow prisoners in a short duration and is now involved in stitching the PPE kits,” jail superintendent Bidu Kumar said. Akbar is not alone. Md Isha, a 42-year-old undergoing a 10-year rigorous term in an attempt to murder case, is also part of the group that is toiling at least six hours a day to stitch a consignment of PPE kits for the Corona warriors. One of the younger members of the team is 25-year-old Md Firoz, who is helping out Akbar and Isha in meeting the demand on time. Akbar, Isha and Firoz along with other prisoners have already prepared an order of 40 PPE kits in record time and handed it over to the East Champaran SP Navin Chandra Jha, who visited the central jail on Wednesday. According to Jha, these 40 PPE kits have already been supplied to the district police and further demand has been placed for the same. The life-saving kits will be provided to the police personnel deployed at the police stations close to the Indo-Nepal border in the district. “Yeh kitna ashshcharya ki baat hai ki jin ungliyon ne kisi ka kabhi gala kata tha aaj wahi ungliyan Corona se ladne ke liye PPE kits or face mask bana rahen hain,” a senior jail official, noting the irony in the work being done by the convicts. Each PPE costs less than Rs 500 and they are washable. “In fact, we provided the best quality plastic and cloth to the jail authorities to make the PPE kits for cops at a cheaper rate,” the SP told this newspaper over the phone. Earlier, Motihari prisoners were assigned to prepare around 5,000 face masks and hand gloves for police men posted in the border district. Each mask costs just Rs 6 only and hand gloves Rs 20. The double layered face masks are made of khadi keeping physical comfort in mind. The material was purchased from the khadi centre and subsequently supplied to the prison department officials for the purpose, Jha added. According to jail authorities, on an average 1,000 face masks were being made by around 800 convicted prisoners lodged in the Motihari central jail per day. Of them, 13 are female prisoners. The jail superintendent said around 200 face masks are stitched by female inmates per day. They are sold to different government departments. Altogether 2,195 prisoners are lodged in the Motihari jail. Most prisoners say they would continue to do this till Covid-19 is contained. “Corona harega aur hum jitenge,” the jail superintendent said quoting one of the convicts. This is perhaps their way of repenting for their crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/convicts-make-ppe-kits-in-motihari-jail/articleshow/76327058.cms||Ramashankar
June 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) hits out at Lalu Prasad Yadav over ‘benami property’||PATNA: State information and public relations department (IPRD) minister Niraj Kumar on Thursday accused RJD chief Lalu Prasad of not only getting property registered in the names of his then two minor sons — Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav — but also in the name of a third unknown “son” named Tarun Kumar Yadav during his regime. Alleging that hundreds of youths were deprived of jobs due to the former CM’s “greed” for assets, Niraj said the extent of his (Lalu’s) crave for benami property could be gauged from the fact that he didn’t spare his own kin and got registered seven kattha and 17 dhur of land from the sons of his elder brother Mangroo Yadav on November 4, 2003. The senior JD(U) leader came out with fresh revelation on the 73rd birth anniversary of Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail terms in Ranchi in multi-crore fodder scam cases. Niraj alleged that the names of both Tej Pratap and Tarun Kumar Yadav have been mentioned in the registered deeds of his (Lalu’s) benami property. Tarun along with Tej Pratap have been mentioned as his sons in the registered documents, the minister said, adding Tej Pratap was only four-year-old when the property was registered. Showing the copies of registered deeds at a press briefing, Niraj said Lalu also got nine katthas and 11 dhur of land registered from a resident of Phulwaria, his native place in Gopalganj district, in 1993 in lieu of giving a government job. The purchasers of the land were Tej Pratap as well as Tarun Yadav, sons of Lalu Prasad, he added. Niraj sought to know under what circumstances the name of Tarun Kumar Yadav was mentioned as son of Lalu Prasad in the registered deed of the property. “This is just tip of the iceberg. We will come with more revelations about his (Lalu’s) benami property,” he said, adding even Lalu’s sons were not aware of the assets amassed in their names. Meanwhile, RJD MLA from Munger Bhai Birendra said such allegations were being levelled by the present dispensation to take political mileage. “They start raising baseless and fabricated issues to divert attention of the people from real problems plaguing the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-hits-out-at-lalu-over-benami-property/articleshow/76327437.cms||Ramashankar
June 12, 2020||Business||Happiest Minds plans Rs 700 crore IPO||MUMBAI: Happiest Minds Technologies, a Bengaluru-based IT consulting and services company has filed a draft offer document with Sebi for its IPO, expected to be at around Rs 700 crore. The company is the first large entity to take the public offer route since the pandemic started. The company is raising Rs 110 crore through fresh issue of shares while some of its promoters, Ashok Soota and CMDB II, a fund managed by JP Morgan, are together selling an additional 3.5 crore shares in the offer. The funds raised through the offer by the company will be used for meeting its long term working capital and general corporate purposes. Nomura and ICICI Securities will be managing the IPO for Happiest Minds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/happiest-minds-plans-rs-700cr-ipo/articleshow/76329467.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Patna||250 Covid-19 cases in Bihar in 24 hours, tally nears 6,000-mark||PATNA: Bihar recorded its highest one-day count of Covid-19 cases so far with 250 new positive reports coming in on Thursday. The total number of cases now stands at 5,948 in the state. The death toll remains at 34 while the active cases tally is at 2,827 and the number of recovered patients is 3,086. Among the cases reported on Thursday, three are from Patna one of whom is a Mainpura resident, while the area of the other two male patients were not given out by the health department. Now total number of reported cases in Patna has reached 297 of which 182 have recovered and two have died, taking the active cases count to 113. A Bihar Administrative Service officer posted in Gaya district is among those who have tested positive in the latest batch, confirmed a senior district official. As per information shared by the health department, coronavirus cases were reported from 32 districts on Thursday, with 47 cases from Siwan, followed Munger where 36 people tested positive and Aurangabad with 33 positive cases. Madhepura reported 16 cases, Kaimur saw 10 cases, Bhojpur and Bhagalpur got nine new cases each, Saran and Begusarai had eight cases each and Rohtas and Gopalganj reported seven cases. Four cases each were reported from Katihar, Samastipur, Saharsa and Nalanda each, three new cases from Buxar, Gaya and Sheikhpura each, two new cases from Purnia, Jamui, Jehanabad and Saran each and one cases each from Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Madhubani and Araria. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said there are 325 containment zones in different districts of Bihar and strict surveillance is being done. “So far, 34 containment zones have been denotified, which include seven in Siwan, six in Arwal, four in Begusarai, Bhojpur, and Lakhisarai each, two in Madhepura, Bhagalpur, and Nawada each and one in Munger, Purnea and Sheohar each,” Lokesh added. According to the health department, altogether 1,13,225 samples have been tested so far in Bihar and in the past 24 hours, 152 people have recovered from the virus. Also, of the total positive cases in the state, 4,143 are migrants who returned after May 3 in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/250-covid-cases-in-state-in-24-hours-tally-nears-6k-mark/articleshow/76328030.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Business||RBI plans 10-year cap on promoter-CEO’s term||MUMBAI: In its discussion paper on governance in commercial banks, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has sought to cap the promoter’s role at the helm of a bank at 10 years. The proposal comes in the wake of the Yes Bank being brought down by promoter Rana Kapoor, who held absolute control since the lender’s launch in 2004. The discussion paper also proposed a 15-year cap on the tenure of a non-promoter CEO. However, if implemented, this could also have implications for other promoter-CEOs like Uday Kotak, who has been leading his bank for 16 years. The discussion paper on ‘Governance in commercial banks in India’ has been brought out by the RBI to “align the current regulatory framework with global best practices, while being mindful of the context of the domestic financial system”. The proposal to curtail the number of years for the promoter-CEO is part of the objective to separate ownership from the management of banks in India. The discussion paper also seeks to cap the continuous tenure of a non-executive director (NED) on the board, including the tenure as chairman, at eight years. Thereafter, if considered necessary and desirable by the board, the person could be considered for re-appointment in the same bank after a minimum gap of three years. All NEDs — including the chairman — can be on the board of a bank till attaining 70 years of age “It is felt that 10 years is an adequate time limit for a promoter/major shareholder of a bank as WTD (whole-time director) or CEO of the bank to stabilise its operations and to transition the managerial leadership to professional management. This will not only help in achieving the separation of ownership from management, but also reinforce a culture of professional management,” the report said. It added that after stepping down as CEO or WTD on completion of 15 years, the promoter will qualify for reappointment only after three years. In the interim period, he is not allowed to be associated with the bank in any capacity. “On the date of issuance of the guideline/directions on the matter by the RBI (basis this discussion paper), banks with WTDs or CEO who have completed 10 or 15 years shall have two years or up to the expiry of the current tenure, whichever is later, to identify and appoint a successor,” the paper said. Among other things, the paper proposes empowering the board to set the culture and values of the organisations, recognising the conflicts of interest and fix the “risk appetite” for the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-plans-10-yr-cap-on-promoter-ceos-term/articleshow/76329635.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 12, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Strict vigil at entry & exit routes in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Round-the-clock checkposts are back in each police station limits and staff from medical, education and administrative departments are assisting cops deployed at Ratanpur on the Rajasthan-Gujarat border in Dungarpur in the wake of the state government order to ‘regulate’ movement of people across state borders. Considering the spurt in Covid-19 cases during the Unlock 1.0, the state government has again put restrictions on movement of people for a week, specially on outgoing migrants. With increased monitoring, screening of every person entering and leaving the state border, beeline of vehicles at both the ends was seen throughout the day as cars and buses moved at a snail pace while the checking procedure was being carried out. However, cops have been asked to ensure minimal delays for the vehicles’ passage to averts snarls. “There is no such restriction on people coming from outside. The medical staff deployed at Ratanpur border is screening every person entering the district and their identity documents are being checked and registered so as to keep a track record in case anyone is tested positive later,” ADM, Dungarpur Krishna Pal Singh told TOI. For those who want to leave the state, they must have a valid permit issued by the district or police administration which is being thoroughly checked at the border, he said. Though the online process of movement permit still persists, however, for the convenience of people, the authorities are issuing passes immediately on receiving applications. “Those who want to go out have to give an application stating purpose of their travel and provide any supporting document to validate their claim. Within few minutes, they are being given pass. Those travelling due to death of any relative and for medical emergencies are exempted from the permit too. They have only to show supporting document along with an identity proof,” he said. However, every person going out or coming in is being screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/strict-vigil-at-entry-exit-routes-in-udaipur/articleshow/76330316.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Indore||Plea in HC challenging govt circular on school fee||Indore: Indore bench of MP high court has sought instruction from state government over a petition challenging state government’s circular for not charging fees in any head other than tuition and allowing payment of fees in installment. Justice SC Sharma granted time to government’s counsel for seeking instruction while admitting the petition. Association of unaided CBSE Schools president Anil Dhupar filed the petition through counsel Gaurav Chhabhra challenging state government circular for not increasing fees in session 2020-21, only charging tuition fees and allowing fees deposition in installment. State government also allowed parents to deposit pending fees of session 2019-20 till June 30 and ordered schools not to strike down names of children because of non-payment of fees. Also, schools were directed to continue payment of salaries to staff. The government’s circular also asked schools not to charge any extra fees for online classes of students. The government issued the circular in accordance to CBSE’s circular of April 17 to affiliated schools for charging fees in accordance to state government’s order in lockdown period. Petitioner before court submitted that schools had to pay salaries of teachers, mess staff, drivers, conductors and other ones but the parents were allowed relaxation in paying fees. The court after hearing the petition through video-conferencing listed the matter for Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/plea-in-hc-challenging-govt-circular-on-school-fee/articleshow/76329401.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Indore||Land shark on the run for 4yrs held||Indore: Absconding land shark Happy Dhawan alias Jitendra Dhawan, who had come to live with his family during lockdown, was arrested by crime branch officials on Thursday morning. He was found hiding in the almirah of his bedroom. The accused had been absconding in fraud cases related to Kalindi Gold City colony from Banganga for past four years. Crime branch officials had received a tip-off that accused had come to live at his home in a posh Manishpuri colony during lockdown. Acting on the information, a team was sent to the spot in plain clothes and he was arrested and booked. Police had announced a reward prize of Rs 30,000 on any information about accused. The officials have also booked Lucky alias Rajiv Dhawan, brother of the accused who had helped him hide. The accused had not given possession of plots to complainants despite taking money from them. During interrogations, he accepted living in the Gurudwara and dharmshalas of Bhopal, Delhi, Mumbai, Shirdi, Nashik and other areas to avoid arrest. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/land-shark-on-the-run-for-4yrs-held/articleshow/76329415.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Booze seized from cache in kitchen||Ahmedabad: Police on Wednesday seized 44 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from a bungalow in Shaktinagar Society in Isanpur. The alleged bootlegger, Prakash Rana, had made a special chamber under a cupboard in the kitchen to store IMFL bottles. Isanpur police said though Prakash is absconding, they have rounded up his wife, Darshana Rana, 25, and sent her for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test. She has been booked under the new stringent prohibition laws. In another raid, Isanpur police raided Swasar Flats in Daskroi and seized 132 litres of country liquor, hidden in an autorickshaw and a motorcycle. “Two persons, Shobha Chunuara, 22, and Anand Dashrath Chunara, 22, have been held and sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/booze-seized-from-cache-in-kitchen/articleshow/76329701.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Two new cases reported in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Two new cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the Nilgiris, both returnees from Chennai, officials said on Thursday.According to Dr P Balusamy, both the cases came from Chennai two days ago. Samples of throat swabs were lifted from them at the checkposts when they entered the Nilgiris district. “Today, the results of the swab samples came positive for both of them”, said the official, adding that the cases would be added to the tally of Chennai.The first case is a pregnant woman from Chennai who visited her mother’s home in Sholurmattam village in Kilkotagiri. The second positive case is a man, 54, hailing from Kundha Bikkatty village in Nanjanadu panchayat. He had recently returned from Chennai. “Both have been sent to ESI hospital in Coimbatore for treatment”, said Dr Balusamy. Sholumattam and Kundha Bikkatty areas have been sealed and declared as containment zones. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-new-cases-reported-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76329413.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Kesar season to end three weeks early this year||RAJKOT: If you haven’t had your fill of kesar mangoes this season, there’s some more disappointing news.Mango farmers in Gir-Somnath, Junagadh and Amreli, the three major kesar-growing districts, have announced the end of the season for this year, nearly 25 days early compared to last year. Whatever remaining stock the market has will last for barely three weeks. The farmers closed the chapter looking at the incessant rainfall and heavy winds that have been a spoilsport this year. It was double whammy for the king of fruits this season. First it arrived late this season, and then the lockdown and inclement weather conditions forced it to end early too. That apart, early monsoon also sounded the death knell for the fruit in parts of Saurashtra and Kutch. Kesar mango was cultivated in 48,000 hectare area in Saurashtra and Kutch in this season. The influx of mango boxes in Talala APMC yard, the biggest auction centre for kesar, has also reduced considerably. APMC secretary H H Garasaniya said, “This year, the auction started 10 days late. In the peak season, we used to get 40,000 to 45,000 boxes (10kg each) daily. But this has fallen to 11,000 boxes now.” Uka Bhatti, a mango farmer from Dhari taluka in Amreli district, said that many farmers had plucked raw mangoes in the wake of the cyclone warning last week to prevent further damage to the crop. “Farmers got good price from the traders. Now, it’s upon them (traders) how to ripen the mango stock using various methods. However, we have announced the end of the season,” said Bhatti, who added that fruits remaining on the tree were destroyed in the heavy rain and wind in the last few days. Even Kutchi kesar farmers rue the same fate. Raghu Aahir, a mango farmer from Anjar taluka said, “The cyclonic storm on June 7 destroyed the remaining fruits on the trees in the entire district.” Jayesh Hirpara from Gir-Gadhda taluka of Gir-Somnath district said, “Due to extended lockdown, traders got a very high price in big cities like Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat. Going by their demand, even farmers plucked raw fruit in huge quantities which the traders ripened artificially and other methods. And then after the cyclone warning, farmers plucked the entire remaining lot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kesar-season-to-end-3-weeks-early-this-year/articleshow/76329431.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Grasshoppers haunt cotton farmers||Trichy: Cotton farmers of Tharangambadi taluk in Nagappattinam district were worried on noticing a large number of insects on the plants in the last one week with the leaves eaten up. This was seen in Paalur village in Thirukkalacheri panchayat too. They mistook the species for the desert locust and brought it to the notice of agriculture department officials. S Panneerselvam, joint director of agriculture, Nagapattinam who visited Paaglur village along with Agricultural Research Service (ARS) scientists said, “It was a native grasshopper present in border rows only and not the desert locusts. We have told the farmers not to panic, but spray Azardracti”. Federation of farmers associations in the delta districts Arupathy Kalyanam said the local grasshoppers were usually found on the grass around the bunds of agriculture fields. The harmful chemicals used by farmers to destroy weed also kill grass which led the insects to migrate to plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/grasshoppers-haunt-cotton-farmers/articleshow/76330320.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||UoM is the No.1 state university in Karnataka||Mysuru: The University of Mysore (UoM) secured the number 1 rank among state universities in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by the Union ministry of human resource development. In the country, it has secured the 47th rank under the overall category. Under the universities category, it secured the 27th rank with a score of 51.84. In 2019, the university had secured 80th rank under overall category, while it stood 54th in the universities category. Under the overall category, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research of the city secured the 54th rank. Kuvempu University, Shivamogga, secured the 124th rank, while JSS Science and Technology University secured the 165th rank. Among the medical colleges, JSS medical college of the city secured the 20th rank at the national level. Among the dental colleges, JSS dental college secured the 10th rank at the all-India level. In the engineering colleges category, JSS Science and Technology University secured the 132nd rank. The National Institute of Engineering College of the city secured the 175th rank. Among the pharmacy colleges, JSS College of Pharmacy, Mysuru, secured 10th rank. Vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said that securing a good ranking in the NIRF will help the university is two ways. “First of all it will help us to attract more students. Secondly, for many grants, we shall get a good ranking in the NIRF. As we are the 27th best university in the country, among the universities category, we can expect more funding from various agencies,” he said. District in-charge minister S T Somashekhar congratulated the university for its achievement. “I congratulate the vice-chancellor, registrar and other stakeholders of the university. I wish that UoM continues its stellar performance in the future too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-is-the-no-1-state-university-in-karnataka/articleshow/76328197.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Allahabad||District court comesin hotspot zone, closed||Prayagraj: The district court at Prayagraj was declared closed on Thursday till further orders in as the court campus has fallen within the area that has been declared as a hotspot zone after four positive cases of coronavirus were reported in the surrounding Katra locality. In a notification issued by in-charge district judge of Prayagraj, Sunil Kumar (fourth) on Thursday, since the district court campus falls within the hotspot zone, therefore, keeping in view the notification of high court dated June 3, 2020, the judicial work is suspended and the district court premises would remain closed till further orders. According to high court notification dated June 3, no district court would function within the areas which fall within the hotspot zone. According to notification issued on Thursday, as per the report of CMO Prayagraj dated June 11, as many as four cases of corona were reported from old Katra locality here on Wednesday. Consequently, the whole area was declared as hotspot zone. It is relevant to mention that the district court campus has also come within the hotspot area as it is located within the radius of the area, which has been earmarked as hotspot zone, added CMO in this report. The in charge district judge also sent a copy of the notification to District Court Bar Association so that legal fraternity associated with the district court may come to know about the latest development and resultant closure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/district-court-comesin-hotspot-zone-closed/articleshow/76327151.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||Sitting 6 feet apart, pvt offices play it safe||Bhopal: With the start of unlock 1.0, private offices of city have begun buzzing with activities while ensuring physical distancing and personal hygiene. Relatively small size of private offices in Bhopal make it easy for them to put in place a sound mechanism to ensure that the SOPs prescribed for them are followed. Peeyush Sharma, who has an office with a staff of 10 people in GTB Complex said, “We have thermal screening gun and installed a sanitiser dispenser machine a couple of days ago. We don’t allow more than 5-6 persons in office at a time to ensure physical distancing though we have space enough to accommodate the entire staff. Our employees don't sit for lunch together any longer as they used to do. I must admit that more than the staff or clients, it is friends who create problems in observing the SOPs.” Dushyant Soni, who has a designing office with a staff of six in Kolar said, “We have sanitiser bottles though I am planning to buy a senitiser dispenser machine. Physical distancing is no problem for us as our office is huge. All of us are sitting at more than six feet distance. Everyone is wearing a mask. We don't have the thermal scanning gun as of now but in a couple of days, I will buy one.” Those who are in the business of construction or the like, however, candidly admit that observing SOPs at field is an entirely different ball game. Sachin Maroo, who has an infrastructure development company, when asked about extra provisions that he has made in the wake of Covid-19 SOPs for offices, said, “It is simple. We have put sanitiser bottles on the gate and have asked people to sanitise their hands before they come in. Provision of thermal screening is also there. But you can't always do it with friends and clients. I ask the staff, rather insist them to maintain physical distance.” He, however, said it is just the opposite on his sites. There he may not be able to ensure sanitisation of workers or physical.distancing but he does ensure thermal scanning of all the workers, staff both in the morning and the evening. “Physical distancing on the site is not possible in any case. A person carrying a bag of cement will hand it over to someone else. They will come close to each other. It can't be stopped and construction can't be stopped either because it provides jobs to hundreds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sitting-6-feet-apart-pvt-offices-play-it-safe/articleshow/76328226.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||6 contacts of chemist’s son test Covid-19 +ve||tnnChandigarh: Six new cases of novel coronavirus were reported in Chandigarh on Thursday, taking the city count to 334.All six are family and workplace contacts of a chemist’s son, who had tested positive on Tuesday. They include his mother, 56, father, 60, grandfather, 80, and daughter, 5, besides two employees — a 24-year-old resident of Sector 16 and a 34-year-old Dhanas man. His wife has tested negative for Covid-19.Meanwhile, four residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, were treated of the virus and discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital. All of them have been shifted to post-discharge quarantine facility in Sood Dharmshala. They include two men, aged 42 and 35, and a 19-year-old and a 18-year-old women. With this, the active cases in the city are 36.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-contacts-of-chemists-son-test-covid-19-ve/articleshow/76329398.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Don’t worry if learner’s licence expired during lockdown period||MOHALI: The applicants due for appearance for driving test for the issuance of permanent driving licence after their learner’s licence expired during the lockdown period need not panic. The applicants were feeling anxious as the online appointment portal of the Punjab government had been refusing to accept their applications. Many have been approaching the Mohali regional transport officer (RTO) with complaints of the web portal, which only replies, “Your licence is expired,” and does not give a date for appearance for driving test. However, Mohali RTO Sukhvinder Kumar said, “We are working on it and all such applicants will be accommodated soon. Only 50% of the applicants are being given appointments to avoid any rush at the test counters. The state government has ordered to maintain social distancing and those not getting appointments must not panic.” Sources in the transport office said instructions have been issued to the state traffic police not to challan those with learner’s driving licence that expired during the lockdown period. They have been told to treat it as a valid licence, but challan for any violation committed, said an officer. The automated driving test centre came up in Mohali in April 2016 at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. It is spread over 3.5 acres at Papri village in Sector 82. The facility hosts driving tests for two-wheelers as well as four-wheelers. A driving licence is issued immediately after passing the test at the tracks equipped with signage and lights. A doctor is also available for conducting a medical fitness test of the applicant. The centre is equipped with CCTV cameras and the process of issuance of licence is computerised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-worry-if-learners-licence-expired-during-lockdown-period/articleshow/76329407.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Four new cases take Covid-19 tally to 516||NASHIK: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Nashik city has increased to 516 with addition of four new cases on Thursday. The city currently has 294 active cases and 194 patients have so far recovered and got discharged from the hospital. The number of positive cases crossed the 500-mark on Wednesday with 25 people testing positive for the contagion. The city has recorded 464 cases in just last three weeks. On Thursday, two more people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 26. The first case of Covid-19 in Nashik city was reported on April 6 and till May 20, the total number of cases stood at 48. It took around 50 days to reach100 cases, but cases doubled in just seven days. Now, the city is recording 100 cases in every 3-4 days for the past 12 days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-new-cases-take-covid-19-tally-to-516/articleshow/76328234.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic body collects Rs 2.71 lakh in fine for flouting lockdown rules||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has collected Rs 2.71 lakh in fine till June 10 from people for violating lockdown norms. According to the JMC, 363 shopkeepers and 170 buyers were fined for not wearing masks which were made compulsory by the state government. Forty three people were charged for violating social distancing norms. Rakesh Yadav, head of vigilance wing, JMC, said, “Our team is working in every zone. We are randomly inspecting shops and public places. We have asked officials to first click photograph of any person found not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing before imposing fine. It has been successful to prevent people from violating norms. On June 8, we collected Rs 33,100 in fine.” The data made available by the JMC was from May 23 to June 10. The data for June 11 was not available. According to guidelines of the state government, Rs 200 will be charged from persons for not wearing masks. Any shopkeeper allowing people without masks in his shop will be fined Rs 500 and people not following social distancing norms will be fined Rs 100. Those found violating 14-day quarantine rule will be fined Rs 1,000. Any person refusing to pay the fine will be dealt with as per municipality rules under which property or items can be impounded. Zonal deputy commissioners, revenue officers, revenue commissioners and health officers will be entrusted with the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-collects-rs-2-71l-in-fine-for-flouting-lockdown-rules/articleshow/76330321.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Swarms keep officials on toes in Hadauti||KOTA: Locust swarms up to nearly 6x4sqkm kept officials on their toes for the last three days in Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts of Hadauti region. A swarm, after movement over Chandrasel and Kota railway station area throughout the day and night’s halt around Ghagatana village on Wednesday night, moved to Sultanpur area on Thursday eventually entering Baran district where it was likely to settle at Setkolu village on MP border. Similarly, another swarm from Keshoraipatan area of Bundi district, having halted a night in Seeswali area of Baran district entered Baran city on Thursday and moved into MP by the afternoon. Another 2-3km long and a kilometre-wide swarm entered villages of Kanwadi panchayat in Jhalrapatan area of Jhalawar district and was likely to settle in the surrounding area for the night on Thursday. “The operation to drive away the insects would kick off soon after they settle,” Jhalawar district agriculture officer Kailash Chand Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/swarms-keep-officials-on-toes-in-hadauti/articleshow/76330329.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Six more test +ve for Covid-19 as contact tracing intensifies||Coimbatore: The district reported six new novel coronavirus cases on Thursday. Two of them - a 39-year-old woman and 29-year-old woman from Vadavalli - were family members of the 27-year-old Chennai returnee who tested positive for the virus on Tuesday.The man had earlier told health department officials that he had gone straight to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) after he arrived in the city by road on Monday.A health department official said, “He said he went home only after submitting his samples at the hospital. However, when our team visited Vadavalli and his neighbourhood, people said they had seen him in the area much before that. We then asked his family to go to the nearest primary health centre and provide samples for Covid-19 test. We have also collected samples from their neighbours and close contacts of the entire family.”Another two new cases comprise a 37-year-old administrative officer with the police department and his 32-year-old wife, who is a nurse with the urban primary health centre in Mettur in Salem. The officer, who was posted in Chennai, returned to the city on June 5 and joined duty in Tirupur the very next day, without remaining in quarantine. His wife, who was in quarantine, was to join duty later this week. But since her husband had a travel history, doctors at the primary health centre asked them to get tested and the results showed them positive.One of the remaining two patients is a 10-year-old girl from Peelamedu who returned to the city from Chennai in a flight along with her 31-year-old mother and four-year-old brother on June 7. While the other two had tested positive for the virus at the airport, the girl was then tested negative. However, health department officials again collected her sample for the Covid-19 test during the contact tracing drive. This time, the girl was also tested positive. She has been moved the private hospital, where her mother and brother are undergoing treatment.The remaining one is a 37-year-old woman from Olympus, who lives next to the house of CMCH physiotherapy technician, who tested positive on Sunday after he returned from Villupuram. She has been admitted to the ESI Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-as-contact-tracing-intensifies/articleshow/76329421.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||88 illegal shops pulled down in TK Market||Coimbatore: The city corporation demolished 88 shops that were encroaching TK Market premises at Raja Street on Thursday following the Madras high court order.Corporation commissioner Sravan Kumar and deputy commissioner of police (law & order) L Balaji Saravanan inspected the place.The premise has 421 approved shops and 88 unapproved shops. Some traders had filed a case before the HC, seeking order to remove the illegal shops.Town planning officials demolished the shops with the help of police. A police checkpost was also demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/88-illegal-shops-pulled-down-in-tk-market/articleshow/76329428.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers fight each other, 1 killed||Coimbatore: A 31-year-old guest worker from Assam was arrested for murdering his friend, who used to tease him about his eloped wife, at Kallampalayam near Palladam in the early hours of Thursday.An investigation officer identified the accused as Ruhini Raman Saikia, of Dhemaji district in Assam. “He murdered Naba Phukan, 29, also from Dhemaji district, after they picked up a fight on Wednesday night.”Fishermen by profession, the two were earlier residing at Kavakkal in Kanyakumari district. According to the officer, one of their friends had arranged them job in a power loom unit at Kallampalayam near Palladam recently, after they were rendered jobless following the lockdown.The two joined Sangeetha Mills at Kallampalayam on May 31. “They were staying in a room on the mill premises. Inquiry revealed that Naba Phukan had borrowed Rs 3,000 from Ruhini when they were in Kanyakumari. He hadn’t returned the money, despite several requests from Ruhini. He also used to tease Ruhini about his wife, who had eloped with another man,” the officer said.On Wednesday night, the two picked up a fight and went to bed. “Around 2am on Thursday, Ruhini woke up and assaulted his friend with an iron rod, killing him on the spot, and fled,” The officer said. Other workers found the dead body and alerted the mill management and Palladam police, who sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. His family members have requested police to make arrangements to bury the body as they won’t be able to take that home.Meanwhile, police arrested Ruhini in the evening. He would be remanded in judicial custody on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-fight-each-other-1-killed/articleshow/76329438.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Indore||2 persons test positive in Mhow||Mhow: Two persons tested positive in Mhow among which one person had given his sample for test and returned to Indore to work. The person was tested in Malendi village, about five km from Mhow. He lives in Indore and had come to the village three days back. A medical team undertaking a survey was screening people and collecting samples of suspected people. His sample was taken as well and as the report arrived, a medical team reached his home. To their surprise, the man had returned to Indore two days back to resume work. Following it, authorities in Indore were informed about his condition. Another person tested positive at Jivan Jyoti Colony in Sector-3 of Pithampur industrial area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/2-persons-test-positive-in-mhow/articleshow/76329433.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Spl counters to clear air on power bills||Hyderabad: With complaints pouring in on hefty powers bills issued this month, Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company (TSSPDCL) on Thursday announced that separate counters will be set up at all electricity revenue offices (EROs) from Friday to check and clarify bills issued to consumers. It also said people can send their bills through mail or social media platforms such as Twitter or WhatsApp. TSSPDCL CMD G Raghuma Reddy said the bills, which are sent through social media or mail, would be checked in two days and will be informed to consumers. In a press release, the CMD said bills could be sent to customerservice@tssouthernpower.com, TsspdclCorporat@twitter; gmcsc.tsspdcl @facebook.com . He said directions have been given to local officers to give billing worksheet in two working days to the consumers, who approach the discom through social media. The CMD maintained that consumers have received higher bills as the discoms have not taken meter reading due to lockdown in April and May. The CMD said the amounts paid by consumers were also adjusted in the latest bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-counters-to-clear-air-on-power-bills/articleshow/76330335.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Man held for mobile theft, cheating||NASHIK: The Mumbai Naka police have arrested a man for cheating people by taking away their mobile phone and then demanding money from their relatives and friends for an emergency. According to police, the suspect, who is wanted for cheating at several police stations, was arrested after one of his friends lodged a mobile theft complaint against him. “The suspect would befriend a person and then take their mobile phone under the pretext of making some urgent calls or even clicking a photograph, and then run away from the scene. Later, the suspect would call up relatives of the people, whose phone he has taken, and ask them to transfer money by claim to be an emergency. After getting the money he would destroy the phone or sell it,” a police officer said, adding that similar cases of cheating have been registered against the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-mobile-theft-cheating/articleshow/76328256.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||For 3rd year in a row, Rajasthan University fails to make it to top 200||JAIPUR: For the third year in a row, Rajasthan University (RU) has failed to make it to the top-200 universities list in the country as announced by the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) on Thursday. Lack of research, faculty crunch and infrastructure facilities are said to be the reasons. In 2017, RU had bagged the 79th position in NIRF rankings. The non-inclusion of Rajasthan University, which was once among the top varisites, in the top-200 list is embarrassing for the state. For years, the university has been lagging behind on many criteria and has failed to attract students from outside the state. Moreover, the university did not even apply for the rankings this year. Vice-chancellor R K Kothari said the state universities do not get as much funds compared to central universities. “I believe NIRF ranking is improper as we do not get as much funds and support compared to Delhi University, JNU, IITs and IIMs. If there is a separate ranking of state universities, I can guarantee that Rajasthan University will attain a good rank.” He said in JNU, teacher student ratio is 1:10, while in RU this is 1:60. “Recently, we organised an employment fair where thousands of students got employment. The impact of this will be shown in next year’s rankings,” said Kothari. However, many faculty members in RU do not agree with this logic. A faculty member on condition of anonymity said, “There is no facility for research, infrastructure is poor and the administration is not ready to invest for the betterment of the university. Many expensive instruments were purchased for research, but are lying unused. The state government is not interested in improving the quality of education which is the reason the status of the university is degrading.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-3rd-year-in-a-row-ru-fails-to-make-it-to-top-200/articleshow/76330334.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Only two Rajasthan govt institutes in NIRF top-100 list||JAIPUR: Only two state government institutions managed to get spots in the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) top-100 list declared on Thursday. In terms of number of state universities, Rajasthan with 23 varsities ranks No. 4 in the country. In the list of top pharmacy varsities, Mohan Lal Sukhadia University managed the 90th spot while Sawai Man Singh Medical College ranked 27 in the list of medical institutes. Surprisingly, many prestigious government institutes which received public funds did not even apply for NIRF ranking this year. This include Rajasthan Technical University and RUHS among others. IIT Jodhpur, IIM Udaipur, NLU Jodhpur in Rajasthan got placed in top-100 but are all centrally administered institutions where the state government has no role to play. Technical education expert Puneet Sharma said it should be made compulsory for government institutes to apply for NIRF, NAAC and AIR ranking to know their status. “Being a state with one of the highest number of universities, it is a sad state of affairs. Everyone in the state looks up to government institutions some of which are functioning for decades. Most of them didn’t bother to apply. In the category of colleges - we do not have any ranking from Rajasthan. Why didn’t Maharani, Maharaja or Commerce college apply? In dental, only one private institute got ranking. Why didn’t RUHS apply? This shows the seriousness of these institutes and their management,” said Sharma. The Rajasthan government had last year announced to open 32 new government colleges while colleges functioning at present do not have any national recognition. A faculty member of a government university who does not wished to be named said the reason state government institutes couldn’t perform well was because central institutes were receiving more funding. However, not everyone agreed to this logic. Another expert Prabhat Pankaj said NIRF ranking looked at the institute holistically. “In terms of infrastructure, there can be a possibility that state government institutes may lack behind, but in terms of quality of faculty members, students, innovation in teaching, research paper publication, citation – these all depend on the institutes. It is not correct to say that central government institutes are better because of finances as other factors are in the hands of the state government.” Two private universities, BITS Pilani and Banasthali Vidhyapith were ranked 15 and 55, respectively. Private universities have performed better than state government institutes this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-2-raj-govt-institutes-in-nirf-top-100-list/articleshow/76330328.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman among 3 new cases in Mohali, 4 discharged||Mohali: Three more persons, including a woman, on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s count to date to 143, out of which 24 are active cases, said a senior health official. Four patients were also discharged during the day.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the new patients include a 57-year-old resident of Preet Nagar in Dera Bassi, a 25-year-old man residing in Shivam Complex in the same area and a 22-year-old woman is resident of Bhera village, also in Dera Bassi.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the 25-year-old person had returned from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh on June 8, while the woman came to hospital with flu symptoms. “We are trying to trace the contacts of the 57-year-old man. All three have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur,” he said, adding that all the patients are responding well to treatment.Those discharged have been identified as Dinesh Bala and Ashish from Baltana, Satpal from Lalru and Dinesh from Nangal Salempur (Banur). All were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital.Mohali district was declared Coronavirus-free on May 21, though the civil surgeon had warned that the virus threat persists. Out of the total 143 cases reported so far, 24 are active cases, 116 were discharged and three persons died.Dr Singh said most of the fresh cases came following the return of pilgrims from Sri Hazoor Sahib, overseas NRIs and the residents stranded in other states. He said the state government’s decision to quarantine every on arrival at the airport helped contain further spread of the pandemic.BOXCases so farTotal - 143Active - 24Cured - 116Deaths - 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-among-3-new-cases-in-mohali-4-discharged/articleshow/76329435.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Two UT medical institutes among top 40 in country||CHANDIGARH: It is a double feather in UT’s cap as not one but two medical institutes have made it to the list of top 40 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) India Ranking Report 2020, which was released by the ministry of human resource development on Thursday. While the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) retained the second position after AIIMS, New Delhi for the third consecutive year, the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 (GMCH-32) secured 25th position in the list of top 40 institutes. PGIMER scored 80.06 out of 100 points this year — 2 more than in 2019 — and GMCH-32, which was not in the list of top 30 medical institutes last year, scored 52.01 out of 100 points. NIRF ranks institutes in five broad generic parameters, namely Teaching, Learning and Resources; Research and Professional Practice; Graduation Outcomes; Outreach and Inclusivity; and Perception. Ranking under Medical Institutes category was initiated in 2018. Giving details, PGIMER authorities said out of the 118 medical institutes vying for the top slot, while AIIMS, New Delhi has been ranked first, CMC, Vellore claimed the third position. PGI director Prof Jagat Ram has congratulated members of the institute for making sustained efforts to achieve the feat. The Panjab University this year fared well in its Pharmacy, Law, Management and Dental rankings. “Law department secured 15th rank from no position last year and Management improved 6 positions, though Engineering discipline slipped. We are already looking at the reasons for that and are hopeful to improve it next year,” said VC Prof Raj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-ut-medical-institutes-among-top-40-in-country/articleshow/76329444.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 12, 2020||Pune||83 PMC staffers detected with coronavirus, 7 die & 40 recover||PUNE: Eighty three Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staffers have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, of which only 40 (48%) have recovered, while seven have died. “Most of the employees detected with Covid-19 infection are the frontline workers, who have been working on the field at various locations. Many staffers are working in the containment zones and at other vulnerable localities to contain the spread of the virus. They are from different departments and have been assigned the tasks of containment,” a senior PMC official said. Among these workers, a senior sanitary inspector involved in PMC’s health and sanitation activities in the containment zones returned to work recently after beating Covid-19. Another sanitary inspector, who got infected, was visiting various containment zones to monitor the sanitation measures. Many frontline staffers were on the field for the last three months since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak in the municipal limits, a sanitary inspector said. “We are on the field for last three months. The work is massive and challenging. We have to ensure sanitation in the containment zones, help in contact tracing and do many more tasks,” he added. As per PMC’s data, among the seven deceased, six were permanent staffers, while one was a contractual worker. They were engaged in conservancy, cleaning and sanitation works. About 36 staffers are under treatment at present, of which 27 are permanent while nine are contractual. Among the 40 staffers, who have been discharged, 29 are permanent and 11 contractual. Shivaji Daundkar, chief labour officer at PMC, said various welfare measures have been promised for those infected with Covid-19. The civic body has promised Suraksha Kavach of up to Rs 1 crore for death of civic workers due to Covid-19, besides 100% reimbursement of medical bills, special leave with a 14-day home quarantine for staffers testing positive for the contagion. For the contractual workers, treatment of Covid is free and they get paid leave for the entire duration of their treatment. The administration has also said safety gear like masks, sanitizers, PPE kits were being provided as per requirement to the staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/83-pmc-staffers-detected-with-coronavirus-7-die-40-recover/articleshow/76330330.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Engineer, homeguard held for bribery||KOTA: The ACB on Thursday arrested a contractual junior engineer posted at Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) in Kota and a home guard at Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC) for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 40,000. The junior engineer had allegedly demanded a bribe for releasing an installment of Rs 1,50,000 under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) to the complainant, a resident of a slum in Kota. Satayanarayan Meena (43), a resident of Sultanpur town of the district and posted as contractual junior engineer at UIT, Kota, holding the charge of PMAY and his tout identified as Shivraj Goswami (42), resident of Balita Road, Kunhari and posted as home guard at KMC, had allegedly the bribe for releasing an installment of Rs 1,50,000 under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Kota ACB ASP Chandrasheel Thakur said. The complainant, Vimal Kumar Kevat, a resident of Babu Colony slum on Balita Road, had applied for PMAY and was to receive installment of Rs 1,50,000 for the house but the contractual JEN demanded bribe of Rs 40,000 for releasing the amount, the ASP said. The complainant approached ACB on Monday and lodged a report in this connection against Meena following which ACB team carried out the verification of the complaint on the same day, he added. Meena on Thursday asked the complainant to hand over Rs 40,000 to Shivraj at his residence on Balita Road in Kunhari area where ACB personnel arrested him after he accepted the amount, the ASP said. Sensing the trap, Meena fled away from UIT premises but another ACB team chased and arrested him from a house in Keshavpura area where he hid himself under a bed, he said. During the search at Meena’s house, an unaccounted sum of Rs 7,06,400 was also recovered, Thakur added. The two accused would be produced before ACB court in the city on Friday, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/engineer-homeguard-held-for-bribery/articleshow/76330323.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 10kg wheat per person, two kg dal/family for two mths||JAIPUR: In view of Covid crisis in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced that more than 3.57 lakh poor people and needy families, who are not covered under national food security scheme, will be provided 5 kg wheat to every person of the family per month and 1 kg dal per family per month free of cost for two months. After the survey of these families, the chief minister has also approved to distribute food grains to 14.44 lakh people of 3.57 lakh families, not covered under the NFSA, through public distribution system (PDS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10kg-wheat-per-person-2kg-dal/family-for-2-mths/articleshow/76330340.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Coimbatore’ has a legacy, bond||COIMBATORE: The rechristening exercise seems to have stirred a hornet’s nest in the city. After coming to know that Coimbatore will be officially called Koyampuththoor, residents fiercely took sides for and against it, online and offline, with the majority against the move. By Wednesday night, there were new Twitter profiles named Koyampuththoor that tweeted Bye Bye #Coimbatore. By Thursday, memes that made fun of the new spelling went viral on social media. Residents expressed their sentiments, saying that the new spelling was confusing, and the city will always be ‘Coimbatore’ for them. “The new spelling may help those who are new to the region to get the pronunciation right. But residents of the city have an emotional bonding with ‘Coimbatore’ and it’s difficult to accept the change,” said Ajai Shankar, a resident. Some people launched online petitions against the name change, calling for the old spelling to be retained, while others called for changing it to ‘Kovai’. Koyampuththoor is too long and difficult to remember, said an online petition. It preferred ‘Kovai’, as it is ‘easy to say and remember’. Another online petition wanted ‘Coimbatore’ to be retained. Though an anglicised spelling, ‘Coimbatore’ has an international appeal and has been its identity in its development, it said. Meanwhile, writers in the city welcomed the rechristening exercise, saying it brought back actual Tamil names. But even they found the new spelling confusing. “The use of two ‘th’s in the name will confuse ordinary people,” said writer Pamaran. “The spellings should be easy for ordinary public. The state should consider the new spellings it has released as the first draft. It should consult with people and conduct surveys, and based on that, make the spellings more people-friendly,” he told TOI. Speaking about the legacy of the name ‘Coimbatore’, city historians said the spelling has been in prevalence for more than two centuries. Historian C R Elangovan, who has written books on various aspects of the city’s history, said in 1799, after the demise of Tipu Sultan, officials of the East India Company had written that they had to take charge of the ‘Coimbatore table land’, and this was the earliest available record of the name. “In a few English records, it has also been mentioned as ‘Coimbattoor’. But Coimbatore has been the prevalent spelling and it was used when the district was formed in 1800,” he said. The region was previously called ‘Kovanputhur’ he said. “There are 12th century inscriptions in the Perur temple that call the region Kovanputhur,” Elangovan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heated-debate-kicks-off-over-koyampuththoor/articleshow/76329473.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||600 tonnes sold in 15-day Mango fest||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad mango festival at the GMDC ground sold more than six lakh kilos of mangoes, earning farmers some Rs 4.5 crore. The makeshift market was set up by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, in association with state government’s cooperation department, for 15 days from May 25. This was done to help farmers of Saurashtra and South Gujarat sell their product, because sales were hampered by the lockdown. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who has been put in charge of activities to control the spread of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad said, “More than 6 lakh kilograms of mangoes worth more than Rs 4.5 crore was sold to some 75,000 people during this period. It helped thousands of farmers in Gujarat and created a positive sentiment toward returning to normalcy in Ahmedabad city,” he said. About 100 farmers from South Gujarat and Saurashtra had taken part in the festival. Not only the kesar mangoes from Talala but hafoos from Valsad and other varieties were also sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/600-tonnes-sold-in-15-day-mango-fest/articleshow/76329699.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Med team checks pvt hosp facilities to treat pandemic||Trichy: With many affluent people preferring private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, a medical team constituted by the district administration has kicked off the process of inspecting facilities available at a private medical college hospital. A team led by Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) dean Dr K Vanitha inspected Trichy SRM medical college hospital and research centre on Wednesday in this regard. She was accompanied by deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr A Subramani and joint direct of health services (JDHS) Dr R Lakshmi. The team found 200 beds kept ready for Covid-19 treatment at the hospital. “The hospital reserved 10 beds in intensive care unit (ICU) and another 10 beds for semi-ICU while the rest of the beds have been allotted for general ward,” Dr Vanitha told TOI. She added that many well-off people have been treated in government hospitals for Covid.It may be noted that the state health and family welfare department had fixed treatment costs for Covid-19 patients at Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 a day depending on admission to the general ward or ICU. The hospitals have to follow the fee structure failing which they will have to face legal action. According to collector S Sivarasu, Covid-19 patients were being treated at Kauvery hospital in Trichy. As of Wednesday, three patients were under treatment at the hospital. Since the peak of the pandemic outbreak in March this year, MGMGH has been playing a vital role in treating patients from Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Pudukottai districts. The hospital has treated 105 patients from Trichy district alone so far besides curing several patients from the neighbouring districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/med-team-checks-pvt-hosp-facilities-to-treat-pandemic/articleshow/76330346.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer gets drones for killing locusts flying in from Pakistan||JAISALMER: The agriculture department expects to get 25 drones within a week to contain locusts flying in from Pakistan. So far, two drones have reached Barmer and were used for controlling the flying pests in Dhorimanna on Thursday. Three more are expected soon in Barmer and Jaisalmer. Barmer district collector Vishram Meena said now locusts in Barmer would be controlled easily as two drones have been provided to Barmer and one was being used in Dhorimanna. Apart from this, 50 tractor mounted sprayers have been allotted to Barmer of which 20 reached Barmer on Wednesday. The agriculture department has purchased 300 tractor-mounted sprayers under Rajasthan Agriculture Competitive Scheme which have been allotted to 7 districts including Barmer. Agriculture department deputy director JR Bhakhar said locusts could be easily controlled in hilly and desert areas by spraying pesticides from drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-gets-drones-for-killing-locusts-flying-in-from-pakistan/articleshow/76330337.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Check-posts on alert at Punjab-Haryana boundary||JAISALMER: Following the order issued by the state government on interstate movement of migrants and to control traffic, 34 check-posts have been re-activated on Punjab and Haryana borders in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts. Police personnel of both districts are screening people and checking their papers before allowing them to enter or exit Rajasthan. At the border of Fazilka district of Punjab, adjoining Ganganagar, five main check-posts and 14 semi check-posts have been re-activated. Similarly, 29 check-posts have been set up on the 220km long border of Hanumangarh, adjoining Punjab and Haryana. Ganganagar district collector Shiv Prasad Nakate said after the new directions from the state government, efforts have started to control entry and exit of migrants at the interstate border adjoining Fazilka district in Punjab. Five check-posts have been set up at Sadhuwali Palti, Kotha Pakki, Baldev Ki Dhani, Hindumalkot and Punjava Pul. He said a team of three, including a doctor, a nursing staff and a teacher, and police is deployed at these posts. On Wednesday, those who were already in transit mode to Punjab were allowed, but from Thursday people were allowed only on having valid permission letter. Nakate said 78 people went out with valid permission, while 328 entered the state till Thursday afternoon. Hanumangarh SP Rashi Dogra said the 220km long border of Haryana and Punjab is shared by the district. After the orders, 29 check-posts have been re-activated and due procedures are being followed. She said four districts of Haryana — Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar and Virani, and two districts of Punjab — Muktsar and Firozpur, share border with Hanumangarh. She accepted that illegal movement of people can take place from fields and efforts are on to control it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/check-posts-on-alert-at-punjab-hry-boundary/articleshow/76330345.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Robbers loot cash, jewellery from shop at gunpoint in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Two unidentified miscreants on Thursday tied a jeweller at gunpoint in broad daylight at his shop and decamped with 100 gram of jewellery, Rs 25,000 in Sardarpura locality of the city. The jeweller was alone when the robbers barged into his shop. They also took away CCTV cameras with them so that they could not be identified. However, the robbers were caught in a camera installed at the neighbour’s shop while fleeing after the robbery. Police have been trying to identify the robbers on the basis of the two-wheeler they had used and gathering crucial evidences. According to police, Kamal Soni (70) has a jewellery shop Modern Jewellery at B Road of Sardarpura, a business hub of the city. “On Thursday afternoon, two persons entered the shop with their faces masked and asked Soni to show them some jewellery items. When he moved to take out the desired items, one of them, whipped out a pistol and pointed it straight to his head while other tied him with a rope and taped his mouth,” said the DCP (West) Priti Chandra citing the statements of the victim. After tying him, they stuffed all the jewellery items and cash in a bag. They pushed him down and decamped on a two-wheeler of the jeweller himself. “But while fleeing, they pulled out entire CCTV fittings and fixtures and took entire stuff with them to do away with the possibility of being identified,” said the officer. Soni, somehow, managed to call up his son and a shopkeeper in neighbourhood to inform about the incident who rushed to the spot and freed him from the rope and took him to the hospital for check-up. Chandra said that there were some contradictions in the description of the incident by Soni and the circumstances. “But robbery has definitely taken place and we have been investigating the matter. The hunt for the robbers was also on,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/robbers-loot-cash-jewellery-from-shop-at-gunpoint-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76330347.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||NHRC satisfiedwith LNJP; willplug gaps: Govt||New Delhi: Reacting to the Supreme Court’s observations, the Delhi government said in a statement on Friday that the Covid-19 pandemic was an “extraordinary” situation and it was trying its best to set up better infrastructure and provide quality healthcare to all patients. The government said it accepted the SC’s observations with the “utmost respect” and “absolute sincerity” and was prepared to plug any gaps brought to its notice. However, it pointed out that the NHRC has expressed satisfaction with the facilities at LNJP. The apex court had taken suo motu cognisance of reports of improper handling of Covid-19 patients and undignified disposal of bodies, describing the situation in Delhi as “horrendous, horrific and pathetic”. “The Hon'ble Supreme Court is the apex court of India and we accept their observations with the utmost respect and with absolute sincerity,” said the statement. “The Delhi government is determined to provide healthcare for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each Covid-19 patient. But, if there are any gaps that still remain and are brought to our notice, we will act on them sincerely and immediately,” it added. The government drew attention to the strenuous efforts being made by the frontline staff. “The frontline workers in our hospitals – our doctors and nursing staff – are working day and night to serve the people. Many doctors have not visited their homes in the past two months because of their hospital duty,” the statement said. Referring to the reports of mismanagement at Lok Nayak, the government said around 2,000 beds were available there. “Many critical patients from the central government and private hospitals in Delhi are being referred to LNJP for better medication. So far, over 2100 patients from LNJP hospital have successfully recovered from Covid-19 infection and returned to their homes,” the statement said. It pointed out that an NHRC team had visited the hospital on Thursday and expressed satisfaction after scrutinising the facilities. “We will appraise the Hon'ble Supreme Court about this as well,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nhrc-satisfiedwith-lnjp-willplug-gaps-govt/articleshow/76349479.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nashik||Wrist bands to monitor cops’ health||Nashik: Police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil, actor Akshay Kumar and founder of GOQii Vishal Gondal on Thursday officially launched the wearable wrist band that will scan the body temperature, heart rate, blood pressure and the footstep count of the police personnel wearing the band. The wrist bands have been distributed among the 3,300-strong workforce of Nashik city police. Currently, data of more than 2,700 personnel has been updated on the dashboard. Every police station has a monitor in which the personnel’s vitals are updated. The system monitors the health parameters through the mobile phones round the clock. The system also monitors the sleep duration. Based on the information received on the dashboard, the wrist bands will help identify the people who are ill and alert senior officials about the same for early intervention. “It is difficult to keep an eye on everybody’s health vitals. The wearables come to us as a great relief,” said Nangare-Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wrist-bands-to-monitor-cops-health/articleshow/76328273.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||BU, Amrita improve higher edu ranking||Coimbatore: The Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham and Bharathiar University in the district have improved their rankings in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) that was released by the Union human resource development ministry on Thursday.While the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham was ranked fourth, the Bharathiar University was placed 13th in the country, under the university category. Last year, the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham was ranked eighth and the Bharathiar University 14th.P Kaliraj, vice-chancellor, Bharathiar University, said they were assessed well in parameters such as perception, teaching and resources, and research and professional practices. As per the ranking, BU is the topmost among the state arts and science universities in Tamil Nadu. It was placed 21st in the overall category.A total of nine arts and science colleges affiliated to BU have been ranked among the top 100 in the college category. Among them, PSGR Krishnammal College for Women was ranked 10th, PSG College of Arts and Science 25th, and Sri Krishna Arts and Science College 29th.Meanwhile, the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham was placed 13th in the overall category. Its vice-chancellor P Venkat Rangan said it was a result of academic excellence, outstanding faculty and world-class infrastructure of the university.Among the engineering colleges, Amrita School of Engineering was ranked 20. While PSG College of Technology slipped to 49th place from 44 last year, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences to 80th from 72nd and Kumaraguru College of Technology to 82nd from 77th, Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology improved its ranking to 83 from last year’s 97.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-amrita-improve-higher-edu-ranking/articleshow/76329479.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Man gets back phone snatched a year ago||Coimbatore: A year after two bike-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone from an auto consultancy employee near at KK Pudur in the city, police have on Wednesday arrested the duo and recovered the stolen item.The Saibaba Colony police said the case was solved when P Sujithkumar, 19, of Housing Unit at Kavundampalayam, and M Muthumahesh, 22, of Srinivasa Nagar at Kavundampalayam landed in their net in connection with another mobile phone snatching case, which was reported on May 20 this year. A police officer said the two had snatched mobile phone from Karthikeyani, 23, who is employed with a public-sector bank in the city, while she was on her way to a hotel on Azhagesan Road at Saibaba Colony on May 20.A native of Neikarapatti in Palani in Dindigul district, she lodged a complaint with Saibaba Colony police inspector O Anand, who registered a case, collected CCTV footage of the motorcycle and arrested the duo on Wednesday.During interrogation, the two also confessed that they had snatched a mobile phone from a man from KK Pudur on June 6, 2019. Police have recovered the stolen mobile phone and returned that to the victim, identified as Radhakrishnan, 41.Police said the two were involved in many chain snatching cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-gets-back-phone-snatched-a-year-ago/articleshow/76329461.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||NIRF ranking: Panjab University slips to 26th, PEC University goes up 10 notches||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has slipped to 26th position among universities across the country in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF-2020) announced by the ministry of human resource development on Thursday. The position of PEC University of Technology, on the other hand, has gone up by 10 positions among engineering institutes. It ranks 68th this year, while it was 78th in 2019, 73rd in 2018, and 85th in 2017. Also, PU’s University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) has managed to retain its rank in the country for the second year. Among the pharmaceutical institutes, it has ranked second in the country, with an overall score of 79.80. Last year, its score was 76.50. Professor Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, said since the inception of NIRF five years ago, UIPS has consistently been among the top-3 ranks. This coveted achievement of UIPS is attributed to its high prowess in publications; high quality research output in terms of patents, technology-transfers to industry; academics; collaborative outputs and infrastructural facilities. The award yet again testifies and reiterates the excellent academic and research standards maintained by UIPS, she added. For the first time, dental institutes have been introduced in NIRF rankings. Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital has got 28th rank among the listed 30 institutes in the country.  The NIRF rankings were released by Union minister of human resource development (MHRD) Prakash Javadekar online.  This is for the third consecutive year that Panjab University’s rank has slipped. In 2019, it had slipped to 21st rank (score 51.25) from 2018’s 20th rank (score 50.94). This year, PU scored 51.85 points. Of the five parameters, PU’s score improved in only “perception”. It was 27.09 in 2019, while this year it is 42.39 of 100. This indicates that the perception of the institution among its stakeholders has improved.  The overall ranking of PU this year is 44, with a score of 50.24. In 2019, PU had ranked 34 and scored 51.25. Position of Chandigarh engineering institutesPU’s both engineering institutes, University Institute of Engineering & Technology (UIET) and SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology, have witnessed a drop in the rankings from 54 last year to 72 this year. Sector 10 college makes it to top 100This year, only one college from Chandigarh has made it to the top-100 colleges’ list. Government Home Science College in Sector 10 has ranked 86. In 2019, it had ranked 72. The previous year, there were two colleges in the top-100 list: Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College and Government Home Science College. Architecture institutes fail to make their markNo institute of architecture in Tricity managed to get a spot among the top centres. PU law department takes 15th slotThis year, PU’s law department has made it to the top-15 law institutes of the country by bagging 15th rank out of 20. It has scored 51.11 points. Last year, only 15 institutes were listed in the ranking and PU was not in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nirf-ranking-pu-slips-to-26th-pec-goes-up-10-notches/articleshow/76329457.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||34 revellers arrested for partying illegally||Mandya: A party was held near Krishnarajasagara (KRS) reservoir, close to the KRS police station on Wednesday night, which disturbed locals. Locals claimed that it was a rave party, but the police denied the same. According to locals, they were woken due to loud music blaring from speakers at a farmhouse near the police station, which is close to KRS reservoir. When locals confronted those at the farmhouse, the revellers allegedly threatened them and sent them away. When locals approached the police, the police reached the spot and claimed that they stopped the party. A senior police officer claimed that a birthday party was organised by Dasappa from Mysuru. The party was held at a farmhouse that belonged to Shekar. “When police personnel raided the party, we did not find any narcotic substances. Since, permission was not taken to organise the birthday party, we have registered a case and arrested more than 34 revellers, including Dasappa,” said a police officer. All the revellers who were arrested are residents of Mysuru. A case has been registered against them and the owner of the farmhouse, under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and other sections under the Karnataka Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/34-revellers-arrested-for-partying-illegally/articleshow/76328254.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man jailed for attempting to molest minor||COIMBATORE: A 41-year-old cable TV operator has been arrested for attempting to sexually assault a 17-year-old girl at her house near Annur on the outskirts of the city. According to police, V Saravanan, who lives near Annur, went to the girl’s house on the pretext of repairing the cable connection when her parents were away at work on Tuesday morning. A police officer said, “When he attempted to molest her, the girl, a Class XII student, ran out of the house. She narrated the incident to her parents when they returned home.” On Wednesday night, the girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the Thudiyalur all-woman police, who registered a case against Saravanan and arrested him the same night. They booked him under Sections 7 (sexual assault) and 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and lodged him in Avinashi sub-jail under judicial custody on Thursday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-jailed-for-attempting-to-molest-minor/articleshow/76329451.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Congress in Rajasthan united, both RS candidates will win with overwhelming majority: Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot on Thursday asserted that the Congress in the state is united and both the party candidates will win the Rajya Sabha election with overwhelming majority. He was talking to reporters after attending a memorial function in Dausa coinciding with the 20th death anniversary of his father and late veteran Congress leader Rajesh Pilot. “Before every election some people try to create confusion. But ultimately the ground reality prevails. The reality is that the Congress has the numbers. It is supported by Independents and other parties,” he said. The second candidate of BJP has no chance in this election, Pilot said, adding that some parties are trying to create an impression that there are factional fights in the party, but I assure that all MLAs and workers are united. He said once AICC and Sonia Gandhi decides on the candidate, there is no question of dispute over the decision. He further said, “In the byelections, the Congress won, in the assembly elections Congress won. As state Congress president I am sure that we will win the Rajya Sabha elections as well.” When asked about MLAs huddled in resorts, he said the step was taken in light of the developments in Gujarat and other states, but he said in Rajasthan the leaders are disciplined and the attempt to lure them would not succeed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-in-raj-united-both-rs-candidates-will-win-with-overwhelming-majority-pilot/articleshow/76330359.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb seeks extra wheat, pulses for labourers||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Union minister of consumer affairs Ram Vilas Paswan for additional allocation of 14,144 MT of wheat, along with 1,414 MT of pulses, for two months for distribution to migrant labour/poor non-NFSA residents of the state. This step would incentivise the workers to return to work for their livelihood, besides fully reviving the industrial activity, he said. In a letter to Paswan, Amarinder said this initiative on the part of the Centre was necessary as the loss of wages for the past few months had severely crippled the purchasing power of the migrants and the poor non-NFSA citizens. The Centre had allocated 14,144 MT of wheat and 1,015 MT of pulses for distribution to migrants and non-NFSA beneficiaries under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme. The distribution of these stocks is going on in the state and is expected to be completed within the next 10-15 days. Under this scheme, the state government is distributing more than 14 lakh dry ration packets containing 10 kg atta, 2 kg dal and 2 kg sugar to migrant labour and non-NFSA poor beneficiaries. The Centre had given only 10 kg wheat and approx 500g dal per person. Subsequently, the state government decided to convert the wheat into atta for easier and quicker consumption by poor migrants. In addition, the quantity of the dal was increased from 500g to 2kg and sugar was also added to make the packet more wholesome. Amarinder said that of late, migrants have started returning to Punjab for work as farm labourers. Apart from this, industrial activity has also been largely normalised. He mentioned that out of the 2.60 lakh industrial units in the state, more than 2.32 lakh have resumed operations. About 13.5 lakh workers are normally employed in these units, a majority of them being migrant labour, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-seeks-extra-wheat-pulses-for-labourers/articleshow/76330355.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Authorities gear up for 4 more rescue flights||Coimbatore: Four more flights under Vande Bharat mission are expected to land in the city from Singapore, Doha and Muscat over the next couple of days, carrying around 170 passengers each.Airport director R Mahalingam confirmed that they were readying for the arrival of another four rescue flights. “The flights from Singapore will land on Friday and Sunday, while the one from Muscat will arrive on Saturday. The flight from Doha is scheduled to arrive on June 23. All the flights will be operated by Air India Express, carrying around 176 passengers each in its Boeing 737 aircraft.” The airport, which has already received two rescue flights from Dubai and Sharjah so far, has set up a spacious transit lounge on the first floor, where passengers would be seated after the arrival by ensuring social distancing to collect their nasal swabs for Covid-19 test. After that, they could proceed with immigration and baggage collection.“There will be only four counters to collect their samples and the process will take some time. So, there won’t be any rush at the immigration counter and the baggage conveyor. We have drawn slots for them at both the places to ensure social distancing,” the airport director said. It is likely to take two to three hours for the entire procedure to complete.Unlike earlier, the flyers won’t be able to pick up a gift or change currency on arrival, as all counters, except that for taxis, would remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/authorities-gear-up-for-4-more-rescue-flights/articleshow/76329499.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Collector warns private schools||Coimbatore: Private schools in the district should not force parents to pay fee or money for books and uniforms, conduct admissions or gather parents or students on the campus during the lockdown, said district collector K Rajamani on Thursday.If private schools, including matriculation schools and CBSE schools among others, indulge in any such activities in violation of the state’s orders, they will be derecognised and sealed, he said.The collector held a meeting on Thursday with officials of the school education department, including the chief education officer (CEO), district education officers (DEOs), and block education officers (BEOs) from the district. The meeting was called to reiterate the district administration’s stance on private schools which were flouting the state government’s orders, the collector said. The direction comes after it was alleged that private schools were asking parents to pay fee, conduct admissions, and asking parents to collect books and uniform by paying money.“If private schools indulge in activities against the state’s order, such as conducting admissions, hinting at paying fee or asking parents to pay it online, or calling parents or students to the school, we would take severe action against them,” the collector told TOI.Actions would include sealing the school immediately, action against the principals and/or school management, and also derecognising the school altogether, he said. The DEOs and BEOs have been instructed to closely watch private schools in their jurisdiction and instruct them on the state’s orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-warns-private-schools/articleshow/76329493.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Day after new order, long snarls on Sirohi, Jalore roads along Gujarat frontier||JODHPUR: The state government’s fresh order to control interstate movement at the borders has led to long snarls on Rajasthan-Gujarat border in Sirohi. The south district shares around 170-km border with Gujarat. Every vehicle, which has been entering Sirohi through its two main entry posts — Mawal and Mandar — are being checked thoroughly before crossing the border. Checkposts have been activated with deployment of additional staff from police and medical department to screen and identify details of all the inbound visitors “We already have checkposts at the border and screening had been taking place already. But now we have been checking documents like ID cards of people who have been coming,” said Sirohi collector Bhagwati Prasad. Those who are going out of the district to other states need to prodice passes from the district administration. Prasad said checking of documents was not the part of the activities at the border earlier but has again started with the state government’s fresh order on Wednesday. Prasad denied congestion of traffic on the border on account of document checking and screening exercise but long queues of the vehicles were spotted at the checkposts. According to information, the Chhapri checkpost at Amabaji has been restricted for traffic other than two wheelers. A local source said all four wheelers have been diverted and are compelled to take a detour of about 30 km for entering the state through Palanpur. It may be noted that this is the border route through which all Congress leaders and MLAs from Gujarat had entered the state to camp at a resort. Restriction of heavy traffic from this border is being seen as an attempt to keep the movement of traffic around this resort restricted and the place segregated. Similar arrangements have been put in place at all the border checkposts in Jalore district and government guidelines were being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/day-after-new-order-long-snarls-on-sirohi-jalore-roads-along-guj-frontier/articleshow/76330353.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Varanasi||IIT BHU retains 11th position in engineering category of NIRF||Times News Network Varanasi: The Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University) retained its 11th position in the engineering category of National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) -2020. The 5th edition of NIRF was released by the ministry of human resource and development on Thursday. IIT (BHU) director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain said that the institute retained its 11th rank in the engineering category by scoring 4.6 per cent more than the previous year. The institute has performed better than the previous years in all the ranking determining standards, he said adding that the institute scored 72.34 points in teaching, learning and resource (TLR), 47.77 points in research, professional practice and collaborative performance (RPC), 77.76 points in graduation outcome (GO), total number of outreach & inclusivity (OI) is 56.07 and 53.49 in perception. In the overall ranking of NIRF, IIT(BHU) has improved from 28th rank last year to 26th this year. In this category, the institute has scored 4.3 percent more than the previous year. Prof Jain congratulated the teachers, students and all the employees on these achievements. He said that more work is needed on four important components to achieve better targets in ranking. First of all, the academic level is fully updated, so that the new methods of teaching & learning can be implemented. Second, emphasize research, publication and innovation. Third, promote sponsored resources and consulting projects. This will help us to further upgrade our infrastructure. Also focus on new start-up so that the students can instead be more job-oriented than searching for jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-retains-11th-position-in-engineering-category-of-nirf/articleshow/76327270.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Virtual rallies show BJP’s apathy towards people’||Sirsa: Former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the ruling BJP’s announcement to hold virtual political rallies from June 14 to 17 in the state shows its lack of concern for the life and welfare of people at a time when the world is facing a grave crisis. Interacting with the media in Sirsa, where he was visiting to offer condolences to MLA Gopal Kanda following his mother’s death, Hooda said, “This is a time to fight the epidemic, not to go on a publicity overdrive.” He later met farmers in Gudiyakheda village and heard their problems. The Congress leader said if the government becomes negligent in the fight against Covid-19, Haryana could face a situation like Delhi or Mumbai, because about 300-400 cases of the coronavirus infection are being reported daily in the state. “Instead of making the disease a political event, the government should focus on improving health services to ensure that we fight and defeat the pandemic,” the leader of opposition in the Haryana assembly said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virtual-rallies-show-bjps-apathy-towards-people/articleshow/76330360.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||NIT-T ranked 9th best among engg institutions in country||Trichy: National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy continued to retain its place among the top 10 engineering institutions in the country by bagging the ninth rank this time in the annual national institutional ranking framework (NIRF) ranking 2020 released by the ministry of human resource development on Thursday.NITT has improved its ranking by one slot from last year and also improved its overall ranking by seven slots to 24 from 31. “The institute gave a strong push to Intellectual Property Rights and filing of patents which proved to be a game changer in improving our prospects,” said director Mini Shaji Thomas. The institute has been improving its ranking over the last three years, from 12th to 9th position now. Bharathidasan University has improved seven slots from last year in the university category by securing 53rd rank in the NIRF ranking and improved nine slots in the overall category. From 86th rank last year, it managed to secure 77th this year. Sastra deemed-to-be-university, Thanjavur has improved its ranking in engineering institutions category by one slot to secure 37th rank this year and jumped from 40 to 25 in the university category. In the overall category, it has gone up to 48 from 63 last year. Among arts and science colleges in Trichy city, only two colleges — St Joseph's College and Bishop Heber College (BHC) — have made it to the top 50 in the colleges category. SJC secured 31st rank whereas BHC came 39. Jamal Mohamed College has been ranked 54, against last year’s 59 while Holy Cross College (HCC) was ranked 66, up from 85 last year. Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy has slipped one position in the management institutions category by securing the 15th rank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-t-ranked-9th-best-among-engg-institutions-in-country/articleshow/76330363.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Developmental works capped at Rs 65 crore, Chandigarh civic body to rejig priorities||CHANDIGARH: Even as the UT administration has approved the municipal corporation’s Rs 1,472-crore budget, which includes its modest Rs 425-crore grant-in-aid for the current financial year, it has put a cap of Rs 65 crore on developmental activities. In the light of restrictions, the civic body has started preparing afresh the details of maintenance or other construction works to be undertaken on priority, keeping only the extremely necessary works on the list. Sources in the corporation revealed that works estimated to cost Rs 200 crore are lying pending under the capital segment. But, since the funds available with the civic body now are insufficient to execute those developmental works, all departments of the corporation will be meeting soon to fix the priorities. “All departments of the civic body are going to prepare fresh details of the works in the backdrop of new instructions. Since the engineering wing of the corporation largely deals with construction works, the officers of all three sub-divisions are preparing details of the works that need to be taken up urgently during the current financial year,” said a senior officer of the corporation involved with the exercise. In the budgetary letter, a copy of which is with TOI, the UT finance department has said, “The revised estimates of 2019-20 and budget estimates of 2020-21 are hereby approved subject to the condition that Rs 65 crore is expected to be available with MC for developmental works, and so MC should identify works to this extent only and submit the details of such projects as priority projects before actually undertaking any capital work.” According to the letter, the capital works already started in the previous years need to be completed before undertaking any new developmental work. The civic body has also been advised to improve resource generation by adopting the required measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/developmental-works-capped-at-rs-65cr-mc-to-rejig-priorities/articleshow/76329522.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||16 agenda items to be discussed in meeting with NGT today||Chandigarh: After a gap of almost five months, the executive committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), led by Justice (retd) Pritam Pal, is all set to hold a meeting with various departments of the Chandigarh administration through video-conferencing on Friday.Since, there are 16 agenda items in the meeting, all these pertain to crucial issues of various departments of the Chandigarh administration, including the municipal corporation, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), department of environment, department of industries, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) etc.The key agenda items include progress in the work related to water quality of Sukhna Choe, N-Choe between December and May, status of closing of outlets into Sukhna and N-Choe, performance of existing sewage treatment plants (STPs), status of under constructed STPs, status of upgrading of STPs, inspection of industries’ STPs, groundwater quality, environmental flow etc.From the MC and the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), MC commissioner K K Yadav will attend the meeting with the officers concerned, while heads of other departments will give their viewpoints related to their subjects.The agenda items were circulated in advance so that all could come prepared. Sources revealed that the commissioner has already held a pre-meeting with the officers concerned and compiled a report to be presented before the executive committee of the NGT.Sources in the MC, smart city and other departments of the UT revealed that they have prepared a detailed report on all the subjects and the same will be shared with the members of the executive committee by elaborating each point. Some departments have made progress, while others could not do much due to Covid-19 pandemic. All these issues and future course of works will also be discussed in the meeting.“We have prepared a detail report, but the tender process of the STP-related works could not be done due to Covid-19 pandemic. We will apprise the NGT of the practical problems and seek time for the works. Moreover, significant progress has been done in works related to capping of effluents in Sukhna and N-Choe and we will share about the same in the meeting,” said sources.----------------------------------Box: What are the key agenda items1) Water quality of Sukhna Choe, N-Choe between December and May2) Status of closing outlets into Sukhna and N-Choe3) Status of installation of real-time water quality monitoring system in Sukhna and N-Choe4) Groundwater quality5) Performance of existing sewage treatment plants (STPs)6) Status of under constructed STPs7) Status of upgrading STPs8) Inspection of industries’ STPs9) Environmental flow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/16-agenda-items-to-be-discussed-in-meeting-with-ngt-today/articleshow/76329541.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 12, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC services in city soon, says Parab||Nashik: State transport minister Anil Parab said that the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will begin its bus services soon in the city in a phased manner for the benefit of the people commuting Speaking to TOI, Parab said that in the absence of public transport system and with offices and shops reopening, the MSRTC has been asked to start its transport services step-by-step. “With the city opening up, there is a need for transport facility so we have decided to start the facility. We have asked the officials to plan accordingly and start the services following the Covid-19 health advisory to contain the spread of the infection,” Parab said. The minister said that the terms and conditions of the services will not change, which means there will be one passenger on every seat and they will be seated diagonally to one another with the buses running with 50% capacity. The buses will be disinfected and sanitised before the start of the journey. The terms of transportation to various routes will be worked out. The MSRTC officials in Nashik city, however, said they have not received any order from the central office yet. “We have already operated buses for the workers from Thane till Maharashtra borders. We have our norms set for the transportation as we operate buses in rural areas. We will be replicating them in the city, if there are no other special instructions,” the MSRTC officials from Nashik division said. “The buses are ready and the services will start at the earliest after we receive the orders,” an official said. The buses are ready and so is the staff. If there were any other additional instructions required, the time to resume the services will be decided based on the same, the official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-services-in-city-soon-says-parab/articleshow/76328293.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur’s breaches 2,000-mark in Covid cases||Jaipur: Six persons died and 238 others tested positive for Covid-19 taking the death toll to 265 and infection count to 11,838 in the state on Thursday. Jodhpur has become the second district to breach the 2,000-mark in cases after Jaipur. The state capital is leading the table with 2,449 cases. With 62 new cases, Jodhpur’s cases rose to 2,047. Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 121, Bharatpur reported its 10th fatality, Dausa reported its second Covid-19 death, Baran reported its fourth fatality and a person from another state fell prey to the pandemic. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (62), Alwar (44), Jaipur (38), Ajmer (14), Dholpur (12), Jhunjhunu (8), Sikar (6), Sawai Madhopur (6), Nagaur (5), Churu (5), Udaipur (5), Barmer (4), Bharatpur (4), Bhilwara (4), Hanumangarh (4), Kota (3), Pali (2), Jhalawar (2), Bikaner (2), Sriganganagar (1), Dausa (1), Karauli (1), Baran (1), Tonk (1) and three from other state. As many as 206 persons recovered from Covid-19 on Thursday taking the tally of such persons to 8,775. The number of active cases in the state is currently 2,798. In Jaipur, 25 places reported 38 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Jagatpura (6), Pratap Nagar (4), Mahatma Gandhi hospital staff (3), Shastri Nagar (2), Jawahar Nagar (2), Bas Badanpura (2) and one case each was reported from Dahar Ke Balaji, Triveni Nagar, Lalna of Pawta, Malviya Nagar, Panch Batti, Dhanka, Johri Bazaar, Shivdaspura, Amber, Vaishali Nagar, Patil Colony, Jhotwara, Shri Devi Nagar, Ramganj, Sahkar Nagar, Sikar Road, GRP Thana, Reserve Police Line and Chaura Rasta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpurs-breaches-2000-mark-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76330368.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Cancel SSLC exam, defer reopening of schools by three months||Mysuru: It has been a rather eventful week in terms of deciding policy for education in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis. The state government, after initially deciding to cancel online classes for students up to class V, and a day later, for all students up to class VII. Former chief minister and leader of the opposition in the legislative assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday asked the government to cancel online classes for all students up to pre-university level. Siddaramaiah also opined that schools must not be reopened till October. Former education minister Kimmane Ratnakar in Shivamogga endorsed Siddaramaiah’s suggestion, stating that online education would be a burden on the students. “Online classes are not good for children. Also, students in the Malnad Region have also been facing problems with internet connectivity. The government must also consider deferring classes for three more months,” Ratnakar said. Cancel SSLC exams, says Sait Former primary and secondary education minister and Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait, meanwhile called on Yediyurappa to follow the example of Tamil Nadu and Telangana and cancel the SSLC exams. Pointing to the worsening Covid-19 situation across the state. “Parents are also worried about the situation. Many students are living in other districts, and are yet to return home or they are stranded in neighbouring states. In addition to this, there is the problem of school infrastructure and ensuring the safety of thousands of students, the health condition of whom needs to be thoroughly assessed before the commencement of the exams. Nearly 8.5 lakh students are expected to write the SSLC exam this year. Keeping all of these parameters in mind, it would be better if the government decides against holding the exams,” Sait said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cancel-sslc-exam-defer-reopening-of-schools-by-three-months/articleshow/76328290.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||In isolation for 10 days? No retest before discharge||New Delhi: The Covid-19 patients who have spent 10 days in isolation need not be retested before being discharged. They can be allowed to go home and isolate themselves for seven more days — until their health completely stabilises, said Delhi government in its new advisory on discharge policy for Covid-19 patients. The decision comes after multiple complaints from the families of the patients about being forced to wait for discharge due to delays in testing. A state health department official said the order was based on an advisory issued by the Union health ministry on revised discharged policy. “It is applicable to all the hospitals — public or private,” he added. The revised policy stated that the patients with mild symptoms could be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge, the government said. The moderate cases can be admitted to Covid health centres, which have oxygen support facility. Patients on oxygenation, whose fever do not resolve within three days and demand for oxygen therapy continues, will be discharged only after resolution of the clinical symptoms, the new policy stated. Earlier, many patients were kept in isolation at the Covid facilities for up to two weeks and tests were conducted to confirm whether they could still transmit the virus or not. “The available evidence do not indicate any increase in the risk of transmission from patients discharged based on the revised criteria. The new plan also specifies that such patients will follow home isolation for a further seven days,” the health ministry has said. Delhi so far has conducted 2.71 lakh Covid tests. The total number of cases in the capital has reached 36, 824, while the total confirmed fatalities stand at 1,214. According to the latest data, the number of active Covid-19 patients is over 22,000 in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-isolation-for-10-days-no-retest-before-discharge/articleshow/76349491.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||Fever clinics to be set up as 1st point of care for Covid patients||Bhopal: The health department has undertaken an ambitious plan to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. Guidelines for opening fever clinics in rural areas have been planned, with one fever clinic to be set up per block. In urban zones, one fever clinic will be set up per one lakh population. If the area is a hotspot, there would be two or more fever clinics per lakh population. To boost Covid-19 management, the first point of care for suspected Covid patients, a fever clinic will address patients suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). It would add to the current strategy of contact tracing, sampling and testing along with treatment capacity addition, said a health department official. In rural areas, fever clinics have been formed in civil hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres. In urban areas, they are in medical colleges, district hospitals, urban PHC, civil dispensaries and Sanjeevani clinics, he added. Proposed outcomes of fever clinics include identifying people with SARI/ILI (comorbid or high-risk conditions like pregnancy) and home isolation of patients with no likelihood of Covid with necessary precautions. Both these measures would give a data of percentage home isolation of total FLU/OPD cases. Referral of patients needing immediate care to CCC/DCHC would be matched with sampling the likely Covid patients with mild and moderate symptoms and then referring them to CCC/DCHC. Infection control measures at fever clinics has been stressed in the new measure. The medical officer has been made responsible to ensure that all personal protection equipment used by the staff and the patients should be disposed off properly in accordance to the bio-medical waste management guidelines. Besides all areas in a fever clinic, which have access to an infected patient, should be disinfected by wet mopping by 1% sodium hypochlorite solution on eight-hourly basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fever-clinics-to-be-set-up-as-1st-point-of-care-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76328296.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||After a lull, land registrations pick up||Coimbatore: The registration department is slowly limping back to business in Coimbatore zone, thanks to the unlocking of lockdown. Land registrations had come to a grinding halt in the zone, which comprises Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode districts, when sub-registrar and district registrar offices had to be closed from March 24 because of the lockdown. The offices were, however, allowed to reopen from April 20.During the 11 working days in April, the registration department could earn just Rs 1 crore from the zone, compared to Rs 131.72 crore in January, Rs 174.47 crore in February and Rs 149.13 crore in March (until 24).The land registration was dull in May too, when the department could earn just Rs 50 crore. However, in the first eight days of June, the department has clocked revenues of Rs 40 crore from the zone.Jagadeesan, deputy inspector general of registration, Coimbatore Zone, said, “While only 187 documents were registered in April (from 20 to 30), 13,032 documents were registered in May.”A Umapathi, district spokesperson for Tamil Nadu Document Writers Association, said they hadn’t worked in the district in the first four days of May as they were concerned about the spread of Covid-19. “We resumed work on May 5 as many people wished to register property.” He said they have asked the people to maintain social distancing and wear face masks compulsorily.Jagadeesan said land registrations have started picking up. “We have registered 8,830 land documents from June 1 to 8, earning revenues of Rs 40 crore from the zone.”As per the data available with the registration department, 30,325 documents were registered in the zone in January, 36,877 in February and 32,974 documents in March. The average revenue generated in the zone before the lockdown was Rs 150 crore a month.According to the official, Periyanaickenpalayam, Annur, Sulur and Singanallur sub-registration offices usually record more number of land registrations in the district. While Ganapathy, Gandhipuram, Peelamedu and other sub-registration offices in the city record only less number of land registrations, revenue generated would be high, thanks to the high value of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/after-a-lull-land-registrations-pick-up/articleshow/76329531.cms||A Subburaj
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||Coronavirus moving to villages, over 900 infected, warns MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday sounded a warning note on Coronavirus creeping into rural areas, saying that 904 Covid-19 patients have been found in 440 villages of Madhya Pradesh. To tackle this threat, Rs 275 crore — 15% of the amount received from 14th Finance Commission for rural development — has been allocated for Covid management in villages, he said. In a video-conference with sarpanchs and ex-sarpanchs of 6,000 villages, Chouhan said he realises that Coronavirus infection has spread from urban areas to villages. “This money can be spent on purchase of mask, sanitisers, soap and PPE kits,” he said. Coronavirus patients in the state were recovering fast but there is greater need for caution now that unlocking has begun, he said. The CM asked district collectors to make IITT strategy — identify, isolate, test and treat — more effective to contain Coronavirus. At a review meeting, Chouhan said that ‘unlocking’ is underway and any laxity at this stage may turn out to be dangerous. ‘Fever clinics’ must be strengthened and made more effective, he advised. The CM ordered an inquiry into the death of a Mantralaya employee, who had gone to a hospital but was given some medicines and allowed to go back home. When his condition deteriorated, he went to hospital again but could not be saved. Chouhan ordered that the persons responsible for this lapse should be identified and penalised ACS-health Mohd. Suleman said at the meeting that Coronavirus positivity rate in MP is 4.42 as against the national average of 5.51, while recovery rate has risen to 68.8. In 22 districts, there are less than 10 Coronavirus patients and four districts — Hoshangabad Alirajpur, Seoni and Sehore — are Coronavirus-free. It was revealed at the meeting that 915 people in Bhopal have been fined Rs 1.85 lakh for not wearing masks and for spitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-moving-to-villages-over-900-infected-warns-cm/articleshow/76330370.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Gym owners feel lockdown heat, request members to lend a hand||COIMBATORE: While gyms and fitness centres are facing a serious crisis, a Vadavalli-based gym sent letters requesting members to pay Rs 2,000 as ‘compensation for three months lockdown’. Though the establishment clarified that it was not compulsory, industry sources balked at the idea. Last week, several gyms and fitness centres submitted a petition to Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, requesting permission to reopen. With gyms closed for three months and no new memberships, they were struggling to meet their expenses including rent, electricity, disinfecting the space and salaries, they said. However, unless the state government allows fitness centres to reopen, the district administration would be unable to help. As they did not get a reply, Lifestyle Fitness Studio in Vadavalli decided to approach members to bail them out. “We requested our members to pay Rs 2,000 as compensation,” said owner Manoj Kumar. “We were forced to do so and wanted our members to help and save us.” But the fee is not compulsory, said co-owner Vijay. “Neither the bank that gave us loan nor our landlords agreed to give us a break despite the government orders.” Other gym owners were divided over the measure. “With no income and no options, the situation is bad. May be the gym will deduct whatever compensation they receive from members from their next membership renewal and make it all right,” said S Ravishankar of Ravi’s Crossfit. A fitness instructor, who runs a gym on Avinashi Road, said, “We had members asking us not to freeze their membership as a small help to keep the gym running. But we said no, as we didn't feel it was right.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gym-owners-feel-lockdown-heat-request-members-to-lend-a-hand/articleshow/76329521.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||4 catch the virus in Panchkula||tnnPanchkula: Four novel coronavirus cases were reported in Panchkula on Thursday, taking the district tally to 47. As per chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur, three tested positive at Mansa Devi Complex in Sector 5 and one at Abheypur village in Sector 19. The officials said all of them had travel history and their areas have been declared as containment zones. Areas near their houses have been declared as buffer zones by the administration. Their family members will be checked for Covid-19, the officials added. They said till now 5,966 samples have been taken in the district, of which 5,863 tested negative and results of 24 were awaited. So far, 26 cured persons have been sent to their homes and were under home quarantine, while others were at a government facility. There are 21 active cases.Besides, 1,153 persons have been home quarantined in the district to date. The containment zones in Panchkula are Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5 and sectors 2, 6, 8, 17, 19, 20, 21 and 10, villages Majri, Bagwali, Abheypur and Maddawala and Rajiv Colony. They are under strict vigil of the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-catch-the-virus-in-panchkula/articleshow/76329574.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||No institute comes forward for Chandigarh’s first noise mapping study||CHANDIGARH: No institute has come forward to carry out first ever noise mapping study for the city. Terming it Covid-19 effect, the UT administration has now decided to invite fresh expression of interest and also decided to approach the region’s prominent institutes for carrying out the study. T C Nautiyal, member secretary of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), said there was no response from institutes as everything was closed down due to Covid-19. The committee will now invite fresh expression of interest (EoI). The committee will also approach Punjab Engineering College (PEC), National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR) etc for this study. Earlier, the committee had invited expression of interest from reputed educational and research institutions recognised by the central or state governments for “Study on source identification and mitigation actions for noise pollution using noise mapping and prediction techniques” for compliance of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. In 2019, it was not only during Diwali, but the city witnessed higher noise pollution even before it. The data collected by the CPCC from four different locations — residential (Sector 22), commercial (Sector 17), silence (Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12) and institutional (IMTECH Sector 39) zones — shows that the noise pollution level crossed the permissible limit on October 21, 2019. The data was high against the permissible limit of 55 db (A) during the day and 45 db (A) at night. Only in the institutional zone, noise pollution was low during the day. The CPCC does not collect noise pollution samples on a regular basis because it does not have a real-time monitoring device. Therefore, the CPCC team collects random samples from different locations with handheld devices. This time, the team collected samples on October 21, 2019, and the report was submitted to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-institute-comes-forward-for-citys-first-noise-mapping-study/articleshow/76329565.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 12, 2020||Varanasi||Cops arrest 37 accused for setting Dalit homes ablaze||Jaunpur Victims Get Relief Cheques Times News Network Varanasi: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered strict action against the accused who attacked Dalits and set their homes on fire in a Jaunpur village on Tuesday evening, following which 37 accused were arrested on Thursday and total compensation of over Rs 10 lakh was given to the victims. Taking note of the incident, CM Yogi had ordered invoking NSA and Gangster Act against the accused and departmental action against the SO Sarai Khwaja for failing to control the situation. On Tuesday night, a group of people from one community had attacked some dalits in Bhadethi village, ransacked their homes and set their homes on fire. SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “Bhadethi had witnessed violence over a minor dispute between children of Dalits and other community. The village head intervened and the situation normalised, but at night a group of people from one community attacked the Dalit families, ransacked their homes and set them on fire.” Samajwadi Party leader Javed Siddiqui was among the 37 accused arrested, and soon his photographs sharing dais with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in public meetings went viral on social media. “SO Sarai Khawaja Sanjiv Mishra has been attached to police lines and ASP (City) had been asked to probe the matter. Of 57 named accused, 37 have been arrested while raids are continuing to nab others. The accused will be booked under NSA and Gangster Act,” the SP added. CM had announced compensation for the Dalit families and construction of their houses under CM housing scheme. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “District magistrate Dinesh Kumar Singh and other officials visited Bhadethi village on Thursday afternoon and gave the cheques amounting to Rs 10,25,450 as compensation to the victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-arrest-37-accused-for-setting-dalit-homes-ablaze/articleshow/76327324.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan family suicide bid: Wife too succumbs, son still struggling||AJMER: The wife of Shahpura businessman who consumed poison three days ago died on Wednesday. The family of three including the businesman, his wife and minor son consumed poison after being unable to repay a loan after losing business due to lockdown. Businessman Mohit Birla (45) died on the same day, while his wife Rinku Birla (38) and son Dev (17) were under treatment in a Bhilwara hospital. Rinku died late Wednesday late night, while the couple’s son undergoing treatment in the hospital. After post-mortem, the police released the woman’s body to relatives for funeral on Thursday. Police came to know that the family was under depression as it was unable to pay a loan. Mohit had a textile business in Bhilwara. Two brothers drown in Kekri: Two minor brothers died when they drowned in a lake in Deogaon village of Kekri block. Police said Jeish Mohammad (10) and Raheem (8), sons of MohammadAli and residents of Kekri, went to their relatives’ place in nearby Deogao and went to the lake for bath where they drowned. Villagers later found their clothes and recovered the bodies from the lake. They were taken to hospital where they were declared dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/family-suicide-bid-wife-too-succumbs-son-still-struggling/articleshow/76330379.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Young woman with TB dies of Covid-19 in Ambala||Ambala: A 23-year-old woman from Delhi, who was suffering from tuberculosis, died at Covid Care Centre in Mullana of Ambala district. She was reported positive for Covid-19 the same day after her death, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.“A woman from Maujpur in Delhi, who was already infected with TB and had severe infection in her lungs, died at MMU Hospital, Mullana on Wednesday morning. She was suffering from anaemia and was in a critical condition. As a precautionary measure, we had collected her sample for Covid-19 testing early on Wednesday and she was reported positive in the evening,” said Dr Kuldeep.She, along with her three family members, had come to her maternal grandmother’s place in Top Khana area of Ambala Cantt in a serious condition, and on June 9, she was admitted to the civil hospital. Due to her bad condition, she was isolated at MMU Hospital, said the civil surgeon.“We have collected seven samples of her family members coming from Delhi and relatives living in Ambala for Covid-19 testing,” he added.The woman was cremated at a designated cremation ground in Top Khana area on Thursday afternoon, said Rajesh Kumar, secretary, Ambala Sadar municipal council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/young-woman-with-tb-dies-of-covid-19-in-ambala/articleshow/76329552.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||1 family at q-centre, another stranded in Pune; burglars make merry||Nagpur: Taking advantage of forced absence, burglars broke into the homes of a family quarantined at Pachpaoli centre and another one stranded in Pune. The G+2 house of a branding professional was allegedly burgled and valuables worth Rs4.5 lakh stolen from Bhankheda in Mominpura in the wee hours of Thursday.The entire family was quarantined at Pachpaoli centre on June 3 after their neighbour tested positive. The neighbour’s family is also in institutional quarantine and no one is at home.The professional, his sister and mother were released from the quarantine centre to complete the police formalities. They have been advised home quarantine till June 17.The professional told TOI that they had purchased the jewellery for the marriage of his eldest sister working in Mumbai. "Eight tola gold, silver, gifts, the bride’s dress and Rs30,000 are missing," he said.Amid mass quarantining, the Bhankheda family had requested the NMC to allow two members to stay in home quarantine as the area was notorious for break-ins. The professional said cops had assured them that regular patrolling would be done.The burglars gained entry into the house by climbing the first floor holding onto the iron grills and then walking down the steps to break-in from the front door on the ground floor. The iron gate at ground floor had two big locks which remained intact.Tehsil police senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar confirmed that an incident of break-in has been reported but offence would be registered after preliminary investigation. The other burglary took place between May 24 and June 9 in Pratap Nagar, where the house of a family stranded in Pune due to lockdown was targeted by unidentified burglars. 69-year-old retired railway official Dhanraj Motghare and his wife had gone to their son's house in Pune on March 3, but could not return after the lockdown was announced. Gold and silver valuables worth Rs2.55 lakh were stolen.Dhanraj had tenants who left the house on May 24, since when the premises were locked. The burglars took advantage of the closed house and snuck into it by breaking the lock of the front gate.The incident came to light when one of Dhanraj’s neighbours spotted his house’s broken door lock and informed him. Dhanraj came back to the city on Wednesday and filed a complaint with Pratap Nagar police station. Sources said that cops are now scrutinizing CCTV footages from nearby spots.Even earlier, houses of citizens who are stranded out of Nagpur were targeted by burglars during the lockdown, despite most of the city police force being on the streets to enforce law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-family-at-q-centre-another-stranded-in-pune-burglars-make-merry/articleshow/76329538.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||Breached in a day: From 800 +ve to over 900||Nagpur: After crossing 800-mark on Wednesday from earlier 708 Covid cases in just three days, the district has now breached 900-mark of positive cases in just one day. Alarm bells have started ringing for the administration and citizens as over 400 positive cases have been reported in just 10 days of this month.With 58 new cases on Thursday, the district’s Covid tally has gone up to 921.The first 100 cases were reported in 45 days, while the next 100 came in just 12 days. After that, each 100th level has been crossed in single-digit days.Relaxation in lockdown norms and inter-city/state movement of people besides causal approach of the citizens is being blamed for the spike in the number of coronavirus cases. What is worrying is the fact that only six patients each from AIIMS and IGGMCH were discharged keeping the number of active cases at a high of 362. A Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patient from Akola who tested positive here has been included in the city’s tally. She is admitted at the GMCH.Of the 58 fresh cases, 25 were quarantined at Pachpaoli centre. They are mainly from Lashkaribagh, Naik Talao, Mominpura and other areas.After more residents testing Covid positive, the NMC has increased the containment area in Naik Talao-Bairagipura. Two new containment zones were added under Mangalwari zone. Parts of Martin Nagar off Jaripatka Ring Road and Manmode Layout in Zingabai Takli have also been sealed. Officials heaved a sigh of relief after no cases were detected in Mansarovar Colony of Mangalwari zone. A Mumbai returnee woman had tested positive on Sunday from here.Amid panic situation in Naik Talao-Bangladesh, NMC additional medical officer Dr Bhavana Sonkusre-led team visited the area and spoke to residents. The team reassured the residents about NMC’s plan to break the chain of virus spread.In a press release, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe warned of major spike in Covid cases if citizens fail to follow government guidelines.“Under Mission Begin Again, several relaxations have been given as per directives of the state government. But the danger of Covid-19 pandemic has increased after easing of the restrictions. If citizens do not strictly follow the safety measures, cases will shoot up in Nagpur,” the release added.“It is the responsibility of each one of us to keep the city safe. Yet, people are not following the precautions like wearing mask and staying indoors,” he said.Today | 58CASES NAGPURJUNE 10: 863JUNE 11: 58TOTAL: 921DISCHARGE NAGPURJUNE 10: 532JUNE 11: 12TOTAL: 544DEATHS: 15ACTIVE: 3626 discharged from IGGMCH + 6 from AIIMS = 121 SARI patient from Akola positive. Added to city tallySpan of each 100th SlabApril 24—105 (45 days)May 6—229 (12 days)May 12—304 (6 days)May 21—407 (9 days)May 29—502 (8 days)June 3----615 (5 days)June 7----708 (4 days)June 10----863 (3 days)June 11 --- 921 (1 day)-------------------------------------As on June 11*Mominpura containment zone | 321*Satranjipura containment zone | 137*Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone | 207Containment zones | total 422 | Part of Martin Nagar off Jaripatka Ring Road, Manmode Layout in Zingabai Takli. Both areas in Mangalwari zone*Increased containment area in NTB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/breached-in-a-day-from-800-ve-to-over-900/articleshow/76329519.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown hastens rlys’ plan to merge cadres, curb losses||Trichy: The shutdown triggered by Covid-19 seems to have speeded up the railways’ plans to merge cadres and responsibilities so that the number or posts can be cut to save money. This means, technicians will double up as ticket examiners and porters can double up as markers and fillers. There may not be separate cadres for waiting room and retiring room attendants. Railways will now identify staff of various departments who can be considered for multi-skilling and can take up additional duties. A railway ministry circular dated May 8 says the department will constitute a committee to deliberate on issues relating to multi-skilling of staff and give recommendations. It will also consider the scope and details regarding training to be imparted to the staff identified for multi-skilling to eliminate various posts, officials said. Faced with revenue loss due to the lockdown, railway board has decided to implement the idea of eliminating various posts and handing over the work to the staff of other departments engaging in similar work, said one official. Technicians can be utilized for checking tickets and maintaining coaches while commercial porter, marker and filler can be combined and handled by one person. Retiring room attendants and waiting room attendants can also be merged. In the mechanical department also, a number of employees work as artisans like blacksmith, fitter and welder. All these categories may be merged as technician (metallurgy). Similarly, carpenter, mason, painter, riveter can be merged into a single category. Pump driver and plumber can also be merged as one. As per the plan, train ticket examiners may be entrusted with additional responsibilities of supervising onboard house-keeping services, working as common facilitator to the passengers and providing first-aid, the sources said. A railway official said this was the way forward as staff have become redundant in many departments because of modernisation. Though railway unions are not happy, they seem to have accepted the proposed change. Union leaders said that railways have already started the process of merging cadres by eliminating postings. “Railway department is facing acute revenue loss due to the lockdown. The board has speeded up all possible ways to minimize loss by taking measures like merging cadres. The next step would be elimination of postings,” deputy general secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU), D Manoharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-hastens-rlys-plan-to-merge-cadres-curb-losses/articleshow/76330369.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 12, 2020||Varanasi||Vindhyachal temple unlikely to reopen in June||Varanasi: The Vindhyachal Panda Samaj (VPS), which handles the management of the Vindhyachal temple in Mirzapur district, has ruled out its reopening before June end after family member of a temple priest tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday evening. When the officials of Mirzapur district received the lab test reports on Wednesday evening, one member of a priest’s family associated with the Vindhyachal temple was found positive, confirmed chief medical officer Dr OP Tiwari, adding all 23 members of the priest’s family have been quarantined. The Pashchim Mohal area of Vindhyachal, where this family dwells, has also been declared a hotspot. So far, 40 Covid-19 positive cases have come to light in Mirzapur, of which 24 have been cured while 16 active cases are being treated, added Dr Tiwari. With the arrival of this report, the VPS postponed its meeting convened on Wednesday late evening to finalise the date of the temple's reopening. Talking to TOI on Thursday, VPS president Pankaj Dwivedi said, “We had almost finalised June 17 as the date for reopening of the temple and the meeting on Wednesday late evening was convened to seek consent of all the members of VPS. But, before the meeting the report confirmed that one member of our samaj had become infected after which we decided to postpone the meeting.” Dwivedi said that now the VPS will hold its meeting in the last week of this month to finalise the date of reopening. “With new developments we consider that the possibility of reopening of temple has ended in June”, said Dwivedi adding, now the arrival of devotees up to the steps of temple has also been prohibited. Many devotees were reaching there to bow their heads and offer prayers from outside the temple. The VPS had closed Vindhyachal temple after offering of Mangla Aarti on March 20 as it preferred safety of devotees in the time of coronavirus threat over all other issues. After it, the VPS allowed the opening of the sanctum sanctorum of the temple for four aartis per day. Other prominent temples in the triangle, including Kalikhoh and Ashtabhuja in Mirzapur, are also lying closed. When the state government allowed reopening of religious sites in the state by following prescribed guidelines, the VPS had decided now to show hurry in reopening the temple. Dwivedi said, “Before deciding the date for reopening the doors of Vidhyachal temple for devotees, we wanted to watch the trend of devotees turnout at other prominent shrines and ways of crowd management adopted there. We have taken into account the trend of devotees’ turnout at Kashi Vishwanath temple after its reopening on Tuesday and this will help us in formulating a strategy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vindhyachal-temple-unlikely-to-reopen-in-june/articleshow/76327300.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Man kidnaps and sexually assaults girl, 17, arrested||TRICHY: A 17-year-old girl was kidnapped and sexually harassed by a 23-year-old man in Trichy on Thursday. All-women police station (AWPS), Cantonment, Trichy, arrested C Vijayakumar, 23, of Surampatti Valasu in Erode district in this connection. The accused was arrested under Section 366 (kidnap or abduction), 11 (IV) (repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child either directly or through electronic, digital or any other means) and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The minor girl, hailing from Trichy city, had completed her plus two course recently. The accused, a construction worker in the area, and the girl were in love for the past three years. As her mother came to know about the affair, she reprimanded the girl. On Tuesday evening, the girl went to a shop near her house and did not return. Following this, her father lodged a complaint with Edamalaipatti Pudhur police on Wednesday. As the news came out, Vijayakumar brought the girl and handed her over to Edamalaipatti Pudhur police on Wednesday. Police said that he kidnapped her and molested her. The case was transferred to AWPS, Cantonment and he was arrested and produced before a court. The court remanded him in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-kidnaps-and-sexually-assaults-girl-17-arrested/articleshow/76336083.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kanpur||UPMRC completes Metro Rail work till Kalyanpur stretch||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC), which is carrying out the task of the Kanpur Metro construction in the city has successfully completed the construction work related to piles, pile caps and piers till Kalyanpur stretch. In the first phase, Kanpur Metro work is being carried out between IIT-Kanpur and Motijheel of which the work has been completed till Kalyanpur. Before the announcement of ‘Janta Curfew’ followed by the nationwide lockdown, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation was executing the civil construction work of Priority Corridor between IIT-Kanpur and Motijheel. Lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic resulted in a halt on the work but soon after getting nod from the district administration to resume civil construction of the corridor on May 15, the Corporation is moving ahead with proper strategy so that the available workforce can be utilized most efficiently for the best possible outcomes. “As a result of this dedication and strategic course of action, UPMRC has successfully completed all the construction work related with piles, pile caps and piers that fall under the stretch till Kalyanpur. Till now, UPMRC has completed construction of total 931 piles, 87 pile caps and 69 piers for the Priority Corridor”, UPMRC said in a press statement. On this occasion UPMRC’s MD Kumar Keshav said, “Regaining the pace of civil construction that we had before the lockdown is surely a challenge but with each passing day, we are getting closer to previous rhythm and pace and for this all credit goes to Metro engineers’ vision, planning, preparation and fine sense of execution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/upmrc-completes-metro-rail-work-till-kalyanpur-stretch/articleshow/76329624.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||All doctors to perform 10-day Covid duty||Ahmedabad: In a notification on Thursday, Dr MM Prabhakar, OSD, Medicity, mentioned that based on new guidelines issued by the Government of India, all officers and workers would have to perform 10-day duty at Covid-19 hospital. The duty will be followed by five-day break from work, followed by seven days of non-Covid duty. The officer/ doctor will again be deployed at Covid-19 hospital for 10-day and so on. ‘Respective departments will send the duty list to the medical superintendent, RMO and OSD Dr MD Gajjar,’ mentioned the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-doctors-to-perform-10-day-covid-duty/articleshow/76330392.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Varanasi||Class IX student held in double murder case||Gorakhpur: Police, on Wednesday night, arrested a class nine student near Dubiyari brige in double murder case and sent him to jail on Thursday. On May 24, two cousins, Krishna (25) and Divakar (23) were killed with 9mm pistol near River Gorra at Bargadwa village under Jhangha police station limit. Police had arrested 9 accused while a class ‘nine’ student was arrested on Wednesday in the case. “On a tip-off, police surrounded the area near Dubiyari Bridge and arrested Vikas Sahini son of Raju Sahini of Jungle Ram Lakhna under Khorabar police station limit. He is booked under section 147, 148,149, 302, 120 B and 216 of IPC and sent to jail on Thursday,” said CO Chauri Chaura, Rachna Mishra told. During press conference Vikas said that he studies in class nine and his age is 17. However, SO Jhangha police station Anil Kumar Singh said, “He seems to be of around 20 years old.” CO Chauri Chaura appealed to youths that they should not get attracted to wrong practices as it could lead them to tough times and their families could also face difficulties becuase of theor wrong actions. She also said that at young age youth must focus on career as one wrong step is enough in spoiling career. Earlier during a press conference after arresting six accused of the double murder, on May 31, SP North, Arvind Pandey had said that the cousins were killed due to competition and animosity between two groups. They had two groups of social media and used to post criminals and movie villain’s photographs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/class-ix-student-held-in-double-murder-case/articleshow/76327412.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man kidnaps and sexually assaults girl, 17, arrested||TRICHY: A 17-year-old girl was kidnapped and sexually harassed by a 23-year-old man in Trichy on Thursday. All-women police station (AWPS), Cantonment, Trichy, arrested C Vijayakumar, 23, of Surampatti Valasu in Erode district in this connection. The accused was arrested under Section 366 (kidnap or abduction), 11 (IV) (repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child either directly or through electronic, digital or any other means) and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The minor girl, hailing from Trichy city, had completed her plus two course recently. The accused, a construction worker in the area, and the girl were in love for the past three years. As her mother came to know about the affair, she reprimanded the girl. On Tuesday evening, the girl went to a shop near her house and did not return. Following this, her father lodged a complaint with Edamalaipatti Pudhur police on Wednesday. As the news came out, Vijayakumar brought the girl and handed her over to Edamalaipatti Pudhur police on Wednesday. Police said that he kidnapped her and molested her. The case was transferred to AWPS, Cantonment and he was arrested and produced before a court. The court remanded him in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-kidnaps-and-sexually-assaults-girl-17-arrested/articleshow/76330385.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Saptapadhi scheme may be held this month||Mangaluru: If the celestial stars align the way the department of religious endowment wants them to, Karnataka could well be set for a monsoon wedding of a different kind. The department is now waiting for auspicious dates this month, during which it is looking to hold the maiden edition of the much touted ‘Saptapadhi’ scheme. Plans are afoot to hold the marriages either on one or two days, depending on how the ‘muhurta’ pans out. Kota Shrinivas Poojari, minister for religious endowment, said the scheme has the blessings of chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who launched it on January 10. The department will conduct this mass marriage exercise as per the CM’s aspirations, Poojari said. Aimed at doing away with lavish weddings, the weddings will be conducted in 100 ‘A’ grade temples of the department, with the temples bearing the expenses of the bride and the groom. The department had initially planned to organise the mass marriages on two auspicious dates – April 26 and May 24—and subsequently decided to club the marriages fixed in April to May, but it couldn’t take place. “The lockdown has necessitated a total change in plans, and some of the applicants could already have entered into wedlock in the interim,” he said, adding this extended period could give an opportunity to others wanting to avail its benefit, as per norms. The scheme had received good response with the department having received more than 4,500 applications. “We will finalise the modalities of organising the mass marriages based on final applications on hand,” the minister said, adding logistics will be worked out based on dates that are available. “If we get more dates, weddings will be spaced out,” he said, adding that the department has already carried out adequate roadshows to promote the event. Each A grade temples will spend Rs 55,000 on each couple, including 8 grams of gold for the mangalasutra and Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000 for the bride and groom, respectively. The list of temples where these marriages will be solemnised will be based on the number of applicants, and their proximity to those temples, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/saptapadhi-scheme-may-be-held-this-month/articleshow/76328335.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Why microbreweries can’t beer it: High restart cost and low footfall||Gurgaon: More often than not, plans to eat and drink out in the city materialise at a microbrewery. Corporate or personal, hanging out with friends or meeting a date, these standalone distillery-cum-bars seem like an inevitable setting because they are ubiquitous. Gurgaon has one microbrewery for every six bars, an unusually high ratio for any city. Even though competition has increased, none has seemed a misfit here; the massive corporate presence in the city and a buzzing nightlife meant customers for bespoke brews wasn’t a problem. But the Covid-19 pandemic, and the lockdown that followed, has altered this universe. Business models built on higher footfalls find themselves marooned by social distancing and curfew hours. The corporate tide has turned into a trickle. As a result, many microbrewery owners do not see any business sense in reopening their establishments even after the government permits them to do so. Explaining why, one businessman, who did not wish to be named, said the smallest of microbreweries occupies a 4,000 square feet area, translating into a rent of Rs 7 lakh - 8 lakh a month. Licence fees total up to Rs 25 lakh per annum. Once maintenance costs, staff salaries and other overheads are factored in, anyone who wants to reopen a microbrewery will need Rs 50 lakh working capital immediately, the microbrewery owner said. Inderjeet Singh Banga, the Gurgaon chapter head of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) and owner of popular microbrewery Prankster, said that he feared only 15-20 outlets may survive while the remaining may just shut shop. He agreed reopening under the current licensing regime would entail a hefty investment and many businessmen simply did not have that kind of money after two straight months of being in lockdown. “We need permission to stay open till late, home deliver fresh beer and waiver of rentals for at least the lockdown period, followed by renegotiations on rent-sharing and deferment of licence renewals to be able to reopen,” Banga said. Lalit Ahlawat of Striker, Adda and Soi7 concurred that reopening did not look feasible in the current situation. After investing fresh capital, trying to get their staff back and following new social distancing protocols, which will reduce seating capacity, businesses will bleed from the day they reopen, Ahlawat said. He is doubtful about home deliveries rescuing the business even if the government allowed it. Microbreweries, Ahlawat said, were conceptualised as experiential zones and restarting them to deliver a mere 15-20 litres of beer won’t make any sense. “We cannot operate under the same module. We are also not confident to shift out and build a new place from scratch as there is no certainty of business for the next six months. This is a time for authorities and landlords to step forward to save the industry,” he said. Another microbrewery owner said many like him had not thought about applying for renewing their licences because they were not sure about the future of their business. “There are some who will just sell their equipment and shut shop,” he said. Consultant brewer Ishan Grover said another concern for microbreweries was they had invested in kitchens for food but those not looking to drink were unlikely to come to a microbrewery just for food. He agreed with Banga that allowing home delivery like in Bengaluru would restore some confidence as it would open a new business avenue. “It will at least get the business started,” he said. Banga said he was trying his best to negotiate with various stakeholders such as excise departments and landlords to work out an amicable solution. “Close to 50 outlets that were competing with each other to offer world-class beer to residents at the cheapest prices are struggling. If not immediately assisted, microbreweries that made Gurgaon one of the most vibrant cities of NCR might just die,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/why-microbreweries-cant-beer-it-high-restart-cost-and-low-footfall/articleshow/76311062.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Varanasi||Sevapuri to become nation’s first model block by Aug end||Varanasi: Niti Ayog officials will take stock of the progress in the on-going projects to develop Sevapuri block as the first model block of the country via video conferencing on Friday. Earlier, the Ayog had revised the schedule for saturating all 87 village panchayats of Sevapuri with Central and state government schemes due to the Covid-19 lockdown. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that a presentation on the work done so far in Sevapuri block, and remaining projects to achieve the targets, will be given before the Niti Ayog officials through video conferencing on Friday. According to him, the Niti Ayog had selected Sevapuri block to develop it as the first model block of the country by saturating its villages with all government schemes. “Initially, three months time between March and May was given to achieve the given target. But, due to Covid-19, the time-frame was rescheduled as district administration was asked to achieve it from June 1 to August 31,” he said. Sharma said that so far this block, which has a population of 2.73 lakh in 87 village panchayats, has been infused with pension and other schemes of financial benefits to selected beneficiaries. “Vacant positions in all government offices of this block have been filled. Now, execution of schemes for skill development, loans for agriculture and other sectors and infrastructure development related works are due,” he said. The work of skill development, loaning schemes will be completed within a month, he said adding, as most of infrastructure development projects especially of roads would be done with interlocking process. Due to it they would not be affected by monsoon and would complete in schedule time frame, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sevapuri-to-become-nations-first-model-block-by-aug-end/articleshow/76327353.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||No check on Covid rule breach by auto drivers||Nagpur: Three-seater autorickshaws, which are supposed to ferry only two passengers in a trip, are plying with more than six passengers throwing Covid distancing norms to the winds. This was especially witnessed under Lakadganj zone and the traffic police personnel deployed there made no efforts to enforce the Covid distancing rules.TOI went around various parts of the city on Thursday and found some autorickshaw drivers even more brazen in flouting every traffic and Covid safety norm by allowing passengers to sit along with them on the driver’s seat.The blatant violation by auto drivers was noticed between Gomti Chowk to Kapsi flyover. During a 15-minute stay at the spot, TOI found almost all three-wheelers ferrying excess passengers. Senior PI from Kamptee traffic zone Roshan Yadav admitted autos plying in this part of the city are violating the guidelines. He said that traffic constables deployed in this part of the city have been asked to discourage auto drivers from ferrying more than two passengers in one trip. Most commuters were daily-wagers and autorickshaw drivers too hail from poor families and hence the traffic police were a bit lenient, said Yadav. TOI also spoke to a few passengers who alighted at Gomti Chowk and they pointed out that with no Aapli Buses on city roads, they were left with no option but to use autorickshaws to commute.The traffic police are also overlooking the violation of pillion riding on two-wheelers. Traffic police personnel deployed across busy junctions and roads have taken no effort to nab bikers riding double seat.Following the state government directives, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had allowed autos and cabs to operate from May 5 with some strict guidelines making it mandatory for drivers to wear mask and use hand sanitizers. It also specified the number of passengers allowed in these vehicles, i.e. driver-plus-two.Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vikram Sali said all the 10 traffic zones have been instructed to ensure strict adherence of the Covid-19 guidelines. “Now, I will ask all 10 senior PIs to intensify the drive against violators,” he said.From June 1 to 10, the traffic police have penalized 72 auto drivers. According to city traffic police data, 23 autorickshaw drivers have been penalized for driving without uniform. “If the NMC resumes city bus operations with some riders like limiting passengers, spread of coronavirus could be curbed to a great extent as availability of buses will discourage people from travelling in crowded autos,” said traffic experts.Meanwhile, traffic police on Wednesday detained four motorbikes plying with modified silencers in Civil Lines, said traffic DCP Vikram Sali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-check-on-covid-rule-breach-by-auto-drivers/articleshow/76329568.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Manual scavenging still rampant in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Several pictures and videos have emerged showing that manual scavenging is still prevalent in Ahmedabad and Anand. Images from Gomtipur, Amraiwadi and Bapunagar show contractual workers of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) cleaning manholes with a spade-like tool, commonly called a ‘bucket’ by workers. A video sent by an activist from Jaffrabad village in Tarapur taluka of Anand district shows a worker standing in sludge of a manhole. He is covered in filth up to his shoulders. In the video, the contractor is asked about the situation. He says the sewer line is being repaired. These areas were declared containment zones. Yet these workers are not given sanitizers and gloves. A worker said, “We have to buy masks for our safety but the authority should provide us gloves to make sure we are not infected.” Parsottam Vaghela, an Ahmedabad activist, said though manual scavenging is banned in the country, the practice is still rampant in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/manual-scavenging-still-rampant-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/76329673.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 12, 2020||Kanpur||Three KMC employees test corona positive; bldg sealed||Kanpur: Corona infection has now reached the Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) headquarters on Thursday when its three employees were tested positive. It is said that one of the infected employees had visited the office of the health department. Following panic in the municipal corporation, the employees were sent to the hospital. The authorities sealed the KMC building. Mukhya nagar swasthya adhikari Dr Pramila Niranjan confirmed that three employees had been found infected on Thursday, and all of them had been admitted to the hospital. Two among the infected employees are sanitation workers and one a clerk in the health department. The clerk has been suffering from fever for the last one week and was on leave. A sanitation worker was deputed at Raipurwa while the second had visited the headquarters on Thursday, she said. The KMC building had been sealed and would be sanitized, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-kmc-employees-test-corona-positive-bldg-sealed/articleshow/76329644.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Rains to lash Vidarbha in coming days||NAGPUR: In some encouraging news for citizens, Vidarbha is expected to receive good rainfall in the coming days. According to the officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Nagpur, a low pressure area in west, central and adjoining north west Bay of Bengal, along Andhra Pradesh-South Odisha coast is likely to cause rainfall in Vidarbha. Officials further informed that monsoon is expected to hit Vidarbha in less than a week’s time. “Overall season rainfall is likely to be 103% over the region,” they added. Drizzles and the pleasant weather have brought the mercury levels down. On Thursday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degree Celsius. At 35 degree Celsius, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli recorded the lowest maximum temperature in the region. On the same day, Ghatanji in Yavtamal recorded highest rainfall in the region at 84.2 millimetres. Other districts which received rains were Wardha, Washim, Amravati, Buldhana, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli. In the coming week, rainfall along with thunderstorm are expected to hit the city. The maximum and minimum temperatures will see a further dip. Isolated places in Vidarbha are expected to receive heavy rains on Friday and Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-to-lash-vidarbha-in-coming-days/articleshow/76329579.cms||Manka Behl
June 12, 2020||Kochi||This vehicle will collect swab from doorsteps||Alappuzha: The second phase of Tiranga project, wherein a multi-equipment vehicle will collect swab samples from doorsteps, was introduced in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. In the first phase of the project, which was conceived by Thiruvalla sub-collector Vinay Goyal, a vehicle carried out contactless screening for Covid-19. Around 10,000 people were screened in the first phase which was launched on April 19. Sub-collector Vinay Goyal, who is also a doctor, said, “We have installed a walk-in swab collection kiosk inside the vehicle. If we want to take the sample of a person to test for Covid-19, they don’t need to come to hospital. The vehicle will go to the doorsteps of the person concerned and samples will be collected. This initiative will help us in saving time and money spent for the commute of ambulances to collect samples,” the sub-collector said. “Earlier, two to three personal protective equipment kits are needed every time a patient is brought to the hospital for swab collection. Now we need only a single PPE kit as the samples are being collected without any contact in this vehicle. After collecting 12 samples, we fumigate the chamber. The air that gets discharged from the vehicle is also purified. There is also a sound system for communicating with the persons outside. This initiative will also help us to drastically increase our daily sample collection rate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-vehicle-will-collect-swab-from-doorsteps/articleshow/76328386.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||Salons and barber shops ready to serve in Bhopal, but clients stay away||BHOPAL: Salons and barber shops have opened in the city in Unlock 1.0, but walk-ins at these places have fallen by around 80-90 per cent. The worst hit are the small barber shops and the hair and makeup stylists working at big salons. Despite following all precautionary measures to control the spread of coronavirus, including PPE kits for hair stylists and disposable accessories for all clients, people are avoiding these arenas. Many big salons have either laid-off almost half of their employees or have cut their salaries by 20-30 per cent. As most of the weddings were either postponed or cancelled during lockdown in March and April, most of the makeup studios which provided bridal makeup packages are in doldrums. The clients, who had booked for such packages in advance, are now asking for refunds. The business is going through one of the worst phases and the people associated with it are facing acute financial crisis. Some salons have increased their service charges by 15-20 per cent as their costs have increased due to Covid SOPs. Some salons have provided an option to clients to bring their own towels, scissors, combs etc, so that they can get service at old rates. Rajan Bawa, owner of a premium chain of salon in the city, said “The look inside the salon is like that of a hospital. We have hair dressers clad in PPE kits like surgeons to provide hygienic services to the clients. We sanitise everything, including the chairs, furniture and every part of the salon. As the clients enter, we sanitise their feet an hands everything but the number of client walk-ins have reduced by 80 per cent compared to pre-lockdown era.” Bawa said, “We provide mask, disposable sheets, towels etc to each and every client. This has increased our cost by around 20 per cent but we have not yet passed on the burden to clients. Now that the clients have reduced, we have to reduce the number of employees to survive as we have to pay them salaries.” Asif Khan alias Ashu, who runs a makeup studio and salon near Musical Fountain in Jehangirabad said, “More than 80 per cent of business is affected due to pandemic. Bridal makeup orders for the month of March and April were either postponed or cancelled and clients are asking for refund. Now in Unlock 1.0, we have taken precautionary measures like sanitising clients before entering the salon, disposable items for service but still clients have reduced. The main problem for salons is the rent of the building because the business has reduced and we are struggling to cover even the fixed costs. We have retained only 4-5 employees and fired the others.” He added that the worst hit are the small salons who do not have proper infrastructure and clients are now scared to visit those shops. Zahid Husain, 34, a resident of Shahjehanabad, who works as a hair stylist at a premium salon in E-2/Arera Colony, said, “ Post Covid, clients are wary of visiting salons and the number of walk-ins have gone down considerably. Before lockdown I used to provide haircut and other services to around a dozen clients in a day and my smartphone was always buzzing with calls from clients asking for appointments. Now after lockdown since the salon has opened, I serve 1-2 clients in a day and sit idle most of the time. I got only 20 per cent of my salary for April and may not even get the salary for May.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/salons-and-barber-shops-ready-to-serve-but-clients-stay-away/articleshow/76328362.cms||Sudeept Mishra
June 12, 2020||Nashik||Traders welcome shop timing relief, oppose odd-even plan||Nashik: The municipal corporation’s relaxations in shop timings has created a positive mood among the traders in the city. Since Thursday, shops have been allowed to operate full time. Earlier, they were allowed to remain open only between 9am and 5 pm, but the traders had demanded a relaxation. Accordingly, civic chief Radhakrishna Game issued a circular on Wednesday evening, allowing all standalone shops outside the containment areas, except malls and commercial complexes, to open full time. “The timing relaxation is a really good decision. It has created a positive mood among the traders as they will now get adequate time for business,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, Nashik jewellers’ association president. Digvijay Kapadia, president of Nashik cloth merchants’ association, also agreed. However, traders are still disappointed with the odd-even plan for opening the shops. Kapadia said, “There is a need to allow shops to stay open on all days . The government may use the option of giving two-day holiday, business-wise, each week.” Cloth and readymade garment shops may remain closed on Monday and Tuesday, while jewellers on Wednesday and Thursday. Hardware stores may take two-day holiday on Friday and Saturday. This formula will not only give relief to trade and businesses, but will also help reduce crowds, suggested Kapadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traders-welcome-shop-timing-relief-oppose-odd-even-plan/articleshow/76328369.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 12, 2020||Agra||Anamika Shukla scam: Kasganj police claims 2 brothers are main accused, arrests one||Agra: Five days after arresting the first of the 25 Anamikas in the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) teachers appointment scam, the Kasganj police on Thursday claimed to have identified two brothers as the main accused and arrested one of them. The arrested accused has been identified as Jaswant Singh Jaatav (42) of Nagla Khar village under Bhogaon police limits. He hails from Mainpuri and works as a headmaster at a Kannauj school. His younger brother Pushpender Singh Jaatav (32), who is also an accused, has been absconding since June 6, said police. Police said the two brothers are involved in similar scams in the past seven-eight years. Prior to the Anamika Shukla scam, they had used the identity and academic qualification of one Deepti Singh to illegally get job of teacher to scores of women, claimed police. “They used to charge Rs 1.5-2 lakh to prepare one set of forged documents. The modus operandi was simple: After collecting details of top ranking candidates who landed in government jobs, accused Pushpender Singh and his brother Jaswant would prepare fake marksheets, Aadhaar and other documents,” said Kasganj superintendent of police Sushil Ghule. “We suspect that many more people, and even officials in the education department, are involved in the scam. Once Pushpender is arrested, more details of the scam would emerge. Jaswant has admitted that his brother is the kingpin of the scam,” said SP Ghule. Jaswant is a BA second year dropout of the 1997-98 batch of National Degree College, Mainpuri. He completed his high school from Farrukhabad and intermediate from Mainpuri. Since September 22, 2015, he has been working as headmaster of a government school at Rampur Barauli in Indragadh block under Hasrena police jurisdiction in Kannauj. SHO Soron Ripudaman Singh, who is leading the investigation, said, “Jaswant obtained the job of headmaster by submitting fake documents. The documents belonged to one Vibhav Kumar of Hasanpur village.” In an exclusive report, TOI had earlier reported that an FIR lodged against Anamika Shukla in Amethi district mentioned her address as Hasanpur, but the village (Tigva) pradhan Mahendra Singh Jaatav claimed that the entire village is populated by members of the Dalit community. Hasanpur is 4 km away from Jaswant’s village Nagla Khar. “During investigation, we found that the two brothers helped only those women who had some link or contact with their family, village or friends. In the case of Surpiya Jaatav, who originally hailed from Kamyganj of Farrukhabad district but was working as teacher in Faridpur (Kasganj) KGBV, we found that her uncle Shishupal was a friend of the two brothers, who helped the woman to get the job in lieu of Rs 1.5 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/anamika-shukla-scam-kasganj-police-claims-2-brothers-are-main-accused-arrests-one/articleshow/76327232.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||New SOP for cops: Keep min contact with corpses||Nagpur: The police department, left rattled by the high number of Covid-19 cases among its personnel, has decided to follow certain stringent norms as far as dealing with dead bodies is concerned.In the latest Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued in the interest of field staff, the state police top brass has sounded caution regarding handling of bodies. Apart from mandatory gloves, masks or face shields, cops have also been asked to ensure minimum physical contact with the bodies. In case of an accident or murder, cops have been asked to ensure that there is least crowding around the spot. Bare minimum staffers and panchas or the witnesses would conduct panchnama formalities while maintaining Covid distancing. According to a senior official, associated with the process of issuing the SOP for Nagpur city police, unlike in the past the bodies must be taken away from the spot in ambulance instead of police vehicles. If it’s an unidentified body, the official said, cops must summon ambulance and shift it to government hospital with doctors or trained medical staffers. “If it’s case of suicide, natural deaths and so on, then the cops must try to seek information about any symptoms which the victim may have had before death and decide accordingly,” said the cop. “The post-mortem should be conducted only where necessary and there is an uncertainty about cause of death or foul play,” the officer said.Cops have also been instructed to disinfect and sanitize their vehicles repeatedly in case they have used it to transfer bodies when ambulance was not be available. “We have also told cops not to conduct inquest panchnama in case of natural deaths or complete the formalities with utmost care, like wearing PPE kits and such other protective gear,” he said. There are also instances of senior officers deploying their own measures to protect their team from being infected. Senior inspector Santosh Khandekar of Ajni police station had sent an entire team home after they had handled a body. “The team was sent home, asked to take bath and send report on the formalities completed at the spot through WhatsApp,” he said. It’s learnt, senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station has instructed his duty distribution constable to ensure that the a team from spot is not sent elsewhere. “In case someone is affected, then only few with him/her would have to be quarantined,” said a source from Beltarodi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-sop-for-cops-keep-min-contact-with-corpses/articleshow/76329608.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 12, 2020||Nashik||Onion price stays around Rs 900/quintal||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Lasalgaon has not dipped or gone above Rs 900 per quintal in the last three days. From June 2, when the average wholesale onion price was recorded at Rs 720 per quintal, the price has increased by Rs 180 and remained fixed at Rs 900 per quintal since Tuesday. According to APMC officials, the demand for onions from Bangladesh has increased at large. “Moreover, some hotels and restaurants have also opened. The rise in demand, both for export and in domestic markets, has led to a rise in the average wholesale price of onions in the last few days,” said officials. The average wholesale price has stabilized despite there being a rise in the supply of onions at Lasalagon from 17,000 to 18,000 quintal per day to 24,000-25,000 quintal a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-price-stays-around-rs-900/quintal/articleshow/76328402.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: In a fortnight, Bharatpur tops list of active cases||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 spread in Bharatpur, which borders UP, is worsening quickly with the district topping the list of active cases, overtaking Jaipur and Jodhpur, in a fortnight. It has also jumped to the third position in the overall list of most affected districts in Rajasthan. The sudden spike in Bharatpur has turned the district into one with the highest number of active cases at 573, followed by Jodhpur (532), Jaipur (433) and Alwar (161). The spread of the virus in Bharatpur can be gauged by the fact that it has 80 different containment zones. “Each containment zone covers a 3km area,” said a health department official in Bharatpur. Health authorities attributed spike to 160 migrants who tested positive, but above all due to vegetables traders from Kumher Gate wholesale mandi who had frequently visited Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/in-a-fortnight-bharatpur-tops-list-of-active-cases/articleshow/76331487.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: In a fortnight, Bharatpur tops list of active cases||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 spread in Bharatpur, which borders UP, is worsening quickly with the district topping the list of active cases, overtaking Jaipur and Jodhpur, in a fortnight. It has also jumped to the third position in the overall list of most affected districts in Rajasthan. The sudden spike in Bharatpur has turned the district into one with the highest number of active cases at 573, followed by Jodhpur (532), Jaipur (433) and Alwar (161). The spread of the virus in Bharatpur can be gauged by the fact that it has 80 different containment zones. “Each containment zone covers a 3km area,” said a health department official in Bharatpur. Health authorities attributed spike to 160 migrants who tested positive, but above all due to vegetables traders from Kumher Gate wholesale mandi who had frequently visited Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-fortnight-bharatpur-tops-list-of-active-cases/articleshow/76330436.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||Senate member ushers students into quarantine hostel sans PPE||Nagpur: A big controversy erupted over a Nagpur University senate member aiding a couple of students to enter the hostel at Law College Square which is a quarantine centre. A video grab shows two students entering the hostel and taking out their documents. Only one was wearing personal protection equipment (PPE), the other only had a mask.The NU statutory members objected to the senate colleague’s move and accused him of putting the students’ lives at risk by ushering them inside the hostel where quarantined patients are kept. Management council member Vishnu Changde and senate member Mohan Bajpayee demanded an inquiry.The ABVP has also sought an explanation from vice chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar. “Who granted them permission to move inside? Will other hostel inmates be allowed to take their documents too? The video grab clearly shows only one student was wearing PPE kit. If they have contracted the deadly disease and spread it to their family members, who will be held responsible for it,” the ABVP press note by activist Amit Patle asked the VC.A number of calls to Chandekar and registrar Neeraj Khaty by TOI went unanswered. Hostel warden Shyam Koretti too refused to talk to TOI. He was engaged in a war of words on the social media with the senate member who had allegedly taken the students inside.The warden blamed the senate member for exposing the students to the contaminated place. “They were misguided by some students’ representatives. Don’t use the students for your selfish gains, it’s very dangerous. You will be held responsible if anything happens to them,” Koretti told the member.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) additional commissioner Ram Joshi said that he had granted permission to three students to enter the premises after receiving a call from NU registrar. “The students had said that one of them had received an interview call and wanted the documents. We had provided them three PPE kits to wear before entering the centre. All their documents were dumped in a one room after patients were brought for quarantine and they wanted to take those back,” he told TOI.When pointed out that only one student was wearing PPE kit, Joshi said that even NMC employees work there and visitors didn’t come in contact with any quarantine patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senate-member-ushers-students-into-quarantine-hostel-sans-ppe/articleshow/76329596.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 12, 2020||India||India now No. 4 as fresh Covid cases and deaths touch record highs||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 cases climbed to the fourth highest in the world, overtaking the United Kingdom on Thursday, even as the country reported another highest single-day rise in new infections and deaths. The number of fresh cases crossed 11,000 for the first time while deaths were close to 400, having gone past 8,000 in all a day earlier. By Thursday night, India had 2,98,191 cases, as per data from state governments. The country added a record 11,442 cases during the day. Only the US, Brazil and Russia have recorded higher numbers of total Covid-19 cases than India. The country’s case count has seen a major spike in June, with 1,06,594 cases and 3,097 deaths reported in the first 11 days of the month, the third highest after Brazil and the US. Cases reported in June already account for more than a third of all Covid-19 infections reported in India since January 30. Fatalities reported in June (which may have taken place earlier) comprise 38% of India’s total Covid-19 toll till date of 8,105. Thursday’s surge in cases as well as deaths was mainly on account of a big spurt in the three worst-hit states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Both Maharashtra and Delhi reported their highest single-day count of fresh cases as well as deaths, while Tamil Nadu reported its second-highest jump in infections and the highest deaths in a day. Maharashtra added 3,607 cases to take its total caseload to 97,648, having crossed Canada’s tally of 97,472. This was the first time the state reported 3,500-plus fresh cases. Its death toll of 152 deaths was also the highest for a day in 95 days since the outbreak began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-now-no-4-as-fresh-covid-cases-and-deaths-touch-record-highs/articleshow/76331287.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Won’t allow schools to fleece parents: DDPI||Mysuru: The department of public instruction will not allow any school to overcharge parents, Mysuru deputy director of public instruction (DDPI) Panduranga said on Thursday. Schools cannot ask parents to buy shoes, books, and uniforms from any single vendor, he added. Participating in a phone-in programme organised by Vijaya Karnataka, the sister publication of The Times of India, he said schools shall display the fee structure prominently in their campus. “Parents can lodge complaints with the education department and their details will be kept secret,” he said. A section of callers including parents urged the DDPI to re-start classes at the earliest. However, a few others asked him not to be in a hurry to start classes as the Covid-19 scare has now spread everywhere. A parent said it was tough to look after children at homes, adding it was better to start schools at the earliest. Panduranga said elaborate arrangements have been made to conduct SSLC examination smoothly in the district. The department is taking all precautions to protect students from getting infected, he said. “Every examination centre will have two health staff, separate rooms for students with fever,” he said. Students will be allowed to enter the examination hall by 8.30am to ensure they need not wait outside the gates. We are in touch with KSRTC to operate buses on those routes from where SSLC students will arrive to the examination centres, he said. “We are also encouraging students to bring boiled water and food from their houses only to ensure they are healthy,” he stated. In Mysuru, 20,631 boys and 19,991 girls will write the SSLC examination in 139 centres. As many as 22 extra blocks will be set up in existing examination centres to ensure proper social distance is maintained inside examination halls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wont-allow-schools-to-fleece-parents-ddpi/articleshow/76328396.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kanpur||Two gifted sight with cornea transplant||Kanpur: Harnam Singh of Fatehpur and Anoop Kumar of Kanpur will now be able to see the world soon with the cornea donated by Rajendra Arora, a resident of Krishna Nagar area of the city. Their ophthalmic surgery was performed by Dr Shalini Mohan and her team on the occasion of World Eye Donation day observed on June 10. According to Dr Shalin, Rajendra Arora, who died a few days ago, had donated his eyes in his lifetime. Soon after his death, his cornea was collected by a team of the medical college. Harnam had lost his eye sight due to some infection while Anoop became blind following blood accumulation in his eyes. Their surgeries were pending due to the lockdown. After the government relaxed restrictions and issued some guidelines, both Harnam and Anoop went to the hospital to get cornea transplanted on June 10. Dr Shalini Mohan said, “This was the first operation in unlock 1.0 which was successful as both can now see the world from the cornea donated by Rajendra Arora”. She said around two lakh people are suffering from cornea problems in UP and around 22 lakh in the country from corneal blindness, and both problems are 80 percent preventable. “The corneal blindness can be treated by corneal transplantation but due to lack of cornea donation, people keep patients on the waiting list”, Dr Shalini added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-gifted-sight-with-cornea-transplant/articleshow/76329661.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nashik||PWD seeks funds for DPR of flyover project||Nashik: The state public works department (national highways division) has sought funds from the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) to prepare the detailed project report of the proposed elevated flyover between Sarda Circle and Datta Mandir near Nashik Road railway station. Sources in the state PWD (NH div) told TOI that the department has sent a written request to MoRTH for a budgetary provision to make the DPR for the project. “We will need about Rs 1.5 crore to hire a consultant to prepare the entire DPR for the project. If the ministry makes the provision in its annual plan, we will immediately start the groundwork to make the DPR,” said the department officials. The estimated project cost of the 6 km long flyover is about Rs 1,000 crore. Apart from the elevated four-lane corridor, there would be service roads.The state PWD cannot start the work as the funding of such megaprojects is done by MoRTH. Hemant Godse, the Shiv Sena MP from Nashik city, said that he is pursuing the matter with the Union minister, Nitin Gadkari and MoRTH. Godse said this project will ease the traffic congestion In 2016, Gadkari had announced the project and state PWD (NH division) was assigned the work. But two years later, on the request of Godse, Gadkari had directed National Highways Authority of India to take over the project and implement it. In January this year, the Nashik unit of NHAI asked the state PWD (NH) to take over the project due to financial reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pwd-seeks-funds-for-dpr-of-flyover-project/articleshow/76328428.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Clear Rs 700 crore industry dues: Panel to Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: The task force set up by the state government to revive the economy has submitted its interim report to the chief secretary, recommending, among a host of other measures, clearance of government dues to the industry worth Rs 700 crore. This is expected to come as a breather to the cash-strapped industry whose operational capabilities have been eroded due to demand dip and depleted order book. The payments are part of the incentives provided under the Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme (RIPS) for companies setting up industries in the state. The panel on industries and MSMEs, headed by additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal with senior bureaucrats from government departments as its members, has made several suggestions to put the economy back on track while making a case for relief to many sectors and segments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clear-rs-700cr-industry-dues-panel-to-govt/articleshow/76330449.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||Shut Mominpura slaughterhouse: Tiwari||Nagpur: BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari on Thursday demanded Nagpur Municipal Corporation should shut its authorized slaughterhouse functioning from the containment zone in Mominpura area. “Instead of shutting the slaughterhouse, NMC is giving lame excuses to keep the slaughterhouse open, saying it was permissible under essential commodities of Covid-19 rules,” he said in a press statement.On Wednesday, Tiwari had highlighted NMC deputy chief medical officer Dr P Gantawar’s statement that Naik Talao-Bangladesh resident got infected after he bought meat from NMC’s authorized slaughterhouse in Mominpura.“I objected to NMC allowing functioning of the slaughterhouse from a containment zone, when on the other hand it had shut the Gaddigodam slaughterhouse on May 15 after a positive patient of coronavirus was found in the area. How come NMC allowed functioning of a slaughterhouse in Mominpura when the area was declared a containment zone on April 12,” he asked. “NMC should close down the same considering chances of spread of coronavirus. Naik Talao-Bangladesh area are an example of spread of the virus,” he pointed out. He wondered when NMC is not allowing residents of the containment zone to move out of their house, how it is permitting meat to go out of the zone.Most Mominpura residents earn their livelihood by making bakery products. As per norms, selling of bakery products is allowed in containment zones but there is a ban on manufacturing. Due to Covid-19 lockdown, most of them are jobless, he claimed. On the same line, sale of meat should be allowed but not slaughtering in the containment zone, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shut-mominpura-slaughterhouse-tiwari/articleshow/76329614.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 12, 2020||Vadodara||Khanderao markets reopens, 14 fined||Vadodara: The historical Khanderao Market in the heart of the city opened after nearly three months with 14 persons being fined for not wearing a mask or not observing social distancing. The market had been closed ever since the lockdown began despite being primarily a vegetable and fruit market. The decision to close the market had to be taken within days of the beginning of the lockdown announced by the state government as the market was witnessing heavy rush. It had come to light that people from distant locations were also travelling to Khanderao Market to buy greens. The iconic market that also houses the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) headquarters remained shut since then. Difference of opinion had also prevailed on whether the market should be opened. With malls too opening up, it was eventually decided to open this market too with strict rules. All shopkeepers were asked to wear masks and gloves as well as provide sanitizers. “They were asked to ensure social distancing and do only retail sales and no wholesale business,” said VMC market inspector Vijay Panchal. The vendors were asked not to get down from their platforms and outlets to serve customers.” The 14 persons who were fined on Thursday include 13 shopkeepers and one visitor. Panchal said that most of the people were fined for not wearing masks and there were some cases of people being fined for not maintaining social distance too. Sources said that the VMC had taken strict action on the first day of opening to ensure that a situation like March did not arise again and rules were followed. Despite being the first day of the market opening, there was no major rush there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khanderao-markets-reopens-14-fined/articleshow/76326640.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Monsoon is here so are diseases: Hyderabad doctors||HYDERABAD: With the onset of monsoon, pulmonologists in the city said that the denizens have to be extra careful this year and protect themselves from vector-borne diseases along with coronavirus as the combination of dengue and Covid-19 can be fatal. Doctors said that along with physical distancing and maintaining personal hygiene to prevent the spread of Covid-19, keeping the surroundings clean with no water stagnation will now be inevitable. “A patient getting infected with both dengue and Covid-19 can be fatal as the patient’s condition can deteriorate quickly,” said Dr V Ramana Prasad, consultant pulmonologist, KIMS. Doctors say that while cases of dengue, malaria, chikungunya, among other diseases will only increase in the coming months, it would a little more challenging to handle them along with coronavirus. They say that the vector-borne diseases are mostly seen only after the flu season ends but this year, however, doctors and patients have to deal with them simultaneously. “It can be very confusing for patients. While they are being asked to stay at home for about seven days if they have a fever, doing so when they have dengue can cost them their lives. Fever is a common symptom for dengue, malaria, chikungunya, viral fever and Covid-19. So, it is important that patients seek medical help,” said Dr Aftab Ahmed, senior consultant physician, Apollo Hospitals. Even as few doctors claim that a combination of some vector-borne diseases with Covid-19 can be fatal, others said that we have to wait and watch as “we are going to see these combinations for the first time”. They, however, said that getting infected with both will definitely worsen a patient’s condition. Doctors said that it would be better if Covid-19 testing becomes accessible before monsoon begins as patients will be apprehensive that they might have got infected with Covid-19 whenever they have a fever and other flu symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monsoon-is-here-so-are-diseases-docs/articleshow/76330462.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Navy brings back 233 Indians||Ahmedabad: Under the Indian Navy’s ‘Samudra Setu’ operation, the naval vessel INS Shardul on Thursday brought back 233 Indians to Gujarat from Iran, where they were stranded due to travel restrictions owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. The ship set sail from Bandar Abbas in Iran on June 8, with 233 Indians, mainly fishermen from Valsad district and arrived at Porbandar on Thursday. After the disembarkation, further arrangements would be looked after by the Porbandar district collector and the state government, said the defence PRO for Gujarat, Puneet Chadha. “The ship is docked at Porbandar port and passengers are being deboarded. The local administration has made arrangements to send them to their respective native places,” said Chadha. He said safety protocols, including pre-boarding health checks and social distancing were followed on the ship. He added that doctors, nutritionists with life-saving equipment were on the ship to deal with any emergency. Earlier, Navy ships Jalashwa and Magar had evacuated 2,874 Indians from the Maldives and Sri Lanka to Kochi and Tuticorin under ‘Samudra Setu’, launched to bring back Indians stranded abroad after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/navy-brings-back-233-indians/articleshow/76329665.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Surge in number of Covid-19 cases in district worries officials||KANPUR: The rise in coronavirus positive cases in the first ten days of June has worried the district authorities who are discussing to find ways to control the pandemic. In the last ten days, the city has recorded 240 cases, of them 11 persons have died. The pandemic has proved all predictions wrong as the virus is spreading in old areas. Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde, at a review meeting held on Wednesday had also expressed concern over a spike in the number of corona positive cases. He directed the officials to pay more attention to private labs and insurance companies as most of the reports of private labs were found positive. He has issued an alert to the officials that due to a surge in the number of cases, it might become necessary to increase the number of hospitals and beds in the coming days. He said that the 100-bedded level-one Narayana Hospital should now be converted into a 200-bedded hospital. If the number of patients increased, private hospitals could be taken over for their treatment, he said. The district administration authorities had hoped that during summer season, spread of virus would be checked due to high temperature, but their hopes dashed as it is spreading in new areas. The situation was almost under control till the third week of May, but after the influx of migrant workers, it went out of control. According to some experts, the situation could become worse in monsoon as weather scientists have predicted normal rains. Meanwhile, DM Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Thursday made an appeal to the residents to follow the Covid-19 protocol and social distancing rules, use masks, avoid close contact with strangers and come out of home only if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/surge-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-dist-worries-officials/articleshow/76329676.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Now, WhatsApp your complaints to Mescom||Mangaluru: It’s that time of the year when phone lines keep ringing off the hooks in customer care centres of electricity supply companies. With the onset of the monsoon in Karnataka, the primary concern for electricity supply companies is to attend to power outages in the shortest possible time using all means, and they are taking the help of social media to get information on power outages in a particular area. To aid consumers with such issues, Mescom that has jurisdiction over Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Udupi districts has now added WhatsApp to its list of consumer grievances redressal system. Rolled out on trial basis last monsoon, this social media platform will help authorities locate problems more easily and address them, avers Lohith B S, executive engineer (Information Technology), Mescom. “WhatsApp gives consumers an added forum to register their grievances with the company and helps deal with common complaint of engaged numbers of officials, toll free number or section offices concerned,” he said. Consumers may tweet their issues to us or share it on our official FB page, Lohith told TOI. Each of these platforms is monitored and action taken accordingly, he said adding testing is on to auto-generate replies to WhatsApp queries. A senior officer manning Mescom’s customer care centre said complaints through social media, WhatsApp included for now accounts for just 5% of total complaints received and rest land on toll free number 1912. “We receive three-times the daily average of 1,000-odd calls during monsoon and 95% of these ‘fuse off calls’,” the officer said underscoring the challenge that Mescom faces in ensuring uninterrupted power supply during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/now-whatsapp-your-plaints-to-mescom/articleshow/76328438.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Varanasi||BHU bags 3rd spot in national ranking||Varanasi: Banaras Hindu University (BHU) has again claimed the third position in top 10 universities in the country for the fourth consecutive year in ranking released by National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF). Besides, BHU also claimed the 10th rank in the overall ranking. Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank released the India Ranking 2020 for Higher Educational Institutions on Thursday. BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh said, “In 2019 too, BHU was ranked third in university category and 10th in overall category.” National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranks institutes on basis of performance on five parameters — Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RP), Graduation Outcomes (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI) and Perception (PR). Ranks are assigned on basis of sum of marks assigned for the parameters. “BHU’s score in overall category is 62.03, and 63.15 in university category. BHU has fared well in the medical category, by claiming 6th place,” added Singh. Total 3,771 institutions offered themselves for ranking in overall category-specific and/or domain-specific rankings. In all, the 3,771 institutes, including 294 universities, 1,071 engineering institutes, 630 management institutes, 334 pharmacy institutes, 97 law institutes, 118 medical institutes, 48 architecture institutes and 1,659 general degree colleges had submitted 5,805 applications for ranking under various categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-bags-3rd-spot-in-national-ranking/articleshow/76327252.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Big B sponsors air travel of UP migrants stranded in Mumbai||Lucknow: Extending a helping hand to UP migrants stranded in Mumbai, Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan sponsored a special flight for their journey back home. At least 185 migrants, including five infants, reached Lucknow on Thursday morning. Under Mission Milaap, the actor has collaborated with Haji Ali Trust and Mahim Dargah Trust to send stranded migrants to their homes in various districts of Uttar Pradesh. These passengers were among 1,550 people who have registered with the trust for return to their native state. Senior manager, Airport Authority of India (AAI), Lucknow, Nitin Kadiyan said the flight had 185 passengers, including five infants. Most passengers, including middle-aged men and women, said they had boarded a flight for the first time. Those who arrived on Thursday were from Lucknow, Basti and Unnao districts. Sub-divisional officer, Sarojininagar, Prafull Tripathi said, “The passengers followed guidelines issued by the government and had Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. They were also registered with UP’s Covid website. The medical team present at the airport screened the passengers before exit.” “I did not get ticket for Shramik Special train. I had lost my job and did not have enough money to book a taxi to return. I will always be indebted to Mr Bachchan for helping me and my family return home,” a passenger said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/big-b-sponsors-air-travel-of-up-migrants-stranded-in-mumbai/articleshow/76330525.cms||Rahul Tripathi
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Only non-symptomatic staff with masks allowed to work||NEW DELHI: Days after Delhi government allowed private establishments to open in the capital, Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday released a standard operating procedure on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in offices. The SOP included generic preventive measures to be followed at all times, office-specific rules, steps to be taken on occurrence of cases and disinfection procedures to be implemented. Following the guidelines of the central government, private offices were allowed to open in the national capital with 50% capacity and all curbs were lifted on their operations from June 1. Senior government officials say the Union ministry of health and family welfare has come out with a detailed protocol and the same will be followed in Delhi. According to the SOP, only staff without symptoms have been allowed to work. Those above 65 years of age, pregnant women and with mild symptoms of Covid-19 have been advised to work from home. The employees will be allowed to enter only after thermal screening and sanitisation of hands and social distancing will have to be maintained inside. Wearing face masks will be mandatory and meetings through videoconferencing be encouraged. The government has suggested suspending the visitor pass system and advised social distancing at stalls or cafeteria both inside and outside the building. Provision of running water and soap in lavatories and frequent sanitisation of the premises have also been advised. The SOP has also suggested that elderly employees and pregnant women may not be assigned the frontline task. In case an employee is found affected by symptoms similar to Covid-19, the SOP says that the nearest health facility should immediately be informed. “Risk assessment shall be undertaken by the designated public health authority and accordingly further advice shall be made regarding management of case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection,” the guidelines say. An official said if there are a large number of contacts from a pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic case, there could be a possibility of a cluster emerging in the workplace setting. “The essential principles of risk assessment, isolation and quarantine of contacts, case referral and management will remain the same. However, the scale of arrangements will be higher,” the official added. “If one or two cases emerge, disinfection will be limited to the area visited by the persons in the last 48 hours. In case of more than two corona patients, the building will be closed for 48 hours and thoroughly disinfected,” the SOP states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/only-non-symptomatic-staff-with-masks-allowed-to-work/articleshow/76329706.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Chartered flight ticket rates from UAE to Kerala come down||Kozhikode: Expat voluntary organisations have reduced the fares for chartered flights from UAE to Kerala with more operators securing nod and more airlines coming forward. For instance, Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC) has secured the nod to operate more than 70 chartered flights for repatriating stranded expats from the UAE. Armed with approvals from state government and assured mass bookings from expatriates desperate to return home, volunteer organisations are in a position to bargain with private airlines for bringing down ticket rates for chartered flights. The ticket rates in KMCC-chartered flights from UAE to Kozhikode have come down from AED 1250 (around Rs 25,000) charged earlier this month to AED 990 (around Rs 20,000) for the flight operated on June 11, though it is still higher than the AED 750 (around Rs 15,000) charged for Vande Bharat Mission flights operated by Air India. KMCC office-bearers said it has got the approvals, including from the state government, to operate 70 flights from UAE to Kerala. UAE KMCC national committee president Puthur Rahman said the flights will operate over next two months. Ebrahim Elettil, president of KMCC Dubai, said the organisation could now bargain effectively with private airline companies as it can now show approvals received from the government and also the assured number of passengers. “Now another UAE-based airline has agreed to operate flights at AED 925 after we told them that we have enough passengers for 30 flights currently. We will strive to bring down the fares further. The rate quoted by the private airline IndiGo for the ongoing chartered flight services to Karipur Airport is AED 1,050. But to provide ticket rate to passengers below AED 1,000, we are contributing AED 60 per ticket for 540 passengers of the three chartered flights operating to Karipur Airport on June 11 and 12. We are providing around 10 tickets free in each flight to the most needy,” the president of KMCC Dubai said. Following the intervention made by the state government, the Indian consulate in Dubai in the UAE had asked NRK organisations seeking permission to operate chartered flights to Kerala to submit written undertaking that the ticket fares charged for the flights are same as the rates for Vande Bharat Mission repatriation flights. Apart from many voluntary organisations, industrial houses in the Gulf owned by Keralite business persons have also secured nod to charter flights to repatriate employees and other passengers to Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/chartered-flight-ticket-rates-from-uae-to-kerala-come-down/articleshow/76328504.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad civic body’s MSW treatment plant to resume ops after 5 years||Bareilly: Moradabad Municipal Corporation (Moradabad Nagar Nigam) is all set to restart operation at the municipal solid waste (MSW) treatment plant in the city after a gap of almost five years. Operations are likely to begin next month.The operations at MSW treatment plant were stopped after some issues arose with the then private agency that was assigned the contract to run the plant.The plant is located on Rampur road. It will treat around 400 metric tons of municipal solid waste every day, said officials at the Moradabad civic body.Speaking with TOI, Moradabad additional municipal commissioner Gambhir Singh said, “The plant was shut around five years ago following some issues with the private agency that was to operate the plant in the city. Ever since then, the city has been struggling with waste management. Municipal solid waste from across the city is being collected and dumped at small dumping yards from where it is liftrd and dumped at the landfill site located in Gulab Badi area. It has been overflowing there for many years.” Singh added, “Treatment of solid waste will now be resumed at the plant and we have roped another private agency for the purpose. The door-to-door garbage collectors will dump the solid waste at the trenching ground from where it will be taken to the MSW treatment plant site. The plant spans 29 acres of land on Rampur road, on the city's outskirts. The operations will be kickstarted at the plant probably by next month."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-civic-bodys-msw-treatment-plant-to-resume-ops-after-5-years/articleshow/76327276.cms||Maria Khan
June 12, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 tally crosses 1,000 mark in Agra dist||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: The number of Covid-19 cases in west UP's "hotspot" Agra has surpassed the 1,000 mark with nine new positive cases reported in the district till Thursday evening. The district's tally is now 1,008. The new cases include a six-year-old, an 18-year-old student and an elderly health worker. Two persons also died in Agra. They included a man, 53, from Rajpur Chungi and another, 83, from Etmadulla. Both died of comorbid conditions. So far, 56 people have died here. Bareilly witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases after 19 people tested positive on Thursday. Bareilly crossed the 100 mark, with the total tally now at 107, including 67 active, 38 discharged and two deaths. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "Of these 19 cases, nine are migrants." The Covid-19 tally in Budaun rose to 53 after five fresh cases surfaced on Thursday. Shahjahanpur too reported five new cases, taking its tally to 54. In Meerut, at least 10 cases were reported, taking the tally to 565, including one found in Kanpur, and with one more death, the toll reached 42, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. Five more people tested positive in Bijnor district taking the tally to 189. Out of them, 92 are active. Also, a Delhi police constable was found positive in Shamli. Meanwhile, at least 45 people, including two policemen and 11 migrants, tested positive in Mathura in the past 48 hours, taking the district’s tally to 150.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-tally-crosses-1000-mark-in-agra-dist/articleshow/76328460.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||19-year-old girl found hanging in her house||Pilibhit: A 19-year-old girl was found hanging in her house in a village under Neuria police station on Wednesday evening. Police said the girl was alone at the house when the incident took place. The autopsy was conducted on Thursday, and police have been waiting for the report to ascertain whether the girl had committed suicide or she was killed and then hanged. Neuria station house officer (SHO) Kheem Singh Jalal said, “The Victim’s parents had gone to the Pilibhit district courts where a hearing in connection with a land dispute was going on, while her brother was out on work when the incident took place.” The SHO said a local man who had gone to meet the girl’s father found her body hanging from a ceiling fan and he alerted police. “A case has not been registered as we have not received a complaint in this connection. But, based on the autopsy report, we will take further action,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/19-year-old-girl-found-hanging-in-her-house/articleshow/76327296.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Citizens reconnect with nature via home composting during Covid||The Covid pandemic has brought out the best among communities. Even as the pandemic threw life out of gear following the lockdown, residents in Punjab’s Kapurthala district were up for the challenge. It is in these dire circumstances that ITC Mission’ Sunehra Kal’ along with technical support from FINISH Society decided to transform lives of the people by helping them reconnect with nature. The Home Composting Programme was jumpstarted after ensuring that Kapurthala be first declared ODF. Soon after achieving ODF status, a survey of houses in the locality and to find people deeply connected with nature was conducted. A sticker in Punjabi describing and differentiating between wet and dry waste were placed in the kitchens of the people. The exercise triggered by Covid now involves 29 wards, of which 17 are also busy promoting the solid waste management programme. The total number of houses is around 12,500, with each ward having about 850 houses. These wards are further divided among individuals that work for ‘Sunehra Kal’ in concert with FINISH society. The main idea behind this endeavour is to motivate people and inform them about home composting, and help people understand the distinction between wet and dry waste. Local residents realize how waste segregation is important to keep coronavirus at bay. Chander Mahadev, media consultant, FINISH Society, says: “Initially, when the team began working in this area, there were not enough composting demo units. So composting was started in pots that the family already owned. The pots were filled with kitchen waste, and jaggery water was added to them to facilitate fermentation. Chili and turmeric powder was also added to prevent odour and rotting, and airing through ‘turning over’ was required.”  FINISH team members Kalpana and Ajay Kumar’s work mainly entails monitoring and motivation, and changing people's thought process about waste. After tackling door to door contact, the concept of segregation of wet waste and dry waste is explained using pamphlets and stickers. The ITC-FINISH team has positively impacted around 2,100 houses Among the first to adopt this practice was Harvinder Kaur. Her house has several plants and also boasts of a kitchen garden. The kitchen waste of the house is used as fertilizer for these plants. She sets an example in self-sustained gardening through home composting within the community. Another motivating personality in the home composting space is Vineeta Rani, who generates income by making and selling compost and stitching clothes. She also grows various vegetables. To produce compost, she collects vegetable peels and other kitchen waste from houses and vendors in her neighbourhood. Veena sources wet waste from around 20 houses in the neighbourhood, and in three months, about 15-20 packets are produced,.These compost packets are sold at 50 rupees a kilo to homes for usage in potted plants or to other people from smaller areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citizens-reconnect-with-nature-via-home-composting-during-covid/articleshow/76330533.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||Man dives to death for TikTok video||Bareilly: Taking a plunge into an irrigation canal from a tree for a TikTok video proved fatal for 24-year-old Mursheed Ahmad. He drowned after his head hit a stone. Ahmad's friends who were busy shooting the video brought him out of the water with the help of locals and took him to a hospital where he was declared "dead". Ahmad had completed his graduation and was planning to move to West Asia for a decent job. His passport was ready, but his departure was delayed due to the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown. The incident was reported from Katra area of Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday. Since Ahmad’s phone couldn’t be unlocked, the police are yet to receive the video of the incident and the grieving family are unwilling to take any steps in the case. Ahmad was the youngest among two brothers. One of his brothers works at a warehouse in Bareilly. SHO of Katra police station Harpal Singh told TOI, “The young man and his friends were shooting a TikTok video. Prima facie it is an act of negligence. We didn’t register any FIR since the family didn't file any complaint. However, we have recorded the incident in our general diary and handed over his body to the family." Ahmad's case is not an isolated one in west UP. On June 8, two brothers among three youths had died while taking a dip in River Sharda in Bheera area of Lakhimpur Kheri district. They were shooting a video and drifted into deep water for "better photographs". Also, another youth died while taking a plunge in Ganga in Muzaffarnagar district. His video had gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-dives-to-death-for-tiktok-video/articleshow/76327307.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 12, 2020||Nashik||NMC slum health survey covers 2.9L, finds 40 cancer patients||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has conducted a survey of nearly 2.90 lakh people living in the slums so far. The survey has found over 5,647 people above the age of 50 years who have serious ailments like cancer, diabetes and blood pressure. Almost 52% (2,976 ) of them are women, while the remaining 48% (2,671) are men living in the slums. Of 5,647 people suffering from ailments, most are suffering from blood pressure (3,561), followed by diabetes (2,086) and cancer (40). Moreover, it was found that proportionately more women have blood pressure problems when compared to men. Of total 3,561 patients of blood pressure, 1,923 are women, while 1,698 are men. However, cancer is more prevalent among men. Of total 40 cancer patients in the slum, 26 are men. Diabetes affected about the same number form the either sex — 1,047 men and 1,039 women. The survey also focused on children below 2 years of age with vaccination and pregnant women. The health teams conducted checkups of 1,657 pregnant women in the slums. in During the survey, NMC teams found 117 people with fever and handed out medicines. Nearly 3 lakh people in the city live in slums and the NMC survey has already covered 2.87 lakh individuals — 68,800 houses in 150 slums. Over 100 teams of health officials and other staff were deployed. “After the survey in the slum, we will cover the old city areas and poor urban areas. The population in these areas is expected to be over 1 lakh, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-slum-health-survey-covers-2-9l-finds-40-cancer-patients/articleshow/76328457.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 12, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Distressed over mounting debt, migrant worker ends life||JHANSI: A migrant worker, who had recently returned to his native village Dhawakar in Mauranipur tehsil of Jhansi, committed suicide by hanging himself at his house. As per family members, he was distressed due to the mounting loan which he had taken a few years ago for his daughter’s wedding. The deceased, identified as Puran Ahirwa (46) is survived by his wife, daughter and two sons. Earlier, he used to do farming in the village, but his farm was not big enough to suffice for his family. He had taken a loan of Rs 4 lakh from private money lenders for his daughter’s wedding two years ago. He had also lent a loan of Rs 1 lakh under KCC. Not able to pay the loans, Puran decided to migrate to Delhi for work. Due to the lockdown, he was left with no job in Delhi, and somehow managed to return to his village a fortnight ago. His family said he travelled to Lucknow from Delhi by train, and walked down to his village from Lucknow. “Since his return, Puran was distressed as he wasn’t able to pay back the loans, althogh no one had pressurized him to return them. The ill health of his grandson added to his anguish, as per his family. On Wednesday, he was found hanging in a room at his house,” said Mauranipur SDM Ankur Srivastav. “We are extending all possible monetary help to the aggrieved family,” added the SDM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/distressed-over-mounting-debt-migrant-worker-ends-life/articleshow/76329687.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Shops violate Covid norms, penalised||SECUNDERABAD: As part of the special drive on commercial establishments to check Covid-19 preventive measures, a special team of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Thursday conducted raids on 10 to 15 shops in Marredpally and penalised them. The first Covid-19 case had been identified in Marredpally and till date four positive cases have been reported in the area. The SCB officials found that all the managements had thrown the Covid-19 norms out of the window. “We observed that they are not maintaining physical distancing norms, thermal scanners and providing sanitizers,” a SCB sanitation wing official, who led the special team, told TOI. Two major commercial units were sealed and penalties were imposed on the remaining commercial units. “We also warned the shopkeepers, who were penalised, that their shops will be sealed if further violations are found,” he added. Till date, SCB has raided 30 to 50 commercial units and penalised more than 25 shops. Meanwhile, a new positive case has surfaced in Bowenpally on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shops-violate-covid-norms-penalised/articleshow/76330475.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||Tractor hits bike, turns turtle, leaving two dead||Bareilly: A tractor trailer turned turtle near Sindhauli in Shahjahanpur district, after the driver attempted to escape from the spot after ramming into a bike, on Thursday afternoon. The bike rider and an elderly man sitting on the tractor died on the spot, while the tractor driver escaped. Police said both accidents happened due to the carelessness of the tractor driver, and that he had been booked under sections 304A (death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of IPC. Hannu Singh (38) of Bhavalkheda village was returning home with his wife Poonam on his bike after meeting relatives in Sindhauli. Near Mahau village, a tractor trailer carrying bricks rammed into his bike, leaving Hannu grievously injured, while Poonam escaped with minor injuries. After the accident, the tractor driver sped up to escape from the spot, but lost control of the tractor instead, which turned turtle. Ram Prasad (58) who was sitting on the tractor with his nephew was badly injured in the head, and lost consciousness. He was brought to the nearby community health centre along with Hannu Singh, where the doctor declared both of them dead. SHO of Sindhauli police station Jag Narayan Singh told TOI, “We have information that Ram Prasad’s nephew was driving the tractor. We’re searching for him, while we wait for a complaint from the biker’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tractor-hits-bike-turns-turtle-leaving-two-dead/articleshow/76327335.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Online career counselling picks up amid Covid crisis||LUCKNOW: At a time when Covid-19 pandemic has restricted movement, online career counselling is picking up in the city to help youngsters worried about their future prospects. While several institutes and colleges have started online counselling, Institute for Career Studies (ICS) got a boost when it got support from angel investor Rishi Bagla, promoter of Bagla Group. “In association with the group, ICS has raised Rs 2.45 crore to expand online counselling space. This will be used to increase the reach of ICS globally through technological upscaling. We are set to launch a mobile application,” said founder-director, ICS, Amrita Dass. Neha Anand, a psychologist and career counsellor, has also started online career sessions. “In view of lockdown and current scenario, many people are worried about their career. The sessions will make them better equipped for job scenario once the pandemic is effectively tackled,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-career-counsellingpicks-up-amid-covid-crisis/articleshow/76330546.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kanpur||GSVM principal transferred after Tablighi remarks row||Kanpur: Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college principal Dr Arti Lalchandani was attached with the office of director general medical education on Thursday and Dr R B Kamal appointed the new principal. The government action came in wake of her alleged controversial remarks against members of Tablighi Jamaat after a video went viral recently. District magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari told TOI said an order of Dr Lalchandani’s attachment to DGME’s office was received on Thursday and she was apprised about the same. There had been an outcry after the video of Dr Lalchandani surfaced on social media on May 31 wherein she purportedly referred to Tablighi Jamaat members as terrorists and questioned why the government was giving them VIP treatment instead of punishing them by keeping them in solitary confinement in jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gsvm-principal-transferred-after-tablighi-remarks-row/articleshow/76329718.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Allow all private hospitals with capability to do Covid-19 tests: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: In a timely intervention, Delhi high court on Thursday directed all private hospitals in the city to start conducting Covid-19 tests if they had the facility. The order would help patients being forced to wait to get tested. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted, “It appears that Delhi is fast heading towards becoming the corona capital of the country, an epithet the city can well do without. We are of the opinion that it is the need of the hour that all private hospitals equipped with a lab to undertake Covid-19 test be permitted to do so without any further loss of time.” At present, 40 labs — 17 government-run and 23 private — are approved in Delhi for Covid-19 testing. The court’s order, which came after taking note of the phenomenal spike in cases and the need to ramp up tests, will increase the number of testing centres. The judges also expressed concern over the plight of non-Covid patients who go to private hospitals for emergency surgeries and other such procedures. They are not attended to till they undergo a Covid-19 test, for which they have to go elsewhere. Terming it “most unfortunate”, the court ordered all private hospitals asked by the AAP government to reserve 20% beds for admitting Covid-19 patients and which have labs sanctioned by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to “conduct tests on symptomatic and asymptomatic persons who seek admission to the hospital for undergoing surgeries and procedures of other nature.” To verify if all the 23 private labs are carrying out testing at present, given conflicting orders by Delhi government, the court asked these labs to file affidavits clarifying if they had been permitted to test suspected Covid-19 patients by adopting the RT-PCR or CB-NAAT test. “They shall also point out the difficulties, if any, faced by them on account of any bureaucratic red-tapism,” it directed. In another key direction, the court made ICMR a party to the matter and asked it to furnish details of private hospitals authorised by it to undertake Covid-19 tests. ICMR, while filing its status report, shall also indicate the number of applications submitted by accredited labs in Delhi seeking permission to conduct Covid-19 test and the status of the same. The order came on the application by advocate Sanjeev Sharma, who had contended that there had been several instances where non-Covid patients needing surgery or emergency procedures were required to undergo testing before that. However, the hospitals said they were not permitted by Delhi government to conduct the test. So far, 2.71 lakh Covid tests have been conducted in Delhi. The positivity rate of tests conducted has gone up from about 4% in the initial period to 35%, data shows, reflecting the spread of the disease. On Thursday, officials said 5,360 people were tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours of which 1,877 (35%) tested positive. Recently, Delhi government had barred seven private labs from conducting Covid-19 tests citing irregularities. While six of them have resumed testing, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, a Covid-designated facility, is yet to get government approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allow-all-private-hospitals-with-capability-to-do-covid-tests-hc/articleshow/76330476.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 23, killed, two injured as tractor-trolley overturns, falls into roadside ditch||Pilibhit: A 23-year-old man was killed while his brother and cousin sustained multiple injuries after the tractor-trolley they were travelling in overturned and fell into a ditch along Rampura Mishra-Richha road near Haidarganj Crossing on Thursday morning. Police have identified the victim as Kunwar Sen, a resident of Rampura Mishra village under Jahanabad police station, and the injured as Sen's younger brother Rahul and their cousin Satish. Both Rahul and Satish were shifted to the district hospital, while the body was sent for autopsy, said police. Station house officer (SHO) Harish Vardhan Singh said, “Sen was on way to his fields when the accident took place. He got crushed under the tractor and died on the spot. He is survived by wife and a 20-day-old son.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-23-killed-two-injured-as-tractor-trolley-overturns-falls-into-roadside-ditch/articleshow/76327319.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Accused cop is a mischief monger: SP||Mysuru: Mysuru district police who recovered bullets from the banks of the river Kapila near Nanjangud have discovered that the accused constable had allegedly hid the bullets to frame his colleagues working at the police station at T Narasipura. The constable is Krishnegowda, a writer at the station and has been suspended. Unnamed cops were accused of misplacing 50 .303 rifle bullets from T Narasipura police station on May 31. Three days later, the writer was held responsible as the keys of the strong room where the ammunitions were kept was with him. His arrest led the cops to recover 20 of the 50 missing bullets on Tuesday and a probe is on to find the rest. Superintendent of police CB Ryshyanth confirmed to TOI that Krishnegowda had hid the bullets and they are probing when and why he took out the bullets. “A preliminary probe has revealed that the writer is a mischief-monger and he has done this to bring a bad name to some of his colleagues at the station,” he said. Initially, police had suspended another cop who was the writer before Krishnegowda took charge but later revoked his suspension after his involvement was not found in it. A total of 2,500 bullets of .303 rifle were given to the police station. During a random inspection on May 23, about 50 bullets could not be found. A FIR was filed on May 31 and two days later, Krishnegowda was suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/accused-cop-is-a-mischief-monger-sp/articleshow/76328481.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||NHRC team inspects handling of Covid-19 situation at Lok Nayak Hospital||NEW DELHI: Following complaints of mismanagement in handling Covid-19 situation in the capital, a team of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) visited Lok Nayak Hospital on Thursday for an on-spot inspection. It is the biggest dedicated Covid-19 facility under Delhi government. The team, led by NHRC member Jyoti Kalra, interacted with hospital administration, doctors, staff and attendants of the patients, visited the emergency and the wards having beds for Covid patients. “The team was informed that no serious patient was denied admission. Only those with serious condition were being admitted, while others with mild symptoms were being advised home quarantine. The hospital administration claimed that they are being referred patients by various doctors without any proper protocol,” NHRC said in the statement on complaints of patients being denied admission and treatment. “The team also found several beds lying vacant. The hospital administration said that equipment like dialysis machines and ventilators have also been kept ready for any exigencies. About 23% of doctors and para-medical staff has been kept ready for deployment on need basis,” said an NHRC official. On the complaints of delay in shifting of dead bodies, the hospital administration claimed it could be because of problems in lifts on some occasions. The NHRC team, however, said that the hospital was required to put up visible notice boards giving directions to patients and their attendants at the entry gate with the telephone number of an official who can guide the families and facilitate them. Kalra said the idea behind NHRC’s visit was to plug loopholes in the functioning of hospitals and not just find faults. “A detailed report will be prepared and submitted to the commission shortly,” she said. On complaint of senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, NHRC had earlier sent notices to the Union health and family welfare ministry and Delhi government over the Covid-19 situation and asked them to submit a report within 10 days on arrangements and facilities at hospitals and care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nhrc-team-inspects-handling-of-covid-19-situation-at-lok-nayak/articleshow/76329750.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||2,098 Covid-19 deaths in Delhi, say corporations; govt figure 1,085||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations of Delhi came together on Thursday to claim that funerals of 2,098 confirmed Covid-19 cases had taken place till Thursday in various crematoria and burial grounds run by them in the city. Delhi government’s official figure of deaths due to the pandemic was 1,085 on Thursday, just a little more than half of the figure released by the civic bodies. In reply, the Delhi government issued a statement saying it had set up a death audit committee comprising senior doctors who were working impartially for assessing all deaths due to Covid-19. Govt cites HC ruling, says death audit committee is doing its jobThe government release said, “The Delhi high court has also declared that the death audit committee is working in an appropriate manner and that the work of the committee cannot be questioned.” “We believe that not even a single life must be lost to coronavirus. This is a time to unite and save the lives of the people. This is not the time to make allegations after allegations. We all have to fight this pandemic together and ensure that not a single life is lost due to coronavirus,” the statement added. The corporations announced their death toll at a joint press conference by mayors, leaders of the house and standing committee chairmen of the three bodies. Citing this, they challenged the official figure released by the Delhi government. Bhupender Gupta, standing committee chairman of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, accused the Delhi government of hiding the true figures. He said the south corporation had carried out 1,080 Covid-protocol funerals, the north corporation 976 and east corporation 42 till Thursday afternoon. “When any hospital sends the body of a patient which is to be cremated while taking precautions according to the Covid-19 victim dead body management protocol, it sends a verification certificate from a doctor which states whether the patient is coronasuspected or corona-confirmed positive. Based on these certificates submitted in our crematoria and burial grounds, we are reporting that 2,098 corona positive bodies have been sent to us,” said Gupta. His counterpart in the north civic body, Jai Prakash, said there were additional 240 cases of suspected corona patients whose funerals were held. He said the north corporation had received 77 suspected cases, south 123 and east 40. “On May 16, the Delhi government had issued a notice to the corporations asking for data to study the mismatch between the corona death figure of the Delhi government and the corporations. We replied to the notice on May 17,” said Jai Prakash. “Our municipal health officers collected the data from deputy health officers of the 12 zones and a report was sent. At that time, the figure was double of what the Delhi government was claiming it to be. And from May till June, the figure has remained double of what the state government is claiming,” he added. The standing committee chairperson of the east civic body, Sandeep Kapoor, said that they had received 42 confirmed cases. The number was low because most of the bodies from their area were being sent to Nigambodh Ghat, which is under the north corporation. “Whenever a body is received, it has a Covid-positive certificate issued by a doctor. It is not our job to keep authenticating these official certificates. We have other work too. They are using delaying tactics. The deaths which have been added in the past 10-15 days are the backlog,” said Kapoor. Meanwhile, senior functionaries from all three civic bodies also presented details of the work they claimed to have carried out during the pandemic and offered all the stadiums, community centres and other facilities under their jurisdiction to be used as temporary hospitals for corona positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2098-covid-deaths-in-delhi-say-corporations-govt-figure-1085/articleshow/76331341.cms||Paras Singh
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||82 more patients, four deaths reported in Pb||Chandigarh: The situation in Punjab worsened further as 82 new cases of Covid-19, including four deaths, were reported in the state. These include 27 contacts of positive cases, 14 of influenza-like illness, three persons having tuberculosis, two cancer patients and a police official, while source of infection in 14 cases was outside Punjab. Of the total cases, 53 were reported from six most densely populated districts -- Ludhiana, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur -- of the state. The overall tally of positive cases in the state has now reached 2,887. As many as 19 cases were reported from Pathankot — 14 contacts of positive cases and five self-reported new cases. Of Ludhiana’s 18 cases, seven were contacts of positive case, while four were co-infected with ILI. Fourteen cases were reported from Amritsar, including nine of ILI. Sangrur recorded 10 cases and Patiala six. Mohali and Jalandhar reported four cases each, while Nawanshahr and Moga had two cases each. Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Muktsar recorded one case each. Four deaths were recorded — two in Amritsar, one each in Jalandhar and Sangrur. A total of 27 patients were discharged after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/82-more-patients-four-deaths-reported-in-pb/articleshow/76330482.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||389 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in a day in Haryana||Chandigarh: In the worst single-day toll due to Covid-19, Haryana reported 12 deaths on Thursday even as 389 fresh cases raised the total infections to almost 6,000. The hardest-hit Gurgaon reported six deaths, Faridabad four and Ambala and Rohtak reported one death each, according to a state health department bulletin. Meanwhile, Haryana now has 5,968 total Covid-19 cases. Among the 389 cases, Gurgaon reported 191, Faridabad 74, Rohtak 29 and Ambala 13. Other districts that received the cases include Palwal (10), Karnal (17), Rewari (8), Mahendragarh (7), Hisar (4), Bhiwani (4), Fatehabad (7), Sirsa (4), Yamunanagar (9), Jind (3), Panchkula (4) and Panipat (1). With this, the total active cases in the state has reached to 3,644, while 2,260 have been discharged after recovery. The doubling rate in the state has been recorded to be seven days. Till Thursday, 1.62 lakh persons in the state had been tested while 33,828 are under surveillance. While 34 patients in the state are currently on oxygen support, 13 are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/389-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-in-a-day-in-haryana/articleshow/76330480.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||Wrapped in plastic bag, newborn found dumped in mango orchard||Bareilly: Wrapped in a big plastic bag, a newborn boy was found dumped in a mango orchard in Rupapur village under Ushait police station in Budaun district. Upon hearing the cries of a newborn, locals rushed to the spot, rescued the baby and alerted police. The baby has been admitted to the district hospital. According to police, after locals heard the cries of the newborn, they thronged the spot, opened up the plastic bag and found a baby boy along with some clothes inside the packet. A video of the locals rescuing the baby went viral on social media. Station house officer of Ushait police station Amrit Lal said, “The baby was rescued and handed over to Childline.” District coordinator of Childline Kamal Sharma said, “The boy was first admitted to the community health centre in Myau, but later he was referred to the district women hospital’s Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU). The baby is stable. After doctors discharge him from the hospital, the baby will be presented before the child welfare committee, which will decide on the shifting of the baby to a shelter home. Besides, we will also lodge a complaint with police in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wrapped-in-plastic-bag-newborn-found-dumped-in-mango-orchard/articleshow/76327345.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Working of KGBVs in 17 districts of UP unsatisfactory: Report||LUCKNOW: Basic education department has detected serious lapses in the working of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) in 17 districts of the state and has found infrastructure and administrative gaps in these residential schools meant for girls belonging to weaker sections. The development comes a week after TOI broke the story about a science teacher who was found working at 25 KGBVs throughout the state and having drawn over Rs 1 crore as salary in past 13 months. Later, it turned out that the documents of an eligible candidate were used in the fraud. Minutes (in possession of TOI) of an e-review meeting of all divisional assistant directors (basic education), chaired by director-general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand indicate that working conditions of KGBVs in 17 districts – Mathura, Hathras, Bareilly, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Mirzapur, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Ballia, Basti, Banda, Bahraich, Deoria, Lalitpur, Farrukhabad and Bijnor – are unsatisfactory. The e-review meeting was held on June 1 to assess the progress of various programmes and activities in basic schools, including KGBVs. According to Anand, gap analysis of infrastructure such as availability of food, drinking water, toilets and other administrative exercise like proper maintenance of staff record and attendance, was done. “KGBVs were then asked to carry out self-evaluation. Assistant directors have been asked to do the needful to fill the gaps,” he said. As per the minutes, errors have been found in the service record of 5,59,144 teachers uploaded on Manav Sampada portal. Of these, 2,95,674 teachers were asked to check their particulars through Google sheets. At least 88,000 teachers reported errors. So far, 49,276 teachers have made corrections. Basic education department has set June 15 deadline for corrections. The minutes also show that no progress has been made by any division on identification and enrolment of out-of school children on Sharda portal. In the minutes, Anand expressed dissatisfaction over the selection process of academic resource persons (ARPs) in majority of divisions. No progress has been made in ensuring appointments of ARPs in Hardoi, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Baghpat, Meerut, Mirzapur, Pratapgarh, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Ghazipur, Ballia, Siddharth Nagar, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj. ARPs (teachers selected through written exam) were to be deployed for proper care of government schools and enhancement of learning outcomes. Total 4,105 ARPs are to be appointed in 821 blocks and 295 ARPs for 59 city resource centres. Deadline for completion of appointment ends in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/working-of-kgbvs-in-17-dists-unsatisfactory-report/articleshow/76330549.cms||Isha Jain
June 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi’s short-lived clean streak ends, reports 22 fresh cases||Mangaluru/Udupi: After two consecutive days during which Udupi district reported no Covid-19 cases, the coastal district registered 22 cases on Thursday. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada reported two cases, taking the cumulative tally of both coastal districts to 24. Of the 24 people who were confirmed infected in the two coastal districts, 21 had returned from Maharashtra, while the government officials have categorised the remaining three under ‘contact under tracing’. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that the 22 people who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district had been under treatment since June 4 or June 5. Of the two people, the source of whose infection is still being traced, two are health department personnel. “Both the Corona warriors are healthy and are undergoing treatment,” he added. On the brighter side, the total number of patients recovered from Covid-19 and discharged in Udupi went up to 658 after 106 individuals were released after the government issued their 5pm bulletin. “This leaves Udupi district with 358 active cases. This number might fall further if the results of the tests conducted on the seventh day following their discharge is negative. Those who test positive on that day will be subjected to a test again on the tenth day, and will be discharged if the report confirms they are uninfected,” said Jagadeesha. Covid-19 patient gives birth in M’luru In Dakshina Kannada, a pregnant woman who is positive for the novel coronavirus gave birth to a baby at the District Wenlock Hospital. The baby was delivered through the C-Section procedure. “This is the first such case in Dakshina Kannada. Since there is no recorded case of the novel coronavirus being transmitted from the placenta to the womb, the infant is unlikely to be an exception owing to the anti-bodies generated in the mother,” said Dr Ramachandra Bairy, Dakshina Kannada district health officer. On the other hand, discharge of eight Covid patients in the district pulled the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada to 97 as on Thursday. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that, barring a 50-year-old male patient who also has diabetes, the condition of all other Covid patients undergoing treatment was stable. While Dakshina Kannada is awaiting results of samples of 162 people, Udupi has sent 48 swab samples, the results of which are still awaited. - (With Inputs from Kevin Mendonsa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupis-short-lived-clean-streak-ends-reports-22-fresh-cases/articleshow/76327508.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 12, 2020||Nashik||NMC acquires 234 beds in 64 hospitals for Covid patients||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has acquired as many as 234 beds in 64 hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients even though the state government had issued a notification to take over 80% of the beds in private healthcare centres.The civic body has made it mandatory for all private hospitals and nursing homes, having 30 or more beds, to allot some beds to the NMC.“So far, all the beds have been given voluntarily by the private hospitals and nursing homes. The civic body has adequate infrastructure to deal with the current situation. Hence, we are not acquiring 80% of the beds as it may also inconvenience non-Covid patients. If the need arises, we will acquire more beds in the future,” a health department official said.The beds have been acquired by the civic body following the recent spike in the number of positive cases in the past three weeks. “Of total 234 beds acquired in 64 hospitals for Covid-19 patients, 27 are in ICUs, 12 are with ventilators and 55 are with oxygen,” the official said.“There are a total of 550 registered hospitals and nursing homes within the civic body’s jurisdiction. Of these there are 110 hospitals having over 30 beds. We are targeting these hospitals to reserve beds to treat Covid-19 patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-acquires-234-beds-in-64-hospitals-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76328493.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 12, 2020||Nashik||4-year-old girl injured in leopard attack||Nashik: A four-year-old girl sustained minor injuries in a leopard attack on Wednesday night while she was playing outside her home in the Shinde-Palse village in Nashik Sinnar road. The big cat fled after the girl’s grandmother started shouting for help. After the attack, the girl was taken to a private hospital where she was discharged after being administered first-aid. “The girl received minor injury on her forehead in the attack. As per the request of the villagers, we are in the process of installing a cage to trap the leopard,” a forest department official said. Recently, there have been several incidents of leopard attacks and sighting across Nashik district. On May 29, a woman was injured in an attack by a leopard near the College Road area. The following day, two more people were injured in leopard attack in the Indira Nagar area of the city. After the attack, the leopard had fled towards the Khode farm area. Forest officials had also traced the pug marks of the leopard near the airport in Gandhinagar and near a farm outside Indira Nagar. A calf was also killed in an attack in the wee hours on May 28 at a cowshed in Lohshingve village near Bhagur in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-year-old-girl-injured-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/76328513.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||RMLNLU betters rank among law institutes||LUCKNOW: Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University was the only institution in the city that showed improvement in the ranking under National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by MHRD on Thursday. RMLNLU, which has the status of national law school, bagged 11th position with 53.57% score among the top 20 law institutes in the country in NIRF’s Law category, up from last year’s 14th. RMLNLU and King George’s Medical University (KGMU) were among the two state funded institutions from the city to have figured in the NIRF rankings. KGMU was 50th in overall category, 32nd in university category and 10th in medical category. It slipped a few notches in overall and university categories, while retaining its medical position. SGPGIMS dropped to fifth rank in medical category from fourth, while IIM-Lucknow retained its 4th position in management category. Jaipuria Institute of Management got 73rd rank among top 100 in management. In pharmacy category, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research bagged 18th rank and Integral University 46th. No institute from the city found place in the list of top institutes in engineering, architecture, dental sciences. Other government and private universities in the city either did not apply or did not find a place at top due to low scores. Dr Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, a Central university, did not get a place in top 100 in university category, while Lucknow University, which is celebrating its centenary year and is among the oldest in state, didn;t even apply for the ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rmlnlu-betters-rank-among-law-institutes/articleshow/76330553.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||19 fresh cases raise Himachal tally to 470||Shimla: Nineteen positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday. Of these, eight were from Kangra district, three from Una and two each from Hamirpur, Chamba and Solan. Shimla and Sirmaur districts reported one case each. In Kangra district, the infected included a husband (35) and wife (27) from Rachialu village and a 27-year-old woman from Jawali village, who were being shifted to District Covid Care Centre at Dadh. A woman (30)and her daughter (4) from Kaliyara, Naganpatt, were being shifted to District Covid Care Centre, Baijnath. All of them have Delhi travel history and were under home quarantine. A father (52) and daughter (22) from Baijnath, and a Sagoor Baijnath resident (60) are being shifted to Zonal Hospital Dharamshala. All three had travelled to Delhi. In Chamba district, a 23-year-old man from Kehal Bakan who had returned from Gurugram on June 2 and was in home quarantine has tested positive. A woman from Salooni who had returned from Delhi on May 28 is the other Covid-19 patient. In Solan district, a truck driver from Nalagarh who was in quarantine in his truck, and a former pradhan from Baddi have tested positive. A 17-year-old youth from Nahan and 65-year-old Sanjauli resident have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-fresh-cases-raise-himachal-tally-to-470/articleshow/76330486.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Agra||Govardhan ‘parikrama’ suspended again as Raj seals border||Agra: Within days of resumption, the Govardhan 'parikrama' (circumambulation) was suspended again as the Rajasthan government has banned the entry of outsiders in the state because of a surge in Covid-19 cases.Confirming this, SDM, Govardhan, Rahul Yadav said the Bharatpur district administration in Rajasthan put up barriers in their area on Wednesday afternoon, owing to the restriction imposed by their state government on entry of outsiders. Yadac told TOI that the entire 'parikrama' is 21-km-long of which 2 km falls in Bharatpur. Now, the 'parikrama' has been completely stopped as the part in Rajasthan cannot be avoided, he said.On June 8, two temples -- Shri Krishna Janamsthan and Dwarkadhish Temple -- opened their doors to public after the government gave a nod to open religious places across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/govardhan-parikrama-suspended-again-as-raj-seals-border/articleshow/76327363.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Let expert team probe health staff turning +ve: Pinarayi||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the state health department to constitute an expert team to probe into the situation of some health workers in the state turning Covid positive. He also directed for a detailed analysis of cases where the sources are yet to be traced. The chief minister said the increasing incidents of positive cases being reported among health workers are a matter of concern and needed to identify the circumstances in which they have been infected. “An expert team should be constituted and this team should visit the hospitals where the health workers have tested positive,” he said in the Covid review meeting. The chief minister wanted this team to inspect any laxity on the part of hospitals or whether there were any shortcomings in safety measures taken for healthcare workers involved in Covid prevention and care. There has been a rise in positive cases among health workers in the third phase. Since May 7, so far 34 health workers have tested positive. These included nurses, nursing assistants and junior public health nurses involved in hospital duty or screening duty at airports or checkposts. The Covid expert committee headed by Dr B Ekbal had raised concerns over more health workers becoming positive in the third phase. The Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) had also given a representation to the chief minister raising concern over safety measures taken for those involved in Covid prevention and care. Cases with unidentified sources The chief minister also urged the state health department to have a detailed analysis of cases reported in the state in which the sources are yet to be identified. “A comprehensive list of positive cases where sources are yet to be identified should be prepared. A thorough and detailed analysis of each case should be done to find out the probability from where they might have contracted the infection,” said the chief minister. He said there are reports that more such cases have been reported from Kollam, Kottayam and Kozhikode. “Hence it has to be probed with utmost importance,” said Pinarayi Vijayan at the meeting. There were reports that over 35 positive cases have been reported in the state in which the sources are yet to be identified. However, the health department has not yet officially confirmed this. With the antibody testing that began this week, more such cases are likely to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/let-expert-team-probe-health-staff-turning-ve-pinarayi/articleshow/76328558.cms||Rajiv G
June 12, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 positive man ‘escapes’ from Delhi to UP’s Budaun||Bareilly: A 24-year-old man, who was tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi on June 3, left for Budaun’s Kakrala town on June 8. The man, a tempo driver, was later found in his hometown Kakrala on Thursday and shifted to a Covid-19 level one hospital in Budaun’s Ujhani only after health department in Budaun received an alert from their counterparts in Delhi on Wednesday.The man was staying in Mahavir Enclave. He visited a government hospital in Delhi on June 1 after he sustained an eye injury. His samples for Covid-19 were collected and was found positive on June 3. However, the youth took a bus ride and reached Budaun on June 8 morning and went to Kakrala in a tempo. He later went to two hospitals in Budaun on June 9 and 10 for eye treatment.Budaun's chief medical officer Dr Yashpal Singh told TOI, "Though the patient fled from Delhi on night of June 7, we were informed only on June 10. We have found the patient and his treatment has started at Covid-19 level one hospital. We are trying to trace the people who came in contact with him."SHO of Alapur police station, Krishna Gopal Sharma, said, "Even after returning to Budaun, the patient did not inform anyone that he has been tested positive. We are waiting for a complaint to lodge an FIR against the man."Sadar sub-divisional magistrate, Parasnath Maurya, said, "We have sealed Kakrala and have declared the area as a hotspot."When contacted, the Covid-19 patient claimed, "I went to the hospital in Delhi for eye surgery but I learnt that I have been tested positive for Covid-19. I was told to call the helpline number. I didn’t get any response after trying for 30 minutes. The nurse at the hospital told me to visit another hospital. When I went to another hospital in Delhi, doctors asked me about my condition. I told them that though I am Covid-19 patient, I have pain only in my eye. I was asked to quarantine myself at home. I faced problems there and so, returned to Kakrala. The bus was almost empty and I stayed separately from my family and locals."The patient’s brother who has now been placed under institutional quarantine said, "We had no idea that he was tested positive for Covid-19. My brother has been living in another empty house since his arrival in Kakrala."This is the second such incident to be reported here. Another man who died due to Covid-19 on Tuesday had left Delhi for Budaun’s Myau and was booked by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-positive-man-escapes-from-delhi-to-ups-budaun/articleshow/76327395.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Mental illness cases rise in Hry during lockdown, say exprts||Rohtak/Jind: When the two-month long Covid-19 lockdown period was “unlocked”, doctors from Postgraduate Institute of Medical Science (PGIMS) in Rohtak said they started witnessing a spike in the number of mental health patients coming for treatment. There has been no exception in the age group category — from children to adults, all are approaching with symptoms of anxiety and depression for treatment. Talking to TOI, Dr Rajiv Gupta, director of Institute of Mental Health in PGIMS said the uncertainty that people were experiencing ever since lockdown was put in place had left a huge impact on the mental health. In numbers, he said, this translated to more than 150 patients on a daily basis who come for treatment at the institute. “In pre-Covid-19 period, the number of patients in emergency services was between 10 and 15,” he added. According to him, “This is a matter of concern, as we are yet to start our regular OPDs due to Covid-19 crisis, but patients are rushing to get emergency treatment.” Dr Gupta also said he often gets calls from patients, who tell him that they have developed corona phobia and want to come out of it. One the reasons, he said, is information overflux in the media. “This has created fear psychosis, which seems to be one of the many reasons behind the rise in anxiety level in people,” added Dr Gupta. This situation is similar in Jind as well as many have approached the health department with mental health issues like suicidal thoughts, depression and insomnia that they faced during the Covid-19 lockdown. According to Dr Sankalp, a psychiatrist in the Jind civil hospital, while in April, 143 cases were reported, in May, it increased sharply to 299.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mental-illness-cases-rise-in-hry-during-lockdown-say-exprts/articleshow/76330499.cms||Sat Singh
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Locusts close to Telangana, government keeps vigil||HYDERABAD: Officials in Telangana were on high alert on Thursday as movement of locusts was detected about 200 km from the state borders. Two drones were deployed in Adilabad by the district administration for spraying insecticides on the swarm, if they were to arrive. The swarm’s last known location being Mouda in Nagpur of Maharashtra. Out of the six lakh acres under cultivation in Adilabad, cotton crop is being raised in four lakh acres, soya bean in 80,000 acres and red gram is being sown in another 60,000 acres. “The sowing has just started. If at this point the locusts come, they can only damage some of the vegetation in the forest areas,” N Venkati, in-charge district agriculture officer (DAO), told TOI. Last month, the swarm of locusts came up to Ramtek in Maharashtra, putting the state government on alert. The swam, however, took a ‘U’ turn and went towards Madhya Pradesh. “While there is a great chance of the swarm of locusts not reaching Telangana at all, the line of defence against its attack has been put in place. There has never been a locusts’ attack in the Telugu states or even in entire South India. But we are well-equipped to handle the situation if they do come,” said S J Rahman, the principal scientist (entomology), university head and AIRCP on Biological Control Scheme in the Prof Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU). Rahman is part of the team constituted by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to visit Adilabad to take necessary steps against a possible locusts attack. The team is expected to visit Adilabad on Thursday. The government is worried that if the locusts make their way towards the state within 10 days, eight districts will be in danger as farmers are now engaged in sowing operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locusts-close-to-t-govt-keeps-vigil/articleshow/76329781.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Covid-19 cases in Rohtak could reach 1 lakh by August’||Rohtak: Haryana additional chief secretary (medical education and research) Alok Nigam on Thursday said according to PGIMS Rohtak estimates, the number of Covid-19 patients in Rohtak could touch the one lakh mark by August. Nigam, who handed over appreciation certificates to social organisations reaching out to people during the pandemic made the statement while talking to the media on Covid-19 preparations. Of the existing Covid-19 patients, 3% were found to be in need of ventilator support, he said, adding that 3,500 oxygen beds are being arranged by the district administration and other resources will be mobilised accordingly. “The government will make all possible arrangements to deal with Covid-19. Arrangements for dealing with Covid-19 districts and other steps will be taken according to reviews,” he said. Nigam also assured that all medical colleges and private laboratories of the state are conducting Covid-19 tests. The local PGIMS has a capacity of 1,500 tests per day, he said. Dr Anil Birla, CMO Rohtak said the one lakh mark of Covid-19 patients has been estimated as the worst case scenario and the administration is preparing to deal with the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-cases-in-rohtak-could-reach-1-lakh-by-august/articleshow/76330497.cms||Sat Singh
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Death of doctor raises questions,some suspect new strain of virus||CHENNAI: A 70-year-old medical practitioner, Dr R Balasubramanian, could not celebrate reaching a personal milestone as he died of Covid-19 on his birthday on Thursday morning. Experts said they suspect a different strain of the novel coronavirus could be affecting patients in the state, where an individual initially responds well to the treatment but the health condition suddenly deteriorates leading to death, as was seen in the case of the doctor. According to his batchmate Dr M Balasubramanian and members of IMA, the doctor was admitted to a private hospital in Vanagaram on May 28 with complaints of fever. He was then tested positive for the virus and was undergoing treatment. “He was initially recovering well. Two days back, he had breathlessness and was put on a ventilator. He died at 4.30am on Thursday,” said Dr M Balasubramanian. Belonging to the 1969 batch of Madras Medical College, Dr R Balasubramanian, a resident of Kilpauk, was a general and family physician operating out a clinic in Tondiarpet. According to his batchmate, he reopened his clinic in mid-May. “He was also seeing patients near his residence before he started getting symptoms,” he said. According to officials at the IMA, Tamil Nadu branch, at least three doctors have succumbed to the infection in the state including Dr Simon Hercules and Dr Vinod Raja. Dr A K Ravikumar, secretary, IMA, Tamil Nadu State Branch said like Dr R Balasubramanian, many have died of the infection after initially responding well to the treatment and that they suspect a different strain of the virus, possibly earlier seen in Maharashtra, as a reason. “The strain could have come from Maharashtra,” he said. “Earlier what we saw was the virus was infecting elderly people with comorbid conditions. Now it is affecting the young. The status is worrisome. That’s why we requested the state government for designated Covid hospitals and allot 25% of the beds in private hospitals for Covid treatment so both facility and manpower can be pooled in to treat such serious cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/death-of-doctor-raises-questionssome-suspect-new-strain-of-virus/articleshow/76329775.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nashik||Gulabrao dissatisfied with some Jalgaon departments||Nashik: Jalgaon guardian minister Gulabrao Patil is unhappy with the way some departments in the district have been functioning during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.“Some of the departments need to pull up their socks as Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly. I have had discussions with the officials of those departments, but the slack attitude continues,” Patil told TOI. The guardian minister’s reaction comes in the wake of the body of an elderly Covid-19 patient found at the toilet of the Jalgaon government medical college hospital. She had died five days ago and her body was recovered on Wednesday after Covid-19 patients of the ward complained of a foul smell. “The hospital had filed a missing complaint at the local police station after she could not be found in her bed. But the local police did not investigate the issue at all. The local police should have at least sent a team to the hospital to gather details about the case,” said the guardian minister. Patil spoke to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and senior authorities at the chief minister’s office on the issue. He could not speak with CM Uddhav Thackeray as he was in a meeting. Patil, who is the Sena MLA from Nalgaon rural constituency, is a cabinet minister in the MVA government.“Some people are flouting the norms but the authorities are not acting against them,” said Patil. He said the departments must work together to ensure that people of the district follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gulabrao-dissatisfied-with-some-jalgaon-departments/articleshow/76328538.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Apprise Centre about ‘poor services at ESIC hosps’: Forum to Amarinder||Chandigarh: All Industries and Trade Forum has urged Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to take up the matter of inadequate services provided by the Employee’s State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospitals to industry workers in the state. It has highlighted that ESIC has become a profit making organisation but its health facilities in Punjab have hardly extended any significant support to employers and employees during the Covid-19 lockdown crises. In a letter to the chief minister, forum president Badish Jindal has stated that there is a need to take up the issue with the Union government for improvement in the ESIC system. Jindal, former board member of the ESIC, said, “Thousands of employees are forced to lay their lives due to mismanagement and technical issues of ESIC.” He has also highlighted that the services to workers covered under ESIC are not satisfactory and there are long waiting lists for getting outdoor patient department (OPD) services and medicines. The referral to specialty hospitals is a tedious job for workers, he added. Jindal submitted that as per the ESIC annual report, indoor patient department (IPD) occupancy of model hospital of ESIC in Ludhiana is 103%. Whereas the occupancy of 125-bedded ESI hospital in Amritsar is below 20%, which costs around Rs 13,188 per bed per day. Similarly, the 100-bedded ESI hospital in Jalandhar has occupancy of around 32%, with an average of Rs 8,483 per bed per day. Jindal added that hospitals of Hoshiarpur and Gobindgarh also have an IPD rate of 32% and Phagwara has a little better rate of 50%. Whereas the Rajpura hospital has been closed by ESIC and its hospital in Mohali is also a non-performer. “The other norm of emergency services forced the employees to die on roads as it is mandatory for them (employees) to get ESIC consent for admission to any hospital. In case of emergency, if the employees require admission to any nearest hospitals, they are not allowed to do so under the act of ESIC,” said Jindal. ESIC scheme was launched in 1952 to provide health and sickness benefits to employees and their families. “It is a shocking fact that as per ESIC annual report, the average per capita income is Rs 6,380 per insured person and per capita expenditure on medical care is merely Rs 2,165 per insured person,” said Jindal. He further highlighted that in Punjab, the total average collection from state by ESIC is around Rs 726 crore. Out of this amount, the total medical expenditure incurred on insured persons in Punjab is merely Rs 283.48 crore. The Punjab government had contributed Rs 37 crore in ESIC last year. ESIC earned Rs 10,086 crore during 2017-18 and in 2018-19, there was a profit of Rs 9,142 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/apprise-centre-about-poor-services-at-esic-hosps-forum-to-amarinder/articleshow/76330500.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nashik||IMA members serve at civil hosp in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik chapter of the Indian Medical Assiciation (IMA) has come forward to lend a helping hand to the health department of the Nashik civil hospital in treating non-Covid patients. The aim is to compensate for the dearth of doctors at the civil hospital. District civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale had sometime back appealed to the IMA to render voluntary services as a sizeable section of civil hospital doctors have been entrusted to treat Covid-19 patients at the hospital. “We are happy that the IMA members have heeded to our request and have extended their services,” said Jagdale. The civil hospital treats patients not only from Nashik but also from neighbouring districts in North Maharashtra. There are over 500 beds at the hospitals to treat non-Covid patients. With easing of lockdown norms, the number of non-Covid patients at the hospital have started swelling significantly. Nashik IMA president Dr. Sameer Chandratre told TOI that their members have volunteered to render their services as they thought it is their duty to help the government at this critical times. “Each day (barring Sundays) our team of IMA doctors comprising three physicians, two orthopedic surgeons, one general surgeon and one gynecologist have started examining non-Covid patients at the OPD and at the indoor wards at the civil hospital,” said Dr. Chandratre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ima-members-serve-at-civil-hosp-in-nashik/articleshow/76328561.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Agra||Body of Covid patient handed to kin for cremation attended by 40 people||Agra: The body of an 83-year-old patient at a government college in Agra, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was handed over to his family for funeral rites instead of hospital authorities packing it in a leak-proof bag and taking it for cremation handled by staff in PPE kits. The family was shocked when hours after the man’s cremation — which was attended by 40 people — they got a call from the hospital informing them that he had tested positive for coronavirus.The chief medical officer (CMO) of Agra district told TOI that a probe has been initiated into the matter. On Thursday, the health department conducted screening of 12 family members of the deceased, Gajendra Pal Singh, who had retired as a sub-inspector from UP Police. The family was put under home quarantine. The area around the house has been sealed.Rajesh Kumar, Singh’s son, told TOI that his father had complained of chest pain and breathlessness on Sunday. “Two private hospitals we approached refused to admit him without a Covid-19 test report so we took him to SN Medical College. His health deteriorated and he was put on a ventilator on Monday. A day later, the hospital, which has an in-house facility for Covid-19 testing told us that he had tested negative.” Kumar added, “We had no reason to suspect anything after that. Unfortunately, he breathed his last on Wednesday morning after which we hired a private ambulance and took the body home.”Kumar, a resident of Vikas Nagar Colony, said at least 40 people attended his father’s funeral rites. “The hospital should make sure that everyone in my family who came in contact with the body gets tested.”Hospital authorities, however, said they never told the family that the patient had tested negative. Principal of SN Medical College, Dr Sanjay Kala, told TOI, “The patient’s Covid-19 report came after his death and we informed the family." When asked why the hospital released the body without waiting for the lab reports, Dr Kala said, "We are looking into the matter.”The family has not filed any complaint against the hospital but Agra CMO R C Pandey said the matter was under investigation.According to protocol laid by the Indian Council of Medical Research, the body of a Covid-19 patient should be packed in a leak-proof zipped plastic body bag, which is locked properly to avoid spillage of any fluids. Religious rituals like bathing, which require touching the bodies, should be avoided. The guidelines also add that personal protective equipment (PPE) is to be used while shifting the body in the mortuary if it involves direct handling of the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/body-of-covid-patient-handed-to-kin-for-cremation-attended-by-40-people/articleshow/76327427.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||PG dental students wary of examinations||Hyderabad: Uncertainty looms large over the post-graduate dental students at Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) as the varsity has planned to go ahead with the examinations from June 23. The university has refused to postpone the exams despite several appeals from students who said there is no clarity about how they will be able to appear for exams as several of them live in containment zones. Moreover, according to them, some of the examination centres are also located in Covid-19 hotspots. “Since most of the colleges have not opened hostels for students, we will have to travel from our homes to the examination centre almost every alternate day. Just the idea of travelling every day to the examination centre in the middle of the pandemic is putting us under a lot of stress,” said Dr K Niharika of Sri Sai College of Dental Surgery. On Thursday, 535 PG dental students appealed to the registrar through Telangana Dentists Association to consider postponing the exams until the Covid-19 situation is brought under control. The Association also requested the management to notify new exam dates one month prior. Dr B Karunakar Reddy, vice-chancellor of KNRUHS, told TOI that the situation right now is conducive for conducting examinations. “We don’t know how the situation will be next month. This is the best time to conduct exams. Subsequently, the risks will further increase and I don’t think it will be possible for at least quite some time,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-dental-students-wary-of-examinations/articleshow/76329790.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Officials hold meetings to prepare for conducting SSLC exams||Mysuru/Chikkamagaluru: As per the revised time-table, the SSLC examination will start on June 25 and conclude on July 3. The department of public instruction (DPI) is making all-out efforts to conduct the examination without any glitches. On Wednesday, district level preparatory meetings were conducted in Mysuru and Chikkamagaluru, where it was decided to follow all the safety norms strictly. In Mysuru, ZP CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra and DDPI Panduranga attended the meeting. In the meeting, block education officers (BEOs) from all the blocks, and SSLC examination heads participated and discussed the SOPs to be followed. In the meeting, it was decided that students shall be allowed to enter the examination hall while wearing masks. Hand sanitisers will be provided at the gate itself. In the meeting, it was decided to sanitise the halls, at an interval of two examinations. If any student is found to be suffering from fever, they will be provided with a separate examination hall. “In these separate examination halls, only one student will sit on a bench,” said a teacher who attended the meeting. It was also decided to ensure that no teacher or examination supervisor gets close to student, while giving answer scripts and question papers. “Students shall maintain three feet distance among themselves, and four feet distance from teachers,” he said. In Chikkamagaluru, deputy commissioner Bagadi Gautham chaired the preparatory meeting. In the meeting, it was decided to supply 10 N-95 masks for each examination centre, for use by students with fever. Eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/officials-hold-meetings-to-prepare-for-conducting-sslc-exams/articleshow/76328547.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chennai||What Tamil Nadu needs to do to check the spiralling graph||CHENNAI: For Tamil Nadu, the war to tackle the pandemic has been getting intense. On a typical day, work for the teams of the Greater Chennai Corporation begins at 5.45am. Fanning out across the 200 wards, it begins with supervisory visits. A battery of zonal officers, regional deputy commissioners, besides crisis expert and GCC special nodal officer J Radhakrishnan and GCC commissioner G Prakash tour the hotspots. They study reports on emerging clusters, assess containment activities and analyse reasons for the fresh surge of Covid-19 cases. While the numbers in the districts have seen a slow climb, for Chennai, the thousands of cases, especially in its slums, have proved to be daunting. As the city recorded a worrying 28,000 cases and Tamil Nadu closed in on 40,000 on Thursday, the state made deft moves to redefine its strategy at ward and zonal levels, especially in the city’s congested areas. It prepared a blueprint for a micro plan targeting the congested wards and creating awareness about social distancing, use of masks and hygiene. "We are also making a self-sufficient ward-level team to take care of implementation of streetwise micro plans," said former Metrorail chief Pankaj Kumar Bansal, now the GCC’s special coordinator. "We have created a new public health system at the ward level to strengthen door-to-door surveillance, contact tracing and quarantining," said the commissioner of land administration, who will help the state with intervention strategies. The government brought in Bansal to tighten the reins on surveillance and discipline the containment zones. The focus will be on the elderly and vulnerable and detection of Covid symptoms within three instead of five days to protect the vulnerable. As the pandemic rages on, there are murmurs of lack of coordination among the 12 committees constituted by the government, comprising senior bureaucrats, health officials, domain experts and independents to take forward the Covid battle. "Subordinate officers don’t know whose orders to follow," said a ward-level officer, seeking anonymity. "Politics, ego and a lack of harmonised working are proving to be stumbling blocks. Some key committees and government departments remain aloof. What we need is a united effort for a well-coordinated Covid attack plan," said the officer. On their part, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and chief secretary K Shanmugam convene frequent video meetings to discuss ground coordination. This helps to break the ice. Providing good treatment and managing the growing demand for hospital beds is testing what was until now a sound public healthcare system in TN. "We are augmenting bed capacity and doing a balancing act by earmarking for Covid and other emergencies," said health secretary Beela Rajesh. But the focus is on aggressively containing the disease to break the transmission chain, she said, adding, "For this we need people’s participation and cooperation." The real challenge has been trying to deal with people’s mindset that the virus won’t reach them, said Radhakrishnan, pointing out the sacrifices being made by the battalion of government and healthcare workers. "Discipline is the key word. If everybody wears masks and maintains social distancing, half the work is done," said Dr V Ramasubramanian, a member of the government’s task force. Another issue worrying experts is that TN may be opening up too fast just when the Covid numbers are galloping. Except for keeping the doors of temples across the state shut and locking its fleet of buses in Chennai, the city has been opening up and appearing near normal. "We have been calling for slowing down the pace of unlocking," said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, member of the CM-led task force committee. "We insisted that places of worship should not be opened and exams cancelled," she said. The war cry among policy makers and experts is on social distancing and masking. The state’s battle against Covid-19 has been valiant. But, the initial baby steps that TN firmed up have begun to falter. Now the state hopes to ride through the Covid storm with an aggressive strategy, more belligerent and hopefully wiser. With talk of government planning to impose yet another intense lockdown, the days ahead could prove a bigger challenge for the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-tn-needs-to-do-to-check-the-spiralling-graph/articleshow/76329783.cms||Jaya Menon
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP: NSA invoked against 44 in cow slaughter cases||LUCKNOW: While the state government has increased jail term in cow slaughter cases and has enforced stiff penalties, the UP police has also started monitoring such cases more strictly. Uttar Pradesh additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar told TOI that of 1,324 cases registered in 2020 the police got National Security Act (NSA) invoked against 44 persons. “Of the 1,324 cases registered, chargesheets have been filed in 867, , while out of 4,326 accused against whom named FIRs were lodged, 3,867 have been arrested,” said Kumar. In order to curtail the menace, gangsters act was invoked against 2,197 repeated offenders in Cow Slaughter Act, the officer said and added that 1,823 accused were booked under goonda act so that they were not able to jump the bail and commit the crime again. “We have instructed district police chiefs to open the history-sheet of repeated offenders nabbed under Cow Slaughter Act and also those absconding,” said the officer. He further said that district police units were asked to identify places where such incidents were common or where cow slaughtering or acts pertaining to it were committed more than once. “Based on their reports, 326 spots have been identified in the state and the police in these districts have been directed to maintain a close vigil,” the ADG said adding that instructions from the DGP headquarters have been sent to all districts to set up surveillance on such spots and report every incident to the headquarters. The ADG said that senior officers must carry out a thorough investigation into such cases and monitoring ought to be done by a gazetted officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nsa-invoked-against-44in-cow-slaughter-cases/articleshow/76330569.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Two accused of theft from aircraft carrier remanded||KOCHI: The two accused who were arrested by National Investigation Agency (NIA) for the alleged theft of computer hardware components from the under-construction indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) at Cochin Shipyard Limited, was brought to Kochi and presented before the NIA court via video conferencing as per Covid-19 protocol on Thursday. They were remanded and were moved to an isolation facility in Kochi considering the Covid-19 situation prevailing in the state. According to sources, one among the stolen hardware was sold through an online platform for Rs 5,000 in Kochi. Among the rest of the lost hardware, including five micro-processors, 10 RAMs and five solid state drives (SSDs) from the multi-functional consoles (MFCs) aboard the ship, almost all were recovered. The stolen goods were hidden at the residence of Sumit Kumar’s brother in Gujarat, sources said. Official sources said that the arrests of Sumit Kumar Singh and Daya Ram were recorded after months-long painstaking investigation conducted by NIA sleuths. They said that it was difficult even to reach one of the accused as he was arrested from a Naxal-affected village in Bihar. Meanwhile, sources said that they were checking the possible involvement of more persons in the case. The duo was working as painters at IAC and Sumit had knowledge of computer hardware. Sleuths said that they would be interrogated later to get further details, including if they received outside help to find the system in the IAC. Sources said that it was collection and analysis of fingerprints and palm-prints of more than five thousand persons, who had worked in the IAC project during the relevant period which led to the accused. A portion of a palm print left behind by Sumit Kumar was found matching and from him, NIA found out about the second accused. Though the accused were careful not to leave behind any prints, a portion of the print, left behind accidentally, led the sleuths to them, sources said. Samples for Covid-19 antibody test were collected from the accused on Thursday, results of which are awaited. The case was originally registered on September 16, 2019 at Ernakulam Town South police station on a complaint from Cochin Shipyard authorities regarding the criminal trespass and theft of certain critical electronic component installed on-board the IAC under construction at Cochin Shipyard. NIA re-registered this case on September 26, 2019 and took up the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-accused-of-theft-from-aircraft-carrier-remanded/articleshow/76328593.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Retd IAS booked in UP for‘spreading misinformation’||LUCKNOW: An FIR was lodged against retired IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh on Thursday for allegedly posting 'misinformation' on a social media platform relating government efforts to deal with Covid-19 situation. A senior police official of Lucknow Commissionerate said that a case was registered with Hazratganj police station on the complaint filed by Subash Singh, police outpost in charge, secretariat. The complainant mentioned in the FIR that the former bureaucrat had posted some content, which is inaccurate and insulting to the government. The government is doing hard work to stop the spread of covid-19 in the state. Singh tweeted that a senior bureaucrat after a meeting with the chief minister had scolded district magistrates for proposing more tests for Covid-19. He also raised the question about the government's strategy of keep the number of tests low to show low occurrence of Covid-19. “The former IAS has been booked under various sections for disobeying government order; crime committed with intent to cause fear or alarm to the public, conducting public mischief, statement intent to cause fear and alarm among the residents who may be induced to commit offence against the state and public tranquillity, disobeying public servant orders,” Abhay Mishra, Assistant commissioner of police, Hazratganj said, adding “besides, section of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act have also been included.” Mishra also said that the cyber-cell of the police will also assist the Hazratganj police in the case and relevant sections of the IT Act would be included after the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/retd-ias-booked-in-up-forspreading-misinformation/articleshow/76330573.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Suspected of theft, man thrashed, dies in Delhi's Pandav Nagar||NEW DELHI: A 23-year-old man, who had allegedly barged into a house in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar to commit burglary, was severely thrashed by the owner on Tuesday. He later died purportedly because of the injuries. The thrashing was captured on a CCTV installed in the area. Police have arrested the house owner and booked him on charges of culpable homicide. Sources said that Salman was a resident of Dadri in UP and was missing from his house since last week. His father told the cops that he was addicted to drugs and would go missing for days at a time. No previous criminal record has been found against the deceased. He had sneaked into the house with another person who has been missing since the incident. The footage showed Salman getting thrashed even as people looked on. He was later handed over to the cops from the Mandawali police station. While the cops were taking him away, a video showed a policeman shoving Salman with a stick. An inquiry revealed that since the theft accused’s clothes were wet with sludge, the cops avoided touching him. “He was discharged after treatment and taken back to the police station. Later, his health deteriorated and he was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/suspected-of-theft-man-thrashed-dies/articleshow/76329789.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Cops arrest 37 accused for setting dalit homes ablaze||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered strict action against the accused who attacked Dalits and set their homes on fire in a Jaunpur village on Tuesday evening, following which 37 accused were arrested on Thursday and total compensation of over Rs 10 lakh was given to the victims. Taking note of the incident, CM Yogi had ordered invoking NSA and Gangster Act against the accused and departmental action against the SO Sarai Khwaja for failing to control the situation. On Tuesday night, a group of people from one community had attacked some dalits in Bhadethi village, ransacked their homes and set their homes on fire. SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “Bhadethi had witnessed violence over a minor dispute between children of Dalits and other community. The village head intervened and the situation normalised, but at night a group of people from one community attacked the Dalit families, ransacked their homes and set them on fire.” Samajwadi Party leader Javed Siddiqui was among the 37 accused arrested, and soon his photographs sharing dais with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in public meetings went viral on social media. “SO Sarai Khawaja Sanjiv Mishra has been attached to police lines and ASP (City) had been asked to probe the matter. Of 57 named accused, 37 have been arrested while raids are continuing to nab others. The accused will be booked under NSA and Gangster Act,” the SP added. CM had announced compensation for the Dalit families and construction of their houses under CM housing scheme. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “District magistrate Dinesh Kumar Singh and other officials visited Bhadethi village on Thursday afternoon and gave the cheques amounting to Rs 10,25,450 as compensation to the victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-arrest-37-accused-for-setting-dalit-homes-ablaze/articleshow/76330580.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Allahabad||Ex-minister, 65 others booked for lockdown violation in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: An FIR was lodged against former UP minister and national president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party Om Prakash Rajbhar and 65 others for violation of of Section 144 and lockdown norms in Prayagraj on Thursday. Among other leaders booked were Janadhikar Party chief Babu Singh Kushwaha; Apna Dal (Kamerawadi) chief Krishna Patel, Bharatiya Upekkshit Party chief Prem Chandra Prajapati, Bharatiya Manav Samaj Party head Ramdhani Bind and 60 others. The FIR was lodged with Patti police station. IG, Prayagraj range, KP Singh confirmed that FIR was lodged against Rajbhar and others under Section 188 ( Disobedience to order) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and 51 (A) of Disaster Management Act (2005). SHO Patti Narendra Singh in his FIR stated that when police were busy in maintaining lockdown orders near Ramaipur Newada village, they spotted Rajbhar, Kushwaha and other leaders along with their supporters had assembled without having any prior permission from the police and were planning to move Dhuai and Govindpur village for meetings.  The police officials sent back the leaders and their supporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ex-min-65-others-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/76334196.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-minister, 65 others booked for lockdown violation in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: An FIR was lodged against former UP minister and national president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party Om Prakash Rajbhar and 65 others for violation of of Section 144 and lockdown norms in Prayagraj on Thursday. Among other leaders booked were Janadhikar Party chief Babu Singh Kushwaha; Apna Dal (Kamerawadi) chief Krishna Patel, Bharatiya Upekkshit Party chief Prem Chandra Prajapati, Bharatiya Manav Samaj Party head Ramdhani Bind and 60 others. The FIR was lodged with Patti police station. IG, Prayagraj range, KP Singh confirmed that FIR was lodged against Rajbhar and others under Section 188 ( Disobedience to order) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and 51 (A) of Disaster Management Act (2005). SHO Patti Narendra Singh in his FIR stated that when police were busy in maintaining lockdown orders near Ramaipur Newada village, they spotted Rajbhar, Kushwaha and other leaders along with their supporters had assembled without having any prior permission from the police and were planning to move Dhuai and Govindpur village for meetings.  The police officials sent back the leaders and their supporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-min-65-others-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/76330576.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Pune||Pune engineering colleges slide in ranks, Fergusson in top 100||PUNE: All the top engineering colleges in Pune city have performed poorly this year in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) slipped one spot to 50 against last year while the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Engineering, Army Institute of Technology and others have performed poorly. Among the colleges, Fergusson dived from 27th to 42nd spot but was the only college from Pune to feature in the top 100. A R Bhalerao, director of Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Engineering, said funding for research has come down in the last three years. “If in 2016-17-18, we received about Rs 70 lakh per year for research, in 2018-19-20, it was down to Rs 30-40 lakh per annum. Reduced funding means reduced research. But our management was funding studies on its own. NIRF takes into account only the funding for research from government bodies like Department of Science and Technology, or AICTE and does not include the institutional funding. Hence, we scored less. We performed well in other parameters. We outdid IIT Chennai and Bombay in the inclusivity and outreach section,” Bhalerao added. Manoj Khaladkar, training and placement officer from Army Institute of Technology, said their lack of postgraduate courses led to lesser marks in research parameters. “The ranking dropped because the number of participating colleges has almost doubled. We scored less in research outcomes because most of it happens at postgraduate level. We only have one postgraduate course in the mechanical department. This means the grants and other facilities that we receive are less which curtails our score. We have done well in the graduate outcome,” Khaladkar said. BB Ahuja, director of CoEP said NIRF sends mails which stakeholders may or may not reply. "Unreplied surveys go against an institute. Lack of permanent teachers is a problem. Government recruitment is at a standstill and our management cannot recruit teachers because of a legal matter. Ad-hoc teachers cannot be principal investigators in a research and cannot get funding which effects the institute's ranking,” he said.  College slips 23 places in two yearsFergusson College remains the only college from the state in the top 50 list and the only one from Pune in the top 100, but the college slipped in its own ranking from the previous years. From 19 in 2018 to 27 in 2019 to 42 in 2020, the downfall has been sharp. College officials blamed the lack of permanent teachers for this drop. “Fergusson College remains one of the finest in the state, yet its score is dropping because the government is not giving permission for recruitment of teachers. We have to rely on temporary teachers which affects the research output,” Savita Kelkar, who taught in the college for 33 years, said. She is a management committee member. Principal Ravindrasinh Pardeshi said they had many research centres but they closed down two or three when the professors retired. “With the government not recruiting teachers, we are relying on those working on a clock-hour basis. Most are not interested in long- term research. Several parameters laid down by the government about domicile and others hamper diversity on the campus. A Delhi college will have students from across the country or even the world. We are an autonomous college. Teachers have syllabus renewal, exams and assessments which leaves them with no time for research,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-engg-colleges-slide-in-ranks-fergusson-in-top-100/articleshow/76329793.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 12, 2020||Agra||Agra Cyber Cell recover Rs 10.50L stolen by fraudsters from ex-Army officer in Delhi||Agra: The Cyber Cell of Agra IG Range received a shot in the arm after a retired Lieutenant General of the Indian Army, who lives in New Delhi, praised them for helping him recover Rs 10.50 lakh, which cyber frauds had duped him of, over a fake business proposal of exporting minerals to a foreign pharmaceutical company.The army veteran, an officer of the Army Service Corps who lives in New Delhi’s Greater Kailash, was contacted on LinkedIn by a person who identified himself as Dr Kiyoshi Nizuguchi of Tokyo, and claiming he is associated with Nochida Pharmaceutical Company Limited.According to the police complaint lodged by the Lt. Gen, “In December last year, Nizuguchi asked me to represent his firm and buy some minerals from Sanu mining group based in Siliguri, West Bengal, which itself turned out to be non-existent. Nizuguchi asked me to get in touch with a woman called Arti Mukherjee of the fake mining company.”The FIR reads: “After a couple of email and phone exchanges, Nizuguchi convinced the officer to buy a part of the mineral consignment, valued at Rs 10.50 lakh, from Arti Mukherjee at his expense, and store it for at least two days before the pharma firm employees arrive to pick it up. Nizuguchi promised to pay 7% commission on the purchase to the veteran officer.”Days later, when neither the mineral consignment nor the pharma firm employees arrived, he contacted Greater Kailash police.“The general was actually duped of nearly four times the amount he reported to Delhi Police. We traced a part of the amount — Rs 10.50 lakh — in a bank account which we had put on freeze earlier, after the fraudsters had duped a Mainpuri-based teacher of Rs 54 lakh,” said Agra IG Range Cyber Cell in-charge Shailesh Kumar.Agra IG Satish Ganesh said, “As soon as Delhi Police contacted us, our team traced the money, which will be handed over once the Delhi court grants the veteran permission to collect it.”Speaking to TOI, the victim said, “Agra Cyber cops were very prompt and updated me on the case almost every day. Even during the Covid crisis, they did their duty extremely well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-cyber-cell-recover-rs-10-50l-stolen-by-fraudsters-from-ex-army-officer-in-delhi/articleshow/76327434.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 12, 2020||Chennai||State mines data to get its Covid death toll right||CHENNAI: For more than four hours, the 11-member committee appointed by the directorate of public health to “analyse and streamline Covid-19 death reports with regard to Chennai Corporation” was poring through case summaries of people who died after testing positive for Covid-19 at hospitals in city and a line list of people buried or cremated in the city in the past three months. On Friday, the state will revise the toll for the city, which may push up the case fatality rate. On Tuesday, the state health department said that at least 236 more Covid-19 deaths that were in the city death registers until June 8 were not added to the death toll. TOI had published case sheets of at least 20 infected patients who died in Railway Hospital and NGOs like Arappor Iyyakkam had produced mortuary cards of Covid positive patients who died at the Stanley Medical College Hospitals. The director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam had asked the corporation to send reports of all Covid-19 deaths reports as per the prescribed format. “This is the protocol for all notified diseases and deaths. Doctors declaring such deaths will have to inform the local sanitary inspector and the zonal health officer about the death. This is done so safety and sanitary measures can be initiated. Depending on the infection, it would be disinfection, water chlorination or vector control measure. That system did not work,” said a senior public health official, who is a part of the committee. In April, May and June, as cases started to increase, officials were posted for containment, contact tracing and testing duties. “No one actually compiled the death record. An internal inquiry is being held and more importantly it is being corrected now,” said a senior official at the Greater Chennai Corporation’s health department. “We are now sending all of them for reconciliation,” he said. City health officer and health officials will also notify deaths due to the infection on a daily basis to the state, besides sharing details of all Covid-19 deaths since March 2020. The directorate of public health is awaiting a reply to the show cause-notices to hospitals on why they did not update the nodal officer about admission and death of patients in their hospital. Health secretary Beela Rajesh said reconciliation is a scientific process that happens in many countries and states. “Even China has revised its numbers recently,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-mines-data-to-get-its-covid-death-toll-right/articleshow/76329884.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Agra||At 97, ex-civil engineer of Agra is oldest in UP to conquer Covid-19||AGRA: Smiling from ear-to-ear, GC Gupta, 97, was holding his Covid-19 report copy like a trophy. He was free to go home as the report declared him free from the infection on Wednesday evening. Already suffering from medical complications like Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder (COPD) and urinary infection, Gupta was worried when he contracted the contagious disease. And so were his family members. A resident of Agra’s Gandhi Nagar colony, the retired civil engineer was admitted to Covid-19 facility at city’s Nayati Hospital, a private establishment, on May 29. For the next 12 days, he was provided treatment with high-oxygen flow at the isolation facility. On Wednesday evening, the nonagenarian was declared cured of infection. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Following proper care and treatment provided by the doctors, the 97-year-old Covid-19 patient has overcome coronavirus infection. He is a motivation to all of us and a ray of hope to all the Covid-19 patients especially of older age”. Gupta is the oldest person in UP to be declared Covid-19 free after being infected with it. His closest rival is an Urdu poet who lives in Noida. A month shy of hitting 94, Anand Mohan Zutshi ‘Gulzar’ Dehlvi was hospitalized in Noida after being found Covid-19 positive. He was declared free of the virus three days ago. In the last week of May, Dehlvi was admitted to Noida’s Kailash Hospital. He had a fever and cough, symptoms of Covid-19 and comorbidities — coronary artery disease, hypothyroidism and enlarged prostate. His test results came back positive and he was referred to Sharda Hospital on June 1. He got cured and returned home. As of now, Mukhtar Ahmed, a resident of Central Delhi’s Nawabganj, holds the country record of being the oldest to trounce the disease. He is 106.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-97-ex-civil-engineer-of-agra-is-oldest-in-up-to-conquer-covid-19/articleshow/76327441.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Test results delayed, people sent home after extended IQ||Kochi: As samples collected for Covid testing increased in Kerala, the waiting time for results also increased by a minimum of two to four days. In Thiruvananthapuram that has four of the 14 government labs doing RT-PCR tests, the results are available within a day, while in other districts the waiting period is more. RT-PCR test results are ideally available in six hours. This delay is proving to be a concern for returnees who are forced to stay in institutional quarantine (IQ) for over 14 days. And in some instances, there were persons who finished 14 days in IQ and couldn’t go home as results didn’t come four days after the test. A day or two after they came home, local authorities had a tough time tracking their contacts after the results came positive. “In the initial week of phase-III, persons were sent home after results came. As people in IQ increased, waiting time for results increased. Also, government conducted RT-PCR surveillance tests. So, if a person tests positive, the results are out in a day, otherwise it takes four-five days. From mid-May, we allowed people in IQ to return home after 14 days though test results were not available as we presumed it would be negative,” said chairperson of Chengannur municipality K Shiburajan. The decision became tricky in case of Dubai returnee who took a Covid test on June 6. As his result didn’t arrive till June 8, he was asked to go home after spending 16 days in IQ. One June 9, his result came as positive. In a similar incident at Perur panchayat in Palakkad on June 9, a 60-year-old woman tested positive, a day after she was discharged from IQ. “Her samples were sent for testing on June 4 after she completed 14 days in IQ. Her results didn’t come for five days and health officials allowed her to go home on June 8 evening presuming that her result would be negative,” said panchayat secretary Gokul Das. “It is unfortunate that people in some districts get test result in a day while others wait for five days. This is unacceptable. The government must augment labs in anticipation of potential case increase and ensure a mechanism to give results on the same day,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal. So, what is the reason for the delay? One prime reason is that Kerala has increased its testing from 500/day in April to 4,500/day (avg figure; includes samples tested in pvt labs before surgery) now. “Most testing labs in state are new, lack necessary staff and are overburdened. Sometimes there is delay when samples are sent for retesting to ensure accuracy of results. There is also delay in sending samples to lab as testing facility is not in the same district,” said a member of the medical advisory panel on Covid management. Due to overloading of samples in few districts like Kasaragod, samples – besides being sent to Central University of Kerala, Kasaragod – are also send to Malabar Cancer Centre, Thalassery. Thrissur MCH that receives samples from Palakkad and Wayanad. Overloading happens when people test positive in a district and then samples of their contacts (sometimes 100 or more) are sent for testing. With increase in number of persons (especially in-home quarantine) testing positive, samples collected from their contacts have also increased. The per-day total RT-PCR testing capacity of 21 labs in Kerala is 3,221. “If we get samples within the capacity of lab, results are given in 24 hours. Occasionally, it exceeds the capacity and there will be proportional delay,” said AP Sugunan, officer-in-charge, NIV, Alappuzha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/test-results-delayed-people-sent-home-after-extended-iq/articleshow/76328605.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||70-year-old from Hyderabad's Boddupal spreads awareness on Covid precautions||HYDERABAD: A 70-year-old resident of Boddupal has become an unlikely campaigner against ‘covidiots’ in the area. Mallajyosula Suryanarayana is calling out people without masks and those not maintaining social distancing norms. Wearing a complete personal protection equipment (PPE) kit and armed with a loudspeaker, the septuagenarian sets out of his house every morning. “With the lockdown being eased, people have left caution to the wind. I see so many residents walking around without masks as if the coronavirus crisis does not exist,” he said. The loudspeaker is particularly used for the wily ones — the triple-riders on bikes, whom he cannot catch, and morning walkers spotted far away. As he spells out the rulebook, a scolding here and yell there are quite common. Not one to backdown from a cause he believes in, he has now decided to photograph people not following precautions. “I will send these photos to the municipal authorities and cops,” Suryanarayana said, adding that positive cases in the vicinity of Sri Sainagar Colony forced him hit the streets. The senior citizen, who said he was ‘17’ when asked about his age, said he was not vulnerable to catching the infection on one of his sorties. “I am completely prepared for action. I wear a full PPE suit. I do not touch anything or anyone and do not let people come near me. I carry my own water bottle too,” he said. Suryanarayana has now formed a ‘task force’ of four or five equally concerned people to address the matter. M Vishala, 65, said,helping out by educating women on precautions that should be taken. They are the backbone of the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-yr-old-spreads-awareness-on-covid-precautions/articleshow/76330520.cms||Uttara Varma
June 12, 2020||Pune||Collector: Only 50 in temples for palkhi procession||Pune: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Thursday issued orders to allow only 50 persons to gather at the temple premises at Dehu and Alandi for the commencement of the palkhi procession.In the order, the collector has stated that no more than 50 persons can gather inside the temple premises for the Sant Tukaram Palkhi procession on June 12 and for the Sant Dnyaneshwar Palkhi procession on June 13.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held meetings with trustees of Alandi and Dehu Devasthans and it was decided to call off the procession but allow the padukas of the saints to reach Pandharpur on Ashadi Ekadashi. The orders have been issued by the collector under the District Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order further states that neither temple premises are in containment zones, so the permissions have been granted for two days. At the same time, maintaining necessary social distancing norms will be compulsory and people at the gathering will have to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-only-50-in-temples-for-palkhi-procession/articleshow/76329811.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Murder accused gets bail, must ‘share location’||NEW DELHI: Unprecedented times entail unique measures and this was seen when a Delhi court granted bail to a murder accused asking him to “share location” as a mark of his attendance with the police. Besides, additional sessions judge Naveen Kumar Kashyap directed Adil to “make a call, preferably by audio and video mode” to the investigating officer. “If he is not available then (call shall be made) to the station house officer once a week,” the court added. The direction of the audio-video call was in addition to “sharing of location” to be followed by the accused every alternate day of his 45-day interim bail period. Further, the court asked him to keep his phone number “switched on at all times” and specifically between 8am and 8pm every day. Some Delhi courts have been asking accused persons to install Aarogya Setu on their phones as a bail condition. In this case too, judge Kashyap insisted that Adil installed the app and kept his GPS and bluetooth on all the time during the entire duration of his bail. These unusual conditions were laid down apart from the usual bail conditions such as, not leaving the country or tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses. The court before releasing the accused on bail observed that viable alternatives to appearing physically before the police needed to be ordered. Also, upon his surrender, such conditions could assist jail authorities to screen the accused better for Covid-19. The court wanted to take a “holistic approach”. It was of the opinion that in today’s corona times, courts shall not “direct physical attendance in police stations” owing to the nature of the infection and social distancing norms. Even the inconvenience that may be faced by such applicants was kept in mind by the court. “Considering the overall facts and prevailing pandemic situation, and the fact that he was granted interim bail earlier, the accused is granted interim bail subject to certain terms and conditions,” the court held. Advocate Asgar Khan sought bail saying his client’s mother was unwell and the accused also required surgery as he was suffering from gall stones. He also argued that his client did not have a criminal record or another conviction to his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/murder-accused-gets-bail-must-share-location/articleshow/76329825.cms||Aamir Khan
June 12, 2020||Vadodara||MSU fails to make it to top-100 again||Vadodara: While the MS University (MSU) is working overtime to maintain its A grade awarded by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), it has once again failed to make it to the top 100 list of National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF) declared by the Union Ministry of Human Resource and Development. Like last year, MSU has once again featured in the university rank band of 101 to 150, while it is in the rank band of 151 to 200 in the overall education institutions’ rankings. Sumandeep Vidyapeeth was the only other institute from Vadodara which has featured in the same rank band as MSU in university rankings. The only institute from Gujarat which featured in the overall top-100 rankings of universities was the Gujarat University which has been ranked at 44th position. The NIRF rankings were released for a total of 10 categories – overall, universities, engineering, colleges, management, pharmacy, medical, architecture, dental and law. Once again, the university’s face-saver was its pharmacy faculty which managed to jump three ranks to 14th position in the country with a score of 57.68. The other institutions from Gujarat which have made it to pharmacy rankings are National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Gandhinagar and Nirma University and LM College of Pharmacy in Ahmedabad. Among the other categories – engineering, management, law, architecture and medical – MSU’s faculties do not feature in the top-100. However, Faculty of Technology and Engineering was placed at 111th position. Last year it was ranked 137th. “MSU has sustained its position from last year, but technology and engineering and pharmacy faculties have improved their ranks. MSU has a disadvantage under the current NIRF framework because we have, both, UG and PG teaching,” said MSU’s vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas. He, however, added that the university can improve its ranking in the coming years if the state government gives a green signal in filling up the vacant teaching positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-fails-to-make-it-to-top-100-again/articleshow/76326665.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Body of bizman found hanging, murder probe on||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is probing the death of a businessman, whose body was found hanging from a tree in mysterious circumstances. The deceased has been identified as Gaurav Bansal, a resident of east Delhi’s IP Extension. According to family members, Bansal had gone to his shop in Karkardooma on Tuesday but did not return home. A missing complaint was later lodged at Anand Vihar police station. On Wednesday morning, cops were informed about a body found hanging from a tree near a lake in Baprola locality in outer Delhi’s Ranhola. The scene of crime was inspected by forensic officials and the body sent for an autopsy, a police officer said. The first challenge was to identify the body. For this, missing cases of Delhi were analysed and enquiries were made from other districts. The body was eventually identified as that of Bansal’s. His family, too, confirmed the identity. Initial probe suggested that the man may have been killed by at least two people, who then staged a suicide-like scenario by hanging the body from the tree. “However, their attempt failed as police found the deceased’s hands tied with a rope, something which is not possible in the case of self-hanging,” DCP (Outer) A Koan said. Cops later found that financial dispute could be the reason behind Bansal’s murder. He had been suffering heavy losses for the past few months and was reportedly in depression. Family members informed police about fraudulent transactions worth Rs 3.5 lakh on his credit card. Bansal had even lodged a complaint with the police regarding this. His financial woes were apparently taking a toll on him as interest on an Rs 6 lakh loan was mounting, a relative told police. Cops found that incoming calls on Bansal’s phone were diverted to a relative’s number. The family claimed that by Tuesday evening, one of his kin had received missed calls from unknown numbers, which when dialed back, were unresponsive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/body-of-bizman-found-hanging-murder-probe-on/articleshow/76329815.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya mosques to remain shut||AYODHYA: Three days after religious places and shrines opened for the devout, the top body of Muslim clerics in Ayodhya decided to close mosque doors, citing rising spread of coronavirus in the district and the practical problem of maintaining physical distancing while allowing only five namazis at a time. The representative body of Muslim clerics, Jamiat Ulema Hind (JUH), took this decision on Thursday. In his fatwa (opinion in light of Hadees), Maulana Hasbullah, president of JUH, Ayodhya, asked imams and trustees not to open mosques for prayer till the pandemic ebbs. “Adhering to covid-19 protocols cannot ensure coronavirus won’t spread. Also, it’s not always possible for mosque committees to meticulously follow guidelines and repeatedly sanitize premises and this could in turn raise the risk of infection,” he said. Prominent social activist Captain Afzal Khan, said, “Keeping in view the pandemic-triggered crisis, I support the JUH move and appeal to Muslims to pray in homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-mosques-to-remain-shut/articleshow/76330584.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Police seize cache of weapons||Warangal: A cache of three guns, eight rifles and 51 bullets hidden near hillocks of Keerya thanda of Dabbirpet hamlet in Khanapur mandal was seized by Warangal (Rural) police on Thursday during a combing operation. Narsampet ACP Phanindar said that the locals alleged that the weapons belonged to CPI (ML) New Democracy members. Police said they are investigating the claims. In the past two weeks, incidents of Maoists trying to create panic in erstwhile Warangal district were reported. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-seize-cache-of-weapons/articleshow/76329817.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||192 cases take MP corona tally to 10,241||BHOPAL: With 192 new cases, the state corona count reached 10,241 on Thursday. Four Covid deaths were also reported in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday — two from Indore and one each from Chhindwara and Burhanpur. In Jabalpur, 12 people reportedly tested positive after coming in contact with an employee of a private hospital. The district has reported 283 cases since the outbreak and 11 deaths. There are over 50 active cases in the district. Eight of the infected are from two families alone. It includes, 8-year-old boy, and a 12-year-old girl. In Ujjain, after a drop in infections over the last two weeks, the city reported 14 new cases on Thursday. Death ratio of Ujjain is one of the worst in the state. It has reported 759 cases and 64 deaths.  Indore has reported 3922 cases and 163 deaths. Bhopal has reported 2000 plus cases and 66 deaths. Another fast emerging hotspot in the north, Gwalior reported five new cases. Ashoknagar also reported 8 new cases, taking the total number of infections to 40 in the district. Nearby Morena district has witnessed a spike with six new cases. 7,971 samples were tested across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/192-cases-take-state-corona-tally-to-10241/articleshow/76328637.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Abhishek Manu Singhvi to represent Lallu’s bail plea||LUCKNOW: Senior Congress leader and lawyer, Abhishek Manu Singhvi would be representing the bail application of UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu who is in jail since May 20 in connection with the bus row. The case is to be taken up at the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on June 12. “Singhvi will make a virtual appearance before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on June 12 to plead Lallu’s case along with lawyer Satyendra Singh,” said senior Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha MP Pramod Tewari. Lallu was arrested for the alleged forgery of documents of buses arranged by his party for ferrying stranded migrant workers during the Coronavirus lockdown. Party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi had earlier offered to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrants returning home in Uttar Pradesh. The offer had led to a major controversy with Lallu landing in jail. A special court hearing Lallu’s bail plea on May 29 had postponed the hearing. Taking up the matter again on June 1, the special court rejected his plea. Congress workers and biggies including Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi registered their protest to press for Lallu’s release but to no avail. Last week, the UP Congress launched a campaign called ‘Sewa Satyagrah’ in which the party workers took up charitable activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abhishek-manu-singhvi-to-represent-lallus-bail-plea/articleshow/76330586.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Govt school head dies of Covid-19||NEW DELHI: After the death of an English teacher earlier this week, a principal of a Delhi government school in Kalyanpuri died due to Covid-19. The principal was deputed at a meal distribution centre since the anti-coronavirus lockdown began. Fifty-seven-year-old Ompal Singh was a principal at Government Boys Senior Secondary School in Kalyanpuri. He was admitted to GTB Hospital on June 5. The vice-principal of the school, Shyam Lal, said: “Other members of Singh’s family have also been admitted to hospitals. Today morning, however, his son tested negative so he came and performed the last rites.” Earlier this week, Shivji Mishra, an English teacher in a government school had succumbed to the disease. He had also been working at a relief centre during the lockdown. These cases have now left teachers worried and they’ve been demanding that their duty at relief centres be stopped. According to Government School Teachers Association (GSTA), there are around 400 teachers who are in isolation. “We hope that the government will fulfill their promise and provide compensation of Rs 1 crore to these teachers as they died in line of duty,” said Ajay Yadav, the general secretary of GSTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-school-head-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76329819.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Minister Suresh Khanna bats for curriculum in medical ethics||LUCKNOW: Stating that the covid-19 pandemic had underscored the importance of medical ethics, minister for medical education, UP Suresh Khanna on Thursday said that medical institutions in the state needed a curriculum in medical ethics. “The importance of a curriculum in medical ethics for medical students is a need of the hour. Though some institutes have a course in this, others may follow,” the minister said at the inaugural of a lecture series on the topic organized by the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. The minister also highlighted the importance and necessity of habits like tolerance, compassion and self-less services. “Habits of tolerance, compassion and self-less services which are displayed by senior faculty in SGPGI must be imbibed by trainee doctors so that they take the legacy wherever they go,” he said. Held with covid-19 prevention protocols in mind, the event was attended by senior faculty from several institutes and medical colleges. The students also got a chance to clear their doubts from the experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/minister-bats-for-curriculum-in-medical-ethics/articleshow/76330589.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid toll crosses 1,000 mark, 65 deaths in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: The death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi crossed the 1,000-mark on Thursday to reach 1,085. Of the 101 fatalities confirmed by the state health authorities, 65 deaths were confirmed in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases of Covid-19 mounted to 34,687 with 1,877 new cases — the highest for a single day — being confirmed on Thursday. Delhi has the maximum Covid-19 cases in the country, after Maharashtra (97,648) and Tamil Nadu (38,716). In terms of fatalities also, the capital ranks third with 1,085 Covid-19 deaths. Maharashtra (3,590) has the highest number of fatalities followed by Gujarat (1,385). Delhi recorded its first Covid-19 death on March 13 when a 69-year-old woman from Janakpuri succumbed to the disease at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital. The second death was reported in the national capital on March 28, the last for the month. With increase in cases, fatalities also continued to increase thereafter. As per government data, 57, 414 and 612 persons were confirmed dead due to Covid-19 in the city in April, May and June respectively. An official said that more than 80% people who lost their lives due to Covid-19 were above 50-years-old with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease among others. “Young are equally at risk to contract the infection. But most of them recover faster. However, there have been many reports of healthy and young people showing disease symptoms all of a sudden and developing severe complications . Some such patients die too but they are rare,” said a doctor at one of the Covid-19 hospitals run by the state government. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Saket said that people suffering from chronic conditions need to take extra care to prevent the infection. As per the government data, 584 Covid-19 patients in Delhi require ICU or ventilator support at present. “At present, we have 584 ICU and ventilator beds. Of them, 266 (45%) are vacant,” said an official. He, however, added that if the infection continues to spread the way it is soon we may fall short of critical care beds. Delhi government, in order to make more space for the seriously ill, on Thursday issued a new discharge policy. It stated that patients with mild symptoms can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge, the government said. In its order, the health department also said moderate cases can be admitted to Covid health centres that have oxygen support facility. Patients on oxygenation whose fever does not resolve within three days and demand for oxygen therapy continues will be discharged only after resolution of clinical symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/toll-crosses-1000-mark-65-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/76330530.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 12, 2020||Pune||Suspects sourced token currency from Mumbai: Pune police||PUNE: The city crime branch officials investigating the seizure of Indian and US token currency notes of Rs87 crore face value on Wednesday from a Vimannagar bungalow claimed that the six arrested suspects had sourced them from Mumbai’s Crawford market in November/December last year with an intent of cheating people with black money over exchange deals. The intent of cheating became evident when the suspects negotiated a deal with decoy “customers” for giving US dollars in exchange of genuine Indian currency worth Rs25 lakh, a police officer said. “The suspects would send videos to gullible people having black money for hawala deals and cheat them by giving fake/token notes covered with few real notes,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. “They seemed to have cheated quite a few people. Since the amount involved is huge, further investigation is on to find involvement of more people and beneficiaries of the crime. We also request the cheated people to share details with police,” Singh said. Crime branch inspector Anjum Bagwan on Thursday produced the six suspects, including army Lance Naik Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan Sahab, before judicial magistrate first class S K Khan. They were remanded in police custody till June 15. Additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale said, “Alim brought the token currencies, used for table games, in five to six trips in November/December last year, from Mumbai to the Vimannagar bungalow. He had earlier struck a friendship with Sunil Sarda after they met in Lonavla and through Sarda, he came in touch with Abdul Gani Khan, an estate agent at Mira Road. Alim convinced Gani about the cheating plan and the latter roped in his son, Abdul Rehman, Ritesh Ratnakar and Tufail Ahmed for scouting victims.” The Army Southern Command’s Military Intelligence Liaison Unit first received a tip-off about a conspiracy to push fake currency notes into the Indian market. Its authorities got in touch with joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve and gave all information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-suspects-sourced-token-currency-from-mum/articleshow/76329823.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 12, 2020||Pune||British Library in Pune, a gift to generations, moves to digital mode||PUNE: Avid readers among Puneites have prided themselves in their British Council Library membership for generations. The membership came after some labour. One had to wait in a long queue, submit a form, and wait for at least two years before a postcard would announce it. On Wednesday, the members of the nearly six-decade-old British Library in Pune received a mail declaring that it was going completely online by June-end and the physical space in Shivajinagar would be used as a computer-based testing centre for IELTS and other qualification tests. Antonius Raghubansie, director of learning services, British Council India, said the move was prompted to focus on “a high-quality online experience for customers.” “A mobile app version of the digital library will pull together our content in one place and allow members to build their own library collection, " he added. Sugandhi M V, assistant librarian who worked for over 30 years, said all those associated with the library were like a big family. The membership in Pune was the highest in India. “Back in the days, we were the only place with a reference books section. Medical journals were sought by the doctors from Pune and nearby areas. We had a person specially trained to look after the reference section. The internet put everything online and this section soon lost its relevance,” she said. She said there would be long queues outside the library on Thursdays long before it would open for the latest arrivals. Astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar’s wife Mangala, a mathematics lecturer, recalled coming to Pune from Mumbai to read a book. “Veerdhaval was a famous Marathi romantic thriller novel and we loved it. While living in Mumbai, he (Narlikar) found out that it was translated from an English novel set in Scotland. We contacted the library which said they had a copy of the original but it was in poor condition and we would have to come to Pune to read it. This library made you want to read books,” she said. Playwright Satish Alekar said an entire post-independence generation was groomed by the books from this library. “We have been members of the library since it started at Ranade Institute in 1961. From my days in Fergusson College to Pune University, the only source of knowledge about the world was the library. Drinking coffee for 25 paisa from Hotel Roopali and hanging out in front of the library was the in-thing then,” he said. The newspapers, magazines would arrive by surface mail, first by sea and then from Mumbai to Pune which meant people would get to read The Guardian and magazines after a two-week delay. They would wait for the New Theatre Quarterly by Cambridge University Press. The librarians were people who read widely and had contacts with almost everyone including politicians, civil servants and celebrities, he added. “All the British plays and its nuances were taught to us by these books and their reviews. The library stocked LP records of plays like Hamlet, King Lear, Murder in the Cathedral, recorded by Lawrence Olivier, Richard Burton, Ralph Richardson and Dame Cybil Thorndike. The closure of the physical library is sad,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/british-library-a-gift-to-generations-moves-to-digital-mode/articleshow/76329827.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 12, 2020||Agra||AMU students refuse to vacate hostels, say connectivity issues dog them back home||Agra: Nearly 800 students of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), who are stranded on the campus ever since the Covid-induced lockdown was announced, have refused to follow the university’s directive to vacate their hostels by June 15 citing internet connectivity issues for online exams at their native places. The university’s online open book exams are scheduled to be held after July 10. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the administration had asked the students to vacate their hostels by June 15 in view of summer vacation and the prevailing Covid-19 situation. However, the students claimed that they had informed the authorities in writing about their inability to leave under the present circumstances but to no avail. Notably, the AMU directive is in contrast to its own statement on June 2 which said that the university would facilitate dining facilities for students unable to return home due to genuine reasons. Speaking to TOI, a girl student from West Bengal said, “Not all of us have an internet connection at home. The Kashmiri students in the university too have such challenges. If we return to our respective native places, we will not be able to attend the online examinations. Instead of considering our genuine demand, the authorities are pressuring us to vacate the hostel.” Another student, who tweeted his concerns to the VC, said, “The authorities don’t understand the issues we face. Instead of believing us, they claim that we are not being serious.” He added that those who left voluntarily last month had to travel under horrific conditions with hardly any food or water and were quarantined on reaching home. Similarly, around 100 foreign students from Jordan, Indonesia and Yemen are also worried about travelling home as the ban on all commercial international flights continues. When contacted, university proctor Mohd Wasim Ali said that no student is being forced to vacate the hostel. “It was just an advisory. However, the tone and tenor of the provost could have sent a wrong message to students,” he said, adding that the decision was taken considering the health and career of students, both of which are important.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-students-refuse-to-vacate-hostels-say-connectivity-issues-dog-them-back-home/articleshow/76327472.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trio in net for thefts using stolen vehicles||PUNE: Three men with past criminal records were recently arrested by the Khadki police on the charges of committing robberies in parts of Pimpri Chinchwad using previously stolen vehicles. With the arrests, the police claimed to have solved six cases of vehicle thefts and three robbery incidents. Police have also recovered three four-wheelers, three two-wheelers and other valuables, collectively worth Rs13.7 lakh, from the trio. “The trio was arrested on June 4 while investigating a robbery that took place on October 29, 2019,” an officer from the Khadki police said. The suspects have been identified as ‘Uncle’ alias Sushant John Pandit (32) of Pimple Gurav, Ghulya alias Ganesh Raju Shetty (26) and Bagga alias Mayur Ashok Bagul (26), both residents of Bopodi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-in-net-for-thefts-using-stolen-vehicles/articleshow/76329836.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: With workers gone, Rs 11,000 crore smart city projects stuck||CHENNAI: Infrastructure projects worth more than Rs11,000 crore under the Smart Cities Mission are moving at a snail’s pace in corporations across the state. The reason: chunk of manpower behind many of these projects — workers from other states —have left Tamil Nadu. Except for Vellore corporation, none of the other city corporations have managed to retain the guest workers. As many as 458 projects taken up at a cost of around Rs 12,100 crore were tendered in 11 corporations including Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. Of these, 96 projects were completed ahead of the lockdown, while work on the remaining commenced after the government lifted restrictions from the first week of May but with a thin workforce, officials said. Nearly 50% of the total workforce of the projects were workers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. Majority of them have returned home following the outbreak of Covid-19. Authorities have roped in the local workforce, but most of them lack the expertise of the guest workers, say officials. "The absence of guest workers is slowing down projects in several corporations. They were valued as they stayed back at the work site and completed the projects on time," said an official attached to the municipal administration department. He said 23 projects under the Chennai corporation were in progress, but non-availability of workers was hampering its pace. "Now, many guest workers are expressing willingness to stay back and join work. So, we hope the development projects will gather momentum," said another official. An official from the engineering wing of Madurai corporation said around 300 guest workers were employed for various projects under the Smart Cities Mission and almost 90% of them had left. The remaining were also keen on returning to their home states. "We are managing with the local workforce, but the speed at which the work was being carried out earlier cannot be expected now," he said, noting that 13 projects worth around Rs900 crore were underway. Four projects in projects in Trichy corporation also face the same fate after 116 guest workers left for their home state. In Coimbatore, the local body has proposed to execute 48 projects at a cost of Rs984.86 crore. It has completed 22 projects but 25 of them worth Rs815 crore is at the execution stage. (With inputs from Nivedha Selvam and V Devanathan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-workers-gone-rs11k-crore-smartcity-projects-stuck/articleshow/76329830.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kunjananthan dies in T’puram||Thiruvananthapuram: Senior CPM leader P K Kunjananthan died here around 9 pm on Thursday. He was 73. A member of CPM’s Panoor area committee since its inception, Kunjananthan had been serving life sentence in connection with the May 2012 murder of RMP leader T P Chandrasekhar. He was the 13th accused in the case, and was charged with conspiracy. A close associate of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he was under treatment for a stomach ailment for the past two years, and had been on ventilator support for the last two weeks at the medical college hospital here. In March this year, the state high court had suspended his sentence and granted a three-month bail to undergo specialized treatment as per the recommendations of a medical board. Kunjananthan was arrested in July 2012 and he was convicted by court in January 2014. His time in prison was controversial for the amount of time he spent outside on frequent paroles. He even attended party conferences. Despite his imprisonment, the party had elected him, in absentia, as a member of CPM Panoor area committee. Sources close to the deceased said the body would be taken to his home in Kannur late on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kunjananthan-dies-in-tpuram/articleshow/76328695.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to focus on 10 districts with high Covid cases||LUCKNOW: Having increased the testing capacity to 15,000 per day on Thursday, the state government is now set to shift focus on 10 districts which have thrown up most Covid-19 cases. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed health and administration officials in Agra, Meerut, Aligarh, Moradabad, Kanpur, Firozabad, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Basti to spruce up health services in their respective districts. Agra has reported most number of cases in the state (over 900) followed by Noida and Meerut. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “As almost all the migrant workers have reached their respective districts and those having symptoms are under quarantine, it is important to focus on areas where cases are still rising.” “Through intensive testing, including pool testing, we have identified migrants who showed signs of Covid-19 infection and put them under quarantine either at home or in hospitals. Local ‘nigrani committees’ are monitoring their progress. The CM, therefore, believes that focus should be shifted to cities where cases are high,” he said. Health officials have been asked to continuously monitor availability of hospital beds, food, medicines and sanitation in their respective districts and review the condition of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals. In other districts where health services are unsatisfactory, the chief medical officer and the DM concerned have been asked to provide details so that facilities can be improved on priority. “The CM has directed officials to ensure that social distancing is followed strictly and people wear masks in public places. Police should continue patrolling in public places and on highways and check crowding,” Awasthi said. Meanwhile, all divisional commissioners have been asked to review development schemes in their areas and prepare a plan for their implementation. They have also been asked to submit proposals for employment generation. “While reviewing development, commissioners should focus on how much work has been carried out and the projects which have been completed before the implementation of lockdown. On the basis of the report, a plan of action for completion of remaining work can be drawn up. The CM has asked commissioners to maintain dialogue with the DMs of all districts under their area so that a comprehensive strategy can be drawn up,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-focus-on-10-dists-with-high-covid-cases/articleshow/76330596.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||HC seeks Centre’s view on Indians stranded in UK||Kochi: The high court on Thursday asked the central government to inform how it can repatriate two Indians who are stranded in the UK who couldn’t book flights on Vande Bharat Mission as tickets have been sold out. Justice Anu Sivaraman asked for the views of the central government after considering a petition filed by Suresh Subramanian, a parent seeking repatriation of his two children. The court is also considering two other petitions filed by parents seeking return of their children from the UK. During the hearing, central government counsel (CGC) Girish Kumar told the court that many of the petitioners have been able to book tickets on the flights scheduled as part of Vande Bharat Mission. Flights have been scheduled from the UK to India on June 18, 24, and 30, the CGC submitted. Advocate P Chandrasekhar, who represented Subramanian, told the court that tickets could not be booked as the website showed that the tickets have been sold out. Advocate Santhosh Mathew, who represented the other two petitioners, informed the court that they have been able to secure tickets on direct flights to Kochi. The CGC submitted that 25% of the seats are to be filled by Indians who are stranded and have registered as part of Vande Bharat Mission and 75% of the seats are booked online with Air India directly. If tickets are issued in the 25% quota, the government will book the tickets for them and they have to pay whereas bookings can be done for the 75% quota by direct payment, the CGC said. Advocate Chandrasekhar submitted that the petitioner is not able to avail tickets in both the quotas. Following the submission, the court asked the CGC to inform what can be done as the petitioner was unable to book the tickets||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-seeks-centres-view-on-indians-stranded-in-uk/articleshow/76328689.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Reimpose lockdown in Delhi, states PIL||NEW DELHI: A PIL was filed in Delhi high court on Thursday for reimposing stringent lockdown in the city due to steep rise in Covid-19 cases. The plea by a lawyer argued that Delhi government itself was admitting that there would be around 1 lakh Covid cases in Delhi by end of June, which would escalate to around 2.25 lakh by mid-July and over 5.5 lakh by July-end. In such a scenario, the government should consider imposing strict lockdown in Delhi, the plea contended. The petition has also sought a direction to the government to consider constituting an expert committee of doctors, medical specialists and virologists to prepare a detailed blueprint for controlling or containing the spread of the virus. It sought to reimpose lockdown on the ground that during the earlier period, the rate of increase in Covid cases was low. By allowing movement of people and activities like reopening of public transport, religious places, malls, restaurants/hotels, the spread of the virus has severely spiked, resulting in rise in daily cases, it added. The petition alleged that there was already a huge deficiency in the number of adequate beds/ ventilators/ ICU wards/ testing facilities in Delhi to deal with Covid-19, with the increase in the number of positive cases, the situation in Delhi could get “darker” and “unmanageable”, which is why lockdown is needed. It added that the forthcoming rise in cases could send the healthcare infrastructure in into disarray. “The primary focus/efforts/ resources of the state, as of now should not be on the monetary/economic aspects, but on the health and safety of its people,” the petition said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reimpose-lockdown-in-delhi-states-pil/articleshow/76329838.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Surat||2.29 lakh people in Surat at high risk of nCov infection||Surat: As many as 2.29 lakh people in Surat city are at ‘high risk’ of contracting Covid-19 infection, according to an elaborate health survey carried out by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).The survey named APX was carried out to trace people, mostly elders above 60 years, having co-morbid conditions, said municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.“The implementation of this special strategy is aimed at early identification and isolation or quarantining of the individuals to break the chain of transmission and early containment of the disease,” said Pani. In all, 1,000 teams of 2,200 members fanned out across the city and covered a population of over 41 lakh people.During teams’ visits, houses having patients suffering from acute respiratory infection (ARI) were marked with ‘A’ and 417 such households were found. Houses with people with co-morbid conditions and those aged above 60 years were marked with ‘P’. A total of 1,97,007 houses were identified under this category “Houses with none of the above-mentioned conditions were marked with ‘X’ and 8,93,939 houses fell under this category. There were 6,142 houses were the residents refused to provide any information,” Pani told TOI. “Our top priority are 2.29 lakh people who are in the high-risk category, and we are focusing on their health. Special teams have been assigned to look after them and they are visiting their houses regularly to find out if they require any medical assistance. We are distributing immunity booster medicines and ensuring that they get their regular medicines as well,” Pani explained. Most of the people who were found to be with co-morbid conditions are suffering from diabetes and hypertension.“We are giving medicines and masks to people suffering from HIV, and TB among others at their doorstep so that they don’t need to step out from their homes. Pensioners have been spared from visiting offices to submit life certificates,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-29-lakh-people-in-surat-at-high-risk-of-ncov-infection/articleshow/76328725.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt poser to corporations over ‘missing bodies’||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has sent a query to the municipal corporations seeking a clarification regarding 149 bodies that had been released by Covid-designated hospitals, but didn’t figure in the funeral data sent by the civic bodies. On May 16, the health and family welfare department had asked the corporations to furnish all records when a controversy had started over mismatch between the funeral data and Delhi government’s death figures. State health secretary Padmini Singla had written to the municipal commissioners asking them to provide copies of death registers and other associated documents with entries till the afternoon of the next day. The data, including details of cremations or burials along with supporting documents like lab reports and doctor’s certificates, was sought to verify both positive and suspected Covid-related deaths. In response, the civic bodies submitted the details of 559 such funerals. While the South Delhi Municipal Corporation municipal health officer submitted details of 307 cases, north corporation gave documents related to 252 funerals. A senior corporation official said that Delhi government had details of 149 cases that were in addition to the data compiled and sent by them. “They have now asked us to re-check our records. They receive the data of Covid-positive and suspected cases from the hospitals, while we get it from cremation and burial grounds. We’ll send a response soon,” he added. Another corporation official involved in compilation of Covid funeral data said the mismatch could possibly be attributed to the long delay by hospitals in releasing the bodies. “Records are being checked. Some of the 149 bodies may have been released by the hospitals, but not cremated at our facilities,” he added. Civic officials said health ministry guidelines clearly mention that it is the responsibility of Covid-designated hospitals to send the bodies to the cremation or burial grounds in a hearse along with trained staff. “We are rechecking the files, but many bodies go to different burial and cremation grounds. It is the hospital’s responsibility to ensure that the bodies reach the designated crematorium or burial ground,” said another corporation official overseeing the management of such bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-poser-to-corpns-over-missing-bodies/articleshow/76330547.cms||Paras Singh
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Fuel price hike upsets Covid-hit home budget||BHOPAL: After remaining stable for over two months since the lockdown was effected in the country on March 24, the prices of petrol and diesel have started rising again. Since June 6, the price of petrol has gone up by Rs2.84 while diesel price rose by Rs2.14 per litre. “When the prices of oil in international market were at the lowest, the government did not allow its prices to come down by levying extra excise duty. Now that crude oil in the international.market has risen a bit, oil companies didn’t lose any time to raise the prices. The prices of petrol and diesel are rising every day over a week,” said Varinder Singh, who was refuelling his bike at a petrol pump in New Market. The government seems to have decided that petrol prices won’t be allowed to go below Rs75 per litre, he added. “At a time when government itself was asking people not to.ask for rent from their tenants and has suspended payment of instalments on realising that people are in financial crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic, it should also spare petrol and diesel prices from hike. It is now clear that decontrolling the prices of petrol.and diesel and letting the international market decide its prices, which was one of the first steps of Modi government, was a ‘farce’. The prices of petrol.and diesel are still controlled by the government,” said Prerna Sharma, teacher at a higher secondary school. President of M P Petrol Pump Owners' Association, Ajay Singh, told TOI said that since the lockdown, the prices of both petrol and diesel were constant till unlock-1 was announced and since June 6, prices of both the commodities are rising again. He said that crude oil in the international.market had come down to as low as Rs18 a barrel, but then the government didn’t pass on the benefit to the consumer. Now, oil.companies are raising prices even though the crude price is still Rs42 per barrel. “The Union government would have been forced to impose Corona tax in the situation it was in, but low oil.prices came in handy for it to mobilise funds. But, its objective was not fully achieved as oil consumption in the country reduced to 25 to 30 per cent during the lockdown. Now, oil consumption is picking up again during the “unlocking” and prices of petrol and diesel are also rising. He further said that by Saturday, the price of petrol would have risen by Rs5 per litre from what it was on June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fuel-price-hike-upsets-covid-hit-home-budget/articleshow/76328672.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand forest dept gives go-ahead to open Corbett; guides, gypsy associations unhappy||Dehradun: The chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand Rajiv Bhartari on Wednesday gave permission to open Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) but the tourist guides as well as Gypsy association of the part have expressed dismay over the decision. The communication signed by Rajiv Bhartari, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, "NTCA guidelines to be followed in letter and spirit. State government guidelines and discussion with district administration of Nainital and Pauri be carried out to ensure adherence to all Covid-19 related protocols." However, president of Nature and Tourist Welfare Society of Ramnagar Yogendera Singh Manral called it an unwanted move. He said, "The guidelines issued by the NTCA regarding allowing tourists are stringent. People come for holidays to enjoy but the rules they have laid for tourist movement is more of a ‘suffering’ rather than relaxation. The reserve is also due to close on June 15 for monsoons, so this is an unplanned move." The guides alleged that the reserve is not ready to entertain any tourist in present condition as it was shut for almost three months. Girish Dhasmana from Gypsy Association of Ramnagar said that the gypsy owners are also not keen on this. "NTCA wants gypsies with 50% capacity, which means carrying barely three people and it would be costly. Tourist would prefer to book canters the money for which is charged seat-wise." Meanwhile, CTR director Rahul said, "We will look into the matter and take a decision in tandem with the state government, district administration as well as NTCA guidelines."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-forest-dept-gives-go-ahead-to-open-corbett-guides-gypsy-associations-unhappy/articleshow/76328683.cms||Shivani Azad
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 shocker for discoms, losses mount||Hyderabad: The 77-day lockdown and closure of industrial units due to the coronavirus pandemic are likely to push power utilities in the state into further losses this year. Apart from steep fall in power demand from both industrial and commercial sectors in the past three months, they worry low demand may continue for a few more months, eroding their revenues further. According to official estimates, the revenue of both southern and northern power distribution companies of Telangana (TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL) could be over Rs 10,000 crore in the current financial year 2020-2021.  Official sources said as industries and commercial establishment were closed for two-and-half months, TSSPDCL lost huge revenue from both the sectors. The fall in the power consumption by these two major categories might continue till December. “Even after the state government withdrew lockdown for the past few weeks, the industries are not fully operational as migrant workers have left for their home states. Similarly, offices such as IT and other commercial establishments are not working with full capacity, leading to drop in power usage,” the officer said. Explaining other problems apart from revenues, a senior official of Transco said the discoms had prepared aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) to be submitted to the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Authority (TSERC) by June-end. However, the projection for power sale and revenue requirement went haywire due to the pandemic.“We are reworking on ARR projections. It will be submitted to TSERC by the end of this month,” an official involved in the ARR exercise in TSSPDCL said. Centre for Power Studies convenor M Venugopal Rao said power utilities might have to not only suffer revenue loss (sale of power), but also pay fixed charges to power generating firms with which the discoms entered into purchase agreements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-shocker-for-discoms-losses-mount/articleshow/76329841.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Padmasarovaram: CPM to urge Kerala government to retain old plan||KOCHI: Giving a major twist to controversies surrounding the ‘Padmasarovaram’ project, the CPM, which had kept silent till now, has come up with the demand of scrapping the existing project. The district committee of the party which met recently has decided to urge the state government to retain the original project which would not harm to the environment. As per the original project, designed in 2003-04, authorities had planned to set up lotus ponds in the backwaters of Chilvannoor. The design also included construction of walkways along the shores. But, when the UDF came to power in Kochi corporation, they revised the project. A walkway and cycle track on a viaduct constructed across the backwaters became the main features of the project. In 2008, the work on the project was started and around 500 coconut trees were driven into the riverbed for constructing a bund. The bund which was constructed for facilitating the work on the viaduct has been causing waterlogging in Elamkulam, Gandhinagar, Kadavanthra and Ponnurunni. "The original project designed was an environmental-friendly one. But the project got delayed due to technical reasons. When the UDF came to power in Kochi corporation, they changed the design. Now, the unscientific bund constructed across the backwaters has been causing waterlogging in the area. So, the district committee of the CPM, which held a meeting couple of days ago, decided to approach the state government demanding stopping of all illegal works carried out by the corporation," said C M Dinesh Mani, CPM state committee member. "The party has decided to urge the state government to retain the original design which is environmental-friendly," he said. Kochi corporation authorities started the work on the project without getting approvals from agencies like Kerala coastal zone management authority (KCZMA). Though the local body authorities submitted applications to the KCZMA seeking approval for the project at a later stage, the agency denied it. According to KCZMA, the project will obstruct the natural flow of the water and so permission couldn’t be accorded. Moreover, the district collector had already issued memo to stop the work. So, the work has been halted for the past 11 months. "Still, the authorities are not taking any steps to demolish the bund which caused environmental damages as well as waterlogging in many places on the banks of the backwaters," said K T Cheshire, RTI activist. "Corporation authorities mooted the project for helping big sharks who constructed houses violating CRZ norms. The bund constructed across the backwaters will cause reduction in salinity of the water and the high tide line (HTL) moving further into the middle of the backwaters. Restrictions in construction activities are fixed on the basis of distance from the HTL," Cheshire said, adding that there should be immediate measures to demolish the bund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/padmasarovaram-cpm-tourge-govt-to-retain-old-plan/articleshow/76328702.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Working in PPEs a nightmare, say junior doctors||HYDERABAD: Apart from battling long hours and stress, there’s another thing that doctors treating Covid-19 patients, have to endure every day — it’s wearing the personal protective equipment (PPE). Sharing how it isn’t an easy task to keep the PPE on for hours on end, junior doctors termed it is a “suffocating experience”, on Thursday. They stressed the requirement for more manpower saying that was impossible to stay in the suit all day. The PPE is a vital gear for healthcare workers treating Covid-19 patients as it prevents the transmission of the coronavirus — from the affected to the doctors — while they discharge their duties. But wearing the suit for several hours is no mean task. “We are wrapped in the equipment from head to toe for several hours while discharging our duties. It can be anywhere between 6 hours to 12 hours at a stretch. We can neither drink water nor go to the wash room while in it,” said K Shashidhar, a PG doctor from the pulmonology department at Gandhi Hospital. By the time the shift ends, many of these doctors are, predictably, dehydrated and drenched in sweat. Some even complain of suffering from skin rashes after using the “uncomfortable” PPEs for a long duration. In fact, the rising temperatures during the last few weeks had made matters worse for doctors who say wearing the PPE in the Covid-19 wards, at that time, had become unbearable. “One hour after wearing the suit, we are drenched in sweat and start feeling giddy. We cannot work 24 hours with the existing manpower. We cannot stay in PPE suits for more than four to six hours... we get dehydrated,” said a PG doctor from general medicine. His views were reiterated by Dr Navdeep, a PG doctor present on day 3 of the protest who said that wearing PPEs continuously for a couple of hours leads to dehydration. “This makes our job even more difficult,” he said. “Working in the acute medical care unit (AMCU) wearing the Hazmat suit can be difficult. Some working for long hours had to self-injected IV fluids to keep themselves hydrated,” said Dr Naveen Reddy, another PG doctor at the protest. Citing the example of the US they said there is one doctor for every 650 population whereas in India there is one doctor for every 12,000 people. Apart from Gandhi doctors, the issue of wearing PPEs was raised by those in other government and private hospitals in the city as well. Particularly those wearing the suit during surgeries or handling isolation wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/working-in-ppes-a-nightmare-say-junior-docs/articleshow/76329844.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||Mastermind of KGBV 'teachers' scamhimself used fake papers to get job||Lucknow/Agra: Two days after the real Anamika Shukla appeared in Gonda and claimed that her documents were forged by several people to get jobs in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas, the Kasganj police arrested one of the masterminds behind this fraud. Shukla, on the other hand, lodged an FIR against unidentified persons in Gonda for misusing her academic records to get jobs in as many as 25 KGBVs. TOI had exposed on June 4 the racket in which 25 persons with the same name -- Anamika Shukla -- and personal details were found working in various KGBVs and swindling Rs 1 crore in 13 months as salary. In Kasganj, the apprehended accused was identified as Jaswant Singh Jatav (42) of Nagla Khar village under Bhogaon police station. His younger brother Pushpender Singh Jatav (32) alias Nitu Raj is absconding from June 6. The two brothers have been involved in the scam for seven to eight years and prior to Anamika Shukla, they have used one Deepti Singh's identity and academic qualifications to help scores of women get government teachers' jobs, police said. Jaswant himself got a teacher's job on fake papers, they say. In Gonda, Basic Shiksha Adhikari Indrajeet Prajapati verified all documents of real Anamika Shukla and lodged an FIR, said the police. As per records, Anamika had pursued Classes X, XII and BSc from Gonda and then did BEd from Ambedkarnagar district. In 2015, she qualified for the UP Teacher’s Eligibility Test (UPTET), the police said. Anamika in her statement to the BSA Gonda has stated that she had applied for the job of science teacher in KGBV in five districts – Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Lucknow, Basti and Mirzapur - in 2017, but never appeared for the counselling for final selection. Superintendent of police, Gonda, Raj Nayyar, told TOI that Anamika has first lodged a complaint about her education related documents being misused on government’s portal-IGRS. “Later, a probe was done by the BSA who verified her documents and then an FIR was lodged on Thursday,” he said. The officer said that Anamika claimed in the FIR that she got to know about the forgery of her academic documents only through media reports. “People have fraudulently used my documents for getting jobs,” she stated in the FIR. Nayyar said that a team will be formed which will work in coordination with the BSA for the investigation. Meanwhile, Kasganj SP Sushil Ghule said: “The brothers charged Rs 1.5 to 2 lakh per woman to prepare forged documents. The modus operandi was simple. After collecting details of top ranking candidates who made it into government jobs, Pushpender with the help of his brother would prepare fake marksheet, aadhar and other documents.” He said, “We suspect that even education department employees would be involved in the scam. Our team is searching for absconding Pushpender. As of now, Jaswant has accused his brother to be kingpin of the scam.” Jaswant is BA second year dropout of 1997-98 batch of National degree college, Mainpuri. He did his high school from Farrukhabad and intermediate from Mainpuri. Since September 22, 2015, he was working as headmaster of government school Rampur Barauli of Indragadh block under Hasrena police station. Talking to TOI, SHO, Soron, Ripudaman Singh, who is leading the investigation, said, “Jaswant obtained a headmaster job on fake documents. He had posed himself as Vibhav Kumar, a resident of Hasanpur village of Bhogaon police limits, Mainpuri.” TOI had reported that an FIR lodged against Anamika Shukla in Amethi district mentioned her address as Hasanpur, but the village (Tigva) pradhan Mahendra Singh Jatav had claimed that entire village is populated by Dalit community and no other community lives there. Hasanpur is just 4 km away from Jaswant’s village Nagla Khar. “The accused had used Hasanpur and many other villages as addresses in fake documents of various Anamika Shuklas as well,” said SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mastermind-of-kgbv-teachers-scamhimself-used-fake-papers-to-get-job/articleshow/76330607.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 12, 2020||Pune||PMC staffer succumbs to freak road crash injuries||Pune: A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staffer, Sunil Kamble (56), on Tuesday succumbed to the injuries he had suffered on June 7 when his scooter crashed into the door of a car in Vishrantwadi. The accident occurred when the driver of the car had suddenly opened its door, against which the PMC property tax department staffer’s scooter crashed. Kamble was admitted to a hospital with serious injuries. “He was not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident,” assistant inspector Sachin Nikam of the Vishrantwadi police said on Thursday. Kamble’s son, Nitesh (28), lodged a complaint with the Vishrantwadi police, following which a case has been registered against the car driver. Nikam said Kamble had gone to a grocery store on the Dhanori road on his scooter. “While returning home, he reached a spot near Amrapali Buddha Vihar on Dhanori road where the car, red in colour, was parked. Kamble took the middle lane of the road to pass by the car, when its driver opened the door without looking back,” the officer said. Nikam said Kamble was associated with many social organisations in the Yerawada, Dhanori and the Vimannagar areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-staffer-succumbs-to-freak-road-crash-injuries/articleshow/76329843.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||As migrant workers settle into villages, MNREGA demand ten year high in Uttarakhand||Nainital: As millions of workers and blue collar job holders in cities across the country settle into their villages, the demand for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) reached its highest in ten years. According to the data accessed from the public portal of MNREGA, over 1.95 lakh households demanded work in May 2020, under the central government’s scheme that guarantees 100 days of work to every individual. The demand has been the highest ever for May since financial year 2011-12 for when the data is available on the portal. An analysis of the month-wise data shows that the demand for jobs under the scheme rose by almost 160% from April this year when just 74,963 households had applied for work. When compared to May 2019 when 99,651 people sought work, the demand was almost double in May 2020. Rajesh Aswal, head of Munani village in Almora district, said, "In the past one month, over 50 people have worked under the scheme in the village. Most of these are young people and the demand for MNREGA job is most among returnees." The demand for MNREGA work has peaked even though day’s wage under the scheme is minimal compared to what most of the migrants earned in the cities. Uttarakhand pays just over Rs 200 (paid by the Center) for a day’s work unlike states such as Haryana which offer around Rs 300 per day. The wages in several states (including Uttarakhand) is also far below the agriculture minimum wage rate. Workers said that they have taken up MNREGA jobs as they are left with no other choice. "Initially, we though the lockdown will end in a month or two and things will get back to normal. But now it looks like this is going to continue for many more months. In the absence of any other opportunity I was left with no other choice but to seek work under the scheme even though the pay is less," said Mayank Kumar from Chaukhutiya village, who worked as an helper to a photographer and earned almost Rs 500 a day. Aswal’s claims are reflected in the data as well which shows that demand for job in just 11 days of June this year has surpassed the total demand (82,000 household) in June 2019. Till Thursday, 92,137 households had already demanded work in June. An official of the state rural development department said, "The month of June marks a hiatus between the harvest of Rabi and sowing of Kharif crops. Moreover, thousands of those who came to Uttarakhand and were serving quarantine will now seek work. We expect the number to surpass May figures." Meanwhile, in yet another important indicator, the number of households applying for job cards has already surpassed last year’s demand. While just 11.15 lakh households had applied for job cards in 2019-20, the number stood at 11.27 lakh till June 11 of the present financial year. When approached, the government official said that the state has released funds to the village heads and the extra money the Center has allocated will further help the state pay the wages to the workers on time. "We know that in the absence of any other job, people who have come to Uttarakhand will look for MNREGA work. The state has made arrangements to handle this sudden spurt in demand and the additional money from the Center will further help us in meeting the demand," said Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-migrant-workers-settle-into-villages-mnrega-demand-ten-year-high-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/76328704.cms||Prashant Jha
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven cops test postive at police station in city||Hyderabad: The most prominent police station in the upmarket area of Hyderabad city is under the grip of Covid-19. So far, seven cops including an SI tested positive for Covid-19 and 10 cops are placed in home isolation. The first case of Covid-19 was observed in the police station of the West Zone on Saturday when an e-cops constable tested positive after having symptoms like fever and cough for a few days. Subsequently, samples of all the cops who were his primary contacts have been sent for testing and six of them have tested positive. “Another e-cops constable tested positive three days ago and on Wednesday night, four constables and an SI tested positive,” said a cop from the police station. As the SI who tested positive handles administrative work and keeps in regular contact with all other SIs, writers, station house officer and the ACP, the entire police station staff became extremely conscious of their health condition. Currently the staff strength of the police station is 150 including two inspectors, 11 SIs and six ASIs. “We have sent samples of 25 cops of all ranks from the police station for testing. The results are awaited. Four or five constables are have symptoms like cold, sneezing and cough. We will send more people for testing in the coming few days in batches,” said a police official. On Wednesday night, 18 cops from Hyderabad tested positive for Covid-19. According to police sources, over all 80 cops working in the city, have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-cops-test-postive-at-police-station-in-city/articleshow/76329851.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Two kids, senior citizen in hosp with dengue||KOLKATA: In the midst of the Covid pandemic, dengue has made a return to Kolkata with at least three patients — two children and a senior citizen — currently being treated for the disease in two hospitals. One child and the senior citizen are lodged in ICU. A 13-year-old girl from Ballygunge Place was brought to Institute of Child Health (ICH) in critical condition on Wednesday. She had had fever for the past few days. Paeditaric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri said she also had other symptoms, including abdomen pain, nausea, body ache, vomiting and weakness. Doctors tested her blood samples, which confirmed dengue. “We admitted her in the paediatric ICU as her symptoms were severe and her condition was bad. Her platelet count and blood pressure are low. Though stable, her condition continues to be critical,” said Giri who is the PICU in-charge. The other child admitted to ICH with dengue is not critical. The senior citizen is admitted to the critical care unit of a private hospital in central Kolkata. Though the number of infected is still low, doctors are worried about it being too early for dengue cases to spring up. Virologists say dengue cases generally start appearing from August, peak in the next two months before declining. “It is not very usual to get dengue cases at this time,” said Giri. Experts said the thundershowers in the past few days and water accumulation after Amphan could be a reason for the early cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-kids-senior-citizen-in-hosp-with-dengue/articleshow/76329852.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 12, 2020||Delhi||A bigger headache than boards: Parents fret about wards’ safety in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It is not the rising Covid-19 numbers that worries architect Coomar Arunodaya every day. Rather, he stresses over the approaching rescheduled exams to be held by Central Board of Secondary Education. His son, a student of Delhi Public School, RK Puram, has to sit for the examination that was halted by the coronavirus crisis. Realising that he cannot expose his son to infection, Arunodaya has even written to both the education board and the Union human resource development ministry to cancel the exams. Like Arunodaya, almost all parents across the country are anxiety ridden at the thought of the rescheduled CBSE and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination classes X and XII exams. “For three months, we kept the children at home, and now the government wants us to expose them to the risk at a time when the cases are on the rise,” said Arunodaya, whose son has to sit for the business studies paper. “The kids have already written 95% of the exams, so CBSE can come up with a formula for those pending tests.” Brij Nandan Srivastav was similarly aggrieved. “Does the government realise how stressful this period has been for the children? And now they are being asked to appear for the exams,” he said. “How can we expect 16-17-year-olds not to take off their masks in this heat? And can we prevent them from contact when they haven’t met their friends in so many months? Also, how will the children travel? Not everyone has a private vehicle.” Some parents are prepared for their children to miss the exams rather than send them out of the home. While slating the exams between July 1 and 15, CBSE and CISCE asked the students to don face masks, carry hand sanitiser and maintain social distancing. These two national boards have pending X and XII exams, as also the state education boards in West Bengal and Karnataka. Some like Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh have cancelled the Class X exams. School principals felt parental emotions needed to be controlled. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “The goalpost keeps moving as the dynamics of the pandemic alters. Having said that, a progressive board like CBSE should have an alternative plan.” Parents have petitioned the Supreme Court to cancel the CBSE Class XII exams, while the Bombay high court is hearing a similar petition, given Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases. On Friday 2,300 parents campaigned on Twitter for CISCE not holding the Class X exams. Delhi’s education minister, Manish Sisodia, had earlier requested CBSE not to subject the youngsters to tests. An official at CBSE, requesting anonymity, averred that results could be computed with conducting examinations. “When the boards of International Baccalaureate board and the open online edX can declare results without exams, why can’t CBSE? There are tools, statistics in place,” the official said. CISCE chief executive Gerry Arathoon did not respond to calls and messages from TOI. However, an official said exams were important because the board had its own evaluation norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-bigger-headache-than-boards-parents-fret-about-wards-safety/articleshow/76349194.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt’s affidavit in HC rebukes Swamy’s PIL on Devasthanam Act||Nainital: An affidavit filed by the Uttarakhand tourism secretary has termed the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy a ‘proxy petition’ to score ‘personal interest’.The PIL, which is being heard by the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, has challenged the BJP government’s Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019, which allows the state government to take over the management of 51 major temples as well as the Char Dham shrines – Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.Swamy, in his petition, has said the Act goes against the right to freedom of religion under Article 25 and the right to manage its own affairs under Article 26 of the constitution.However, the affidavit, a copy of which is available with TOI, has raised preliminary objections with the maintainability of the PIL.It said the petition is not a PIL “but has been filed by instigation of a group of persons who think that the Devasthanam board will impact their personal interest and these people have no interest in the welfare of pilgrims”.“Besides, the petitioner is a political person and it can be safely assumed that the present PIL has filed for scoring his personal interest and not the public interest. Therefore, it being a proxy petition is liable to be dismissed at the very outset,” read the affidavit.Quoting several tweets of Swamy that argued that the Act is ‘unconstitutional’ and ‘against Hindutva’, and that the advocate general (AG) should have consulted him before enactment of the law, the affidavit asserts that it can be presumed that the PIL has been filed because “Swamy was annoyed that the AG did not consult him”.“It can be reasonably presumed that the petitioner has filed the PIL after being annoyed that the AG has not consulted him before the Act was promulgated… It is also worth mentioning here that no law casts any duty on the state nor on the AG to consult the petitioner before promulgating the Act,” the affidavit read.Countering the argument that the Act goes against the Article 25, the affidavit said the Act has been brought to regulate or restrict the economic, financial, political and other secular activities associated with the religious practice which is permissible under Article 25(2).“The Act has nowhere violated the freedom of religious denomination or any other section as provided under Article 26 of the Indian Constitution. The Act is fully valid and in consonance with the Indian constitution,” it said.After the secretary tourism submitted his affidavit, the counsel appearing for Swamy has sought time to file his rejoinder. The HC has given the petitioner time till June 22 to file the reply when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govts-affidavit-in-hc-rebukes-swamys-pil-on-devasthanam-act/articleshow/76328724.cms||Prashant Jha
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors complain of burnout, seek relief||Hyderabad: Are the frontline warriors in Covid-19 containment like doctors, nurses and paramedical staff feeling burntout? Over three months of serving the coronavirus positive patients without taking a break or a weekly off has fatigued them? It appears so. In the last two days, several doctors have taken up the issue of burnout with the government authorities and asked for help. Working without weekly-offs for over three months, attending to duties under tremendous pressure, fears of contracting the virus and facing physical and verbal abuses from the kin of patients have cast a profound impact on their well-being and health, the doctors complained. Not just doctors, nurses and health workers are also undergoing depression, anxiety and acute stress. While the Gandhi Hospital junior doctors who are on strike have openly asked the government to relieve them of Covid-19 duties and apportion the positive cases to other government and private hospitals, PG doctors and senior doctors are now urging the authorities to ease the weight of Covid-19 treatment off their shoulders. “All of us are in a state of emotional, physical and mental exhaustion caused by excessive and prolonged stress. This burnout can cause long-term changes to one’s body that make one vulnerable to illnesses like colds and flu,” a senior doctor at Gandhi Hospital said. In March when the lockdown was imposed, the health and family welfare department had issued a circular instructing all healthcare employees to report to work on all Sundays and general holidays also. “It is being followed even now. Leave is sanctioned only in case of medical emergencies, death of a family member or a wedding,” a PG doctor told TOI. Another doctor said they are feeling overwhelmed, emotionally drained and unable to meet constant demands of patients. “It just got worse with the farcical distribution of workload and responsibilities by the authorities,” she added. K Lekha (name changed), a nurse working in a Covid ward in a government hospital, said healthcare associations in neighbouring Karnataka are conducting online sessions on breathing techniques and meditation for their members. “We should do it here also to ease tension,” she said. Doctors working in other hospitals are equally worried over the physical exhaustion as the result of long-term and unresolved stress. “Though I am not working in a Covid-19 ward, I do not mingle with the families as the patients we treat might be coronavirus positive,” a doctor working in a general hospital explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-complain-of-burnout-seek-relief/articleshow/76329861.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||Tuition fees order: Pvt institutes claim well-off parents taking advantage of rule||Dehradun: Expressing disappointment over the state government’s April order, which was also upheld in the high court (HC) recently, that barred the private educational institutions to levy tuition fees for conducting online classes, many institutions have claimed that their revenues have been massively affected due to the ruling.The institutions alleged that most of the parents, who are well-off, have “taken advantage of the HC’s order”, which asks them to pay the tuition fees voluntarily on monthly basis during the lockdown.On Wednesday, the court had asked the private institutions to speak with the secretary (education) regarding the levying of fees and reach a common ground.“The reality is that around 80% of parents can afford tuition fees. The average monthly tuition fee of Dehradun schools is around Rs 3,000, which can be paid by most of the parents,” said D.S. Mann, chairman of Doon International School. G S Warne, secretary of the association of self-financed colleges of Uttarakhand, said the parents who haven’t faced any salary cuts must honestly pay their dues so that the salaries of teachers don’t get affected. “Currently, the educational institutes need to get money for their staff salaries and other costs. It’s important that parents should be honest with themselves and pay for their ward’s tuition fees. If they have financial issues then they should pay whatever is possible in their budget otherwise, if their salaries or revenue stream is more or less uninterrupted, they should pay the full amount.” He added that “salaries are the only income source for teachers or professors otherwise, they can’t run their homes.”“ I am totally against those educational institutes who are pressurising even those parents who are financially in trouble but at least those who are still getting stable income like government employees and others should make the payment. With a mutual understanding, we can survive through these tough times,” Warne said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tuition-fees-order-pvt-institutes-claim-well-off-parents-taking-advantage-of-rule/articleshow/76328710.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Notice to pvt school over e-classes & fee collection||Hyderabad: On receiving a complaint from a parent, the district education officer (DEO) of Warangal issued a show-cause notice to a private school for conducting classes online for primary students and collecting fees. K Narayan Reddy, DEO, Warangal (Urban), directed the school to submit an explanation on why they were conducting online classes, failing which the school would be sealed without further notice. “We have received a representation from a parent claiming that Birla Open Minds International School, Warangal, is conducting online classes even for the primary class students and is collecting fees. We have sought a report from the school management,” the DEO said. The notice issued by the DEO said that online classes were not authorized by the government and conducting virtual classes was against the norms. While the DEO, Warangal, said conducting online classes was against the norms, the rules do not seem to be uniform in the state. A few days ago, the DEO of Medchal-Malkajgiri district issued instructions asking headmasters to motivate the students to watch digital lessons provided under e-learning in TSAT app and Saptagiri channel. “After receiving the notice, we have decided not to conduct any classes for children up to class 5,” N Venkateshwar Rao, correspondent and secretary, Birla Open Minds International School, Warangal, said, adding that the school has already submitted its response to the official concerned. The education department officials, meanwhile, said that schools should wait for the state to release guidelines before starting online classes and made it clear that schools can’t collect fees in the name of virtual classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notice-to-pvt-school-over-e-classes-fee-collection/articleshow/76329859.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Custody death: Congress seeks CBI inquiry||Hyderabad: The Telangana Congress on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into the custodial death of Srilam Rangaiah, a dalit, who was arrested by the Manthani police in a Wildlife Protection Act case on May 24 and was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the police station toilet on May 26. In an open letter to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and Congress leader Bhatti Vikramarka said that the circumstantial evidences in the case suggest that Rangaiah died under mysterious circumstances, allegedly due to torture by the police and not due to suicide. Uttam said that the high court has directed city police commissioner Anjani Kumar to probe into the case as enquiry officer. The Congress said that since police officers cannot be expected to investigate charges against their own personnel in a non-partisan manner, the CBI must probe into the case. “The post-mortem was conducted hastily and the police is trying to hush-up the case,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/custody-death-congress-seeks-cbi-inquiry/articleshow/76329854.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Waiting for govt response on decentralisation: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday said that it is waiting for the government's response on decentralising Covid-19 treatment all over the state. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this when Chikkudu Prabhakar, an advocate representing professor P L Vishweswar Rao and retired principal A Rajendra Babu, who earlier filed a PIL urging the court to direct the state to designate one government hospital in each district headquarters as Covid-19 hospital. The counsel brought to the notice of the court the ongoing agitation by junior doctors at Gandhi hospital, the sole Covid-19 hospital that has put tremendous work pressure on doctors including junior doctors. They are seeking decentralization of Covid-19 treatment, he said. Reminding the counsel about its June 8 order, the bench said that it had indeed asked the state to convey by June 17 whether the state has any plans to designate government hospitals as Covid-19 hospitals. The bench in that order also directed the advocate general to convey a list of such hospitals if the state had already earmarked certain government hospitals as Covid-19 hospitals. The petitioners in their plea said that there is a need to set up such facilities in each district headquarters with at least 100 bed capacity along with trained manpower and equipment to deal with the pandemic. This would reduce the burden on Gandhi hospital and doctors, they said. Since the earlier ten districts were increased to 31 districts now, the state can set up 100-bed hospitals in the erstwhile district HQs and at least 50-bed hospitals in the newly created district headquarters, they said. Confining Covid-19 treatment to the GHMC area and not expanding it to rural areas of the state is contrary to the spirit of the constitution besides being contrary to the provisions of the epidemic diseases Act and disaster management Act, they said. The case would come up for hearing on June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-waiting-for-govt-response-on-decentralisation/articleshow/76329857.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||Demand for separate Vindhya state will continue: BJP MLA||BHOPAL: BJP’s Maihar MLA Narayan Tripathi, who went against the party and voted in favour of Kamal Nath-led Congress government on the Criminal Law Amendment Bill tabled in the assembly in July 2018, is adamant over his demand to form a separate Vindhya state. Tripathi said he would stick to his demand for a separate state and support his party during the upcoming bypolls, where he said BJP will win 20 out of the 24 assembly seats. “My demand for a separate Vindhya state would continue. Due to the coronavirus crisis, the process for giving it momentum got stuck, it will resume once the crisis is over. Erstwhile Vindhya state was a separate entity, but it was merged with Madhya Pradesh after Independence. We are simply demanding the reconstitution of the previous state,” Tripathi told the media on Thursday. Making clear that he would remain in BJP, despite having close relations with the leaders of different political affiliations, the MLA said that the saffron party is going to win and retain government after the bypolls. “BJP will win 20 out of 24 assembly constituencies in the forthcoming bypolls. I agree, I have relations with other leaders, being a member of Samajwadi Party and Congress earlier. But, as of now, I am with BJP and will extend full political support to the party,” Tripathi said. Tripathi also defended former minister and estranged BJP leader, Deepak Joshi, saying the Congress leaders praising Joshi does not mean that he is joining the old party. “Other leaders appreciate our work. They did the same and praised Joshi for his qualities. But this does not mean that Joshi is joining Congress. He is a senior leader with a family background in the saffron party. He is not going anywhere,” said Tripathi. The BJP MLA who had also opposed the CAA (Citizen Amendment Act) to the utter dismay of his party, said that he is not in the race for a cabinet berth. “I need only development. I work for the public. I am not in the race for a cabinet berth, so keep me away from this,” Tripathi said. Tripathi, along with BJP MLA from Beohari, Sharad Kol, had openly praised former chief minister Kamal Nath for his vision to develop Madhya Pradesh and decisions taken in the favour of farmers. After BJP came to power in March, the two leaders are maintaining silence over controversial issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-mla-demand-for-separate-vindhya-state-will-continue/articleshow/76328713.cms||Rajendra Sharma
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Dengue prevention: Kochi corporation to carry out cleanliness drive||KOCHI: In the wake of increase in dengue cases in the city, the health department and Kochi corporation conducted a joint meeting on Thursday to prepare an action plan for preventing the spread of the disease. Around 120 cases of dengue have been reported in the corporation limit this year. More number of cases are reported from Pottakkuzhi, Kaloor South, Vyttila and Palluruthy. “In Pottakkuzhi area, around 15 cases have been reported. Dengue cases are being reported from all parts of the city. So, we have decided to carry out a cleanliness drive with the help of the health department and residents’ associations,” said corporation health standing committee chairperson Prathibha Anzari. “Though the corporation’s health workers go to each household to clean their premises, the residents are not welcoming them. Residents are apprehensive of contracting Covid-19. However, it will require an effective drive to prevent dengue from spreading to more areas and also to contain the disease in the areas where it has already spread. So, we have decided to rope in residents’ associations,” Anzari said. “When residents’ associations carry out the drive, there won’t be much objection,” she said. Officials with the health department said that the pattern of fogging carried out by the corporation workers is not effective. Corporation workers carry out fogging in different parts of the city between 4.30pm and 6pm. According to health department officials, fogging should be done around 10am if Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which cause dengue, are to be destroyed. So, the corporation has decided to change the timing of fogging in the city. According to the officials with the health department, money plants are the common sources of vectors in more than 50% of households in the city. Waste accumulated on the rooftop of houses and sunshades also are the breeding grounds of mosquitoes. The issue can be solved only if the residents keep vigil and avoid waterlogging on their premises. ‘Shops selling substandard masks’At the same time, there are allegations that masks used by people are being collected by rag-pickers which end up in shops and they sell it again. “Most of the kiosks and shops in the city sell masks at around Rs 10. I think all of them are substandard. The corporation authorities should conduct an inspection to find out the truth,” said K J Antony, opposition leader, Kochi corporation. Anzari said that the incidents of used masks being thrown into the streets have come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dengue-prevention-corp-to-carry-out-cleanliness-drive/articleshow/76328732.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Lucknow||GSVM principal accused of makingremarks against TJ members shifted||Kanpur: Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college principal Dr Arti Lalchandani was attached with the office of director general medical education on Thursday and Dr R B Kamal appointed the new principal. A video of her controversial remarks against members of Tablighi Jamaat video went viral recently. After which a probe had been inititaated against her. District magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari told TOI said an order of Dr Lalchandani’s attachment to DGME’s office was received on Thursday and she was apprised about the same. There had been an outcry after the video of Dr Lalchandani surfaced on social media on May 31 wherein she purportedly referred to Tablighi Jamaat members as terrorists and questioned why the government was giving them VIP treatment instead of punishing them by keeping them in solitary confinement in jails. Dr Lalchandani had issued an open apology while contesting the authenticity of the video. Kanpur DM had submitted his report on the viral video to principal secretary, medical education. Communist Party leader and former MP Subhashini Ali, too, had sought strict action against GSVM principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gsvm-principal-accused-of-makingremarks-against-tj-members-shifted/articleshow/76330622.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Antibody blood collection starts; toll climbs up to 442||KOLKATA: The civic body on Thursday collected blood samples from a Covid-19 containment area in Bagbazar. This was the beginning of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s drive to collect blood from people in the Covid-affected areas for an antibody test. KMC will become a part of a national experiment to detect the presence of antibodies against Covid-19 in the general population who are largely asymptomatic. The collected samples will be sent to ICMR, Chennai, for a test. According to a health department official, representatives of World Health Organisation (WHO) and ICMR have been helping the KMC team in proper collection of blood. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of board of administrators, said the civic team will collect samples of blood from around 100 people living in the containment areas. “We will collect blood samples from wards which have remained in the containment areas,” Hakim said. According to a health department official, the blood thus collected will be deemed a serological tool to detect the antibody against Covid-19 in the general population who are mostly asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/antibody-blood-collection-starts-toll-climbs-up-to-442/articleshow/76329862.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||93 fresh covid-19 cases reported in Uttarakhand, two deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded a big spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday with the addition of 93 new cases on Thursday which took the overall number of positive cases in the state to 1,655. There also have been two deaths on Thursday — one each at AIIMS-Rishikesh and Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital, Dehradun. AIIMS-Rishikesh reported that a 52-year-old patient from Muzaffarnagar, UP died from “hepatic encephalopathy Grade IV” on Wednesday. His Covid-19 positive report came after his death, though authorities had already placed him in the Covid ward as a suspected case. This case, though, is yet to be confirmed by the health department. Hence, the state’s Covid-19 death toll stands at 16. AIIMS-Rishikesh hospital dean Dr U B Mishra said, “The patient was suffering from liver cancer when admitted on June 9 in critical condition. He had come here after not getting admission in Delhi.” The second death, at Indiresh Hospital, was of a woman from Chamanpuri, Dehradun, who was admitted on June 6 with breathing difficulty. She was confirmed Covid-19-positive three days ago. Among the new positive cases, the highest numbers were recorded in Tehri (33), followed by Dehradun (29), Haridwar (16), Rudrapayag (6), Chamoli and US Nagar (3 each) and Pauri Garhwal and Uttar Kashi (one each). In some good news, 49 patients were discharged during the day, taking the total of recoveries to 886. Among those discharged from AIIMS-Rishikesh on Wednesday were two sons, two daughter-in-laws and a grandson of tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. The minister and his wife are still undergoing treatment. The state continues to maintain containment zones to stop community spread. The maximumsuch zones are in Haridwar (29), followed by Dehradun (20) and Tehri (8). The health department on Thursday claimed the state’s recovery percentage is 51.13%, and that only 4.52% samples tested so far have come positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/93-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttarakhand-two-deaths/articleshow/76328740.cms||Shivani Azad
June 12, 2020||Bhopal||Industrial units in Mandideep & Govindpura yet to go full steam||Bhopal: Production in the industrial areas of Mandideep and Govindpura may be on a rise, but interdependency of the industries with other parts of India, especially Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi, is affecting many industrial units.The industries may have started functioning, but the situation has hardly improved as far as the elements of demand, supply, transportation and inputs from other parts of the country are concerned. After delayed permission to operate in the last week of May, about 700 units in Govindpura started operating with a reduced staff. There are about 1,100 units, a majority of MSMEs in the area. At present, the ancillary units of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) are functioning in order to deliver the components, which they failed to supply because of the Covid lockdown.The other units are also functioning, but 100% capacity of the plants is yet to be restored. Dr RS Goswami, who runs a pharmaceutical unit, said, “I am hopeful that normalcy will be restored soon.” He further said, “We need to look at the industries of the country as a whole. Major disruption is continuing in the industrial states of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi, hampering the supply of various inputs. Transportation is also disrupted from the states, affecting the industries in states like MP.” Besides, the issue of supply continues to bother the industries. Mandideep also faces issues of labourers and transportation. Industry association president Rajeev Agrawal, said, “We get raw materials and a large number of other inputs from Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and also Indore. But the markets and industries in these regions are shut. You cannot run an industry in isolation. Unless the whole eco-system starts functioning, it is difficult to operate. Many industries are not working to their capacity because of lack of inputs from other areas”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/industrial-units-in-mandideep-govindpura-yet-to-go-full-steam/articleshow/76328730.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Home quarantine cases worry apartment residents in Kochi||KOCHI: As non-resident Keralites return to their apartments in the city, many people residing in apartment complexes are not keen about having them around due to the fear of Covid-19 spread. Many individuals who have settled abroad or outside the state have bought flats in the city, and a good number of them have provided it for rent. There is a section of others who have chosen to keep their flats for themselves and opt to live there when they come here for holidays. “Apartment owners’ associations generally are not in favour of home quarantine in apartment complexes. It is mainly because there are too many people using common areas like lifts and lobbies. While it is possible for associations to block the entry of new tenants and visitors, they cannot prevent owners from entering their homes,” said All Kerala Apartment Owners Apex Association president V K Shankarankutty. The returnees are not always welcome. Friends, neighbours and even families often try to maintain a safe distance. Wife of a returnee said: “My husband had to come back as his mother passed away. Recently I underwent a surgery and I am not in a position to climb upstairs and keep that part of the house clean or get the air-conditioner repaired. There are no maids or any help available. So, I insisted that my husband should opt for a paid facility, preferably a hotel. I understand how difficult it would be for him.” Though everyone speaks of living with Covid-19, no one seems to be sure how to work it out. Shutting off people appears to be the easiest way, though it cannot be recommended. With the fear factor gripping people, they are trying to take every precaution to prevent themselves from getting infected. “At times it leads to a face-off. Then apartment owners’ associations interfere and try to convince both parties. It needs patience and understanding from all affected persons,” said Raju T M, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/home-quarantine-cases-worry-apartment-residents/articleshow/76328742.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five-year-old drowns in pit dug up for community hall||HYDERABAD: A five-year-old nursery student drowned in a rainwater-filled pit in Meerpet on Thursday. Locals had dup up the pit for construction of a community hall, police said. Around 11am, N Manoj, son of an auto driver and resident of New Nandi Hills Colony in Meerpet, was playing outside their house with his elder brother. “The boy, a LKG student, accidentally fell into the four feet deep pit, which was filled with water. His elder brother rushed into their house and called his mother. However, by the time she pulled Manoj out of the pit, he died,” a policeman from Meerpet police station said. Due to the rain on Wednesday, the pit got filled with stormwater. “The locals had put stones and brick around the pit to warn people,” the policeman added. A case of suspicious death was registered at the Meerpet police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-year-old-drowns-in-pit-dug-up-for-community-hall/articleshow/76329873.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramayapalli village shows the way to tackle Covid-19||Hyderabad: Residents of Ramayapalli village in Medak district have come up with a unique idea of spreading awareness among villagers about Covid-19—tying a protective mask on Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in the village. The statue is located in the centre of the village, which has a population of around 3,000. Village elders regularly gather near the statue to discuss important matters and take key decisions. “After the lockdown was announced, villagers were not aware of the preventive measures they need to take to prevent the spread of coronavirus, and would venture out without masks. The elders then came up with the idea as it will remind the people to wear masks,” N Srisailam, a resident of the village, told TOI. The idea was discussed after migrant labourers working in other states began returning to the village. “People do not listen easily, but they slowly began realising the importance of taking preventive measures after seeing the statue with a mask,” another villager said. The village sarpanch has also distributed washable masks to the villagers. “The police also visit the village regularly to see if people are following the new rules,” he said. Meanwhile, activists are urging the government to encourage sarpanches and leaders of local village bodies to track the movement of migrant workers and others returning to their villages. “Odisha government has directed the sarpanches to ensure that they track migrants, send them to quarantine and conduct tests. Similar efforts here will give good results,” K Vindhya , an activist working with migrant workers, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramayapalli-village-shows-the-way-to-tackle-covid-19/articleshow/76329869.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Exhaustion of health workers a major concern||Kochi: Exhaustion of health workers deployed for Covid-19 treatment and surveillance is a major problem the state is going to face. The number of patients going up with more and more flights carrying NRIs arriving in the state and more people returning from other states will necessitate more human resources in health sector. There has not been much increase in the strength of healthcare staff in the state since January 29 when the first Covid-19 case was reported in Kerala. Now, the total number of active cases has risen to 1,260. There are 2,10,592 people in quarantine as on June 10. Of this, 1,844 are admitted to hospitals. As per the data divulged by the state government, around 1.20 lakh NRIs will be returning to the state this month. “Most of the healthcare staff, including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and cleaning staff, are all exhausted due to tireless work. As more and more NRIs and Keralites from other states are to return to the state in the coming days, the number of healthcare staff required for the treatment and surveillance also will go up,” said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA). Health department authorities said the arrangements for reducing the workload of the healthcare staff will be taken at institutional level. “The healthcare staff are working tirelessly. Still, we are taking all possible measures to ease their burden. The hospitals engaged in Covid-19 treatment are deploying staff on a rotational basis,” said Rajan Khobragade, health secretary. “We will be recruiting more staff. We have posted some,” he said. Meanwhile, the efforts to recruit more staff on a temporary basis are getting lukewarm response. The government is planning to recruit at least 5,000 staff on temporary basis using the provisions of National Health Mission. As per the data available till last week, at least half the number of officials, the posts of whom were sanctioned by the government, couldn’t be recruited to many posts. While 742 posts of doctors have been allotted for temporary recruitments through NHM, only 480 joined. Of the 1,275 staff nurse posts sanctioned, only 824 could be recruited. Of the 281 lab technician posts sanctioned, only 91 joined. The number of junior public health inspectors sanctioned is 1,566 while 544 joined. The government allotted temporary posts of 268 pharmacists, but only 177 joined. The number of cleaning staff sanctioned by the government was 699 while just 270 joined. The efforts to deploy house surgeons at primary-care centres and peripheral hospitals also didn’t yield results. Though around 1,200 house surgeons were given orders for placements at primary-care centres on a temporary basis, they are unable to join due to technical reasons. They are yet to get the registration formalities with Travancore Cochin Medical Council completed even a month after the government issued their posting order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/exhaustion-of-health-workers-a-major-concern/articleshow/76328749.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Patient who tested -ve stranded as hosp denies ride home||Hyderabad: A patient from Adilabad allegedly tested negative for Covid-19 in Gandhi Hospital was left in the lurch, as the hospital ambulance refused to drop her back home. Deepika Haldar, 26, who was initially stranded in West Bengal at her relative’s house for three months, travelled back to Adilabad, after which she fell ill. “She was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday after a mild fever and low blood pressure. They (hospital staff) said her test was negative but she has to be kept home quarantine for 14 days and discharged her at 7 pm on Wednesday,” said Sujan Haldar, brother-in-law of the patient who was standing outside the Gandhi Hospital with her. Deepika, wearing a mask, said she has not eaten anything since she was discharged. “They just asked me to leave. One of the nurses allowed me to stay the night. Today morning, they asked me to leave. When I asked how will I get home, they just said I have to find my accommodation,” she said. The duo stood near the Gandhi Hospital Metro station trying to reach out for help. “I have no money and have been wearing this saree for over two days now. At the time of admission, the hospital staff told me that the ambulance will drop me home after I get a discharge. Now they have left it on me without giving enough time to arrange a vehicle,” she said. The duo later borrowed Rs 7,000 from a friend and hired another ambulance to go back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patient-who-tested-ve-stranded-as-hosp-denies-ride-home/articleshow/76329875.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Man dies, over 50 fall sick after having fish||Madurai: A 64-year-old man, who suffered from food poisoning, died on Wednesday after undergoing treatment. The man was among the 56 residents of Kinnamangalam village who had reportedly consumed stale fish on Tuesday and started suffering from diarrhoea and vomiting due to food poisoning. A medical team rushed to the village, set up a medical camp in the local school and treated them. A Alagan who underwent treatment died on Wednesday. “According to preliminary statements, we suspect that everyone had eaten spoilt fish. However, the preliminary cause of death of the 64-year-old man appears to be due to cardiac arrest,” said a senior health official. Police sources said that many of the villagers consumed fresh water fish caught from a water body in Vellaikkal on the outskirts of Madurai city and sold at a cheap price. As villagers started complaining of vomiting and diarrhoea, a medical team was dispatched to the village on Wednesday. A team led by Dr Murugan provided treatment to them. None of them had any serious complications to be shifted to a hospital. Those affected included men, women, youth and children. Forty-two people showed improved in their health condition on Wednesday itself. Fourteen others required treatment till Thursday morning, said a police source. No case has been registered so far in the incident and Alagan’s death as no complaint was preferred. The body was handed over to his relatives without conducting postmortem, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-dies-over-50-fall-sick-after-having-fish/articleshow/76330560.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||60 isolation coaches requested by Telangana: SCR||HYDERABAD: As Covid-19 cases continue to surge, the Railways’ isolation coaches have finally found takers in Telangana. The state has sent a request to the railways asking for 60 coaches to be stationed at Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Adilabad. This comes as Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 4,000 mark. As part of measures, Secunderabad-headquartered South Central Railway (SCR) said in an earlier statement that it has converted 486 non-AC coaches into isolation wards. “The middle berths and ladders have been removed in the sleeper coaches for the convenience of patients and each cabin can be used for two patients while the restrooms and washbasins will be modified to meet the demands of isolation coaches. The arrangements have been made in such a way that the government can house 13 patients in a single coach,” an official said. According to the integrated coronavirus plan developed by the union health ministry and the NITI Aayog, these coaches can be used in areas where the state has exhausted all facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases. A railway spokesperson said, “Sixty coaches have been requisitioned in Telangana for Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Adilabad. Ten coaches have been requisitioned in Delhi. Covid care coaches will be provided to states that agree to provide staff and essential medicines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-isolation-coaches-requested-by-t-scr/articleshow/76329867.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Director goes back to his stethoscope after 14 years||KOLKATA: The pandemic and the cyclone have compelled a Bengali filmmaker to return to the medical profession after 14 years. Kamaleswar Mukherjee, known for “Chander Pahar” and “Meghe Dhaka Tara”, among others, had quit practising medicine in 2006. But the plight of the marginalized people has prompted him to attend medical camps in villages. A student of Medical College Hospital, Mukherjee was a house staff in the cardiology department of SSKM. Subsequently, he served in various state-run and private hospitals, including Kothari Medical Centre, Sri Aurobindo Seva Kendra and Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited. In most cases, his job was to attend to patients in the ICU. However, his passion for movies and theatre made him change tracks. The pandemic has again changed his choice. “For all these years, I didn’t practise professionally. But I knew if the situation demanded, I would go back to serving people,” Mukherjee said. The director has attended several health camps in south Bengal, including Metekhali Bazar, Sandeshkhali, Raidighi and Sunderbans. The job requires him to function both as a doctor and a compounder. “Sometimes, I need to manage the queues too so that social distancing is maintained,” he added. Being confined at home during lockdown gave him a lot of free time when he could actually get involved in giving this free service to patients. “After the pandemic and the cyclone, the marginal population is in a terrible condition. I thought why not utilize this free time to give some service to these people. So, I joined my friends in the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum to attend the health camps. I am indebted to Shramajibi Swastho Udyuog and Rashbehari Sahilushik who helped us with the doctors and volunteers,” he said.  Though corona cases are increasing, most of complaints he dealt with are not to do with fever. “These people are suffering from acute malnutrition and skin disease. There is vitamin and iron deficiency. We expect massive cases of diarrhoea to hit these people if water pollution can’t be controlled during re-watering of sweet water bodies contaminated with salt water,” he said.  On being asked if he will offer services in Kolkata as well, the director said, “It all depends on the need. If there is acute crisis of doctors, I will definitely step in. If someone organizes a health camp in Kolkata, we will definitely go there.”  On Sunday, he will be going to a medical camp in Hasnabad. “I was once in charge of the ICU of EEDF. These 14 years of not being professionally involved will not come in the way of stepping in times of need,” he signed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/director-goes-back-to-his-stethoscope-after-14-years/articleshow/76329879.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: More beds needed but staff shortage the key challenge||NEW DELHI: While Delhi is hunting for facilities to convert into temporary Covid-19 hospitals, the real challenge lies in getting the required manpower to man such centres. As things are, there is already a serious manpower shortage to manage the existing Covid infrastructure in the five Delhi government hospitals, particularly among nursing, nursing orderly, paramedics and other healthcare staffs. The state government wants to add more of its hospitals to exclusively deal with corona patients. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, one of the key facilities in the fight against the novel coronavirus, has a staff of around 500. The hospital has 500 beds, which requires, according to a source, over 1,500 people. Lok Nayak Hospital is similarly facing a manpower crunch. A source said that even before the hospital was turned into dedicated Covid facility, it was struggling with inadequate staffing. And while the hospital has been entrusted with an onerous Covid management burden, the hospital’s manpower has not been boosted despite requesting the recruitment of more staff. The situation is similar in the other government Covid hospitals. “The existing manpower has been stretched to respond to the need of treating Covid patients. More hands will not only reduce the response time to medical needs, but also enhance the quality of treatment,” said a medical official. Lack of adequate staff is a primary reason why some government hospitals are reluctant to admit new corona patients. In July 2018, Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board advertised for the posts of 251 pharmacists, 684 nursing officers, 32 lab technicians, 136 radiographers, 89 auxiliary nurse midwives and 178 lab assistants. Many of those who had applied for these posts recently started a campaign on Twitter to request DSSSB to complete the joining process. “The recruitment process was initiated, but has been pending at different levels for the different posts,” said an applicant who did not want to be named. “At a time when the city is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, we want to contribute. No time is better than now to serve the people.” A DSSSB official did not respond to TOI’s queries about the pending recruitment. The manpower shortage of manpower was discussed at a recent meeting of the Delhi State Health Mission, which decided people could be engaged on a short-term basis. In-principle approval has been received for this. An official said the government is planning to hire staff on contract basis to meet the huge surge in demand for Covid beds. “A cabinet note is being prepared for short-term hiring. The detailed plan for the number of doctors, nursing officers, paramedics and other healthcare workers is being determined and will be sent to the cabinet for a final decision,” said the official. Delhi government estimates the total number of Covid patients to cross 5.5 lakh by July 31, necessitating 1.5 lakh exclusive beds by that date. An inquiry conducted by a Delhi high court-appointed expert panel on the functioning of state government-run hospitals last year had also revealed shortage of staff and of equipment like MRI and CT scan machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-beds-needed-but-staff-shortage-the-key-challenge/articleshow/76330562.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Madurai man murdered by wife and her paramour||MADURAI: A 42-year-old man from Madurai district was strangled to death by his wife and her paramour in the early hours of Thursday. The deceased was identified as K Karupaiah from Mottamalai near Vilachery. According to police sources, Karupaiah’s wife Ponnammal developed an extra-marital relationship with Arumugam from the same area a few years ago. Karupaiah, who learnt about the relationship warned the two. However, they continued with the relationship. He picked up a quarrel with Ponnammal on Wednesday and beat her up. She hatched a plan with Arumugam to eliminate Karupaiah. The two strangulated him using a rope when he was sleeping and escaped. Neighbours alerted the police on the murder. The body was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. Police suspicion fell on his wife, since she was missing. They picked up Ponnammal and Arumugam who admitted to the murder. The Austinpatti police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-murdered-by-wife-and-her-paramour/articleshow/76330564.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Now, get wild honey at your doorstep in Ernakulam||KOCHI: With ecotourism centres rendered off the limits for visitors on account of the pandemic, Vana Samrakshana Samitis (VSS), mostly comprising tribespeople, lost a major source of revenue from sale of forest produce they collect like wild honey and brindleberry (Malabar tamarind). These products are usually available in branded eco shops called Vanasree attached to ecotourism centres. Since these centres were closed a huge volume of produce has accumulated. Malayattoor Vanasree alone has now close to 10 tonnes of wild honey and one tonne of brindleberry. To find a market for the produce, Forest Development Agency, Malayattoor, has introduced a scheme to deliver them at doorsteps of customers in Ernakulam district. “We have around 18 VSS and out of them 12 are formed by members of various tribes. Most of these tribes people do not have any other source of revenue other than selling forest produce,” said Malayattoor Vanasree coordinator Jose Prakash. The produce was collected by people belonging to tribes like Malayarayas, Muthuvans, Orali, Mannans and Ulladar who reside in areas like Kunchippara, Vellaram Kuthu, Thalavechappara, Variyam and Thera. “We intend to deliver the products using our forest watchers,” said Jose Prakash. The products ordered would be delivered in a 50km radius of Kodanad shop. This would also include parts of the city,” he said. The high quality honey from wild flowers is harvested sustainably using traditional techniques by the tribal communities of the region. While the honey is priced at Rs 300 for 500g, a 250g packet of Cambodge is priced at Rs 100. There would also be a delivery charge of Rs 30. For placing the order, check https://keralaforestecotourism.com/malayattoorvanasree or contact entevanasree@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-get-wild-honey-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/76328779.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Surat||2.29 lakh people in Surat at high risk of coronavirus infection||SURAT: As many as 2.29 lakh people in Surat city are at ‘high risk’ of contracting Covid-19 infection, according to an elaborate health survey carried out by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). The survey named APX was carried out to trace people, mostly elders above 60 years, having co-morbid conditions, said municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. “The implementation of this special strategy is aimed at early identification and isolation or quarantining of the individuals to break the chain of transmission and early containment of the disease,” said Pani. In all, 1,000 teams of 2,200 members fanned out across the city and covered a population of over 41 lakh people. During teams’ visits, houses having patients suffering from acute respiratory infection (ARI) were marked with ‘A’ and 417 such households were found. Houses with people with co-morbid conditions and those aged above 60 years were marked with ‘P’. A total of 1,97,007 houses were identified under this category “Houses with none of the above-mentioned conditions were marked with ‘X’ and 8,93,939 houses fell under this category. There were 6,142 houses were the residents refused to provide any information,” Pani told TOI. “Our top priority are 2.29 lakh people who are in the high-risk category, and we are focusing on their health. Special teams have been assigned to look after them and they are visiting their houses regularly to find out if they require any medical assistance. We are distributing immunity booster medicines and ensuring that they get their regular medicines as well,” Pani explained. Most of the people who were found to be with co-morbid conditions are suffering from diabetes and hypertension. “We are giving medicines and masks to people suffering from HIV, and TB among others at their doorstep so that they don’t need to step out from their homes. Pensioners have been spared from visiting offices to submit life certificates,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-29-lakh-people-in-surat-at-high-risk-of-ncov-infection/articleshow/76328767.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Rapid spike in cases in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh due to migrant influx, congregation||HYDERABAD: Rapid spike in Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is being blamed on labourers belonging to the Telugu States returning from other states, negligence on the part of the general public in following safety norms and opening up of mass congregation spots such as shopping malls and religious centres.  Among the states conducting the highest number of tests, Tamil Nadu has witnessed a huge increase, whereas Andhra Pradesh, which tests 14,000 a day, has been recording an average of 200 cases per day. Telangana despite less testing has been recording 150 to 170 cases on an average per day. Arja Srikanth, Covid-19 state nodal officer of Andhra Pradesh told TOI, “Rapid increase in cases is seen across India and in AP too. Earlier, it was around 50 cases per day and today it’s around 200. We are unable to comprehend how the virus is behaving. People have become very negligent. It was controlled in 90 days and in the past eight days, it increased after relaxation of lockdown. We are doing 14,000 tests a day which is highest per million population in the country.” The highest testing is being done in Tamil Nadu, followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat. “We have done household surveys thrice. We now know which house has infected persons. Kerala has more literacy, so people are more disciplined there,” he added. “Unfortunately we have got a lot of migrant labourers from Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states. That’s why the cases have gone up. From Chennai’s Koyambedu bus stand issue, we have got 500 cases. Around 100 cases are people who came from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh,” he explained. Telangana, which has been conducting barely around 3000 tests a day, has come under the scanner of courts for not doing enough testing. Telangana has around 4,000 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rapid-spike-in-cases-due-to-migrant-influx-congregation/articleshow/76329882.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 12, 2020||Kochi||B’desh family held for staying without legal documents||Thrissur: The Kodakara police have arrested a five-member family, claimed to be hailing from Bangladesh, who were staying in a house at Panthalloor without valid documents. The family had reportedly sneaked into India about three years ago and were staying at a rented house for the last 11 months. Kodakara SHO T N Unnikrishnan said the arrested persons included one male, two women, a four-year-old girl and a 20-day-old baby boy. They have given their names to the police as Binlal (40) who claimed he hails from Kalna in Bangladesh, his wife Mukthah (30) daughter Janath (20), and Janath’s daughter Jameela and baby boy. However, her husband Muhammed Syed is absconding, Unnikrishnan said. According to district police chief R Viswanath, police is investigating the details of the arrival and activities of the arrested persons. “So far no suspicious information has been received. But the intelligence agencies have been alerted. The accused have been booked under the Foreigners’ Act and the Indian Passport Act,” he said. The SHO said Binlal was a scrap dealer and the family were staying at a rented place. Some others from West Bengal and Bihar were also staying there. Binlal was initially intercepted by some locals at Chembuchira and Vellikulangara police took him into custody on Wednesday and later handed him over to the Kodakara police. The family members were arrested on Thursday. Binlal had reportedly disclosed to the police that they had entered India by paying about Rs 30,000 to a middleman. They were in Bangalore for two years and had come to Kerala about a year ago. The family members did not have any legal documents to establish their identity. Interestingly, the four-year-old daughter had joined LKG in a school at Panthalloor. Police have taken the accused for a health check including Covid-19 tests before producing them before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bdesh-family-held-for-staying-without-legal-documents/articleshow/76328757.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools in a quandary over reopening||Hyderabad: Unlike every year, state board schools will not reopen on June 12. Lack of clarity from the school education department on starting classes, either online or offline, has left the school managements and parents in the lurch. While most schools affiliated to CBSE and ICSE have commenced online classes, state board schools, including government and government aided, are clueless about starting classes for the 2020-21 academic year. School managements fear that students enrolled in state board schools will lag behind in terms of academics if there is any further delay in starting classes. Representatives of the Telangana Recognised School Managements Association (TRSMA) had raised this concern with state education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy in a meeting on Tuesday. Many school managements fear that classes may only resume by Dasara. “Most schools could not complete the admission process and fee collection due to which managements are unable to pay salaries to the teachers. Now if this continues, we fear that classes could resume only by Dasara,” said Bro Show Reddy, president of Telangana Missionary Schools Association. Officials from the school education department said that policy decision over reopening of state board schools has to be taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. “We are waiting for orders from higher authorities to frame guidelines for state board schools,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-in-a-quandary-over-reopening/articleshow/76329883.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 12, 2020||Amaravati||Rapid spike in cases in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh due to migrant influx, congregation||HYDERABAD: Rapid spike in Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is being blamed on labourers belonging to the Telugu States returning from other states, negligence on the part of the general public in following safety norms and opening up of mass congregation spots such as shopping malls and religious centres.  Among the states conducting the highest number of tests, Tamil Nadu has witnessed a huge increase, whereas Andhra Pradesh, which tests 14,000 a day, has been recording an average of 200 cases per day. Telangana despite less testing has been recording 150 to 170 cases on an average per day. Arja Srikanth, Covid-19 state nodal officer of Andhra Pradesh told TOI, “Rapid increase in cases is seen across India and in AP too. Earlier, it was around 50 cases per day and today it’s around 200. We are unable to comprehend how the virus is behaving. People have become very negligent. It was controlled in 90 days and in the past eight days, it increased after relaxation of lockdown. We are doing 14,000 tests a day which is highest per million population in the country.” The highest testing is being done in Tamil Nadu, followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat. “We have done household surveys thrice. We now know which house has infected persons. Kerala has more literacy, so people are more disciplined there,” he added. “Unfortunately we have got a lot of migrant labourers from Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states. That’s why the cases have gone up. From Chennai’s Koyambedu bus stand issue, we have got 500 cases. Around 100 cases are people who came from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh,” he explained. Telangana, which has been conducting barely around 3000 tests a day, has come under the scanner of courts for not doing enough testing. Telangana has around 4,000 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/rapid-spike-in-cases-due-to-migrant-influx-congregation/articleshow/76332665.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 12, 2020||India||Govt moves to decriminalise minor offences to woo investors||NEW DELHI: The government has shortlisted 128 provisions across 28 Acts covering various ministries and departments to decriminalise minor offences, a move aimed at de-clogging courts and promoting ease of doing business and ease of living. The effort has been led by the cabinet secretary and aims to substitute criminal liability with stiff compoundable monetary penalties of a civil nature that can act as deterrents and help boost investor sentiment, Secretaries of different departments have also been told to identify more laws that can be added to the list. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba has written to all secretaries asking them to undertake a comprehensive review of all legislations under their administrative control for decriminalisation or review. They have also been asked to prepare specific timelines as well the draft bill. Inputs and suggestions from the public and all stakeholders will be sought before finalising the changes, sources said. Decriminalisation of minor offences is a major thrust area of the government as part of moves to overhaul governance. Already, the government has taken the Ordinance route to decriminalise minor offences under the Companies Act. Government think tank NITI Aayog has been asked to handhold ministries to help broadbae the process. During the string of meetings of secretaries several proposals were unveiled. The department of Justice has suggested that two Acts--the Negotiable Instruments Act and the Motor Vehicles Act be examined for possible decriminalisation of minor offences. Secretary department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) said that a detailed evaluation had shown that 51 provisions under 11 Acts had imprisonment as penalty. It has proposed decriminalisation of one provision in the Patents Act and seven provisions of the Copyright Act. It has cautioned against decriminalisation of under Acts such as the Boilers Act and the Explosive Act due to safety issues. Secretary department of Economic Affairs that three Acts have been reviewed for possible decriminalisation which include the SEBI Act 1992, SCRA 1956 and the Depositories Act 1996. The NITI Aayog has also identified factors that need to be kept in mind while computing penalties. These include: nature of offence and whether it is first time or repeat, adverse impact on public at large, the vintage of the Act, 5-10 times of the original value to make it a strong deterrent, vulnerability of the class of persons likely to be adversely affected. “The risk of imprisonment for actions or omissions that aren’t necessarily fraudulent or the outcome of malafide intent is a big hurdle in attracting investments. The ensuing uncertainty in legal processes and the time taken for resolution in the courts hurts ease of doing business,” said a note detailing the issue. “Criminal penalties including imprisonment for minor offences act as deterrents, and this is perceived as one of the major reasons impacting business sentiment and hindering investments both from domestic and foreign investors. This becomes even more pertinent in the post COVID19 response strategy to help revive economic growth and improve the justice system,” the document said. Watch Fine vs jail: Government mulls decriminalising minor offences||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-moves-to-decriminalise-minor-offences-to-woo-investors/articleshow/76331374.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital needs more specialists to tackle Covid: Junior doctors||HYDERABAD: Many junior doctors working in Gandhi Hospital say the Covid-19 ward lacks adequate doctors from pulmonology, general medicine, anaesthesia and other departments for critical care patients. “Of the total junior doctors, the whole stress of Covid-19 critical care patients’ burden is being taken up by nearly 200 junior doctors from pulmonology, general medicine and anaesthesia who are working 20-day shifts in a month,” said one of the PG doctors. Though officials have claimed adequate doctors in the state, the junior doctors claimed that there is a lack of specialists. “A surgeon will hardly be needed in the acute medical care unit (AMCU), a paediatrician will have few cases, same with a gynaecologist. The specialists, who are few, handling the AMCU cases are already tired and exhausted. We need more doctors in the hospital to handle these many Covid-19 cases,” said Naveen Reddy, a paediatrician. A PG doctor said he gets a quarantine of three days after working for seven days, another doctor said he hardly gets quarantine time. “Immediate recruitment of specialist doctors, nursing staff, patient care providers, technicians and ward boys is needed,” said a doctor. “As a surgeon, I can only act as supporting staff in Covid-19 critical care unit. If the hospital is decentralised, the burden of specialist doctors will reduce, while other doctors can attend other patients. The government is neglecting the fact that there are other existing diseases apart from coronavirus,” said Dr Sai, a PG doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hosp-needs-more-specialists-to-tackle-covid-jr-docs/articleshow/76329887.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 12, 2020||Raipur||Third elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh in three days, poison suspected||RAIPUR: Another female elephant has been found dead in north Chhattisgarh — the third in less than three days — leading the forest department to suspect they were poisoned. If true, foresters will be in a desperate race to save other members of the herd. Officials suspect the three jumbos ate or drank something ‘toxic’, while moving through Surguja division. All three carcasses had foam at the mouth, which indicated poison. Autopsy strengthened the chilling possibility. “The common features we found in all three are symptoms of toxicity and enlarged spleen. The third elephant found today was the first to die, possibly on June 6, after getting separated from the herd. During post-mortem, it was found that the elephants had charred skin inside their mouth, congested lungs and intestinal haemorrhage. All are indicative that the three consumed something toxic and poisonous,” additional principal conservator of forest Arun Kumar Pandey told TOI. Two of the dead elephants, including the one found on Thursday, were pregnant. The first two were found within 200 metres of each other near Ganeshpur village in Surajpur district. The third carcass was discovered in Rajpur forest range of neighbouring Balrampur district. The one found on Thursday had died curled up inside dense foliage making it difficult to be seen. Pandey said blood samples have been collected and sent to Anjora lab of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry. The reports are expected on Friday. If it turns out to be poison, foresters will have to race to save other members of the herd, who may have consumed the same thing as the three that died. Teams of experts are investigating the entire area the herd walked through, checking to see if the elephants ate something — like pesticide or fertilizer — while raiding the village or crop fields. Also, someone may have deliberately poisoned them to take revenge for the destruction of home and crop, they say. The forest department is seeking assistance of crime control bureau in the investigation. Forest officials had a hard time carrying out the post-mortem of the second carcass as the herd had surrounded it and wouldn’t budge for over 48 hours. They finally dispersed on Thursday, allowing vets to move in for the autopsy in the evening. The first one was autopsied on Wednesday and the third on Thursday on location. “It’s clear that the elephants’ death isn’t natural as they were all young and healthy, aged 20-35 years. The herd has reached Ganeshpur via Rajpur, where the latest carcass has been found. The distance between the two forests is 20-25km,” Pandey had told TOI earlier in the day. An official on the spot said the herd had passed through Atori and Karwa villages, damaging a mud house in Karwa and eating up the family’s ration. Foresters checked the leftover ration that includes rice, but didn’t find anything suspicious or toxic that could have killed the elephants. Elephants usually ransack mud houses to look for their favourite mahua flower or rice, but with the rainy season approaching, villagers have also stocked up on urea to fertilise the fields. A forest official said they aren’t ruling out the possibility that the elephants consumed urea, but that “herd illness” could also be a reason. Wildlife activist Mansoor Khan has demanded a high-level probe, fearing that a water source was poisoned. “Poachers involve local villagers for information on movement of tuskers in the region. They often pay locals to poison waterbodies in the path of elephant herds to try to kill tuskers,” Khan said. If a pond was poisoned and the herd drank the water, more deaths are likely, he feared. “Samples should be collected from all waterbodies on the 40km stretch the elephants covered, and tested for poison,” he suggests. As per a government report, Chhattisgarh has recorded about 70 elephant deaths in the past five years either due to poisoning, infighting, electrocution in fields or other unknown reasons. A pregnant elephant was found dead in Jashpur district in March this year, and an elephant calf had died in December 2019 after it was trapped in marshland in Korba district for more than 36 hours and the forest department couldn’t rescue it. The northern districts of the state have over 250 elephants that migrate from neighbouring Jharkhand and Odisha and often become residents here, leading to a spike in human-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/third-elephant-found-dead-in-cg-in-3-days-poison-suspected/articleshow/76328768.cms||Rashmi Drolia
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||Hooch consumption on rise post lockdown in rural pockets of Haridwar||Haridwar: Hooch consumption has significantly increased after lockdown was imposed in Haridwar, especially in rural areas as homemade liquor is being preferred by the villagers as it is cheaper than country-made liquor. According to villagers, due to the lockdown, alcoholics don’t have enough money to buy liquor. Hooch, on the other hand, is not only easily available but also a cheaper option. Hooch is being supplied to both rural and city areas.Last year, the state had witnessed one of its worst hooch tragedies in the Haridwar area in which almost 50 people had died. Meanwhile, police claimed that action is being taken against the hooch mafia.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S said, “We have destroyed around 45,000 litres of hooch and its raw material. Several cases were registered against the hooch mafia. We have also requested the locals to support our campaign and help us spread awareness.”Pathri, Shyampur, Bhagwanpur, Jahbreda, Laksar and Bhadrabad region of the district are strongholds of hooch mafia where many villagers are involved in the business. Sources said that hooch is prepared with sugarcane, which is easily available as farmers like to grow sugarcane in these areas. Many incidents have surfaced in the past where hooch furnaces were found in the fields of sugarcane. The hooch mafia has also developed a supply chain in which women play a major role in smuggling hooch.Local activist Ajab Singh told TOI, “Post lockdown, hooch is being prepared on an even larger scale. The Hooch mafia took advantage of the closure of liquor shops and now the demand for hooch has increased as it is cheaper than other liquor. Villagers who lost their jobs and those who do not have enough money to buy IMFL are now consuming hooch. It is a dangerous trend and it may cause another hooch tragedy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hooch-consumption-on-rise-post-lockdown-in-rural-pockets-of-haridwar/articleshow/76328775.cms||MS Nawaz
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Three Bengal institutes in top 15 of national edu ranking||KOLKATA: Three institutes from Bengal featured among the top 15 in the overall category of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), released on Thursday. Two state universities and two colleges finished in the top 10 in their respective categories too. Jadavpur University and Calcutta University were the front-runners among universities in the state with the former bagging the 5th position and latter 7th. In the college rankings, St Xavier’s College (autonomous), Kolkata, and Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, jointly bagged the 7th spot. Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College came 11th and Ramakrishna Mission Residential College bagged the 20th place. In the overall ranks, three institutes from the state figured on the list of top 15. Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, secured the 5th position followed by CU and JU at 11 and 12. While IIT-Kharagpur managed to maintain their 2019 position, both CU and JU moved up one slot each. The other education institutes in the top 100 from Bengal included Indian Institute of Science, Education & Research (IISER), Mohanpur, at 29, IIEST Shibpur at 43, Visva-Bharati at 69 and National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, at 96. In the business management category, IIM-Calcutta has ranked third and IIT-KGP B-School has ranked fifth. CU and JU were also first and second among state-run universities in the country to be featured in the overall ranks. The first four places went to IIT-Madras, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, followed by IIT-Delhi and IIT-Bombay. “I am proud that two universities from Bengal have bagged the top position among state universities in the country. The success of JU has been possible due to efforts of all stakeholders and the continuous support of the state,” said vice-chancellor Suranjan Das. CU VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said, “This is teamwork. This rank will inspire us to work harder and secure a better position in the upcoming NIRF.” Swami Shastrajnananda, principal of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, said, “Everyone has worked tirelessly to ensure the institute maintains a standard. The institute had ranked 11th last year and 9th the year before.” Principal Fr. Dominic Savio of St Xavier’s College (autonomous), Kolkata, too, said he found the result of NIRF 2020 ranking satisfactory. “It shows that we have improved in all categories. This indicates that, as an autonomous college, we are offering quality pedagogy to our students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-bengal-institutes-in-top-15-of-national-edu-ranking/articleshow/76329889.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks two doctors to examine if hotels can be used as hospitals||NEW DELHI: Taking note of the apprehensions of two big hotels turned into Covid-19 hospitals by the AAP government, Delhi high court on Thursday appointed a panel to study the viability of the decision. Justice Navin Chawla set up a committee of AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and Dr V K Paul, member of the Niti Aayog and requested both to “visit the two hotels in question and give their report on the advisability/feasibility of using these hotels as extended Covid hospitals.” The court’s order came on a plea by Hotel Crown Plaza, Okhla and Hotel Surya, New Friends Colony, challenging the state government’s move to convert them as Covid-19 facilities, to augment existing hospital infrastructure. The hotels flagged various issues which would arise if they are to be used as extended Covid hospitals like the presence of airconditioning, lack of large lifts that can be used for stretchers, lack of bio-waste disposal, among other, maintaining that their use as extended Covid hospitals would not be advisable. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain defended the decision of the AAP government and told the court the apprehensions by the hotels are unfounded. But the court noted that the issues raised by the hotels would also have a bearing on whether it is advisable/feasible to use these as Covid hospitals and if such a decision may lead to an adverse impact on the patients or the staff. The bench then set up the panel of doctors, “with a request to the committee to visit these two hotels and give a report on the advisability/feasibility of these hotels being used as extended Covid hospitals.” It further requested the two senior doctors to submit a report on or before June 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-asks-2-docs-to-examine-if-hotels-can-be-used-as-hosps/articleshow/76330570.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||All religious places in Nainital to remain closed till June 30||Nainital: The priests of all the religious institutions in Nainital have declared that the temples, mosques as well as churches and gurudwaras in Nainital will remain closed till June 30. The decision was taken by priests in a meeting with the district administration at the Naina Devi temple where they said that at present it is almost impossible to follow the social distancing norms and the guidelines issued by the district administration, therefore, the religious institutions have voluntarily decided to remain closed till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-religious-places-in-nainital-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/articleshow/76328761.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||Work accelerates on road to connect last village along India-China border in Pithoragarh dist of U’khand||Pithoragarh: Almost a month after completing the Kailash Mansarovar road near Lipulekh Pass – which had triggered protests by Nepal – the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has now accelerated the pace of connecting the last village of India along the China border with the mainstream. The road will connect Munsyari in Pithoragarh district to Milam, which is the last Indian settlement before the India-China border. BRO officials said that since there is only a small window of around five months in a year when they can work on the stretch (the area is snow-bound for most part of the year), they have pressed choppers into service carrying rock-cutting equipment like JCB machines to increase the speed of work. The distance between Munsyari and Milam is 64 km and as per sources, BRO has finished bulk of the work and only a 20-km stretch is left for construction which sources say is the hardest part since it comprises of a rocky and treacherous terrain. The Munsyari-Milam road is considered a strategically important road, which once completed, will provide ease of access to the military and paramilitary forces for reaching the India-China border. It has been in the works since 2008 with construction happening from both the Munsyari and Milam end. Initially, an 18-km stretch of the road was constructed from Munsyari to Lilam and thereafter, a 26-km stretch from Milam to Laspa and now, work is ongoing in the 20-km patch in the middle between Lilam and Laspa. District officials said that the lockdown and bad weather had hampered the pace of the work but it should now pick up pace. “With rock cutting equipment being brought by air to the construction site at Laspa, work is expected to be accelerated,” said AK Shukla, SDM Munsyari. Meanwhile, a BRO official involved in the construction who did not wish to be identified, said that they are trying to finish the project at the earliest “but given the challenges of the terrain and adverse weather condition, it may take upto two years for the road to be fully ready for operation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/work-accelerates-on-road-to-connect-last-village-along-india-china-border-in-pithoragarh-dist-of-ukhand/articleshow/76328782.cms||Prem Punetha
June 12, 2020||Surat||20 new cases in Surat rural||Surat: Surat rural recorded 20 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the tally to 209 till date. Surat district has been witnessing spike in cases over the last few days. Meanwhile, industrial district Bharuch added seven more cases in the last 24 hours which is the highest in a single day since March. The cases were reported from Bharuch town, Ankleshwar, Amod, and Hansot. Those infected include a man accused of theft, a brother-sister duo in the teens from Mangrol village in Hansot taluka, a 44-year-old man from Hanost, home town of Gujarat sports and culture minister Ishwarsinh Patel. A 58-year-old man from Amod suffered at heart attack after learning that he had tested positive for Covid-19. He later succumbed.Most of the infected persons have travel history within the state especially Vadodara, Surat, and Ahmedabad. With the addition of these seven cases, total COVID-19 cases in Bharuch touched 68, of which five have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/20-new-cases-in-surat-rural/articleshow/76328783.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Can ‘virus slayer’ win tourists back?||KOCHI: With the sordid realization that there would only be ciphers in their profit columns for an entire fiscal year, tourism industry has come up with a Kerala Unlocked campaign banking on the many positives of Kerala, including the widely-acclaimed Covid-19 management strategies that hit global headlines. Tourism Professionals Club, a non-profit organisation based in Kochi has launched a dedicated website called keralaunlocked.com to market the state to global tourism players in the post-lockdown period. The campaign would be unravelled in a phased manner with emphasis on confidence building measures and industry preparedness. In its initial phase, the campaign would be promoting inter-district travel in Kerala. The decimation of the state’s tourism industry on account of the lockdown necessitated by pandemic has thrown the future of around 12 lakh workers (2 lakh indirect) into deep uncertainties, with many untold stories of lost jobs, forced unpaid leave and businesses being wound up. “We just want to be prepared when the industry opens up and at this stage we are not telling people to travel to Kerala. Our aim is to gain the confidence of the people and attention of the government to help out an industry in the pits,” said Ashok Swaroop, secretary, Tourism Professional’s Club and coordinator of Kerala Unlocked campaign. The club has engaged the services of a professional ad agency and a PR firm to highlight the positive stories about Kerala. “The acceptance Kerala gained as world leader in state response to the pandemic would definitely help us to have an edge. When everything opens up, we can encash it. Now, we want our hotels to be prepared for receiving guests,” said Swaroop. The club estimates that between March and September the industry would have lost Rs 7,500 crore. “This scenario was totally unexpected. We waited a lot, sent a lot of representations but nothing happened. We thought if we do not do any kind of promotion now, even after three months people will not prefer Kerala,” says George Scaria, president of Tourism Professionals Club. “When the government okays regular inbound travel, it will be searching for a destination and I am sure because of our campaign and the steps taken by the state, the first choice would be Kerala,” said Swaroop. Scaria said in the months of June and July they would not asking any outsider to visit Kerala because it isn’t safe. “When the situation improves, the brand Destination Kerala should be on the minds of people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/can-virus-slayer-win-tourists-back/articleshow/76328798.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Event organizers walk extra mile to attract customers||Kochi: With the business of event management firms having severely affected due to the restrictions in organizing functions like weddings, funerals, conferences, corporate meetings, etc., such companies in the city have now come up with packages abiding Covid-19 protocols issued by the World Health Organisation and state government. Most firms have included services like hand-sanitizing booths and thermal scanning of guests at the venue, along with distribution of theme-based masks and gloves as part of the package. Also, as maximum 50 people are allowed in a function, live streaming of the function is also made available for those who cannot attend. The companies will also help the customers in getting the requisite permissions from authorities for the conduct of the function. Special photography packages maintaining social distancing, e-wedding invitation, parcelled food for guest, etc. are included. Also, details of the guests are collected in case the government needs them to make route maps if any guest turns Covid-19 positive. “These additions to the packages are the only way to survive now as health safety is paramount now. The venue will be disinfected before people enter and also after the function ends,” said Jithin Raju, owner of EMF Events, Ernakulam. Mefas Francis, owner of Events Factory in Angamaly, said: “Most guests prefer parcelled food and avoid buffet. Group photos are no longer taken. The links to live-streaming page or website are sent along with e-invitation,” Francis said. Event management teams are offering mostly low-budget packages for up to 50 people. “Around 36 scheduled programmes, most of them having 750-1,000 guests, had to be cancelled. Thousands of employees who were depending on event management firms for livelihood are affected now,” said Boney Sudhakar, owner of Magnolia Events, Vyttila.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/event-organizers-walk-extra-mile-to-attract-customers/articleshow/76328792.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Surat||11 in Katargam diamond units test Covid positive||Surat: As many as 11 persons employed in diamond polishing units in Katargam were among 26 new Covid-19 cases that emerged from this hotspot on Thursday.Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said of the 56 new cases on Thursday, 26 were reported from Katargam zone alone which has so far recorded 477 cases. "Katargam has become a Covid-19 hotspot as the daily cases have spiked in this zone for the last few days. Those diamond polishing units which report more than one case will be shut for 14 days,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. Two more patients succumbed to the virus in Surat city on Tuesday, while 59 patients were discharged. SMC officials said that on an average, around 5000 people have been coming to Surat city from outside the city and state. "People coming to Surat from outside are also testing positive for Covid-19. One person who came from Dhandhuka of Ahmedabad district and another from Maharashtra tested positive for Covid-19,'' said an SMC official. SMC has been enforcing Covid-19 rules to contain the virus and Rs 68 lakh has been collected as penalty from people for various violations including not wearing mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/11-in-katargam-diamond-units-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76328808.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||IMA passing out parade to be held on June 13||DEHRADUN: Chief of Army Staff (COAS), General Manoj Mukund Naravane will be the reviewing officer of the passing out parade of Indian Military Academy (IMA) scheduled on June 13, the academy announced on Thursday. The IMA also organised the Commandant’s Parade for Spring Term 2020 in the historic Chetwode Drill Square on Thursday which marked the culmination of training of 333 Indian and 90 gentlemen cadets (GCs) from nine friendly foreign countries. Owing to Covid-19, only IMA staff and other trainees were witness to the parade. Commandant of IMA Lieutenant General JS Negi reviewed the parade and complimented all the GCs on the immaculate turnout and excellent drill movements. He also congratulated everyone for facing all challenges and completing the training successfully. The officer, in his address to the cadets, said, “Once commissioned, your strength and purity shall be tested. Remember that purity of actions are a result of purity of intention. Hence, always be genuine in your concerns for your men. General Norman Schwarzkopf of the US Army once said ‘the truth of the matter is that you always know the right thing to do. The hard part is doing it’. Hence, develop the competence and the courage to do the right thing,” he added. He also extended compliments to the 90 GCs from the friendly foreign countries for having endured the rigorous regimen of training, exhibiting excellent transformation and now getting ready to don the ranks in their respective armies, as most refined officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ima-passing-out-parade-to-be-held-on-june-13/articleshow/76328789.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gulzar Dehlvi no more; light has gone out, say admirers||NEW DELHI: Noted Urdu poet Anand Mohan Zutshi, popularly known as Gulzar Dehlvi, passed away on Friday at the age of 93. TOI had announced earlier this week that Dehlvi was among Delhi’s oldest Covid-19 patients who recovered. “Dehli ki tehzeeb ki aakhri shamma bujh gayi (The final torch-bearer of Delhi’s culture is gone),” said a commentator on social media. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the late poet and freedom fighter “personified Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb”. “Like his name, his personality, style and charm were unique. Even at the age of 93, he participated with zeal and enthusiasm in every mushaira of the Urdu Academy. They don’t make people like him anymore,” Sisodia told TOI. The minister’s sentiment was echoed by Sanjiv Saraf, the founder of Rekhta Foundation. “He was an authentic paragon of Delhi’s composite culture and language. He was passionate and intensely committed to Urdu, and spent his life in nurturing the language. The passing of the last iconic figure marks the end of an era in Urdu poetry,” Saraf told TOI from the US. His colleague at Rekhta and Jamia Millia Islamia professor Abdur Rasheed quoted Dehlvi’s own lines to express his loss: “Ae maseeha-dam tere hote huwe kya ho gaya, baithe bithlaye mareez-i ishq thanda ho gaya (O Messiah, what has happened that on your watch the lovesick is no more).” Born and brought up at Galli Kashmiriyan in the Walled City — a locality traditionally populated by Kashmiri Pandits — Dehlvi got involved with the Freedom Struggle at a young age. That spirit of revolution inspired his poetry and work. In 1975, he became the editor of ‘Science Ki Dunya’, CSIR’s first Urdu science magazine. That’s where historian S Irfan Habib came in contact with him. “He was a delightful and eclectic personality, the life of canteen conversations and mehfils,” Habib recalled. “He spoke chaste Urdu but was equally at ease with street expletives. This made people approach him warily, never knowing when the expletives would flow out. He was the quintessential Dilliwala and many of us revered him for that.” Habib added, “He was also immersed in Sufism and had a very close association with the Nizamuddin dargah. He spoke of Nizamuddin Auliya and Amir Khusro as a disciple would speak of his master. ‘Meri kaffiri ko qubool kiya Hazrat ne (Nizamuddin has accepted me though I am a non-Muslim),’ he would say to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gulzar-dehlvi-no-more-light-has-gone-out-say-admirers/articleshow/76349230.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Forest department keen on developing grassland as buffer zone||Mysuru: The death of a 65-year-old shepherd from Hunsur taluk in Mysuru by a tiger, in the last week of May in the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, has reignited the debate on the measures in place to tackle human-animal conflict in the wooded regions of Karnataka. That the tiger mauled a man to death despite its movements being closely monitored by officials in the forest department has only served to make those residing in the villages on the fringes of jungles all the more scared. What is more, the shepherd was among those who had not paid heed to multiple warnings from the forest department against venturing into the woods. Foresters attribute the habit among the villagers to venture into the woods to the lack of sufficient pastureland for their livestock. In a bid to deter villagers from venturing too close to the forests, Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra has proposed having a wide strip of pastureland to serve as a buffer between human inhabitation and the woods. He has proffered the idea to his superiors in the department, hoping to have it implemented across all protected forests in the state. “Initiating action against the villagers for defying our prohibitory orders will only invite their wrath. They often take to setting fire to the woods in retaliation. It is a very dicey situation for us, and we have to take them into confidence to ensure that no damage is caused to the forest or wildlife,” Balachandra told TOI. The Bandipur director said that the little strip of land adjoining the forests, could be nurtured as grassland, which could be used by farmers in the villages. He described it as a ‘win-win’ situation for all concerned. “The forest department will monitor the activity on the grassland,” Balachandra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-department-keen-on-developing-grassland-as-buffer-zone/articleshow/76329449.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Down under, sinking deeper: Why Palika Bazar is facing extra heat||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic has hit Palika Bazar market in Connaught Place hard. The underground market opened on June 8, but New Delhi Municipal Council has refused permission to switch on the central air-conditioning system as a precaution against the spread of the novel coronavirus. Both the shoppers and traders find the heat suffocating, and the number of shops reopening has slid from 70% on June 8 to around 15% on Thursday. Blaming NDMC of failure not only to support the shops, but also in sanitising the market and arranging for the thermal scanning of customers, the market association has decided to close down again from June 13. Darshan Kakkar, who has foreign currency exchange business in Palika Bazar, said, “We have deployed guards with masks for the thermal scanning at the two gates and also arranged for sanitising machines. But we can’t do this forever. Ideally, disinfecting the market is the responsibility of the civic agency.” He added that only one toilet was functional at the moment, the remaining two having been closed by NDMC some time ago. The first underground, air-conditioned market in India, Palika Bazar was built in 1979. Popular for its cheap clothes and electronic goods and numerous other items, the market has adapted itself to changing times, but surviving the Covid lockdown is becoming difficult for the shopkeepers. Readymade garments trader Kamal Jit bemoaned, “Due to a financial crisis, I have not ordered fresh stock for the past three months. While we have no earnings due to the closing of the market since March 23, NDMC has warned us of penalties if monthly rentals aren’t paid on time. Like me, many shop owners are on verge of going bankrupt and are depleting our savings on rent and staff salary.” An NDMC official said that they are taking decisions as per government guidelines. “We have stopped the air conditioning as directed by the state government,” the official said. “Similarly, the rentals were increased under the NDMC Act, which states that the rent is to be increased 10% every two years. Also, as far as regular sanitisation of the market and opening of toilets are concerned, we are ready to make arrangements provided the footfall increases.” There are around 400 shops on the ground and mezzanine floors, which pay rents ranging from Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 per month. Baljit Kohli, president of Palika Bazar Market Association, said shop owners could have managed without the AC, but the official reluctance to provide assistance has forced the decision on closing the market. “The height of apathy can be judged from the fact that NDMC is raising electricity bills even when the shops are closed. We have written to NDMC officials to say we will not be able to pay rents from now,” Kohli said. Watch Why Delhi's Palika Bazar is facing extra heat after reopening||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/down-under-sinking-deeper-why-palika-is-facing-extra-heat/articleshow/76330583.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Missing elderly man found dead in pond||Kochi: A 95-year-old man who was missing since Wednesday was found dead in a pond at Sreemolanagaram near Kalady on Thursday morning. According to police, Thomakunj of Kutaala House, Edanad, was missing from house since Wednesday evening. “Though search parties of local residents were formed to look for the missing person, he couldn’t be found all through the night. Later, on Thursday morning, he was found dead in the pond. He must have fallen into the pond by accident. Autopsy report is awaited to find the exact cause of death,” said an officer with Kalady police. Local residents said the pond was quite huge and was used for aquaculture by a private individual. “We were alerted after the body was spotted on Thursday morning. A team recovered the body and handed it over to police for further proceedings,” said a fire force official with Angamaly fire station. Kalady police registered an FIR under Section 174 of CrPC for unnatural death and began a probe. The body was handed over to the kin after autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/missing-elderly-man-found-dead-in-pond/articleshow/76328805.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vadodara||Fees issue: Another parents’ group protests||Vadodara: In less than a week’s time the office of district education officer witnessed protests by a group of parents over the issue of fees. A group of parents of city-based VIBGYOR High School met DEO U N Rathod seeking intervention for immediate implementation of rules of fee regulatory committee and additional fees be refunded. The parents also complained that despite teaching activity coming to a grinding halt due to the coronavirus pandemic, the school has been harassing them over payment of fees and saying that books will not be given if the fees will not be paid. They also alleged that although there is a provision of paying provisional fees, the school has been taking fees as per its desire and have not refunded admission fee which the FRC ordered it to. “During the meeting with the officials at DEO office, we were told that the FRC has already issued show cause notice to the school and it has to reply to the notice by June 16,” said a parent. On June 8, too, parents of Billabong High International School had protested at DEO office over similar issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fees-issue-another-parents-group-protests/articleshow/76326680.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana making efforts to reduce cost of doing business: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: As part of efforts to attract investments in high employment generating sectors, the Telangana government is trying to create a conducive climate for businesses to thrive by focusing not just on upping the state’s ease of doing business (EODB) quotient but also reducing the cost of doing business and improving the quality of doing business, Telangana IT & industries minister K T Rama Rao told India Inc on Thursday. Addressing India Inc top honchos at a virtual session on ‘Rebuilding and Rebooting Telangana’s Economy Post COVID-19’ organised by FICCI, KTR also urged India Inc to invest in the state. Stating that the time was ripe to use the Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity, he said the state government is focusing on investments that are looking to move away from China and other countries with a large manufacturing base. “Telangana is open for business and we are looking for investments in high employment generating sectors like textiles, electronics, life sciences, IT, and we will continue our endeavour to bring more investments,” he added. The IT minister also said India needs to think on scale so that our healthcare and life sciences industry becomes competitive and is not import dependent. “We need to think of scale, we need to think about mega industrial parks. The world’s largest pharma cluster in the form of Hyderabad Pharma City will be coming up in Telangana in the next few months. This will reduce dependence on any other market across the world,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-t-making-efforts-to-reduce-cost-of-doing-biz/articleshow/76330350.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Monsoon likely to arrive in Kolkata today, says Met||KOLKATA: Monsoon could arrive in the city and most parts of south Bengal on Friday. According to the Met office, conditions have turned “favourable” for the onset of rains with monsoon clouds having started to float into Kolkata and its surroundings. While south Bengal will receive moderate rain over the next 24 hours, north Bengal could be lashed by heavy showers. On Thursday, Kolkata received intermittent drizzles. “Wind and clouds are blowing into Kolkata from the south which indicates that monsoon currents are at our doorstep. We expect monsoon to set in across most parts of south Bengal, including Kolkata, on Friday,” said deputy director-general of meteorology Sanjib Bandyopadhyay. While rain could be moderate in south Bengal, heavy showers have been predicted across north Bengal, including Darjeeling, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar. “North Bengal receives heavier showers than south Bengal due to geographical reasons. When the clouds hit the mountains, heavy showers follow, which can’t happen in the south,” explained Bandyopadhyay. The city, he added, will continue to remain cloudy and receive intermittent rain over the next 24 hours. Meanwhile, the low-pressure that had been brewing over east-central Bay of Bengal has developed into a depression, but it will not have a significant impact on the weather in south Bengal. “It is moving in the west-northwest direction but has a tilt towards south India. So, while it may lead to moderate rain in south Bengal, it will have a greater impact in south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh,” Bandyopadhyay said. On Thursday, Kolkata remained warm and humid despite the afternoon shower. The day temperature, though, plunged to 31.2°C, three notches below normal. “The maximum temperature won’t drop further immediately, though the showers could get heavy later in the week. The maximum temperature will hover around 32°C,” said a weather scientist. The official date for the arrival of monsoon in south Bengal was revised to June 11 from June 10 earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-in-city-today-says-met/articleshow/76329907.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Man with asthma left to die on road||Hyderabad: Afraid that an asthma patient was infected with coronavirus, an ambulance driver on Wednesday evening left him to die unattended on a footpath in Medak, according to officials. Srinivas Babu (52) was travelling from Kamareddy to Secunderabad in a bus when he asked the driver to pull over near Chegunta in Medak, after he felt breathing discomfort. Rao somehow managed to trudge across to the footpath and pleaded with those passing by for help. A few residents called the local police requesting them to shift him to a nearby hospital. On hearing about the incident, Chegunta police did arrive at the spot but called an ambulance operator instead. The ambulance arrived an hour later but health workers inside the vehicle refused to ferry him to a hospital. By the time the police called up a specialised ambulance for Covid-19 patients, which arrived 45 minutes later, Babu had passed away. “Nearly two precious hours were lost while waiting for the ambulances to arrive. The police could have shifted him in their vehicle, so could the locals,” a Medak district official told TOI. Family members of the deceased told authorities that he was suffering from asthma and may have forgotten to carry his medicines. “I feel humanity has died. Everyone was seen in the video asking him all sorts of questions instead of trying to shift him to the hospital. Had any single person tried, my husband would have been alive today,” said his inconsolable wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-with-asthma-left-to-die-on-road/articleshow/76330326.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Amulya gets bail in sedition case||Bengaluru: Hours after a city civil and sessions court rejected the regular bail plea of Amulya Leona Noronha, the student-activist arrested on sedition charges during an anti-CAA rally in Bengaluru on February 20, a magistrate on Wednesday granted her default bail. The bail was granted under section 167(2) of CrPC as police have not filed any chargsheet against her during the 90-day mandatory period, her advocate Prasanna said. Rejecting the bail plea of the 19-year-old, 60th additional city civil and sessions judge Vidyadhar Shirahatti had on Wednesday said the probe has not been completed and chargesheet is yet to filed. Though Amulya had approached the high court, it refused to hear the petition. Since the arrest, Amulya was in judicial custody at Central Prison. - tnn & agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/amulya-gets-bail-in-sedition-case/articleshow/76329303.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Monsoon makes official entry in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The south-west monsoon has made its official entry in the state on Thursday, marking the commencement of what is expected to be a four-month-long rainy season, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society, the state received an average rainfall of 30.9 mm on Thursday with many districts such as Khammam, Jangaon and Warangal (Urban) among others receiving heavy rainfall. As per IMD, the northern limit of monsoon reached Ramagundam in Peddapalli district and conditions are becoming favourable for advancement of south-west monsoon into remaining parts of the state by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monsoon-makes-official-entry-in-t/articleshow/76330388.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Satisfied with state’s response, Telangana HC closes case on Gadwal death||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday expressed its satisfaction over the state and its health department’s response to people caught in non-coronavirus emergencies. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy closed two pleas filed by advocates K Kishore Kumar and P Sreenitha over the death of R Janeela, a pregnant woman from Gadwal, then considered then as a Covid-19 hotspot. It was observed that the state had responded quickly and ordered a departmental inquiry into the incident. This led to the formation of a series of guidelines, directions and circulars by the state and the high court to doctors and hospitals on dealing with with non-coronavirus emergencies. The health commissioner, in her report, informed the court that they had arranged for as many as 69 ambulances on national highways and 17 ambulances on state highways to quickly shift pregnant women and other patients requiring emergent medical help. Advocate General BS Prasad informed the court that the inquiry committee found six doctors prima-facie guilty of negligence and a departmental inquiry was under way. On initiating criminal action on the errant doctors, the high court left the issue to the discretion of the state which will act in tune with the findings of its inquiry. The bench then proceeded to close the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/satisfied-with-states-response-hc-closes-case-on-gadwal-death/articleshow/76330371.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||QS rankings a blow to universities across India||Hyderabad: It is not just the University of Hyderabad (UoH) but many other Indian higher educational institutions have also slipped in the latest Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings 2021, released on Wednesday. While Indian institutions scored well on research impact, measured through citations per faculty, they performed poorly on internationalisation, a key parameter this year based on international faculty and student ratios. Even as UoH ranked 293 in citations per faculty, up 30 spots compared to last year, it fared poorly on the internationalisation front. “As per UGC guidelines, there is a restriction that all PhD admissions should be through an entrance exam. Currently, we don’t have the provision to conduct online exam for PhD admissions due to which we are unable to reach out to the foreign students,” said M Siva Kumar, UoH director of international affairs, adding that the number of days spent by international faculty members at UoH is also limited compared to the time they spent in universities abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/qs-rankings-a-blow-to-universities-across-india/articleshow/76330281.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Back from Amphan duty in Bengal, 54 more firemen test positive||BHUBANESWAR: The number of rescue personnel, who have tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from post-Amphan restoration work in West Bengal, rose to 115 in the state with 54 fresh such cases on Thursday, government authorities said. Odisha added 136 more positive cases, raising the total number of infected persons to 3,386. The 54 firefighters are from Odisha Fire Service. Earlier, 12 fire personnel and 49 from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) at Mundali in Cuttack district had tested positive for the virus. Government sources said the number may go up as the results of some more fire personnel were awaited. A 372-member of the fire service and 190-member of the NDRF had gone to Bengal to help in relief and restoration work there. Almost all of the positive personnel are without any symptoms, the government sources said. They were in 14-day quarantine after their return from the neighbouring state. The other positive cases were spread across 14 districts including Khurda (17), Kandhamal (15) and Ganjam (3), among others. Meanwhile, a 38-year-old woman of Bhubaneswar, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died owing to non-Covid reasons, the health department said. The government attributed her death to septic shock with multi-organ failure. “Regret to inform that one female #Covid19 positive patient of Bhubaneswar, aged 38 years, who was under long-standing treatment for psoriasis and was on immunosuppressant drugs, has passed away,” the health department tweeted. It is the third such death of a Covid-19 patient from non-Covid reasons while altogether nine persons have died due to Covid-19, the health department updates show. Another 72 Covid-19 patients have recovered and were discharged, the health department said. They include 17 from Ganjam besides Sonepur (9), Balangir (7), Jagatsinghpur (6), five each from Cuttack, Kalahandi and Sundargarh, four each from Balasore and Mayurbhanj, three each from Khurda, Kandhamal and Sambalpur and one from Jharsuguda. The total recovered cases in the state now stand at 2,354. The state’s recovery rate is 69.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/back-from-amphan-duty-in-bengal-54-more-firemen-test-positive/articleshow/76328787.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Back from Amphan duty in Bengal, 54 more firemen test positive||BHUBANESWAR: The number of rescue personnel, who have tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from post-Amphan restoration work in West Bengal, rose to 115 in the state with 54 fresh such cases on Thursday, government authorities said. Odisha added 136 more positive cases, raising the total number of infected persons to 3,386. The 54 firefighters are from Odisha Fire Service. Earlier, 12 fire personnel and 49 from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) at Mundali in Cuttack district had tested positive for the virus. Government sources said the number may go up as the results of some more fire personnel were awaited. A 372-member of the fire service and 190-member of the NDRF had gone to Bengal to help in relief and restoration work there. Almost all of the positive personnel are without any symptoms, the government sources said. They were in 14-day quarantine after their return from the neighbouring state. The other positive cases were spread across 14 districts including Khurda (17), Kandhamal (15) and Ganjam (3), among others. Meanwhile, a 38-year-old woman of Bhubaneswar, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died owing to non-Covid reasons, the health department said. The government attributed her death to septic shock with multi-organ failure. “Regret to inform that one female #Covid19 positive patient of Bhubaneswar, aged 38 years, who was under long-standing treatment for psoriasis and was on immunosuppressant drugs, has passed away,” the health department tweeted. It is the third such death of a Covid-19 patient from non-Covid reasons while altogether nine persons have died due to Covid-19, the health department updates show. Another 72 Covid-19 patients have recovered and were discharged, the health department said. They include 17 from Ganjam besides Sonepur (9), Balangir (7), Jagatsinghpur (6), five each from Cuttack, Kalahandi and Sundargarh, four each from Balasore and Mayurbhanj, three each from Khurda, Kandhamal and Sambalpur and one from Jharsuguda. The total recovered cases in the state now stand at 2,354. The state’s recovery rate is 69.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/back-from-amphan-duty-in-bengal-54-more-firemen-test-positive/articleshow/76337093.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA set to start bridge repair works||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) plans to float tenders in next few days to repair six bridges in the city. The work will start with Ultadanga flyover, followed by Baghajatin ROB, Kalighat bridge, Chingrighata flyover, Aurobindo Setu and Sealdah flyover. KMDA officials said the repair work of the bridges, which had been scheduled from March this year, got delayed due to the lockdown. “Going by our plan, the work will begin with Ultadanga flyover. Though much of the repair has already been done, still there are some cracks that need to be repaired,” said an official. Considering the structural health audit of the bridges, which was conducted last year, both Baghajatin ROB and Kalighat bridge need major repair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-set-to-start-bridge-repair-works/articleshow/76329920.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Be the difference you want to see: Journalism graduates to migrants’ rescue in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Appalled by the plight of hundreds of migrant workers stranded in Delhi because of the Covid-19 lockdown, Gargi and Ramanpreet resolved to alleviate their misery. They successfully raised over Rs 2 lakh within a week and used the money on train and bus tickets for more than 350 migrants to return to their home states this past week. Journalism graduates Gargi and Ramanpreet told TOI that it struck them after seeing a video on the labourers’ woes that sitting and cribbing about the government’s inadequate measures for the migrant workers wouldn’t help. They decided if they felt so strong, then they’d better act on their indignation. The two began on Tuesday at the New Delhi Railway station, where they were shocked to see the pathetic conditions in which many of the workers were staying on the roads and footpaths. “We were moved to tears, but didn’t know how to go about easing their pain,” said Ramanpreet. “We returned home and wrote on Instagram about our desire to help the stranded people. Our friends started contributing handsomely, some of them donating Rs 5,000, Rs 15,000, Rs 30,000, even a month’s salary. In the first 24 hours, we collected Rs 12,000, enough to buy tickets for five workers from Bihar and West Bengal.” While the duo was at it, they also learnt of a group that was arranging buses for such workers. “I got in touch with them and told them about our cases,” said Gargi. “With their help, over the following two days, we managed to send 170 of the workers to their homes on three buses.” Gargi, however, recalled an incident that still troubles her. “Four days ago, we came across a man who was injured and could barely walk. However, by the time we met the man, his wife and three children, we had spent all the money we had collected,” she said. “The youngest child was licking a plastic bottle in hunger. This broke our heart and we returned home to arrange funds. After this, we went back to the same spot that they said staying at for two weeks, but couldn’t find them. I hope they got some help from elsewhere.” Ramanpreet’s father is unaware of the work his daughter is doing. “If he knew, I'm sure he would be very proud of me, but he is very protective and wouldn’t allow me to risk infection by going to meet the migrants every day,” she said. “My mother, however, is very happy with my decision.” Gargi’s father learnt about her service to the workers only on Thursday. “He was surprised and smiled at me,” said Gargi. “Then he went out and got me boxes of gloves and masks, saying that I should take care of my own safety too.” The girls claimed to have received selfies from the workers they aided when they reached their hometowns. “Both Gargi and I will continue working for these workers for as long as we are able to do so,” declared Ramandeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/be-the-difference-you-want-to-see-journo-grads-to-migrants-rescue/articleshow/76349267.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Cops yet to trace identityof body found in factory||Kochi: Probe into the discovery of a fully decomposed body from a plywood factory in Kunnathunadu over a fortnight ago has hit a roadblock as police were yet to identify the deceased. Police said they have been collecting details of people associated with the place where the body was found. “The deceased is yet to be identified. The fact that the body was severely decomposed and found weeks after the death are making the identification difficult. Also, we couldn’t link the death with any man missing reports in the area. The investigation, however is progressing, details of which cannot be divulged at the moment as it may hamper the probe,” said an officer with Kunnathunadu police. The body was found on May 23 at a factory in Pattimattom, Kunnathunadu near Perumbavoor. A group of guest workers, who had come to clean the factory, saw a hand sticking out of a pit where the ash from the chimney of the factory gets settled. The body was decomposed so badly that police couldn’t identify even the gender of the deceased during inquest. However, autopsy revealed that the deceased was a male aged between 25 and 50 years and could have died four to eight weeks ago. Police had also collected statements from guest workers associated with the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-yet-to-trace-identityof-body-found-in-factory/articleshow/76328824.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kochi||HC: Restore Konthuruthy river in a year||Kochi: The high court has directed for restoring Konthuruthy river within one year after rehabilitating those evicted. A division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly issued the directive after considering a petition filed by KJ Tomy, who is residing nearby the river. The court has directed that no further construction should be permitted on the riverbed, as discernible from the revenue records. No assignment should be given to anyone afresh or already encroached into the river puramboke, the court has directed. Encroachments should be removed in one year under any circumstances and embankments should be constructed on both sides, the court ordered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-restore-konthuruthy-river-in-a-year/articleshow/76328838.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||Villages which Nepal claims as its own have given IAS, IPS, PCS officers||DEHRADUN: Recently the Nepalese cabinet endorsed a new political map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas of Uttarakhand as part of its territory. According to the map, three villages of Gunji, Kuti and Nabi in Uttarakhand are shown as “integral parts of Nepal”. In Uttarakhand, though, these very villages are renowned for the string of bureaucrats they have produced. The three villages – with a collective population of just over 3,000 – have produced around half a dozen IPS and IAS officers and as many PPS and PCS officers. These include Sanjay Gunjyal, a 1997-batch IPS officer who is presently IG Kumbh Mela. Besides, IAS officer Vinod Gunjyal, who is posted in Bihar, and 2011 batch IPS officer Hemant Kutiyal, posted in Uttar Pradesh, also belong to this region. Among the other officers hailing from the area are Vimla Gunjyal, a 2004-batch State Police Services (SPS) officer, who has been promoted to IPS rank and is presently DIG Intelligence in Uttarakhand Police. Similarly, another SPS officer, Dhirendra Singh Gunjyal, also hails from the area. He, too, has been promoted to the IPS in 2016. Then, there is PCS official Ajay Singh Nabiyal who was promoted to the IAS and served as district magistrate of Chamoli, V-C of Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority and commissioner of Kumaon range. He hails from Nabi village. Speaking to TOI about the area’s significance, Sanjay Gunjyal said, “Gunji is a prominent village and people from Tibet have historically been coming to buy products in the mandi here. Gunji is the last village on Kailash Mansarovar yatra route and people of this village are totally devoted to the country. SSB and ITBP have company headquarters at Gunji and an Army establishment is also there.” Retired IAS officer, D S Ghabriyal, who is from Pithoragarh’s Garbhyang village, added, “The entire belt comprising villages like Napalchu, Garbhyang, Nabi, Kuti and Gunji have given a number of IAS, IPS and IFS officers to the country. The belt is known for high educational standards.” He added that “the issue of any border dispute never arose in the last 30 or 40 years and it is highly unfortunate and misleading that Nepal is now showing these three villages as it’s territory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/villages-which-nepal-claims-as-its-own-have-given-ias-ips-pcs-officers/articleshow/76328828.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 12, 2020||Surat||SMC declares nine new containment zones||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) declared new containment zones in the city on Wednesday, after cases were reported from those areas. SMC declared 479 houses in Shivnagar and Mahadevnagar in Udhna zone as containment zones. About 2,323 people live in this zone. In the central zone, SMC has declared four containment zones which included Salabatpura, Momnavad, Lalavadi, Haripura and Sagrampura areas. These four containment zones included 786 households with over 4,000 people. In Varachha (A) zone, SMC declared 754 houses with 3,342 people in Krishnanagar society as a containment zone. SMC also announces three more containment zones in Katargam which covers around 400 households and 2,300 people. According to SMC officials, there are over 110 containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-declares-nine-new-containment-zones/articleshow/76328835.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Bengali couple in US helps Amphan victims||KOLKATA: A Non Resident Bengali (NRB) couple based in Silicon Valley, California and their friends took barely 4.5 days to raise over 10,000 US dollars to provide relief to those affected by Cyclone Amphan in Bengal. What is special about this initiative is that the two software executives — Arindam Samanta, an IIT, Kharagpur alumnus, and his wife Sanjukta — used only their personal contacts to raise the amount, which was disbursed through the NGOs Kolkata Foundation and Mukti, as well as Ramakrishna Mission, Narendrapur. The couple had made personalised appeals through social media platforms for crowd funding. Before long, people living both along the East and West Coast of the US had responded. “We were moved at the sight of the devastation. There was an overwhelming support both from the Probashi Bangali population in the US and others,” said Arindam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengali-couple-in-us-helps-amphan-victims/articleshow/76329912.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha cancels final year UG, PG exams||BHUBANESWAR: The higher education department on Thursday cancelled both the theory and the practical end-semester exams of final-year undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students (except medical students). This was decided in a meeting chaired by higher education minister Arun Kumar Sahoo here on Thursday and attended by vice-chancellors of state universities and principals of autonomous colleges. The cancellation will be implemented by all universities and autonomous colleges coming under the jurisdiction of the department. However, it will not be applicable to institutions that have already completed both the theory and the practical exams of the final year students. Government sources said universities and autonomous colleges would follow UGC guidelines to conduct ‘alternate evaluation’ of UG and PG final year students and publish results by end of August. The evaluation will combine internal marks and the average of the marks obtained by a student in the previous semesters/years. If students feel that they could have scored higher in an offline exam, they can appear for one in November. The revised results will be published in December. “The alternative evaluation will be applied to every final year student. If they are not satisfied with the result, they can appear for offline exam. The result of the offline exam will be taken as final,” said an official of the higher education department. Students welcomed the decision. “This is a good step. It is not safe to go to the university or college now. Many of our friends are stuck outside the state. Some of them live in containment zones,” said Swikruti Mishra, PG student of Rama Devi Women’s University. Srinibas Samal, a UG final-year student of Utkal University, also supported the decision. “The second-chance exam is good too. Let’s see how they grade us,” he added. Earlier, the government had decided that sixth semester or final year exam for UG students would be held between June 20 and July 24 and results declared by August 31. Similarly, final-year PG exams were to be completed by August 20 and results announced by September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-cancels-final-year-ug-pg-exams/articleshow/76328800.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 12, 2020||Hubballi||IndiaTIES to help 10,000 MSMEs in Karnataka||Hubballi: Are you a small business or MSME? Is your business affected by Covid-19 pandemic? Here’s a hand that will help you come out of the crisis. IndiaTIES, an online platform promoting Technology (T), Investments (I), Exports (E) and Services (S), with network in over 102 countries, has launched the #Impact10kMSMEs programme to help 10,000 micro, small & medium enterprises in the state to reboot and reinvent their businesses free of cost. Speaking to TOI, IndiaTIES founder Satish Kota said the small businesses, startups and MSMEs in India are currently suffering due to the pandemic and many of them are at the brink of shut down. “Though the Union government has proposed a Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free loans to MSMEs, many do not have a clue on the method and structure of the loans. Moreover, its not just about money, many businesses are clueless about how the future is going to be. Hence IndiaTIES has embarked on an important task to support 10,000 MSMEs in Karnataka to ensure their business continuity,” he said. He asserted that Karnataka has 38 lakh MSMEs but his target is 10,000. “Selection procedure is on. With a questionnaire, we will assess the needs and help them facilitate subsidy, marketing and other requirements through a collaborative system. We will also guide them to take part in appropriate events and we are developing a software for this initiative in the coming days” he added. “The object of the programme is to find alternate solutions for them to reinvent and reboot their business. We will evaluate over 10,000 businesses and provide them support in one way or the other. We hope to help at least 1000 businesses that can generate Rs1,000 crore revenue in three years’ time. We believe that this will not only improve the economy, but also regenerate jobs,” he added. Small business owners, startup entrepreneurs and MSMEs may register to this programme by submitting details at www.indiaties.in/impact10kmsme, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/indiaties-to-help-10000-msmes-in-ktaka/articleshow/76328855.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 12, 2020||Delhi||More malls open in Delhi, but it’s a weak day||NEW DELHI: Three days after being permitted to reopen, some malls threw open their doors on Thursday. Among them, were DLF Promenade in Vasant Kunj, DLF Avenue in Saket and Pacific D21 in Dwarka. However, very few retail outlets were interested in resuming business and the food courts remained shut. The malls had very few visitors, with Dwarka’s Pacific D21, where a couple of eateries functioned, drawing the most people. Those who went found changes welcoming them to the malls, such as contactless hand sanitisers, temperature checks and baggage disinfecting. Despite roadblocks such as rent negotiations to full resumption of work, the shopkeepers at all the three malls were optimistic that they would soon see people thronging the malls. “Today was just the first day, so we weren’t really expecting the crowds to come. In fact, its ironical that we were actually surprised to see people turning up today. Things will be a lot different on weekends,” said a store owner who did not want to be named. Abhishek Bansal, executive director, Pacific Group, reported a decent footfall at Pacific D21. “Mall visits are at 30% of the normal as of now and we estimate business also at around 30%. This is encouraging and we expect the figures to go up gradually,” Bansal said. “The footfall in our mall is good because of the catchment area, which includes Dwarka and other localities.” The place that otherwise bustled with people on week days looked entirely different on Thursday with only one family visible in a corner. The kids seemed excited about the visit, and said that they hadn’t stepped out of their home for over three months. “I don’t care what is open and what isn’t. It finally feels like we are free. Home had started feeling like a cage,” said Ashima, an excited 12-year-old. The food court here was not entirely barren. Those at DLF Promenade and DLF Avenue, however, presented a dismal sight. More retail outlets were open at these two malls than at Pacific D21, but the eateries weren’t. At DLF Promenade, Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Shopping Malls, said the complex was intentionally opened on a weekday to ensure word of its reopening spread before the weekend. “We expect 6,000-7,000 visitors over the weekend,” she said. As for the food court, she said that many mall employees had returned to their hometowns and have only now been summoned back. There were social distancing demarcations and the air conditioning was kept slightly warm as a precaution against spreading the virus. There were some enthusiastic shoppers at the mall. Shweta Awasthi confided, “I’m a shopaholic, but am also taking full precautions while out of home. There are sales on several brands and I think this is the best time to shop. There’s no crowd, no hassles. I can roam around freely and get done with shopping in less than half the time when things were normal. Had this been a roadside market, I wouldn’t have stepped out since the risk of catching the virus would have been way higher than here.” Bector added that not many shops had resumed business at DLF Avenue Mall because it was a comparatively new mall where not many stores had open at the time the lockdown was announced. Some shop owners claimed that the closure of the malls during the Covid lockdown hadn’t resulted in the rent they paid being reduced and were now keen on new terms with the mall managements before reopening. The owner of a popular store at Promenade claimed that he had paid full rent for the three months his outlet didn’t open. He disclosed that the rent payment was the reason why many store owners had chosen to keep their businesses closed till they arrived at new agreement with the mall owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-malls-open-but-its-a-weak-day/articleshow/76329928.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Alarmed govt appeals for caution as Crowds throng markets ahead of Raja, alarmed govt appeals for caution||Bhubaneswar: Seeing the crowd swamp the markets in the past two days, one might think that we have defeated coronavirus. One might be pardoned even for doing a little jig at the thought that all is well again. Except that it is not. On Thursday, the state government had to urge people to exercise caution and follow social distancing norms while doing last-minute shopping for the three-day Raja festival to be celebrated across Odisha from Sunday. The government also issued guidelines to shopkeepers in a bid to contain the crowd and the virus spread. “Raja is undoubtedly a major festival of Odisha but it is not wise to risk one’s life for it. If we survive the pandemic, we can celebrate Raja in the years to come,” said Subroto Bagchi, chief spokesperson of the government on Covid-19. Raja is an agrarian festival which also celebrates womanhood, breaks prejudices and taboos linked to menstruation, welcomes the rain and symbolises the beginning of the farming season. Young girls dress up in their finery. They are pampered and fed a range of lip-smacking delicacies. “Every year we celebrate Raja with great fun, do lots of shopping, visit friends and relatives. But this year we have decided to stay home and keep it simple,” said Anwesha Samal, an engineering student. Shopkeepers have been requested to wear masks and not to allow customers to enter without them. “Priority should be given to digital payment instead of cash transaction. Gloves must be used by the salesmen in textile shops. Social distancing should be maintained as per protocol. Urban and police authorities shall keep vigilance on shops and markets. Any violation of Covid-19 protocol may warrant action,” the guidelines said. Meanwhile, following heavy rush in the markets, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday sealed several shops. “We noticed violation of Covid-19 guidelines in these shops. People were found not wearing masks and not using sanitisers,” said Anshuman Rath, zonal deputy commissioner BMC. The BMC has appealed to the people not to visit crowded shops and complete their shopping before Friday evening. “People should adhere to the norms of social distancing and wear mask. Any violation may invite fine,” a BMC official said. In in view of the festival, the special relief commissioner (SRC) has relaxed the evening curfew and allowed markets to remain open till 10 pm instead of 7 pm on Friday since they will be closed the next two days owing to the weekend shutdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/alarmed-govt-appeals-for-caution-as-crowds-throng-markets-ahead-of-raja-alarmed-govt-appeals-for-caution/articleshow/76328830.cms||Minati Singha
June 12, 2020||India||Drop Rs 4 lakh crore demand on PSUs: SC to govt||NEW DELHI: In a big relief to many PSUs which were directed by the Centre to pay over Rs 4 lakh crore on the basis of the Supreme Court's verdict on Adjusted Gross Revenue, the court on Thursday said the demand is not correct and should be withdrawn while also indicating that it may consider offering relief to telecom companies by giving them some time to clear dues of Rs 1.69 lakh crore. The court slammed the department of telecom for raising the demand with PSUs and threatened to initiate contempt proceedings to pu nish the officials concerned for misusing its order. It directed the department to reconsider its decision within three days. The Supreme Court, however, softened its stand against private telecom operators and agreed to hear their plea, which is also supported by the Centre, to provide a reasonable time-frame to deposit their dues. It sought proposals from the Centre and telecom companies on how to ensure that the amount is paid by them. Allowing a staggered payment plan could bring muchneeded relief to many telecom firms and their lakhs of employees who are facing uncertainties due to financial problems. But DoT had to face the ire of the apex court for raising the demand on AGR from PSUs, including GAIL, Oil India and Power Grid Corporation under the garb of its verdict of October last year. The PSUs were also granted telecom licence by DoT but it was for internal use and not for commercial purposes. Abench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and MR Shah said its verdict was not for PSUs which stand at a different footing in comparison to private firms. “How the formula was devised on PSUs on the basis of our judgment. Our judgment was silent on PSUs. Who did it and under what authority. How it has been done by you,” the bench asked SG Tushar Mehta appearing for the department. Mehta said the demand was raised as per the licensing conditions of PSUs, which in many cases were similar to private firms. But the bench was not convinced and said, “You withdraw it immediately or we will take strict action and punish the officials for contempt of court. It is not permissible. They are misusing our order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/drop-rs-4-lakh-crore-demand-on-psus-sc-to-govt/articleshow/76331393.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
June 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Micro, small industries yet to get collateral-free loans from banks||Coimbatore: Representatives of micro and small industry associations here have said they are preparing ‘loan forms’ — documents of their industrial units and their bank accounts — and would submit them en masse to the district collector to highlight their plight that they are not being offered loans by banks. The Centre had recently promised them collateral-free loans through the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), part of the Rs 3lakh crore relief package for MSMEs. But industrialists said banks were asking them for collateral and were rejecting them saying they were ineligible to avail loans, as they had not yet been apprised of the scheme. They said micro units were in a deep crisis, as they had no fund flow after the lockdown, and were not able to pay rents and take care of other expenses. Now, they said, they were dependent on bank loans. A micro industrialist from Sowripalayam said he had approached a nationalised bank for a loan, but was sent back. “They said they had not got orders for giving collateral-free loans for micro and small units and asked for collateral. We hear all banks have been doing this,” he said. “Though my account has had no issues for the past 20 years, they come up with excuses to avoid giving loans,” he added. J James, a representative of Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia), said banks were giving loans only to those units which had a cash credit limit or had already availed of a term loan. “Because of this almost 90% of the 20,000-odd micro units in the district face a situation where they can’t avail of loans. Micro units need loans now to tide over the crisis we are in,” he said. When contacted, lead bank officials said they had not yet been notified about the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme to give loans for micro and small industrial units. The official said when they get the instructions on the scheme, they would start disbursing the loans. “When we get instructions on the scheme, we would start the loan processes. Banks would give a loan up to 20% of the industrial unit’s loan limit. But we would be able to process only around 10 applications as it involves paperwork and procedure,” the official said. Micro industrialists had already represented the issue to the collector and now they had to be patient till banks in the district are apprised of the scheme, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/micro-small-industries-yet-to-get-collateral-free-loans-from-banks/articleshow/76329925.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Surat||Veterans chip in to resolve conflict in MMF sector||Surat: With the three key sectors of the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) industry in Surat at loggerheads over new business rules involving payment terms and penalty, veterans have jumped in to resolve the issue.Following a report published in TOI highlighting the tussle between powerloom weavers, traders and textile processors, over the new business norms on June 9, industry veterans under the leadership of the Synthetic and Rayon Textile Export Promotion Council (SRTEPC) have decided to intervene to protect the larger interest of the sector. Talking with TOI, Dhiru Shah, vice-chairman of SRTEPC said, “The important issue affecting the textile sector is the mass exodus of migrant workers and the sluggish demand of fabrics in the domestic and international market. Post-lockdown, only 30% of the textile units are operational. It is not the right time to set new business rules when the times are really tough.” According to Shah, about a dozen-odd industry veterans have been meeting the leaders of all the three segments to persuade them to keep aside their differences and start working for the overall betterment of the industry. The textile processors have set the payment deadline for the finished fabrics to 30 days with penalty of 1.5% of order amount for late payment on the traders. However, the traders reacted by implementing 30 days deadline for the delivery of finished goods or deduction of 2% from the payment on the total value of the grey or unfinished fabrics. On the other hand, the powerloom weavers set seven days deadline for the payment of the grey fabrics supplied to the textile traders and interest of 1.5% for late payment. Sanjay Desai, president of Auto-looms association told TOI, “Liquidity crisis is at its peak and everybody want to safeguard their position. Setting the new rules is only going to harm the industry. We have requested all the key segments to operate with old business rules and get the industry back on track.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/veterans-chip-in-to-resolve-conflict-in-mmf-sector/articleshow/76328858.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||GNDU tops state public university in Pb, raked 51 nationally||Chandigarh: Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar has been ranked as the top state public university of Punjab and 51 among all the central, public and private universities that participated in National Institute Ranking Frame (NIRF)-2020 rankings. GNDU has also been ranked 18th among the state funded universities in the country. The NIRF-2020 rankings were released by Union minister for human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal at New Delhi. Punjab higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa congratulated GNDU for the achievement. He said this would encourage and motivate the students for studying in public universities of the state. Higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari said this year two state public universities of Punjab are ranked among the first 100 in NIRF-2020 rankings. GNDU improved its ranking from 55th to 51st position. Punjabi University, Patiala has also improved its ranking from beyond 100 last year to 64th rank. Its vice-chancellor Prof B S Ghuman said it was a remarkable achievement in the history of the university. He added that this will not only benefit the university to get the government funds but will also help in getting a boost in the admissions. Central University of Punjab(CUP) at Bathinda got 87th rank with a score of 40.93 points. The varsity improved by eight positions this year from the 95th rank. Meanwhile in Himachal Pradesh, Indian Institute of Technology Mandi has secured 31st rank among engineering colleges of country by securing 54.17 points; National Institute of Technology Hamirpur has secured 98th rank with 37.73 points and Shoolini University of Biotechnology in Solan district has got 112th rank by securing 36.72 points. Among pharmacy colleges, Shoolini University of Biotechnology has secured 39th ranking with 45.69 points. Among architecture colleges, National Institute of Technology Hamirpur has secured 19th position with 48.59 points. NIRF ranks institutes on the basis of five parameters — teaching and learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcome, overall inclusivity and perception. A good ranking in NIRF enables the universities to get several prestigious grants from federal funding agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gndu-tops-state-public-university-in-pb-raked-51-nationally/articleshow/76330587.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hubballi||Dream goes out of homes as people economise cost of construction||HUBBALLI: Construction activity may have picked up pace following the easing of the lockdown restrictions in Karnataka, but priorities among those spending on having the homes of their dreams being built have altered drastically. They are revising budgets and being much more prudent in allocation of funds towards their homes. President of the Consulting Civil Engineers Association Suresh Kiresur said that were trying to minimise expenditure on construction. “People were wont to spend lavishly on interior decoration, and did not shy from spending freely on embellishment of the façade too, but many of them are now opting for homes with basic features. Many of them have also been enquiring us about construction of greenhouses,” Kiresur told TOI. Moreover, the cost of construction having shot up and the economy in a state of uncertainty, people have pruned budgets for their houses, he added. Vikas Soppin, an entrepreneur who runs an interior design firm, said that many people were reducing expenditure on ornamentation, deciding against Plaster of Paris models, decorative glass models, et al. “Many people who may have planned to build a two-storey house are now opting for one-storey houses, and also working towards reducing the area of construction, which will translate to reduction in the cost of construction,” said Soppin, adding that he was among those who had decided against constructing a house. “I decided to shift to a three-bedroom flat instead since I cannot bear the cost of construction,” Soppin added. He is not alone in dropping plans to construct houses in Hubballi-Dharwad. Manjunath Shalgar, employee at a private firm, said that construction of his house had commenced in November, but the situation had altered drastically by the end of March. “I am getting a meagre salary now. But my wife is a government employee, and we have decided not to stop construction. But we are keeping everything simple, by dropping glass fittings and modular kitchens, which we had initially planned on having in our house,” Shalgar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dream-goes-out-of-homes-as-people-economise-cost-of-construction/articleshow/76328892.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: One dead, another injured after vehicle falls into gorge||UTTARKASHI: One person was killed while another got critically injured after a pickup vehicle they were travelling in fell into a gorge at Rataldhar-Dhauntri area of Uttarkashi district on Thursday. According to the sources, the two persons were going to Uttarkashi from Lambgaun. The incident took place when the vehicle slipped into a nearly 50-meter-deep gorge. One person, identified as Mukesh Bhatt (36), a resident Uttarkashi, died on the spot, whereas 35-year-old Mahendra Singh Rana, a resident of Tehri, was critically injured. The rescue forces later reached the spot and pulled out the injured person from the gorge. He was sent to Lambgaun primary health centre. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, SAID, “Body of the deceased person has been sent to Uttarkashi district hospital for post-mortem examination. The revenue police is investigating the cause of the accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-another-injured-after-vehicle-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/76328862.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 12, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: TikTok user swallows fish, dies||KRISHNAGIRI: A 22-year-old Hosur resident died on Wednesday after swallowing a live fish while recording a TikTok video. The deceased was identified as S Vetrivel of Parvathi Nagar in Hosur. He was a mason. Vetrivel had gone to a lake at Therpettai area in the town for fishing with two friends, an officer from the Hosur town police station said. “All of them were drunk. Vetrivel tried to swallow a live fish while recording a TikTok video with his friends. The fish got stuck in his throat and he struggled to breathe. Though his friends rushed him to the government hospital in Hosur, doctors declared him brought dead.” Postmortem was conducted on Thursday. “We are investigating whether he swallowed the fish to win a bet or to record the video,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tiktok-user-swallows-fish-dies/articleshow/76329933.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||MDU ranks at top in Haryana, 76th overall||Rohtak: The Rohtak-based Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has emerged as the top ranking university in Haryana in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by the Union ministry of human resources development (MHRD). In the NIRF Ranking 2020, announced by Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday, MDU has been placed at 76th rank with an overall score of 41.95 ahead of other universities of Haryana like the Maharshi Markendeshwar University in Ambala (93rd rank), the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar (94th rank), and Kurukshetra University (99th rank). MDU has climbed 14 ranks from 90th rank in 2019. MDU vice-chancellor Professor Rajbir Singh, expressing happiness on the rise in ranking, congratulated all the stakeholders of the university. He said the combined and concerted efforts of all sections of the university have resulted in significant growth and development of the varsity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mdu-ranks-at-top-in-haryana-76th-overall/articleshow/76330590.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Delhi||12 Delhi University colleges among country’s top 20||NEW DELHI: Delhi-based institutes fared well in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings-2020 which was released on Thursday. While Delhi University and Jamia Millia Islamia improved their overall rankings, DU’s Miranda House college was adjudged the best college for the fourth time in a row. Lady Shri Ram College grabbed the second spot. As many as 12 DU colleges are in the list of top 20 best colleges. Delhi has seven of its institutes in the top 200 of the engineering category and seven institutes in the top 75 in the management category. Three local institutes are in the top 20 among law institutes with NLU-D at the second position and six in the top 40 medical category with AIIMS at the top. Jamia Hamdard got the top rank among pharmacy colleges and Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences in the dental institute category. Jamia is now at the 10th position in the universities category, improving its position from the 12th rank. In ‘overall category,’ it has been placed at 16th position. Vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar said: “The achievement is all the more significant because of the challenging time the university has faced recently and also in the light of increased competition in the ranking.” “It was possible because of the relevant and focused research of highest quality and teaching by our dedicated and devoted faculty members,” Akhtar added. JNU grabbed the second position, yet again. “We consistently maintained this rank during the last four years. Credit goes to all the faculty, staff and students who worked hard to achieve this,” JNU VC M Jagadesh Kumar said in a statement. Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi retained its third position in the overall rankings. In the engineering category, it secured the second position. V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT Delhi, said, “IIT Delhi will always strive to do better. We also want to see our technologies help solve problems in the society and we wish to see our students become socially conscious citizens.” Delhi has six of its universities in the top 100 rankings. As many as 29 colleges from Delhi are in the top 100 list with four DU colleges among the top five. Shri Ram College of Commerce, however, saw a dip in its ranking from 7th position to 12th. “A commerce college will never be able to compete with a science college on parameters like expenditure on labs and journal articles,” says Simrit Kaur, SRCC principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-du-colleges-among-countrys-top-20/articleshow/76329952.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 12, 2020||Surat||Seven booked for Dahej unit accident||SURAT: Nine days after a massive blast in chemical factory Yashashvi Rasayan Private Limited (YRPL) killed 10 people and injured over 70 others, the Dahej marine police in Bharuch filed an FIR against seven company employees for culpable homicide not amounting to murder on Thursday. In the FIR seven employees of YRPL have been accused of negligence during transfer of chemicals in the storage tanks that caused the blast on June 3. The accused include a contractual employee Atal Bihari Kumar Mandal; tank operator Mahesh Jivan Galchar; production in-charge Bharat Bhushan alias Bharat Agarwal; production in-charge; unit head Dharam Thummar; liquid storage farm area head Mitesh Patel; in-charge of DMS Alok Panda; and fire safety head Yunus Khiliwala. They all have been booked under IPC sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 337 (causing grievous hurt by act of endangering human life by rashness or negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act of endangering human life or personal safety) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) “Despite knowing about the danger of chemical reaction due to the wrong transfer of the chemicals in the storage tanks, the officials did not take any remedial measures to neutralise the reaction, resulting in the series of blast in the storage tanks. We are still awaiting the forensic report. The accused are yet to be arrested. Investigations is still going on,” said Rajendrasinh Chudasama, superintendent of police, Bharuch. According to the FIR, the massive blast in the liquid chemical storage tanks occurred due to grave negligence during the transfer of the dimethyl sulphide (DMS) and Nitric Acid (HNO3) into the storage tanks from the tankers, which resulted in a chemical reaction leading to series of blasts in the 14 storage tanks. On June 2, the two separate tankers loaded with DMS and HNO3 arrived in the company’s liquid storage farm for unloading the raw material. When the unloading of the chemical was about to be completed, tank operator Mahesh Galchar checked the hosepipe connections of both the tankers and found that they were interchanged. By that time about 25 tonne of DMS was transferred into the HNO3 tank, 18 tonne of HNO3 into the DMS tank. However, Galchar stopped the unloading and informed his higher officials including the plant head and DMS head regarding the goof-up. In-charge police inspector of Dahej marine police, Vipul Gagiya told TOI, “When the company officials realised their mistake, they studied the literature and found that the mixture of DMS and HN03 will not have any chemical reaction and thus they decided to transfer the remaining HN03 into the DMS tank on June 2. However, there was some reaction and at about 12 pm on June 3, there was a huge blast in the b-tank where both the chemicals were stored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-boked-for-dahej-unit-accident/articleshow/76328885.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CBI begins probe into Rs 32 crore PNB scam||BHUBANESWAR: The CBI on Thursday started a probe into alleged loan fraud of nearly Rs 32 crore in Punjab National Bank (PNB), Station Square branch, between 2010 and 2015. The central agency registered cases against nine people, including four former senior branch employees, on the basis of a complaint lodged by PNB on Tuesday. The CBI raided the official and residential premises of the accused in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Visakhapatnam, Kolkata and Jammu. The agency said the four former staffers allegedly connived with a Bhubaneswar-based private company and sanctioned huge cash credit to the firm illegally. “We have registered cases against the branch’s former chief manager, former assistant general manager, former chief manager and former senior manager. Besides, cases have been registered against the private company and four of its functionaries, including the managing director,” a CBI officer said. The CBI said the PNB branch’s former officials allegedly entered into a conspiracy with the private company and committed fraud in processing, sanctioning and disbursing cash credit facility, bill discounting and issuing letters of credit in its favour during 2010-15. The private firm allegedly diverted the funds illegally to its sister concerns and misused the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cbi-begins-probe-into-rs-32cr-pnb-scam/articleshow/76328851.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government rejigs police ranges||Bathinda: After creating a new range of the Punjab Police in Faridkot on administrative grounds, the state government has now reorganised existing ranges. A few changes have been made in allocation of districts to the ranges. The newly-created Faridkot range will comprise Faridkot, Moga and Muktsar districts. Earlier, Faridkot and Moga were part of Ferozepur range while Muktsar was in the Bathinda range. Punjab government has 22 revenue districts while state police have 24 districts. Batala and Khanna are police districts carved out of the revenue districts of Gurdaspur and Ludhiana. Apart from these, three big cities of Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar have police commissionerates. Parts of these districts have been named as rural districts which are now part of different ranges. Punjab has 31 IPS officers serving on the rank of inspector general of police (IG) out of whom five are on central deputation. There 15 IPS officers on the rank of deputy inspector general of police (DIG) and three are on central deputation. According to the reorganisation orders issued by Punjab additional chief secretary (home) Satish Chandra on Wednesday, the six ranges will have jurisdiction in three districts each. One range will have four police districts situated in three revenue districts under its jurisdiction while one range will have only two districts. The border range will now have Amritsar (rural), Batala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts; Jalandhar range will have Jalandhar (rural), Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala districts; Ludhiana range will have Ludhiana (rural), Khanna and Nawanshahr comprising two revenue districts; Ropar range will have Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali districts; Patiala range will have Patiala, Sangrur and Barnala districts; Bathinda range will have Bathinda and Mansa districts and Ferozepur range will have Ferozepur, Fazilka and Tarn Taran districts under its jurisdiction. When contacted, ACS (home) said, “The reorganisation has been done on administrative grounds for the benefit of people.” At six police ranges, IG-level officers have been appointed as heads whereas in two ranges of Ferozepur and Jalandhar, DIG-level officers are at the helm. At three commissionerates, officers of the rank of IG or DIG have been appointed as heads. The new Bathinda range will have the lowest number of two districts under its jurisdiction. Till a few years ago, Bathinda was a police zone with seven revenue districts under its jurisdiction. There were four zones of the state police -- Border, Patiala, Jalandhar and Bathinda. The Border zone had five districts under its jurisdiction whereas Patiala and Jalandhar zones had six districts each and Bathinda had maximum of seven districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-government-rejigs-police-ranges/articleshow/76330595.cms||Neel Kamal
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Demand for power spikes as farmers start paddy transplantation||Patiala: With the start of paddy transplantation on Wednesday, demand for power rose by over 1,200 MW from the previous day to 9,296 MW. Power supply in the state was 2,072 lakh units. Punjab State Power Corporation (PSPCL) is all set to maintain 8-hour power supply for tubewells. On the first day of paddy transplantation last year, power demand rose by more than 1,900 MW to touch 11,141 MW. Thermal plant supply in the state was 351 LU and supplied by private generators. With two units, Rajpura thermal plant supplied 282 LU whereas Talwandi Sabo, with one unit, supplied 69 LU. Thermal plants in Lehra Mohabbat and Ropar have not started generation due to low demand from the industry. Last year, PSPCL successfully catered to a record maximum demand of 13,606 MW and supplied the highest ever 2, 999 LUs of electricity in a single day on July 3 last year. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, power demand is likely to remain subdued this year. The second unit of Talwandi Sabo thermal plant started on Thursday. This will be followed by the third unit in the next few days. State sector thermal units have been kept ready and are expected to start after 10 days when demands pick up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/demand-for-power-spikes-as-farmers-start-paddy-transplantation/articleshow/76330599.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 12, 2020||Surat||Fire in agrochemical unit at Ankleshwar GIDC, one dead||SURAT: One person was killed and five others injured when a major fire broke after an explosion at an agrochemical company located in the Ankleshwar GIDC during early hours of Thursday. The fire officials of Ankleshwar GIDC stated that the fire occurred in the reaction vessel 401 of plant-4 at Hemani Industries Pvt Ltd. About six workers present at the spot suffered burns. The fire may have occurred due to the chemical reaction, they added. According to police, the victims were rushed to the BAPS hospital at Vadodara. One Mohammad Salahuddin, 35, died during treatment and condition of three others is said to be critical. Superintendent of police, Bharuch, Rajendrasinh Chudasama visited the spot and took stock of the situation. N P Waghela, deputy director, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) told TOI, “A blast with fire occurred due to the exothermic reaction during the processing of raw material. There was presence of highly hazardous chemicals like 2 3-dichloronitrobenzene, sodium cyanide, copper cyanide, and Dimethylformamide.” Waghela added, “Due to the reaction, the temperature and pressure rose beyond control and resulted into a blast and fire. This is a preliminary assessment, we are going to conduct a detailed inquiry into this incident.” Hemani Industries manufactures agrochemicals, pesticides, and herbicides at their Ankleshwar plant. This is the second major blast in Bharuch in June. Earlier on June 3, a massive blast in storage tank of Yashashvi Rasayan Private Limited (YRPL) in Dahej had killed 10 people and injured over 70 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-in-agrochemical-unit-at-ankleshwar-gidc-one-dead/articleshow/76328913.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula to have waste processing machine||PANCHKULA: The city will soon have a machine which will process 2,000 tonne of waste per day. The move has been taken to solve the problem of stink in the sectors near the dumping ground in Sector 23, Panchkula. Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the machine will be installed soon and will start functioning from August 15. Gupta held a meeting of all the officers of the municipal corporation and discussed the issue. Gupta said the problems being faced by the residents, due to the dumping ground situated near the residential areas, will end soon. The technical team of the MC said the machinery for the solid waste management is will be installed soon and it will be able to process 2,000 tonne waste every day. Gupta said, “The problem will be resolved as residents living in sectors across the Ghaggar have beem suffering.” Saksham Dhanda, 37, a resident of Sector 25, said, “We have already complained to the MC officials many times about the side effects of the dumping ground near the residential area, but they are reluctant to shift it to another site.” Rajender Singh, 36, a resident of Sector 23, said, “We invested our hard-earned money to live in a good locality. But the dumping ground has failed the purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-to-have-waste-processing-machine/articleshow/76328961.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University scraps 15% interview component||NEW DELHI: Owing to the present situation, Delhi University has decided to do away with the interview component of the admission process. The 15% interview component was mostly for admission to postgraduate courses of the university. At a meeting held on Thursday the decision was taken in order to abide by the social distancing norms. Also this year the university is trying to conduct contactless admission. “This was part of the agenda and it was approved by the members. The university admission will be based on written exams,” said Arun Attree, an academic council member and a part of the standing committee for admissions. The registration process for admissions is likely to begin from June 20. The colleges have been advised not to have any additional eligibility criteria apart from those mentioned in the bulletin of information. “The colleges should not have additional eligibility criteria as there will be no physical presence of the applicants this year,” said a DU official. This year colleges will also be advised to have a strong team for conducting counselling through virtual mode. “In addition a common format will be prepared online to help colleges to convey their decisions. The colleges should give reasons to the students through e-mode for denying admission or if kept on hold. They can verify the original documents of the applicants once the session commences,” the university official added. Till last year, after the declaration of cut off, students used to go to the colleges to complete the admission process. In relation to the documents submitted online, it has been decided that once the admission is given on the basis of the documents submitted, colleges cannot reject the documents. “The colleges in Delhi University cannot cancel admission on the pretext that the document is not acceptable unless it is forged. The college can ask for additional information through phone or email. Also in case of any discrepancy in spelling or name or missing surname in the certificates of those in the reserved category, the colleges will have to verify from their other certificates rather than rejecting their admission,” said Attree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-scraps-15-interview-component/articleshow/76329976.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 12, 2020||Surat||Two diamond unit owners booked for fraud||SURAT: Police booked two diamond unit owners in Varachha on Wednesday for an alleged fraud of Rs 14.80 lakh. The accused allegedly took 256 carat diamonds from the complainant to polish them and did not return them. Police said the accused, identified as Mukesh Dobariya and Atul, were booked on the complaint of Piyush Kapadia, manager of Shakti Gems. According to the police, Mukesh and Atul run a small diamond polishing unit. They used to take diamonds for polishing and return after finishing the work. “The accused allegedly took 7,641 pieces of diamonds from Kapadia from January 16 to February 19. They allegedly did not return the diamond back to Kapadia nor did they make payment for it despite reminders,” said an official from Varachha police station. “The accused also allegedly abused Kapadia, subsequent of which he lodged the complaint,” said the official. “We will collect evidences, and after a detailed investigation further actions will be taken,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-diamond-unit-owners-booked-for-fraud/articleshow/76328950.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||GMC Nagpur to lead world’s biggest plasma therapy trials||NAGPUR: Nagpur’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) will lead ‘Platina Trial’ which is a state-level clinical trial to assess the efficacy of plasma therapy to treat severely-ill Covid-19 patients. According to officials, more than 500 patients in state will be given blood plasma obtained from recovered patients as part of these trials. “Medical Education Department’s proposal of world’s largest trial for plasma therapy for severe Covid-19 patients has got DCGI nod. Will cover over 500 patients,” tweeted Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of medical education, on Thursday. These are going to be the largest trials in world for use of convalescent plasma as therapy. After the drug controller general of India (DCGI) gave its final nod, GMCH Nagpur is planning to involve 238 patients from 23 hospitals across the state. These include 17 GMCs and five corporation medical colleges. State nodal officer and administrative coordinator for trials Dr Mohd Faizal said his team believed plasma therapy save lives of at least 5,000 critical patients in next six months. “We are working on the concept of ‘from cured to the critical’. We believe that the therapy is effective and has shown positive results so far. Hopefully, at the end of these trials, we could bring out substantial proofs that it saves the life of Covid patients,” said Dr Faizal. “Results of these trials can be turning point of Covid-19 treatment in India. Based on our results, ICMR may revise national guidelines for plasma therapy and bring relief for people,” said Dr Faizal. Earlier, Dr Mukherjee told TOI that severe cases needed plasma therapy and therefore this study will focus on them. GMCH has already been a part of ICMR’s national trials to check whether plasma therapy was useful for moderate Covid-19 patients. Latest ‘Platina Trial’ will focus on critical patients. Trials will be held under the guidance of GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra while Dr Sushant Meshram, head of pulmonary medicine at GMC, Nagpur will be the principal investigator and trial coordinator. Initially, medical colleges and hospitals will divide patients into two groups. One group will receive the therapy while other will not. Assessment of both groups would be carried out at the end of 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmc-nagpur-to-lead-worlds-biggest-plasma-therapy-trials/articleshow/76330063.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 127.86-crore budget for Mohali municipal corporation||MOHALI: The Punjab local bodies department has imposed a cut of Rs 141 crore in the budget for the 2020-21 fiscal for municipal corporation (MC). Rs 127.86 crore has been approved against the proposed budget of Rs 268.72 crore. This has left the already fund-starved MC in a catch-22 situation. The Mohali MC had approved Rs 268 crore surplus budget for the 2020-21 fiscal in February this year, which was sent for approval of the local bodies department. The MC had been passing deficit budget from the past 4 years, but in its last stint, it came up with Rs 17 crore surplus budget, but the local bodies department not only imposed a cut on the budget, but did not approve funds for maintenance of parks, solid waste management, Swachh Bharat Mission, sewerage maintenance and sewerage augmentation project. The MC has shown Rs 251.66 crore expenditure in the budget, but the local bodies approved only Rs 92.26 crore. Though, after approval, the budget remains at a surplus of Rs 35.60 crore against the earlier proposed Rs 17 crore, but officers of the MC said Rs 35 crore cannot compensate for a cut of Rs 141 crore. An officer, requesting anonymity, said, “The MC is already reeling under financial crunch, and now the cut in the budget will further aggravate its problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-127-86-crore-budget-for-mohali-mc/articleshow/76328947.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Sugarfed to pay balance Rs 14 crore arrears of co-op mills||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed Sugarfed to pay the balance amount of Rs 149 crore to liquidate full arrears of Rs 299 crore payable to cane growers by cooperative sugar mills. He also directed private sugar mills to immediately clear the pending payment of farmers. Meanwhile, the finance department sanctioned Rs 150 crore to make the outstanding payment of farmers of cooperative sugar mills, while Rs 149 crore would be paid by Sugarfed from its own resources. A spokesperson said Amarinder has also asked cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to work out a financially viable mechanism to avert such a situation in future, and ensure timely and regular payment to cane growers. Out of the total Rs 1,253 crore on account of cane arrears of four private sugar mills in the state, Rs 876 crore has already been paid and Rs 377 crore is pending. Out of Rs 486 crore of cooperative sugar mill, Rs 229 crore has been made by Sugarfed and Rs 257 crore and Rs 42 crore is pending for 2019-20 and 2018-19, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sugarfed-to-pay-balance-rs-14cr-arrears-of-co-op-mills/articleshow/76330605.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Rising demand, poor infrastructure blow Chandigarh’s fuse||CHANDIGARH: While the UT administration has projected peak power demand in the current financial year (2020-21) to touch 435 megawatt (MW), the infrastructure on ground is crippling, resulting in frequent power cuts in various sectors, colonies and villages. Already, different parts of the city are facing regular unscheduled power cuts lasting for two to four hours. Rajinder Pandey, a resident of Sector 44, said whenever the city witnessed rainfall, strong winds, the power supply got affected. Besides, on a regular basis, power supply got affected for one or two hours in their locality, he said. Echoing a similar view, Narinder Singh, a resident of Sector 27, said earlier there were no cuts but for the last one week, the power cuts are back. Whenever they ask power department officials, they were told that the power supply line from Mohali got affected, which resulted in cuts in Chandigarh. The UT should carry out repair exercises before the start of summer season, he added. UT finance secretary A K Sinha, who is also holding charge of power department, said the UT has already engaged power finance corporation as an consultant to privatise UT’s electricity department. The UT electricity department in its multi-year tariff (MYT) petition to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), had submitted about the peak hour demand — period of high consumer demand in the coming years. In its MYT, the department submitted that peak hour demand which was 399MW in current financial year will jump to 448MW in 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rising-demand-poor-infra-blow-citys-fuse/articleshow/76328934.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 12, 2020||Kochi||Asymptomatic patients to be shifted today||Kochi: Nodal officer of the first line treatment centre in Angamaly has written a letter to the district medical officer conforming that asymptomatic patients from Kalamassery government medical college could be shifted to the exhibition hall in Adlux Convention Centre on Wednesday. Health officials faced some last-minute obstacles at the centre when a laundry agency refused to take up the work of washing clothes of patients. Following this, two washing machines were brought to the centre on Tuesday. "We were planning to give laundry work to an agency. But they refused to take up the task fearing washing cloths of Covid patients would lead loss of orders from other customers. We will provide patients with benzalkonium hydrochride solution to wash their cloths. They are all healthy people and can dip cloths in the solution for 20 minutes and dry it in the washing machine. We have placed three large buckets for dipping cloths of patients in the solution. They don’t need to dip their clothes separately. Cloths of a group of patients can be dipped in the solutions. We will change the solution three times per day. We will advise the patients to follow this procedure," said Dr Naseema Nisar, nodal officer and superintendent of Angamaly taluk hospital. Officials are planning to shift 20-25 patients from the medical college to Angamaly in ambulances. Currently, 51 people have been undergoing treatment at medical college and most of them are either asymptomatic or having only mild symptoms of Covid-19. Meanwhile, blood sample collection as part of antibody tests to identify community spread began in Ernakulam on Tuesday. As many as 70 samples of health workers, including 50 from medical college, were collected on Tuesday. “The result of the tests in Ernakulam will be uploaded on a portal of the medical department,” said an health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/asymptomatic-patients-to-be-shifted-today/articleshow/76324274.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri temple to install more CCTV cameras||Bhubaneswar: The Jagannath Temple administration has floated a tender for temporary installation of CCTV cameras inside the 12th century shrine as well as in the Gundicha Temple. The latter is believed to be the birthplace of the sibling deities of Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra. “We want to finalise the vendor that will install the cameras ahead of Rath Yatra, a decision on which is pending. We have not yet decided on the number of cameras we need,” Jagannath Temple’s administrator (rituals) Jitendra Kumar Sahoo said. Temple officials said new surveillance cameras are required in the Jagannath and Gundicha temples as the existing devices were damaged during Cyclone Fani in May last year. “We anticipate that the government may allow Rath Yatra amid a host of restrictions. Even if the government bans devotees from participating, servitors will not be stopped from performing the rituals. Like previous years, the cameras will be installed for monitoring of the rituals. Social distancing can also be monitored,” another temple official said. As people from all walks of life, including opposition parties, continued to criticise the government for the delay in clearing the confusion about Rath Yatra, the government said it is closely assessing the Covid-19 situation. “Rath Yatra is barely 12 days away, but we do not see any preparations by the state government. In the previous years, the government would start massive preparations nearly a month before the festival,” Binayak Dasmohapatra, a senior servitor said. Cops are at their wits’ end as they are unable to draw security plans for Rath Yatra owing to the government’s “dilly-dallying” approach. “Our security plans depend on the government’s decision. Even if Rath Yatra is observed in a low-key and restricted manner, we need sufficient time to enforce the government’s regulations,” a senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-temple-to-install-more-cctv-cameras/articleshow/76328948.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 12, 2020||Delhi||IGI operator told to give revised tariff projections||NEW DELHI: With the novel coronavirus pandemic dealing a body blow to aviation industry and rendering all the pre-pandemic traffic projections void, the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) will now take revised estimates into consideration for tariff determination. “The authority is aware that the aviation sector is undergoing unprecedented turbulence and uncertainty on account of the global pandemic and the associated lockdown in the major cities around the world, which has resulted in restrictions in air travel both domestic and international…,” AERA said in a consultation paper released on Tuesday determining tariff of Delhi’s IGI Airport till March 31, 2024.  “…. On account of the expected substantial changes in the prevailing business scenario, including the changes in traffic projections and capacity enhancement, going forward, (AERA) shall consider revised submissions by the airport operator to form a final view on the various aspects forming part of the tariff determination process,” the consultation paper stated. Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has submitted a capital expenditure of Rs 9,782.2 crore for the planned infrastructural augmentation, which includes IGIA’s fourth runway, an elevated taxiway for aircraft and a bigger Terminal 1. According to DIAL’s traffic projection, IGIA was to see 7.1 crore passengers by March 31, 2024. The massive change in aviation, amid the overall economy battered by the pandemic, is now seeing airlines, airport operators and other stakeholders struggle to survive. Recently, the Adani Group had told Airports Authority of India (AAI) it would not be able to take possession of the three airports — Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangaluru — this year. In 2018, the group had emerged as the highest bidder for six airports, including Trivandrum, Jaipur and Guwahati, and the government wanted to run PPP way by handing over to private players for 50 years. The Adani Group was to take over the airports this summer, but the AAI has now reportedly extended the timeline for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-operator-told-to-give-revised-tariff-projections/articleshow/76329999.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Kullu police seize 42kg charas, largest quantity in 17 years||Manali: The lockdown in the country may have broken the backbone of synthetic drug mafia, but charas mafia is still active in Himachal, as Kullu police on Thursday seized 42.05kg charas (hashish) from a pickup truck at Fagu bridge in Banjar sub-division of Kullu district. This is the largest charas seizure in the last 17 years in Kullu district, the place notorious for cultivation of the world’s best and expensive charas. According to police, a team led by head constable Jagdish stopped a pickup truck for checking at Fagu bridge early morning. The police found charas concealed in the truck that was weighing 42.05kg. The contraband is worth over Rs 53 lakh in local market but its value can be manifold in other states while it’s worth crores of rupees in international market. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh confirmed that this is the largest quantity of the charas that has been recovered in the last 17 years. “Driver, identified as Leeladhar, 35, a resident of Rewalsar in Mandi district, has been arrested. Police are investigating the source and the destination of the huge consignment,” he said. There has been many cases in the past that people smuggle cheap charas from Nepal or other states to Kullu to get a stamp of “Malana Cream” on the charas to sell it at higher cost. Police were investigating whether the charas was sourced from local cultivators or was brought from outside Himachal. The SP added that district police has seized 218kg charas which include 44 cases of commercial quantities and froze disproportionate properties of charas mafia worth Rs 1.34 crore since July 2019. Charas smuggling in Himachal has witnessed a sharp dip during lockdown, due to ban on interstate movement and tourism. Small charas peddlers are still active in the district, but the police had not expected such a large quantity in single case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kullu-police-seize-42kg-charas-largest-quantity-in-17-years/articleshow/76330608.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||MP urges minister to step up testing in Madurai||Madurai: Madurai MP, Su Venkatesan has written to the state minister for disaster management, R B Udayakumar urging him to take steps Covid-19 testing and screening in Madurai district. In a statement on Thursday, he said that Madurai is lagging in Covid-19 prevention activities. According to statistics released by the state government two days ago, Madurai was in the 30th place among the districts in Covid-19 screening. “This is a matter of grave concern. The testing capacity was only half of that of Kanyakumari, which had a lesser population than Madurai,” he said. As per the GO issued on May 31, the Tamil Nadu government has said that all people coming from Chennai, should be screened, even if they do not show symptoms. A media report said that 20,000 people have come from Chennai to Madurai in the last 10 days. The district administration has details of those people who came with proper e-passes, but they have not been screened properly. Twenty-seven people who had come from Dubai on June 4, had been allowed to go to their houses, after a five-day quarantine in the government facility and no screening was done on the fifth day. “A pandemic is not the time to use connections to escape from quarantine and the district administration and government should step up the testing and screening,” Venkatesan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-urges-minister-to-step-up-testing-in-madurai/articleshow/76330617.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab develops software to resolve teachers’ grievances||CHANDIGARH: Teachers of the government schools in Punjab will now be spared the ordeal of running from pillar to post for getting their grievances redressed as the Punjab government has developed a software for resolving their issues, said an official on Thursday. A spokesperson of the school education department said in view of the difficulties faced by the teachers, a new software has been developed by the department for registering grievances and problems online on the e-PunjabSchool portal. With the help of this, teachers will now be able to register their problems online on the portal from their personal account. According to the spokesperson, earlier the teachers had to submit their grievances and problems to the school heads/ district education officer and the head office. In this process, a lot of time was wasted due to paperwork. This new system would save the time of teachers and also reduce the difficulties they face, he said. Using the new system, teachers will be able to raise different issues, including related to transfers, seniority, promotions and other issues without visiting the department’s office. Until now, during the lockdown enforced to curb the spread of Covid-19, Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar was holding online grievance redressal sessions to resolve the issues of teaching staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-develops-software-to-resolve-teachers-grievances/articleshow/76330616.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Explore possibility to start bus service in Mohali, says Sidhu||Mohali: The city is making a name for itself as IT hub and is growing fast, therefore, it is important that the ongoing projects pick-up pace. This was stated by health and family welfare minister-cum-Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. The minister presided over a review meeting of important developmental projects at the district administrative complex on Thursday. Sidhu impressed upon the commissioner of the municipal corporation to explore possibility of starting bus service in the city, apart from strengthening the fire-fighting system. He also impressed upon the need to procure sewerage cleaning suction machines for each municipal committee and cleaning of city sewerage before the onset of the monsoon. The minister directed Greater Mohali Area Develooment (Gmada) to focus on developing social infrastructure such as old age homes, nari niketan, home for the destitutes and girls’ hostel, in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/explore-possibility-to-start-bus-service-in-mohali-says-sidhu/articleshow/76328972.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||SIM used by gangster seized from prison||Chandigarh: On the disclosure of Gangster Deepak alias Deepu Banur, the UT police claimed to have recovered a SIM card from the Ambala central jail, which was used to call shooters by Deepu, for shooting at the liquor baron, Arvind Singla, at Sector 33 on May 31. During interrogation, Deepu revealed that he used WhatsApp to make calls to the shooters and other aides from the Ambala jail on the direction of Lawrence Bishnoi. He said he destryoed his phone after making the calls. However, the police have failed to recover any arms used by the shooters and arrest the absconding four shooters. After obtaining a search warrant from the authorities concerned, search was conducted at the Ambala Central Jail by the UT police team along with the jail authorities of Ambala. During the search, the police recovered the SIM card used for making calls, but the police did not find any mobile phone. The police said Deepu was directed by Lawrence for providing arms and ammunition to the shooters. The crime branch on Thursday produced accused Sewak alias Guri, a resident of Zirakpur, before a local court, after his five-day police remand got over and the court sent him in 14 days judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sim-used-by-gangster-seized-from-prison/articleshow/76328984.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Surat||Two arrested for evading Rs 15cr ITC||SURAT: The Surat Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) commissionerate have arrested two brothers for fraudulently availing input tax credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs 15.50 crore by floating 16 bogus firms on Thursday. Official sources said that Rajesh Mundra and Kamal Kishore Mundra, who are brothers, took GST registration for 16 bogus firms namely Rumi Overseas, Meenaxi Enterprise, Kasshish Fashion among others using documents of other persons to avail and pass on the ITC without actual receipt and supply of goods. The firms floated by the two brothers utilised ITC to the tune of Rs 2.75 crore for the payment of IGST on exports under claim of refunds and passed on the ITC to the tune of Rs 7.75 crore to others. Remaining ITC of Rs 5 crore is still lying underutilised. Official sources said that the Mundra brothers were in the past found involved in customs fraud and were arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). Rajesh Mundra was also arrested by the SGST authorities in February-20 for similar GST fraud in different set of firms operated by them. The duo were arrested under section 69 of the CGST Act, 207 and that they were taken to the New Civil hospital for the Covid-19 test in the light of the order of the Gujarat High Court. After the Covid-19 report, the duo will be presented before the district court on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-arrested-for-evading-rs-15cr-itc/articleshow/76328988.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Given the nature of the virus, there is no place for complacency We will not lower our guard against this invisible enemy||Odisha’s Covid mortality rate is one of the lowest in the country We have managed to keep the vulnerable people safe with proper planning. Most of the positive patients are those who have returned from some of the worst-hit states. The government has established quarantine centres in 6,798 panchayats. The returnees were kept there and the suspects were tested. Those who were found positive have been shifted to dedicated Covid care centres. This has largely prevented the spread of the infection in the wider community. All these steps may have helped in checking the death rate. With nine deaths, the mortality rate is around 0.2%, far lower than the national average of 2.8%. What is your assessment of the situation? Various assessments show that June is a crucial month. The return of the migrant workers has nearly stopped. Those who have already returned will complete their quarantine in the next one or two days. However, given the unpredictable nature of the virus, there is no place for complacency. We will not lower our guard against the invisible enemy. Is the worst over? The government is fully-prepared for the long battle ahead. Our situation is far better than other states. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has time and again said saving each and every life was important. We have designed our strategies based on that. The government has established 34 dedicated Covid hospitals with 5,463 beds, separate from the existing healthcare infrastructure dedicated to other diseases. The treatment is also free. While the infection rate is still high, testing has gone down In case of testing, the government has been following the protocol set by the ICMR. We will test more samples as and when needed. As directed by the chief minister, the government is ramping up testing beyond 10,000 samples per day. But, this doesn’t mean 10,000 samples will be tested on a daily basis. All close contacts of a Covid patient and those with outstate travel history but with symptoms are being tested. The government will test in pockets if it feels there is a surge. Several doctors and frontline workers have been infected It is very unfortunate when a service provider gets infected. However, the infection rate among covid warriors is lower than that in other states. We are strengthening our safety protocols so that not even a single doctor, nurse or paramedical worker gets infected. Questions have been raised on the purchase of masks and PPEs at inflated prices There cant be a scam under the Naveen Patnaik government. The purchases have been made in a very transparent manner. We tried to have enough stock of the equipment to save lives. There were incentives for the suppliers. Once the stocks stabilized, the state stopped the provision. We are open to scrutiny at any level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/given-the-nature-of-the-virus-there-is-no-place-for-complacency-we-will-not-lower-our-guard-against-this-invisible-enemy/articleshow/76328989.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Indo-Tibetan Border Police SI collapses at airport, dies||Madurai: A 50-year-old sub-inspector attached to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) at Idayapatti in Madurai district collapsed at Madurai airport on Wednesday morning and died around midnight at a private hospital. H Surendar Singh from Haryana returned to Madurai from his native place by a flight at 10am. He collapsed while waiting in a queue for getting screened for Covid-19 symptoms. The medical team at the airport checked and shifted him to a private hospital at Chokkikulam. However, he died without responding to treatment around midnight. Police sources said he suffered a head injury when he fell down, resulting in an internal bleeding. The body was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Police sources said his swab sample was collected and sent for testing. Police sources said the man had a medical condition due to which he had collapsed a few times earlier too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/indo-tibetan-border-police-si-collapses-at-airport-dies/articleshow/76330621.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Many misinterpret minister’s words on loan, turned away||Madurai: Many city residents, who tried to avail of loans misconstruing an announcement made by minister for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju, about small vendors being given low-interest loan of Rs 50,000, were disappointed on findoing out that they were not eligible for it. Some people had misinterpreted the announcement as ‘all ration card holders being eligible for the loan’ and thronged the banks. S Prabu, of Simmakkal, who works as a driver, said that he had not got his salary for the past three months, as he has been out of work. “As soon as I saw the minister’s announcement on TV, I took my ration card and my brother’s and went to the cooperative bank to avail the loan but was told that I was not eligible for it,” he said. Shanthi, who had been selling idlis, said that she hasn’t been able to reopen her shop post the relaxation of lockdown due to paucity of funds. “I need at least Rs 2,000, to start my business again, and I am finding it difficult to source that money,’’ she said, adding that she was now looking for a guarantor who would help her to avail the loan that the minister had announced. Meanwhile, Sellur Raju, who addressed the media after distributing welfare kits in Madurai, said that he was misquoted. “People are trying to twist my words. The loan is only for small roadside vendors and can be availed through co-operative banks. The interest is meagre and instalments need not be paid for first six months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-misinterpret-ministers-words-on-loan-turned-away/articleshow/76330619.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Veterinarian dies as truck hits car||Mohali: A 32-year-old veterinary doctor was killed after a speeding truck hit his car in Mohali near the SYL canal. The deceased has been identified as Gursharan Singh, a veterinary doctor. The truck driver has been identified as Parminder Singh, a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib. He was arrested and booked under Sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code. The accused later released on bail. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/veterinarian-dies-as-truck-hits-car/articleshow/76329005.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chandigarh||5 from city edu dept transferred||Chandigarh: The UT education department issued transfer orders of five officers on Thursday. Those transferred include district education officer Alka Mehta. She has been been transferred to the post of deputy director school education III. Deputy director of school education III has been transferred to the post of deputy director school education IV. Harbir Singh, who has been the deputy district education officer I, has been transferred to the post of district education officer. Ravinder Kaur, district education officer II, has been transferred to the post of deputy district education officer I. Neena Kalia, principal, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 15, has been transferred to the post of deputy district education officer II. The transfer orders has been issued by Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary education, Chandigarh administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-from-city-edu-dept-transferred/articleshow/76328999.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Puducherry||Man, 83, first Covid-19 death in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: An 83-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 and had multiple health complications died in Puducherry on Thursday. He is the first Puducherry resident to die in the Union territory after testing positive for Covid-19. The man from Muthialpet was undergoing treatment at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMC). Director of health and family welfare service S Mohankumar said the man was admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital with high blood pressure, cardiac complications and clots in the brain on June 9. He was shifted to IGMC after testing positive for Covid-19. The man did not respond to treatment. Mohankumar said all the 47 healthcare workers in the general hospital and the medical college, who had treated the patient, have tested negative. On Thursday, 12 people - 10 from Puducherry and two from Mahe - tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of cases reported in the Union territory to 157. At present, there are 88 active cases. Forty-two patients are undergoing treatment at Jipmer, 40 at IGMC and four in Mahe Government General Hospital. Health minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the government would take a call on imposing stringent lockdown measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 after reviewing measures taken by neighbouring Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/man-83-first-covid-death-in-pondy/articleshow/76330003.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 258 bottles of liquor seized, 9 cases filed||PATIALA: The police registered nine separate cases after recovering illegal liquor and contraband. Tripuri police have registered two separate cases under the NDPS Act and booked two accused after recovering 7.2 kg poppy husk. Sadar Nabha police booked two accused and seized 120 narcotic tablets. Patran police booked Maninder Singh of Haryana and Jagdish Singh of Patran and recovered 4,500 narcotic tablets. Pasiana police nabbed two accused in different cases and recovered total 34 bottles of liquor. Kotwali Nabha police booked two accused and recovered 67 liquor bottles. Sadar Nabha police booked two accused and recovered 25 liquor bottles, whereas Ghanaur police booked two accused and recovered 132 bottles of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/258-bottles-of-liquor-seized-9-cases-filed/articleshow/76328994.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||28 pregnant women recovered at GRH||Madurai: As many as 28 pregnant women from Madurai and nearby districts have made full recovery from Covid-19 so far at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), said GRH dean Dr J Sangumani. The hospital has been given ‘LaQsia’ certification with a rating of 97% by the National Health Mission (NHM), Union ministry of health and family welfare. Out of the 28 pregnant women from Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar, and Ramanathapuram, 14 have given birth during Covid treatment at GRH. “Our doctors ensured safe delivery by C-section for 13 women and natural birth for one. All the 28 women have been discharged after recovery. All the babies, 9 girls and 4 boys, were tested negative for Covid-19,” said Dr Sangumani. A team of 10 gynaecologists, 10 anaesthetists and paediatricians were working on rotation round-the-clock for the care of Covid-19 positive pregnant women. Further, the hospital was also given ‘LaQshya’ certification for the labour room and the maternity operation theatre with a rating of 97%. The certification was given after a two-member team of external assessors scrutinized the facilities in March. ‘LaQshya’ is program by the ministry of health and family welfare, Government of India launched in 2017 to improve the quality of care during delivery and immediate post-partum period in various government hospitals and community healthcare centres. The GRH dean said that all preparations have been made to increase the number of beds with the rising Covid-19 cases. “We have 500 beds and an additional 150 beds at our ‘Corona Speciality Hospital’Further, at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur, we have 200 beds ready and an additional 100 beds are to be addedWe are also keeping ready a 250-bed ward in the old maternity ward on the GRH main campus,” said Dr Sangumani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/28-pregnant-women-recovered-at-grh/articleshow/76330626.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Central Tamil Nadu sees 57 new cases, southern dists cross 2,000 in all||MADURAI/TRICHY: South Tamil Nadu recorded 70 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 2041. Meanwhile, the central region of the state saw a single-day spike of 57 cases with three delta districts alone contributing 40 cases to the tally, which has climbed to 1,143. In the south, except Sivaganga, nine districts have recorded more than 100 Covid-19 cases, while three districts recorded more than 300 cases so far. Madurai, with 20 cases tops the list on Thursday. Out of the 20 cases, two cases were cross-notified to Chennai, while one case is a 29-year-old man who had recently returned from Oman. He landed in Kannur, Kerala by flight and then travelled to Madurai by car. The remaining 17 were all contacts of Covid-19 patients or people with Influenza-like illness (ILI) from containment areas. The total number of cases in Madurai is now 363, third highest in the south, behind Tuticorin (379) and Tirunelveli (410). Tuticorin reported six cases on Thursday. Though the tally was 389 cases till June 10, the latest medical bulletin on June 11 showed only 379 cases. Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI that there were no discrepancies in reporting Covid-19 cases. “We have had many cases of people who came from other districts for a short stay here. Since they tested positive here, the cases were first attributed to Tuticorin. However, now we reconciled cases back to their native districts. At least 18 cases have been cross-notified in the past few days,” he said. Meanwhile, Dindigul district reported 11 cases while Ramanathapuram reported 10 cases, which included four imported cases. Sivaganga, which has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the south touched 50 after seven new cases were recorded on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-tn-sees-57-new-cases-southern-dists-cross-2k-in-all/articleshow/76330648.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Calangute’s weekly mkt to remain shut||Calangute: The weekly Saturday market held behind the Calangute church will continue to remain shut, said members of the local panchayat. Panchayat members said that since the space at the weekly market is very small, it’s not possible to accommodate vendors there with social distancing. “It will continue to remain shut till the situation improves,” said a panchayat member. The traditional weekly market has been shut since the lockdown in March. However, the main fish and vegetable market, which had also been shut down in March, has reopened with vendors maintaining social distancing. “We are strictly observing social distancing at the main market and the police are also closely monitoring the situation. A number of people have also been fined for not wearing masks at the market,” former sarpanch and panchayat member Shawn Martins said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangutes-weekly-mkt-to-remain-shut/articleshow/76330653.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Bicholim mkt timings restricted||Bicholim: The Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) has directed shopkeepers in the market area to restrict their timings from 9am to 5pm. BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar said the decision had been taken in view of rising Covid-19 cases in Bicholim and neighbouring Sattari taluka. He said the municipal authorities will strictly implement the market timings. Meanwhile, the weekly Wednesday bazaar at the Bicholim town saw less footfalls. BMC authorities also ensured that shoppers and vendors wore masks and maintained social distancing. Further, the municipality did not allow vehicles with vegetables brought from outside the state to enter the market. Only local vegetable vendors were allowed to sell their produce. Two-wheelers and four-wheelers were also banned from entering the market. “These strict measures will remain in force for the next few weeks, during the weekly market,” BMC chief officer Vivek Naik said. However, at many places outside the market area, vegetables and fruits were being sold from tempos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-mkt-timings-restricted/articleshow/76330637.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Salem||Killer tusker captured, translocated to Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve||Krishnagiri: A day after a lone tusker trampled a 41-year-old farmer to death near Denkanikottai in the district, forest officials tranquilized and captured the animal on Thursday after eight hours of struggle. The elephant has been translocated to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district. The elephant had attacked five people in the Denkanikottai forest range in the past two months, killing three of them. The animal also used to raid standing crops. After Wednesday’s incident, Melagoundanur villagers had protested the government apathy in capturing the elephant and translocating it to some other reserve forest. Subsequently, Krishnagiri district forest officer S Prabhu, forest rangers Sukumar (Denkanikottai), Seetharaman (Hosur), Ravi (Anchetty), Murugesan (Rayakottai), deputy superintendent of police (Denkanikottai division) Sangeetha and other officials camped in the village to capture the elephant. The district forest officer said, “We deployed a drone to monitor the tusker’s movement and spotted the animal on Thursday morning. Veterinary doctor Arun Sha, who is attached to Bannerghatta forest division, successfully darted the elephant with tranquilizer twice.” He said more than 70 forest officials were involved in the drive. After tranquilizing the elephant, forest officials lifted the tusker using a cane, loaded the animal onto a truck and translocated it to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve in Erode district. “The condition of the tusker is stable. We are monitoring its movement using a GPS chip that is tied to its neck,” the Krishnagiri district forest officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/killer-tusker-captured-translocated-to-sathyamangalam-tiger-reserve/articleshow/76330019.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vadodara||Man held with country-made gun, cartridges in Manjalpur||Vadodara: A 26-year-old man was arrested with a country-made gun and 15 live cartridges in Manjalpur on Thursday early morning The accused Mohit alias Tinku Gautam, was nabbed from near Sai crossroads. “An informer had told us that he had seen a man in grey shirt with a gun tucked into the jeans. So we called some more cops in civil dress to nab him,” said a police official. On identifying Gautam from his clothes, police cordoned him and frisked him. A gun and 15 live cartridges were found from his possession. Police said that Gautam was planning to sell off the gun. However, cops are yet to know whether he had already struck a deal for the weapon or not. During initial questioning, he told police that an unidentified man had given the gun and cartridges to his mother when they were living in Mathura before moving to Vadodara in 2013. “We have not been able to verify his statement as his mother had passed away some years ago,” the police official said. The gun and cartridges were seized and an offence under Arms Act was registered against him. According to police, Gautam works in a private company at Manjusar GIDC in Savli and has been living alone at his home on New Sama Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-with-country-made-gun-cartridges-in-manjalpur/articleshow/76326716.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Salem||Jallikattu bull killed; hunt on for trio||Krishnagiri: A jallikattu bull died after three men hit it with stones on June 5. The issue came to light on Thursday after a video of the gory act went viral. The bull belonged to K Vetrivel, 35, of Papparapatty area in Krishnagiri district, currently the village administrative officer of Chennasandram panchayat. “I usually let the bull to participate in jallikattu events,” he said, while adding that he usually ties the bull in his farm land near a burial ground in Papparapatty. On June 5, he went to his land and found the bull dead, with blood oozing off its mouth. “It’s horns were broken,” he said. He buried the bull in his land after getting an autopsy done. On Thursday morning, Vetrivel saw a video on social media in which three inebriated men were seen pelting the bull with stones. “The three men attacked my bull with stones,” Vetrivel said, adding that, its horns broke when it attempted to retaliate. Based on his complaint, Krishnagiri town police have registered a case . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/jallikattu-bull-killed-hunt-on-for-trio/articleshow/76330001.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Webinar on Tamil language held||Madurai: More than 2,500 researchers, students and professors took part in a 10-day international webinar jointly conducted by Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) and International Institute of Tamil Studies (IITS). MKU vice chancellor Dr M Krishnan gave the inaugural address for the webinar on ‘Global rise and growth of Tamil language’ in the presence of Dr K Vijayaraghavan, director, IITS and Dr B Sathiyamoorthy, head, department of Tamilology, school of Tamil studies, MKU. During the course of 10 days, eminent scholars from various prestigious international institutes of Tamil studies delivered lectures. “The webinar saw speakers from various different countries like Malaysia, Sri Lanka, France, Germany, Switzerland etc., with each speaking on the status of Tamil language in their own country and its growth,” said Dr Sathiyamoorthy.Further, the participants also had to give online exams to test their understanding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/webinar-on-tamil-language-held/articleshow/76330639.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Tata hospital operates on 494 cancer patients in lockdown||MUMBAI: At a time when cancer treatment has slowed down across the world due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Tata Memorial Hospital in Parel has set a sterling example by successfully operating on 494 cancer patients during the countrywide lockdown, many of them with conditions that made them susceptible to the novel coronavirus, such as advanced age, diabetes or hypertension. The 494 surgeries for different cancers were performed during a five-week span starting from the date of the national lockdown. The hospital's effort-perhaps the largest such body of work in cancer surgery in the world during the pandemic-is being printed in the 'Annals of Surgery,' one of the best known medical journals for surgery. "No lives were lost. Only six of these patients tested positive for Covid but they didn't need ICU care,'' said Tata Memorial Hospital deputy director Dr Shailesh V Shrikhande, who heads the cancer surgery department. With ops pre-booked, hospital went ahead despite lockdownIt wasn’t easy to go ahead with surgeries given that the city is referred to as the country’s Covid-19 capital. But the hospital, which works under the central department of atomic energy, soldiered on because of the huge disease burden. “There are about one million new cancer cases in India, of whom around 0.2 million require surgery. In the absence of surgery, most patients will experience disease progression with resultant mortality. Given that death due to Covid-19 in India is 0.99 per million of the population with case fatality rate of about 3%, the cancer mortality in the absence of definitive surgery will far exceed the mortality due to infection with Covid-19,’’ said the authors in the research article. Moreover, most patients had pre-booked for surgery. Many were from outside Mumbai and were already here before the lockdown. “Only 36% of these patients were from Maharashtra,’’ said Dr Shrikhande, lead author of the article. About 85% of the operations were major or supra-major. While there were 64 patients over 60 years of age with comorbid conditions like uncontrolled hypertension, diabetes and heart problems, the rate of post-surgery complications among them was similar to that in younger patients. “Despite all standard precautions and testing, six patients were found to be Covid-positive in the postoperative period. All underwent major surgeries but encouragingly not one required ICU,’’ said Dr Shrikhande. Tata Memorial Centre’s director Dr Rajendra Badwe said, “Our experience wherein 40-50% of elective cancer surgeries in a ‘Covid-19 hotspot’ were successfully undertaken should be of interest to the scientific community and general public. The results support the continuation of elective major cancer surgery in regions with Covid-19 trends.” This is not the first paper from Tata Memorial during the pandemic. On April 30, a hospital team wrote in the New England Journal of Medicine how it has been attending to almost 1,600 indoors and out-department patients every day despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, it used to attend to 3,000 patients daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-tata-hospital-operates-on-494-cancer-patients-in-lockdown/articleshow/76331404.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Dear Tamil Nadu govt, where are the 5,000 hospital beds?||CHENNAI: Nearly half the beds in various government hospitals in the city meant exclusively for Covid-19 cases have not been made available to the patients. As per data released by the Covid-19 control room, just 2,690 of the 5,200 beds were allotted even as the number of active cases in the state climbed to 17,659 on Thursday. While 1,996 patients – elderly, people with co-morbidities or those with symptoms – were admitted to a dozen government hospitals with a combined bed capacity of 2,690, 1,187 were admitted to select private hospitals. In addition, 649 were in peripheral hospitals, nursing and dental colleges. In addition, 1,899 young patients with no symptoms were isolated at centres like Chennai Trade centre, an IIT-Madras hostel, DG Vaishnav College and parts of KP Park. On Wednesday, a day after health minister C Vijayabaskar announced a 500-bed “world-class” facility was ready at the Institute of Ageing, government doctors’ association president Dr K Senthil told TOI at least 50 doctors who tested positive after working in Covid wards hadn’t got decent beds in government hospitals. “Many were told there is no space for separate rooms at ESI Hospital, Aynavaram. Five doctors including seniors were asked to share a ward. After working tirelessly, our doctors were feeling bad as they did not get a private room or toilet when they were ill,” he said. A senior doctor undergoing treatment said 5,000 beds in the city exist only in the health department’s powerpoint presentations, daily lists to senior officials and press releases. “Every ward in the hospital is crowded. Patients scream at us because they wait for several hours to get a bed.” Patients, particularly those with comorbidities such as kidney failure, are turned away by several hospitals. A 55-year-old man whose sister requires dialysis at least twice a week, said many private hospitals treating Covid patients couldn’t offer dialysis as they had a long list of regular patients. “Among those offering the services, beds were scarce. Left with little choice, we walked into Government Kilpauk Hospital where doctors said they had beds, but won’t be able to offer dialysis. We were asked to go the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital,” said S Suresh. In the 24-bed specialty block, nephrologists have done dialysis for more than 100 covid-19 patients in the last two months. “But the waiting period is long because case list is increasing,” a senior doctor said. Vijayabaskar said TN planned to ramp up beds in early March based on mathematical and epidemiological projections. “As of now, none of the patients coming to GHs is turned away. Most of the new facilities are ready to open. We will be able to start opening them one by one within a couple of days,” he said. The state has now appointed more than 1,500 doctors for these facilities. “Most of them have already worked in Covid wards as post-grads. We will soon get paramedics like lab technicians for these centres. In fact, we are planning to increase beds further in medical colleges for tertiary care,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dear-tn-govt-where-are-the-5000-hospital-beds/articleshow/76330069.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Patients complain of lack of communication & support||Thiruvananthapuram: Grappling with a high case load, Medical College Hospital (MCH), which has been the epicentre of Covid management in the district, seems to be wilting under pressure. The district administration is learnt to have received complaints from a few Covid patients and those under observation citing that they lack psychological support from the hospital staff and that they are seldom being communicated about their sample results and medication. Even while the authorities have been taken aback by the twin suicides in the hospital on Wednesday, the route map of nursing assistant who has been tested positive revealed further violation of protocol. It showed that she was sent home after collecting samples despite showing clear symptoms. As per the route map, the sample testing was done on June 6 at MCH and she went back home in her two-wheeler. She stayed at home from June 6 to 8 when her samples were tested positive. Her father and husband have also been tested positive. The results of other family members are awaited on Friday. TOI had earlier reported as to how she was sent home from Family health centre, Vattiyoorkavu, despite presenting with headache, tiredness, dry cough and persistent fever. She was neither put under isolation nor referred to the MCH and she frequented stores and shops and mingled freely with other family members leaving two infected. On May 31, the health minister had sought a report from MCH authorities following an incident in which a Gulf returnee was sent home after collecting samples and he was later tested positive. According to hospital authorities action was taken against the doctor who sent the person home without confirming the results. The violation of protocol happened in the case of a person hailing from Karavaram panchayat who arrived on May 30 from Kuwait. He was sent from airport to MCH for sample testing. However, without waiting for results to arrive, the person was sent home. He was tested positive the following day. Early in March, when the first bout of cases began to be reported in the district, a patient who arrived at MCH for sample testing was asked to go home on own conveyance arrangement since ambulances were not available. In April, the relatives of a Tamil Nadu resident, who was tested positive for Covid-19, had complained that he was kept waiting at MCH for more than 30 minutes forcing them to take him back to a private hospital. MCH authorities had then denied about such a delay. The hospital authorities also came under fire recently after it was known that swab test was not done on Father K G Varghese, who died of Covid-19, when he was referred from Peroorkada district hospital to MCH on May 23 with a fever. An overworked, fatigued manpower having to deal with a steady surge in cases is being accounted as one reason for repeated lapses in protocol. The health department has so far been lenient on MCH considering the efforts of its medical team in managing Covid-19 not just in the district but also rendering their assistance to other districts as well. Meanwhile, district reported no fresh cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/patients-complain-of-lack-of-communication-support/articleshow/76329124.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 12, 2020||Goa||Govt must consult all religious leaders over rules for reopening shrines: Catholic Union||Panaji: Catholic leaders have told the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) that leaders of all religions must be consulted before the Union and state governments take radical decisions and impose rules on opening of places of worship, spokesperson of the All India Catholic Union, John Dayal, said. This was raised at the first webinar organised by the All India Catholic Union to focus on issues that have arisen for the faithful in nearly three-month lockdown enforced to tackle the spread of Covid-19. Cardinal Oswald Gracias said it has been impressed upon the PMO that the Holy Eucharist, commonly known as Holy Communion, is at the very core of the Christian faith and cannot be done on television or using information technology. He said people have been deprived from partaking in this sacrament for many months. “The Church is committed to taking all measures needed to prevent the spread of disease and for personal hygiene. But it must be left to the local bishop, priest and laity to decide the detailed systems management,” the organisation stated. Gracias said the Church had implicitly followed the government’s guidelines in the lockdown and had contributed greatly in extending medical care, relief and other assistance to people impacted by unemployment, hunger and homelessness. He said many Church-run institutions had been converted to Covid care wards, refugee centres and food distribution points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-must-consult-all-religious-leaders-over-rules-for-reopening-shrines-catholic-union/articleshow/76330670.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 hospital has 8 ventilators, none functional||GHAZIABAD: None of the eight ventilators at District Combined Hospital, Ghaziabad’s main Covid hospital, is functional. Patients who need ventilator support are being referred to Santosh Hospital, sources said. The state-appointed observer for Ghaziabad has apprised the state government of this. For any hospital to be designated an L2 facility, ventilators are a must. Sources said the district administration swung into action and ordered inspection after two patients were referred to Santosh Hospital, an L3 facility when they needed ventilator support a couple of days back. On Thursday, observer Dr DK Sonkar and chief development officer Asmita Lal inspected the hospital. And the inspection revealed that none of the eight ventilators was operating. Surprisingly, the hospital's chief medical superintendent Dr Naresh Vij said that ventilators have not been installed due to some missing parts. “The engineers had given us three days’ time to rectify the shortcomings, but that time elapsed on Thursday, and we have apprised the government of this,” he said. Combined Hospital in Sanjay Nagar was made a 100-bed Covid L-2 facility two months ago and at that time, five ventilators were already with the hospital, while three more machines were later sent by the government. Dr Sonkar said this was the fifth inspection conducted by him at the hospital. “The last four inspections found some flaws, which were told to be corrected, but the hospital management had not once reported the ventilator malfunction. It is sheer negligence and its report will be sent to the government,” he added. There are three anaesthetists posted at the hospital and have been trained by the government as master trainers. As per the government directives, L-2 hospitals should have oxygen per bed and one ventilator per 10 beds. But the hospital management kept the information about ventilator malfunction hidden for two months. Currently, there are 39 patients admitted to the hospital and three of them patients need oxygen therapy. Dr Sonkar, however, said that the oxygen system in the hospital is working well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzbs-covid-hospital-has-8-ventilators-none-functional/articleshow/76330107.cms||Aditya Dev
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Fund crunch hits not-for-profits, many cut meals, welfare activities||CHENNAI: With companies tightening their purses, not-for-profit charitable institutions and their activities are under strain, with some reducing the food menu to holding back purchase of medical equipment. Eye hospital Sankara Nethralaya has decided to cut its capital expenditure with no new purchase of packaged medical equipment, besides planning to reduce number of free surgeries it does every year. Akila Ganesan, director of administration, said, “We estimate a 50% cut in donations this year. We may restrict free operations unless we find a donor to sponsor due to shortage of donations.” The eye trust conducts about 22,000 free surgeries every year, covering rural India too. At the mental health NGO, Banyan, the number of items on food plate has reduced. Dr KV Kishore Kumar, director of Banyan, said, “It is important to ready ourselves for the long run than complain over the damage created by this pandemic. We have reduced the number of items on the meal provided to our patients, but without compromising on its quality. Expected funding from corporates has reduced by 30%-40% between April and June.” Tamil Nadu Kidney Research Foundation saw donations drop by 50% since March, 2020, its head of admin Vasanti Ravichander said. Other NGOs like Kaakkum Karangal which provides residential care for the destitute said new donations have dropped to 7%. An official at the unit said, “No corporate has come forward during these trying times.” Research conducted by Crisil Foundation showed that 130 (of 200) companies analysed, accounted for nearly 80% of the total social responsibility spends by all listed companies in fiscal 2019. Assuming other companies would have followed a similar path, India Inc has already allocated over 80% of the annual CSR budget to address the pandemic. This could impact spending on other areas this fiscal, the research note said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fund-crunch-hits-not-for-profits-many-cut-meals-welfare-activities/articleshow/76330092.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 12, 2020||Surat||Bharuch teen slips into Niagara River||SURAT: A 19-year-old boy from Bharuch slipped into the Niagara River where he had gone for hiking with his three friends on June 8. Samir Siraj Nabipurwala, a resident of Sherpura village in Bharuch district, had gone to Canada for higher studies in the medical field about 18 months ago. He was studying in the second year at the Brock University in Ontario and living in St. Catharines. According to the Niagara regional police and the Niagara Parks police, the incident occurred on June 8 at about 7.15 pm. “Investigation revealed that four males had gone for a hike and stopped to take photos on a rock. One of the males, slipped off the rock causing him to fall into the Niagara River. The area of the river the male fell into is very fast flowing with a strong current,” Niagara Regional Police Service said on its official website. While the Niagara police have not disclosed the identity, a close relative of Samit, Idris Kasuji told TOI: “Samir went to Niagara River with his classmates to celebrate the birthday of one of his friends on June 8. He climbed up the rock to click a photo and slipped into the Niagara River.” All the units of the Niagara response teams including police, fire department, coast guard, Erie -County Sheriff’s office, search and rescue helicopters were pressed into service to locate the whereabouts of the teen. Kasuji said, “His body is yet to be recovered. We are in constant touch with his friends who were there with him when the incident occurred. The police don’t suspect any foul play. They claim that Samir had fallen into the river accidentally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-teen-slips-into-niagara-river/articleshow/76329102.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||As cases spike in Goa, housing societies draft their own SOPs to curb virus spread||PANAJI: As the state grapples with the rising Covid-19 cases, housing societies across the state are drafting their own standard operating procedures (SOP) to protect residents and restrict the entry of outsiders into the complex. From restricting delivery boys to stopping the entry of domestic helps, many housing societies are reimposing rules that were brought in during the initial lockdown period. In some extreme cases, friction between residents and those who have returned from other states has led to Goa Police being called to intervene. Worried about the safety of their residents, especially senior citizens and children, many housing societies have issued lists of ‘dos and don’ts’ which have to be followed by residents as well as visitors. “Residents have been requested not to call the domestic help for seven days and even residents who have travelled from out and got tested have been requested to stay indoors for seven days, if not 15 days,” said treasurer of Milroc Kadamba Cooperative Housing society, Silverio Dias. The approach towards domestic helps remains the most contentious for residents given that many of the workers come from economically weaker localities where social distancing is difficult to maintain. The moment news reports came in that three Covid-19 cases were detected at Chimbel, many housing socities put in place a basic SOP for domestic helps. “Around 8am, we stopped maids who come from that area. The security enquires at the gate and if the person has a Chimbel connection then they are stopped,” said Milroc Retreat Ribandar chairman Amit Chopra. Milroc Retreat has also purchased hand-held temperature readers and has kept hand sanitizers at the entrance of the colony. Models Legacy Co-op Maintenance Society at Taleigao informed its society members to verify the details of all workers such as drivers, housemaids, helpers and to take “precautions necessary” to prevent contamination or the spread of infection. In some cases, the residents have objected to the arrival of individuals from other states, as it happened at Colvale on Wednesday. The residents of a housing society called the police after a lady from Aurangabad returned to her flat in Colvale.  Goa Police PRO and SP Special Branch Shobhit Saksena confirmed that authorities have received several calls to intervene in housing societies. “We have on and off got calls where housing societies have reported that people have come and stayed in their societies. In such cases, it is quite natural that people would want to report it because of the crisis. In such cases, we go and verify if the proper SOP is followed or not,” said Saksena. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Goa have hit 350, with new cases being detected in the hinterland and in urban pockets as well. Individuals with links to the outbreak in Mangor Hill have led to infections mushrooming up in several parts of the state. “Now that again there is a scare and fear of rising cases, we may consider measures to stop the maids and reimposing the restrictions which we had imposed during the earlier lockdown,” said Julian D’Cruz, a resident of a housing society at Fatorda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cases-spike-in-goa-housing-societies-draft-their-own-sops-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/76330682.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad records 155 cases in a single day||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad district registered 155 Covid-19 cases Thursday, taking the total number of patients to 2,430. The district has also recorded six deaths between Wednesday and Thursday, taking the total number of fatalities to 129. A total of 1,363 patients have been discharged from various hospitals so far. The recent deaths occurred at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in a span of nine hours. The new cases were detected from different areas of the city as well as from Bajajnagar, Pandharpur, Gangapur, Naigaon and Sillod from rural Aurangabad. In Cidco N-8 alone, 12 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Two staffers of deputy director of health services office were also among those infected with the contagion. Two other staffers from the same office were confirmed with the virus on Wednesday. According to GMCH media co-ordinator Arvind Gaikwad, a 45-year-old man from Radhaswami Colony, a 57-year-old woman from Katkat Gate, 40-year-old man from Nutan Colony, 67-year-old man from Trimurti Nagar, 60-year-old man from Nagsen Nagar and a 60-year-old woman from Roshan Gate died due to Covid-19 at the GMCH between 7.30 pm on Wednesday and 4.30 pm on Thursday. This takes the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Aurangabad district to 129. Of these, 98 deaths were reported at GMCH, 28 at three different private hospitals and one at district civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-records-155-cases-in-a-single-day/articleshow/76327811.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra housing minister keen to jump-start construction||PUNE: Housing minister Jitendra Awhad will get in touch with his counterparts in other states and developer bodies to bring workers back to Maharashtra in a bid to jump-start construction activity. While admitting the need for locals to be trained and employed at construction sites, he said it would not be enough. “It is good that we are thinking about training the ‘son of the soil’, but that will not be enough as we have had a large exodus of migrant workers,” Awhad told TOI on Thursday. He said he will speak to his counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Telangana. “If the workers are willing to come back, we as the government should extend all help so that construction activity can commence,” he said. Developers’ bodies had even expressed willingness to bear the workers’ travel expenses, he said. The minister is also pushing for good accommodation facilities for the workers at MIDC sites, which he said would be another incentive for them to return. “At least 15% of the space at all MIDC projects should be reserved for proper transit camps. I have already presented this to the cabinet and will follow this up with the chief minister,” he said. This proposal came about after Awhad, during a review meeting, observed how most of these projects house workers in slums, which are vulnerable to Covid-19. He told the SRA and MHADA take on construction of these facilities. He further stressed that the SRA should keep aside 1,000-5,000sqft for a clinic at these sites. The minister said he would hold a meeting with developers and announce sops on premium payments and propose that the revenue minister reduce ready reckoner rates. “For the industry to flourish. money has to roll in. Otherwise metros such as Mumbai and Pune will suffer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-housing-minister-keen-to-jump-start-construction/articleshow/76330111.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: Nagpur, Akola & Amravati account for 80% cases, 86% deaths in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Nagpur and Akola — two Covid-19 hotspot districts in Vidarbha, surpassed the 900-mark for positive cases on Thursday. Amravati, the third worst-hit district in Vidarbha, crossed the 300-mark. The region also reported two deaths on Thursday, taking the Covid toll to 87. Nagpur with 921, Akola (914) and Amravati (304) together account for 2,139 (80.29%) out of 2,664 cases in Vidarbha. Akola (43), Amravati (17) and Nagpur (15) have together registered 75 (86.2%) out of 87 deaths in Vidarbha. Eight of the 11 districts in Vidarbha collectively reported 119 cases on Thursday. Nagpur (58) recorded highest number of cases for the third consecutive day, followed by Akola (30) and Amravati (14). Nagpur surpassed Akola, which was ahead since May 16, as Naik Talao-Bangladesh continued to report a high number of cases. A 76-year-old man, hospitalized on June 3, died during treatment at Akola GMCH. He had severe co-morbidities. In Buldhana, swab samples of a woman SARI patient, who died on June 9, tested positive on Thursday, making it 4th death from the district. Region’s fatality rate, however, came down to 3.26%, which is slightly less than Maharashtra’s 3.67% but way higher than the national fatality rate of 2.81%. The number of recovered patients was significantly less on Thursday. Only 23 patients recovered — 12 from Nagpur, Buldhana (6), Amravati (4) and Gadchiroli (1). Total 1,726 patients have recovered till date from Vidarbha, which translates to a recovery rate of 64.78%. Of the 12 patients discharged in Nagpur on June 11 — six each were from AIIMS, Nagpur, and IGGMCH . The number of active cases admitted in hospitals of Nagpur district stood at 362, which is highest till date. In Akola, 30 cases were reported in a day, taking its tally to 914. In a rare occurence, not a single patient was discharged from the district. Due to this, total active cases in Akola increased to 294. Two private hospitals which have been acquired by the district administration are now being utilized to treat these positive patients. Buldhana reported six new cases, including a death, and became 5th district in Vidarbha to report 100-plus cases. New patients were reported from Malkapur tehsil. With 72 patients recovered and four deaths, total active cases are 26. Washim, which was mostly Covid-19 free till June 6, has seen a sudden surge in cases over the last three days. On June 11, five new patients were reported, including a Delhi-returned 32-year-old man, his 24-year-old wife and two-year-old daughter. The district has 18 cases now. While recording a spike of 14 cases on Thursday, Amravati’s Covid-19 count reached 304. Amravati, which reported its first case on April 4, took 43 days to reach 100 cases on May 16, but the second and the third hundred came in 13 days each on May 29 and June 11, respectively. The 14 cases, including a SRPF jawan, have come from existing containment zones as well as new localities. A couple (M-42, F-34) from Akoli, a small village close to the city, tested positive. The man is a driver with Warud bus depot and was on duty till June 8, it is learnt. A mother (40)-son (18) duo tested positive from Malipura locality in Old City of Badnera, taking the town’s count to 12. Paratwada too reported two cases on Thursday. A 63-year-old patient from Sadar Bazar is husband of a 60- year-old woman who had tested positive on June 6. His 32-year-old son had tested positive in Nagpur on June 8. Their contact, a 42-year-old woman from Dr Pimpalkar road, too tested positive on Thursday as per the authorities. Datta Colony on Dastur Nagar Road also reported two cases. Prabha Colony near Jalaram Nagar here reported three cases, all contacts of the 22-year-old man from the area who tested positive on Wednesday. The SRPF jawan, 36, is fourth from the force to test positive. A 28-year-old Sabanpura man from Sabanpura and a 55-year-old man from Jamil Colony too tested positive. In Yavatmal, two new positive patients, both from Ner tehsil, were reported on Thursday. Yavatmal has recorded total 164 cases, out of which 37 are active. No new cases were reported from Chandrapur, Wardha, and Gondia. In Gadchiroli, three patients tested positive and one recovered. Total active cases in Gadchiroli are nine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-akola-amravati-account-for-80-cases-86-deaths-in-vid/articleshow/76330146.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 12, 2020||Goa||KTC driver from Gaondongorim tests positive||Poinguinim: A KTC driver from Karvem in Gaondongorim tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He is the second KTC driver to have contracted the virus, after another driver from Tembewade in Canacona had also got infected. The patient from Gaondongorim has been shifted to the primary health centre at Shiroda. Members of his family, which include his pregnant wife and their minor son, will be tested on Friday, said an official from the community health centre. The number of cases in Canacona taluka now stands at 4. Meanwhile, the streets of Chaudi, the heart of the taluka, wore a deserted look on Thursday after all shops and businesses downed their shutters following the voluntary lockdown in the municipal limits. Barring banks, pharmacies, the Goa Bhagayatdar unit and an LPG cylinder shop, nothing else was open. However, Canacona Municipal Council chairperson Nitu Sameer Desai told TOI that it was not proper to suddenly go in for a lockdown. “Those who are well-off can fend for themselves, but what about the ones who live from hand to mouth? The vendors who deal with perishable items will also be affected,” she said. On the other hand, Shristhal sarpanch Ganesh Bhiva Gaonkar said that the villagers decided to shut down as it adjoins the municipal areas. In all, around 325 shops are presently shut in Chaudi, Shristhal and Poinguinim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-driver-from-gaondongorim-tests-positive/articleshow/76330698.cms||Albert Fernandes
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Convicts get bail to hold mother’s final rites||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday granted interim suspension of sentence and bail to two convicts on humanitarian grounds to perform the final rites for their mother. The petitioners, Veerabathran and Selvaraj, who are brothers are convicts in a case which was registered at the Thiruppachethi police station in Sivaganga district in 2010. The two are lodged in the Madurai Central Prison, A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi said the petitioners are seeking interim suspension of sentence and bail to perform final rites for their mother who died in Sivaganga district on June 8. The judges granted relief to the petitioners on humanitarian grounds after they executed a bond for Rs 10,000 each to the satisfaction of the superintendent of the prison. The judge directed that the petitioners on release of bail shall not indulge in any criminal activity and should report before the inspector of police of Thiruppachethi police station everyday The judges directed the petitioners to surrender before the superintendent of Madurai Central Prison on June 22 before 5pm. After they surrender, the petitioners shall be kept in quarantine separately for a period of 14, said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/convicts-get-bail-to-hold-mothers-final-rites/articleshow/76330096.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Once a high-risk zone, buzz now back in Ward 23||KOLKATA: Business establishments in one of the worst-affected pockets of central Kolkata reopened on Wednesday. Activity in areas like Rabindra Sarani, Cotton Street, Sir Hari Ram Goenka Street, Adi Banstalla and Hanspukur signalled the complete opening of one of the biggest wholesale hubs in the country. KMC Ward 23 was one of the worst-affected pockets in the city with multiple Covid-19 cases and a few mortalities. The cops had to seal maximum portions of the ward in May when social distancing and lockdown failed to prevent the spread of the virus. “This ward has maximum number of markets, mostly for garments and wedding accessories. Traders were suffering heavy losses while the shops in this ward were shut, but businesses nearby did brisk business,” said Prakash Nawalka, who owns a sari shop on Cotton Street. Most shops in the area got permission to open on Wednesday. With the change in protocol for containment zones, only those addresses are beings sealed where individuals are testing positive. Earlier, an entire area would be sealed. Most areas of Posta, Burrabazar, Brabourne Road, Canning Street and Rabindra Sarani reopened in the beginning of last week leading to a surge in business activities. While this meant easy availability of essential and non-essential items throughout the state, it raised concerns over the spread of the virus with people hardly wearing masks and not following social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/once-a-high-risk-zone-buzz-now-back-in-ward-23/articleshow/76329121.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt to review implementation of key schemes||Bhubaneswar: Amid steep fall in revenue collection, the state government intends to review the implementation of different schemes next week. Development commissioner (DC) Suresh Mohapatra and finance secretary A K Meena would review the status of implementation of schemes on June 17 and 18. Mohapatra has asked the secretaries of 14 key departments to attend the review meeting with information relating to fund allocation and expenditure under different schemes during the 2020-21 fiscal. Major schemes under the state forest and environment, rural development, works, water resources, housing and urban development, panchayati raj, agriculture, SC/ST development, women and child development, energy, sports and youth affairs, tourism, higher education and fisheries and animal resources development would be reviewed. The meeting assumes significance after the Union finance ministry recently announced that there will be no new schemes this year except those announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and other special packages. The finance ministry also said that the schemes already approved in the 2020-21 annual budget will stand suspended till March 31, next year. “The state government is yet to take a call on whether to suspend any schemes or programmes despite the fact that there has been steep fall in revenue collection in April-May. The meeting is scheduled to review the status of implementation of different schemes, including centrally sponsored schemes,” said a senior government official. The state finance department has already asked various departments to spend the state’s share cautiously under centrally sponsored schemes. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-to-review-implementation-of-key-schemes/articleshow/76329086.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: KMC, cops form team for high-rise visits||KOLKATA: The KMC and Kolkata Police have set up a joint team to identify vulnerable senior citizens in high-rises and provide a list of dos and don’ts, both within the apartment and outside. With 70% of fresh cases being reported from south Kolkata high-rises in Bhowanipore, Ballygunge, Kasba, Golf Green-Jadavpur, Kalikapur, Gopalnagar and Paharpur in Garden Reach, the joint team hopes to stem spread through awareness campaigns. On Thursday, Abhirupa Apartment in Gopalnagar, Eastern Plaza in Kalikapur and Metro Railway Officers Quarters on SP Mukherjee Road were added to the containment zones’ list. Chairman of the KMC Board of Administration (BOA) Firhad Hakim said random tests had failed to establish a direct link between the spread of infection in high-rises and markets. The community wing of police, along with 700 teams of KMC are planning to visit the affected apartments and inform residents about quarantine rules and safe use of common passages. “Among the common issues are the number of outsiders entering the campuses. Deliveries can be taken at the gate. Similarly, thermal checks can be conducted on vendors, helpers, and visitors at the main gate,” a KMC official said. He also suggested that residents ensure elevators, handrails and equipment in children’s play area and gym are sanitized everyday. “We are advising that handwash facility and sanitizers be placed at the main gate and reception. All residents, staffers, helpers and visitors must sanitize their hands, both during entry and exit,” said a community policing officer. Large portions of Alipore, Tollygunge, Ballygunge and Garfa-Kalikapur have been a challenge with as many as 27 new containment zones being declared from these areas in past 48 hours. “The moment KMC sends us the area list, we reach out to the locality and find out who had come in contact with the patient. We then explain to the apartment associations the dos and don’ts. We also help KMC carry out random swab tests of neighbours,” said an officer from south division. Commissioner Anuj Sharma has also asked all OCs to ensure strict social distancing at markets near Covid zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-cops-form-team-for-high-rise-visits/articleshow/76329109.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 12, 2020||Goa||Monsoon hits Goa, weathermen warn of heavy rain for two days||PANAJI: Monsoon finally hit Goa on Thursday, five days behind its scheduled date, and is expected to unleash its fury in the state as India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of extremely heavy showers for the next two days. The weather department has issued a “red warning” of “extremely heavy rainfall” for the state on Friday and Saturday, while it expects “very heavy rainfall” on Sunday. Initially, IMD had forecast a delay in the onset of monsoon over Goa by nearly four days, but with cyclone Nisarga advancing the rains, it was expected to keep its date with the state on June 6. Having hit Kerala on June 1, it was expected the progress into Goa would be smooth. “The initial stage of cyclone Nisarga—which was a low-pressure region—enhanced the movement of monsoon currents towards the Kerala coast. However, once it intensified into a cyclone, its effect became more dominant than the flow of monsoon currents,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. This led to a delay in its progress into Goa as the atmospheric conditions, after the passing of cyclone Nisarga, wasn’t favourable for advancement of monsoon, IMD said. “Monsoon currents are not of the same strength every year and that is why the onset date changes,” the weather bureau said. This week, when monsoon clouds reached Karwar, the air current was further delayed by the low-pressure area that recently formed over the Bay of Bengal. Last year, owing to the delay in arrival, the entire state’s average rainfall was 26.5mm as on June 11. However, this year it has received 293.2mm. “The onset dates were slightly delayed by the presence of cyclone Nisarga. Yet, it was due to the rain brought by this cyclone that the cumulative rainfall from June 1 to June 11 is almost ten times of what it was in the previous year,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-hits-goa-weathermen-warn-of-heavy-rain-for-two-days/articleshow/76330704.cms||Nida Sayed
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Latur gets MUHS sub-centre||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has announced setting up of its sub-centre at Latur in Marathwada. An announcement in this reagrd was made by MUHS vice-chancellor Dilip Mhaisekar during the foundation day of the university. The sub-centre, which is coming up in assembly constituency of state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, is expected to start its operations from the forthcoming academic year. Deshmukh on Thursday said that the sub-centre would start offering diploma courses, to begin with from the next academic session. “The sub-centre would create a skilled workforce in the form of technicians needed in different fields. The facility would produce manpower required as per existing and emerging challenges of the health sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/latur-gets-muhs-sub-centre/articleshow/76327821.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Salem||CM denies fudging Covid-19 death data||Salem: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday said the state government was not hiding Covid-19 deaths. “It is impossible to hide Covid-19 deaths. There is no need for the state government to hide the deaths, be it in Chennai or elsewhere in the state," Palaniswami told reporters in Salem after inaugurating the two-tier flyover built at a cost of Rs 441 crore. “We have been updating the actual number of deaths and informing the media regularly. There is no secrecy in it,” he said. The CM also said there was so much awareness among the public that it would be impossible to hide the cause of death. “If anyone dies of Covid-19 and if their details do not figure on the state government list, their relatives will immediately approach the media and expose it,” he said. At the same time, EPS said many people died of other health complications such as diabetes related complications and heart ailments. “We should not attribute those deaths to Covid-19,” he said. The CM's statement comes in the wake of TOI report on Wednesday that a team of health department officials from the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) had visited Ripon Buildings and verified the death records maintained by the Greater Chennai Corporation. They found 236 more Coivid-19 deaths. EPS reiterated that there was no need for the state government to hide Covid-19 deaths. “A few private hospitals in the state failed to submit their death related reports to the state health officials,” he said, adding that, the health minister had ordered officials to check with the concerned private hospitals for not sending the death reports to the state government. The state government had tested 6.09 lakh people so far. Of them, 36,841 tested positive and 19,333 people got discharged from the hospital. “A total of 326 people died of Covid-19,” he said. Further explaining about the preparedness of hospitals, Palaniswami said at present, the Salem government hospital has been equipped with 2,000 beds and additional of 5,000 beds could be increased depending on the situation. “All the hospitals across the state are prepared with more bed facilities,” he said, adding that the state has 3,384 ventilators, which is high in the country, when compared with other states. The CM said there was no community spread in the state. “Chennai has narrow streets and small houses in which plenty of people were living and this was the reason for increasing Covid-19 patients,” he said. Answering about further relaxation, he said he had already given enough relaxations and it’s the responsibility of the people to follow government’s guidelines to prevent themselves from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cm-denies-fudging-covid-19-death-data/articleshow/76330081.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||HC grants interim stay on kudimaramath work in tank||Cleared/195 WordsMadurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday granted interim stay on the kudimaramath work being carried out in Edaiyathimangalam tank at Pudukottai district. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation filed by P Duraimanikam, a resident of Pudukottai district, who expressed apprehension that the funds allotted for the work might be misused.Duraimanikam stated that he owns agricultural land at Edaiyathimangalam village in the district. The total 1,200 acres of agricultural land in the area are dependent on water from the Edaiyathimangalam irrigation tank. He stated that with water available in the tank, farmers are prepared for summer cultivation. Meanwhile, on May 19, officials from the public works department (PWD) issued proceedings allotting Rs 93.49 lakh for carrying out kudimaramath work at the tank. The work was given to a person without following tender process and without consulting the water users at the village. If the work is permitted to continue, then the funds allotted would be misused and swindled. He also apprehended that the sand from the tank would be used for commercial purposes.Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-interim-stay-on-kudimaramath-work-in-tank/articleshow/76330104.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Swabs drawn from Colomb, Devbhag||Poinguinim: The Canacona community health centre’s (CHC) staff on Thursday collected 50 throat swabs of some people from Colomb and Devbhag, who are related to the Covid-positive woman from Tembwada, a remote ward of Canacona municipality. Meanwhile, Dr Vandana Desai, CHC’s health officer, told TOI that all 51 swabs sent for testing on Wednesday are negative. Of the three cases detected in Canacona, all belong to the same family. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swabs-drawn-from-colomb-devbhag/articleshow/76330702.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Pune||Pune cop among 18 arrested for smuggling red sand boa||PUNE/NASHIK: Assistant inspector Vishwas Chavanke from the Rabale police station in Navi Mumbai and constable Deepak Dhabekar of the Chatushrungi police in the city are among the 17 people the Nashik range (east) forest officials have arrested so far at Yeola in connection with a racket involved in smuggling of red sand boa. Deputy commissioner of police (zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh told TOI, “Dhabekar reported on duty at the Chatushrungi police station on Monday, but soon after applied for leave, informing the officer in charge that he must leave for meeting a relative who had suffered a heart attack. He had since not reported on duty. On Wednesday, the Nashik rural police intimated the Pune police about Dhabekar’s arrest on Tuesday in connection with the racket.” An FIR has been registered with the Yeola police station following a complaint by forest officer Mohan Bhika Pawar. Red sand boa, a scheduled reptile, is a non-poisonous snake with blunt rounded up tail. Used for making medicines, cosmetics and even in black magic, sand boas are in demand in the international market. A Nashik forest officer associated with the investigation said, “Acting on a tip-off, our team first arrested two persons, including the main suspect, Somnath Pawar, on June 1 at Sattegaon village in Yeola for smuggling sand boa snakes. The duo’s questioning led to the revelation of a bigger racket involved in illicit sand boa trade. We have since arrested another 15 people from different parts of the state in this connection and a search is on for some more suspects.” Deshmukh said, “A report on the development has been sent to the senior police officers and to the office of the director-general of police in Mumbai for further action.” Chavanke was earlier posted at Chatushrungi and other police stations under the Pune city police prior to his transfer to Navi Mumbai. According to the Nashik rural police, the case was registered on June 1, but gradually the role of many people, including the two policemen, surfaced. During the June 1 raid at Sattegaon village, the Nashik rural police had rescued a red sand boa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-cop-among-18-arrested-for-smuggling-red-sand-boa/articleshow/76330097.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital does two ‘live’ kidney transplants||MUMBAI: Even as Covid-19 has brought transplants to a virtual standstill across the world, including in India, Mumbai doctors have successfully treated the coronavirus infection in two patients who got new organs recently. Their feat features in the latest edition of the peer-reviewed ‘American Journal of Transplantation’. “This is the first research paper in the world of recent, living donor kidney transplant patients who have been successfully treated for Covid,” said Dr Madan Bahadur, head of nephrology and transplant at Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital. The male recipients — a 35-year-old and a 45-year-old who got kidneys from their wives — tested positive on the 19th and seventh day of transplant, respectively. “They had minimal symptoms, did not develop any respiratory complications or organ rejection,” said Dr Ashay Shingare, one of the study’s authors. Papers from other countri es showed patients who had undergone cadaveric donation (as against living donors in Jaslok) had either died or needed ICU and/or ventilator support due to Covid. Two newly transplanted patients in New York died, a patient in London needed ventilator and dialysis, and one in China was hospitalised for 31 days. “Our modified treatment plan is one of the reasons for the successful outcomes when compared to the serious mortality and morbidity reported in other countries,” said Dr Bahadur. “We had to manage a delicate balance between reducing the doses of various immune-suppression drugs and introducing medicines to prevent rejection,” said the authors, including transplant surgeon Dr Shailesh Raina. “As Unlock 1 kicks off, it’s time to restart our living donor kidney transplants with modifications,” said Dr Bahadur. India has 2 lakh patients with kidney failure and 5,000 undergo kidney transplant every year. A new European study has shown Covid patients on dialysis are more likely to die than those who have undergone transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jaslok-does-what-us-uk-hospitals-couldnt/articleshow/76331396.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Relief for New Market as complex remains open||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided not to shut down New Market. The civic markets department on Thursday clarified its stand on the future of the market after a trader in EN Block was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. After consultation with the health department, who are deciding on the demarcation of containment zones in the city along with the police, markets department officials on Thursday decided that the containment area would be restricted only to shop (EN 94) whose owner has tested positive. Owners of all other shops around the sealed shop were asked to continue their business as usual. There are around 80 shops in the EN Block that opened on Thursday as usual. Most of the traders braved the coronavirus scare and concentrated on business. Sushil Sony, owner of readymade garments stores that are close to the sealed establishment, said he was not scared of the virus as the entire block was properly sanitized by the civic body. “It was a very welcome move by the KMC authorities to spare our block from closure. It would encourage the traders to concentrate on business. After all, we managed to open only 10 days ago after a long time because of the lockdown. Any further closure would have landed us in trouble,” Sony said. He added they had arranged for proper thermal screening and sanitization of shoppers as a precaution. According to a KMC market department official, a special vigil would be mounted on New Market and the civic body would sanitize the entire complex from time to time. Uday Sahoo, general secretary of S S Hogg Market Traders’ Association, said the body had extended support to KMC and had arranged for sanitization of the market and thermal screening of the shoppers on its own. “We are keeping a close watch over the regular functioning of the market. We don’t want to put our shoppers in any kind of trouble,” Sahoo said. New Market traders on Thursday had to deal with a social media rumour that parts of the heritage market could get sealed following the emergence of the positive case from EN block. The traders put up a poster in front of the market stating that the entire market except the particular shop was open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-for-new-market-as-complex-remains-open/articleshow/76329134.cms||Saikat Ray
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Traders resolve to follow Covid rules to avoid further biz loss||KOLKATA: The closure of two blocks at New Market after a trader tested positive has triggered panic among other market committees in the city, forcing them to take note of how flouting social distancing norms can adversely impact their businesses. A major portion of the College Street market was also declared a containment zone on Wednesday and shut down after a trader tested positive. Members of many committees held meetings on Thursday to figure out ways to control the surging crowds, ensure everybody wears masks and implement social distancing. Officers from Burrabazar and Posta police stations visited various wholesale and retail markets and held meetings with traders to devise a plan to conduct business in a safe environment. Many business chambers reminded their members to be cautious or be prepared to suffer losses in the near future. Detection of Covid-19 positive cases in any market or commercial establishment may lead to partial or complete closure of the place for two to three weeks. “The events at New Market and College Street Market and their consequences should be an eye-opener for the entire trading community. Even slight negligence or mistake can result in complete closure of business for several weeks. None of us would want such a thing to happen. We have again communicated to all our members to maintain social distancing norms inside the markets and not allow anybody without wearing masks,” said Tarak Nath Trivedi, general secretary of the Federation of Traders’ Organisation of West Bengal and Entally Market Traders’ Welfare Association. Initially, the KMC authorities had decided to close the entire New Market but reversed their decision later in the day and sealed off only two blocks. “For the time being, the rest of the market will reopen but 50 odd shop owners will have to wait till their portion can be reopened. This will ruin their businesses,” said a shopkeeper in New Market. “Currently, shops are opening for only few hours and the business is nowhere close to where it was before the lockdown, but we are seeing unprecedented crowds in the markets with several people flouting the guidelines. The business community needs to decide on their own future. If we don’t follow the norms to prevent the virus spread, we run the risk of losing our businesses,” said Mahendra Jain, secretary of the Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry. Many market committees said they will be reverting to the arrangements during the lockdown with separate entry and exit gates along with guards to check if everybody was wearing masks or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-resolve-to-follow-covid-rules-to-avoid-further-biz-loss/articleshow/76329128.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 12, 2020||Pune||Former Maharashtra CM says job losses may spark unrest in country||PUNE: Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said on Thursday that job losses and resultant problems were likely to lead to anarchy in the country and create law and order situation. The government should intervene to provide direct financial aid to needy citizens, including workers and labours, said Chavan while addressing a news conference here. The US and the UK were providing financial help and the Indian government should follow in their footsteps, he said. “Payment should be made directly to the people. If the money is not given directly into the hands of the public, it will not boost the economy,” he said. Chavan said even if steps such as taking loans or printing additional currency were needed to be taken, the government should do so. He said the government should present supplementary budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-cm-says-job-losses-may-spark-unrest-in-country/articleshow/76330122.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Corpn school students interact with actor Soori||Madurai: Class VIII and IX students of corporation schools in the city had an opportunity to interact with film actor Soori, as part of ‘thalir thiran’ a skill development programme organized by the city corporation. While initially the programme was aimed at students of age 10 to 14, it was later narrowed down to Class VIII and IX students, covering a large number of students. Now, 3,000 students are benefitting from the Madurai corporation schools. Madurai Corporation Commissioner S Visakan, had asked the education department to organize the program, which would help these students to develop their personal skills, and also bring out their abilities in various aspects. This program launched by Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay on June 4 will go on till June 16. People who have excelled in various fields are made to interact with the students through these programs. The actor, an alumnus of the Elango Boys Higher Secondary school in the city, told the students that they should aspire to reach great heights through education. “You may think, I a Class VII dropout, have been able to achieve something. But there had been times when I have been handicapped by lack of proper education and my inability to speak in English,’’ he said. ``You must all learn Tamil well, but also be skilled in other languages,’’ he added. Students were thrilled to be able to speak to the actor in person and asked him many questions. “These sessions are definitely empowering the students,’’ said chief education officer of the corporation Pon Vijaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-school-students-interact-with-actor-soori/articleshow/76330133.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Clergies to carry out health survey||Aurangabad: The district administration has decided to rope in clergies for giving a desired push to the ongoing health survey of citizens aged 50 and above in different areas of Aurangabad, especially those dominated by minority population. The move has been taken in view of the alleged non-cooperation by a section of residents from minority areas while carrying out the survey, Aurangabad district deputy collector Anjali Dhanorkar said on Thursday. The survey is being carried out across nine zones of the local civic body with special focus on the elderly population having pre-existing diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. “The ground staff involved in the on-going health survey complained that they are not properly entertained in parts of the city areas, especially those where the minority population is high. The locals are either not allowing health staffers in their areas in the first place or refusing to divulge details of the target elderly population. The minority people cite different conspiracy theories behind such non-cooperation,” she said. Shankar said that roping in Mullahs and Maulavis among other clergies will help in reaching out to masses without any difficulties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/clergies-to-carry-out-health-survey/articleshow/76327826.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu scores 69th position in NIRF||Aurangabad: At 69th rank, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has recorded its best-ever performance in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced on Thursday evening. BAMU, which had achieved 85th rank in NIRF last year, is only next to Savitribai Phule Pune University (43rd rank) and Mumbai University (65th rank) when it comes to the state universities in Maharashtra. Expressing satisfaction over achieving the best-ever ranking in NIRF, Bamu vice-chancellor (V-C) Pramod Yeole said there exists scope for further improvement in order to figure in top 50 universities in the country. “We have scored less in parameters gauging performance related to research and publications as well as perception,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-scores-69th-position-in-nirf/articleshow/76327833.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Most private schools decide against immediate fee hike||KOLKATA: A day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged private schools to drop plans to hike fees for the 2020-2021 academic session, most of them across affiliating boards said they had suspended proposals to increase charges before the prod. La Martiniere Schools have decided to continue with the earlier fee structure. “We have already decided that there won’t be any fee hike this session. Moreover, we always consider requests for concessions from guardians regarding fee payments on a case-to-case basis, depending on the reason,” said secretary Supriyo Dhar. St James’ School principal T H Ireland maintained that the school will stick to the same fee structure as the current academic session, keeping with the request from Mamata Banerjee. Julien Day School, which has branches in Kolkata, Ganganagar, Howrah and Kalyani, has decided not to impose any fine for late payment either. “There won’t be any fee hike. We have granted an instalment facility to parents who had approached the school management for an interim relief,” said the principal of Julien Day (Ganganagar), Bobby Baxter. Baxter pointed out the proposal to hike fees was scrapped way before the chief minister requested schools to do so. Richard Gasper, principal of St Augustine’s Day School, said he had already decided to go by a judicial order which was given in Delhi. “As per the directives, we have also decided that all students who attend online classes will have to pay the school fee. Also, we won’t charge any parent for late deposition of fee and nor are we increasing the fee structure in the present academic session,” Gasper said. He added, “For the annual fees, parents have been offered an instalment facility. They have time till March 2021 to make the payment in case they can’t do it now.” “As proposed by the executive committee earlier this week, we won’t waive the annual development fees or reduce the other components since we have to maintain the infrastructure, pay salaries, licence fees and offer various facilities to the students even online,” Gasper added. A CBSE-affiliated school in east Kolkata, however, is yet to decide on rolling back the increased session charges. “We have discarded the proposed tuition fee hike. But, a decision on rolling back the increased session fee will be taken next week,” the principal said. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Ram Mohan Mission School, has also suspended plans to hike fees this academic session, a decision which was taken immediately after the school education department issued a circular in April, requesting schools to reduce all proposed fee hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-private-schools-decide-against-immediate-fee-hike/articleshow/76329137.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Shutdown improves groundwater table in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The shutdown of industrial and agricultural activities due to coronavirus helped improve groundwater table in 27 out of 31 districts in the state -- monitored by the public works department -- in May, compared to the corresponding period last year. The situation was grim in May last year as 21 districts saw fall in water table. It picked up only after monsoon set in. The department publishes data of the observation wells of all districts other than Chennai. Metrowater does it for Chennai. “Depletion in water level has been noticed only in Nagapattinam, Trichy, Madurai and Theni districts. Bulk extraction for agriculture and industries came to a halt during lockdown and sealing of 800 illegal private packaged drinking water units across the state ahead of the lockdown resulted in less extraction of ground water at the beginning of the water year - June. If not for the lockdown, even the industries extracting groundwater illegally would have been sealed as a special drive was planned by the state,” said a senior official. Perambalur (4.49m), Thiruvannamalai (3.46m) and Sivaganga (3.19m) are the top three districts, where water table has gone up considerably than last year. Tamil Nadu depends on groundwater resources for more than 50% of agricultural needs and the rice bowl of the state, Cauvery delta, has seen a spike in extraction over the years due to poor monsoon. However, the additional supply of 98tmcft Cauvery water by Karnataka last year helped maintain the river wet. “It is true that groundwater extraction fell drastically due to lockdown. The government could promote micro irrigation across the state like in the western districts, especially when the scheme comes with 100% subsidy,” CPM-affiliated Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association secretary, P Shanmugam said. The onset of southwest monsoon at an appropriate time and release of water from Mettur on June 12 may help this year too. Tamil Nadu water resources conservation and rivers restoration corporation chairman and managing director K Satyagopal said the government was adopting a mission-based approach to restore traditional water bodies, augment water holding capacity, strengthen bunds, repair and restore sluices and supply weirs of water bodies. Desilting of micro-irrigation tanks and ponds are simultaneously taken up by the rural development department. “In the last three years, 7.4 crore cubic metre of silt has been removed from the water bodies by farmers. The additional holding capacity thus created helps store 2.8tmcft of water. The construction of check dams, subsurface dykes and reservoirs across streams play a major role in improving the groundwater table,” the official said. The state has allotted Rs 1,369 crore towards kudimaramath since 2016 and has taken up work “with the support of farmer associations.” Of the 1,166 revenue firkas, the state has 462 falling in over-exploited category and 242 in critical and semi-critical as per the latest report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shutdown-improves-groundwater-table-in-tn/articleshow/76336600.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Acid attack victim getsRs 5 lakh relief||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday disposed of a petition filed by an acid attack victim who sought compensation under victim compensation scheme, after it was informed that the Madurai District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) had handed over Rs 5 lakh compensation. The court was also told that another victim was given Rs 4 lakh. In her petition, U Meena, stated that she was studying first year at a college in Madurai district when an unidentified man poured acid on her on September 12, 2014. Her friend Angalaeshwari also sustained injuries. Stating that she was entitled to get relief under the victim compensation scheme, Meena said representations to the district administration and DLSA, did not yield any results. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. Taking cognizance of the submission, justice B Pugalendhi disposed of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/acid-attack-victim-getsrs-5-lakh-relief/articleshow/76330121.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Salem||Salem records 10 new cases||Salem: A total of twelve new Covid-19 cases were reported in Salem, Namakkal and Dharmapuri districts on Thursday. Of this, Salem recorded 10 cases, nine indigenous and one imported. Salem district deputy director of health Dr Nirmalson said, “These patients had returned to Salem from places like Chennai, Krishnagiri and Chengalpet. They were undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.” On a positive note, four patients, three women and a 35-year-old man, were discharged on Thursday after they tested negative in the final test, the official added. At Namakkal, a 49-year-old truck driver who had returned from Chennai a week ago tested positive for Covid-19. He is undergoing treatment at the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital. In Dharmapuri district, a 35-year-old woman from Papireddipatty was tested positive for the virus. The patient, who had returned from Chennai, was undergoing treatment at the Dharmapuri Government Medical College and Hospital. Meanwhile, a 35-year-old man was discharged from the hospital on Thursday after he tested negative for the virus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-records-10-new-cases/articleshow/76330094.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Uguem urges locals of three wards to isolate for 8 days||Quepem: After two cases were reported within two days in a single ward, the Uguem panchayat has decided to carry out a campaign to ensure that villagers in all the three wards of Chireband, Ponsamoll and Malunge, where the lockdown is in force, stay indoors for the next eight days. A vehicle fitted with a loudspeaker will also move around the entire village to create awareness and request residents to stay safe. Arjun Naik, the sarpanch of Uguem panchayat, in Sanguem taluka, told TOI that people in entire Uguem and surrounding villages are in a state of panic after two positive cases were reported at Ponsamoll. “We had imposed self-lockdown only in three wards at Chireband, Ponsamoll and Malunge. From Friday, the panchayat will hire a vehicle fitted with loudspeakers and first will move around in three wards asking people to remain indoors. The vehicle will also move in the remaining wards of the panchayat and guide the people to remain in quarantine for 14 days if they are having any doubt of illness,” said Naik. All 35 Covid tests conducted on 35 residents on Wednesday were negative. The Sanguem primary health centre (PHC) also conducted IEC awareness programme at Kalem, Ponsamoll and Malunge. The panchayat also requested the PHC to sanitise all the three nearby wards where the Covid positive patients were residing. Uguem panchayat will not allow any resident to enter the panchayat office for the next eight days. One clerk will sit outside the office to only receive entries. The Quepem PHC health officer Lorna Fenandes said that the repeated tests have carried out as per protocol on Thursday of the four family members of the positive patient working in the urban health centre, Vasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uguem-urges-locals-of-three-wards-to-isolate-for-8-days/articleshow/76330711.cms||Johnny M
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Shutdown improves groundwater table in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The shutdown of industrial and agricultural activities due to coronavirus helped improve groundwater table in 27 out of 31 districts in the state -- monitored by the public works department -- in May, compared to the corresponding period last year. The situation was grim in May last year as 21 districts saw fall in water table. It picked up only after monsoon set in. The department publishes data of the observation wells of all districts other than Chennai. Metrowater does it for Chennai. “Depletion in water level has been noticed only in Nagapattinam, Trichy, Madurai and Theni districts. Bulk extraction for agriculture and industries came to a halt during lockdown and sealing of 800 illegal private packaged drinking water units across the state ahead of the lockdown resulted in less extraction of ground water at the beginning of the water year - June. If not for the lockdown, even the industries extracting groundwater illegally would have been sealed as a special drive was planned by the state,” said a senior official. Perambalur (4.49m), Thiruvannamalai (3.46m) and Sivaganga (3.19m) are the top three districts, where water table has gone up considerably than last year. Tamil Nadu depends on groundwater resources for more than 50% of agricultural needs and the rice bowl of the state, Cauvery delta, has seen a spike in extraction over the years due to poor monsoon. However, the additional supply of 98tmcft Cauvery water by Karnataka last year helped maintain the river wet. “It is true that groundwater extraction fell drastically due to lockdown. The government could promote micro irrigation across the state like in the western districts, especially when the scheme comes with 100% subsidy,” CPM-affiliated Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association secretary, P Shanmugam said. The onset of southwest monsoon at an appropriate time and release of water from Mettur on June 12 may help this year too. Tamil Nadu water resources conservation and rivers restoration corporation chairman and managing director K Satyagopal said the government was adopting a mission-based approach to restore traditional water bodies, augment water holding capacity, strengthen bunds, repair and restore sluices and supply weirs of water bodies. Desilting of micro-irrigation tanks and ponds are simultaneously taken up by the rural development department. “In the last three years, 7.4 crore cubic metre of silt has been removed from the water bodies by farmers. The additional holding capacity thus created helps store 2.8tmcft of water. The construction of check dams, subsurface dykes and reservoirs across streams play a major role in improving the groundwater table,” the official said. The state has allotted Rs 1,369 crore towards kudimaramath since 2016 and has taken up work “with the support of farmer associations.” Of the 1,166 revenue firkas, the state has 462 falling in over-exploited category and 242 in critical and semi-critical as per the latest report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shutdown-improves-groundwater-table-in-tn/articleshow/76330136.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: BJD says no scam in mask procurement; Congress moves governor||BHUBANESWAR: With the opposition parties upping the ante against the BJD government, alleging a scam in procurement of masks, personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other emergency medical equipment, the ruling party on Thursday defended the state government’s decision denying any scam in their procurement. Addressing a press conference here at the party headquarters, BJD Rajya Sabha member and spokesperson Sasmit Patra said, “The state government has not paid a single penny, beyond the price fixed by the Centre, in the procurement of masks. The procurement of masks has been done in accordance with the prices fixed by the Union government.” The Congress moved the governor on Thursday, seeking an independent probe. While making an estimate of the requirement of PPEs and emergency medical equipment, the technical committee of the state government had informed about the need for around five crore masks in Odisha. “Keeping in mind the importance of masks in the fight against Covid-19, the state government had procured masks on a priority basis for the safety of our Covid warriors,” Patra said. He added that the Centre had on March 21 fixed the selling price of a mask at Rs 10, while it increased it to Rs 16 on March 24. States like Kerala procured masks for Rs 16 per piece, Maharashtra for Rs 16, Gujarat for Rs 20, Karnataka for Rs 18.74, West Bengal for Rs 17.70 and Tamil Nadu for Rs 15.96 a piece. “Odisha also procured masks for Rs 16 per piece giving priority to saving lives than saving costs in the pandemic,” Patra said. As the Congress moved governor Ganeshi Lal on Thursday, Patra said the Congress should not belittle the efforts and sacrifices of the Covid warriors and the 4.5 crore people of the state. “If the Congress has any evidence, we urge them to go to the court or any other forum,” Patra said. The president of the state Congress unit, Niranjan Patnaik, submitted a memorandum to the governor seeking an independent probe into the procurement of masks. “There was huge financial misappropriation in the procurement of masks and other medical equipment during the Covid pandemic in Odisha. We have urged the governor to direct for an impartial inquiry into the matter and ask the government to take appropriate action against those found guilty,” Patnaik told reporters. State BJP general secretary Prithiviraj Harichandan also demanded an inquiry by an independent agency, alleging scam in the procurement of masks. Harichandan also criticised the state government’s decision to provide incentive to suppliers for the timely supply of PPEs and emergency equipment. The state government has come under the opposition attack over procurement of masks after it recently removed state industries secretary Hemanta Sharma from a panel that supervised the procurement of PPEs and emergency medical equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjd-says-no-scam-in-mask-procurement-cong-moves-guv/articleshow/76329112.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Shutdown improves groundwater table in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The shutdown of industrial and agricultural activities due to coronavirus helped improve groundwater table in 27 out of 31 districts in the state -- monitored by the public works department -- in May, compared to the corresponding period last year. The situation was grim in May last year as 21 districts saw fall in water table. It picked up only after monsoon set in. The department publishes data of the observation wells of all districts other than Chennai. Metrowater does it for Chennai. “Depletion in water level has been noticed only in Nagapattinam, Trichy, Madurai and Theni districts. Bulk extraction for agriculture and industries came to a halt during lockdown and sealing of 800 illegal private packaged drinking water units across the state ahead of the lockdown resulted in less extraction of ground water at the beginning of the water year - June. If not for the lockdown, even the industries extracting groundwater illegally would have been sealed as a special drive was planned by the state,” said a senior official. Perambalur (4.49m), Thiruvannamalai (3.46m) and Sivaganga (3.19m) are the top three districts, where water table has gone up considerably than last year. Tamil Nadu depends on groundwater resources for more than 50% of agricultural needs and the rice bowl of the state, Cauvery delta, has seen a spike in extraction over the years due to poor monsoon. However, the additional supply of 98tmcft Cauvery water by Karnataka last year helped maintain the river wet. “It is true that groundwater extraction fell drastically due to lockdown. The government could promote micro irrigation across the state like in the western districts, especially when the scheme comes with 100% subsidy,” CPM-affiliated Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association secretary, P Shanmugam said. The onset of southwest monsoon at an appropriate time and release of water from Mettur on June 12 may help this year too. Tamil Nadu water resources conservation and rivers restoration corporation chairman and managing director K Satyagopal said the government was adopting a mission-based approach to restore traditional water bodies, augment water holding capacity, strengthen bunds, repair and restore sluices and supply weirs of water bodies. Desilting of micro-irrigation tanks and ponds are simultaneously taken up by the rural development department. “In the last three years, 7.4 crore cubic metre of silt has been removed from the water bodies by farmers. The additional holding capacity thus created helps store 2.8tmcft of water. The construction of check dams, subsurface dykes and reservoirs across streams play a major role in improving the groundwater table,” the official said. The state has allotted Rs 1,369 crore towards kudimaramath since 2016 and has taken up work “with the support of farmer associations.” Of the 1,166 revenue firkas, the state has 462 falling in over-exploited category and 242 in critical and semi-critical as per the latest report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shutdown-improves-groundwater-table-in-tn/articleshow/76336598.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 12, 2020||Surat||Bharuch NRI shot at in South Africa||Bharuch: A native of Bharuch, settled in South Africa, was shot at by some unidentified robbers in Venda town close to Zimbabwe border. The victim Imran Bashir Lalsaa, originally from Devla village of Jambusar taluka, works in a super market store in the town. His close relative Salim Patel, who also lives in Venda, told TOI over phone that Imran was going home after work along with his three colleagues when the robbers intercepted their car and flashed a gun. “After being robbed of the cash, when Imran tried to flee from the spot, one of the robbers shot him in his leg. However, despite being injured, Imran kept running and hence survived. The robbers released his three colleagues after looting them too. Imran has been admitted to a hospital in Venda, where his condition is stable,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-nri-shot-at-in-south-africa/articleshow/76329141.cms||---
June 12, 2020||India||Meerut-born surgeon scripts medical history||MEERUT: A team of doctors in the US headed by a Meerut-born surgeon has successfully performed a double lung transplant on a Covid-19 patient for the first time. Dr Ankit Bharat, assisted by two team members, conducted the surgery on a woman in her 20s whose lungs were devastated by coronavirus.  Bharat, chief of thoracic surgery and surgical director of the lung transplant programme at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago, told TOI that the operation was conducted on June 5 but the announcement was made by the hospital on Thursday. T his is not the first time the surgeon has scripted history. In 2019, he had conducted the first robot-assisted lung volume reduction surgery in the US. T alking about the challenges he faced during the latest pathbreaking surgery, the 40-year-old doctor said, "Double lung transplant is one of the most complex procedures. I have done a number of transplants earlier. However, this involved many risks. Before the transplant, we had to make sure the virus was completely eliminated from the body. So we tested her every few days. We only performed the surgery after four negative Covid-19 test reports." T he patient's already deteriorated health also posed a risk. "Clearing the virus was of utmost importance. The patient was in a bad condition as she had been on immunosuppressant medication for a previous condition when she contracted Covid-19. Her other organs had also started to get infected," said Bharat, who studied medicine from Christian Medical College, Vellore, before going to the US for higher studies. "As we waited for the virus to clear from the body, we needed to support the patient. She was put on a ventilator and on an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation device which supports the heart and the lung," said Bharat.  Luck also played its part. The woman found a donor - a brain dead person - within two days of her last negative report. She is now recuperating well, even video-calling friends and family. "The success of this operation offers hope for other Covid patients with severe lung damage," Bharat said. Bharat studied till grade 10 in St Mary's Academy in Meerut and completed his grade 12 from Delhi Public School, RK Puram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/meerut-born-surgeon-scripts-medical-history/articleshow/76331407.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Forest department keen on developing grassland as buffer zone||Mysuru: The death of a 65-year-old shepherd from Hunsur taluk in Mysuru by a tiger, in the last week of May in the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, has reignited the debate on the measures in place to tackle human-animal conflict in the wooded regions of Karnataka. That the tiger mauled a man to death despite its movements being closely monitored by officials in the forest department has only served to make those residing in the villages on the fringes of jungles all the more scared. What is more, the shepherd was among those who had not paid heed to multiple warnings from the forest department against venturing into the woods. Foresters attribute the habit among the villagers to venture into the woods to the lack of sufficient pastureland for their livestock. In a bid to deter villagers from venturing too close to the forests, Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra has proposed having a wide strip of pastureland to serve as a buffer between human inhabitation and the woods. He has proffered the idea to his superiors in the department, hoping to have it implemented across all protected forests in the state. “Initiating action against the villagers for defying our prohibitory orders will only invite their wrath. They often take to setting fire to the woods in retaliation. It is a very dicey situation for us, and we have to take them into confidence to ensure that no damage is caused to the forest or wildlife,” Balachandra told TOI. The Bandipur director said that the little strip of land adjoining the forests, could be nurtured as grassland, which could be used by farmers in the villages. He described it as a ‘win-win’ situation for all concerned. “The forest department will monitor the activity on the grassland,” Balachandra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-department-keen-on-developing-grassland-as-buffer-zone/articleshow/76329316.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||Anglo-Indian school heads to urge Bishop to reconsider walk-out move||KOLKATA: The Association of heads of Anglo-Indian schools has decided to write to Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Kolkata diocese of the Church of North India (CNI), to reconsider his decision of asking nine schools to leave the association. Gillian Hart, the senior-most executive committee member, has taken the lead role in building a bridge to get the schools back because the association feels that such a split is harmful to the image of the Anglo- Indian community as a linguistic minority. The fallout happened over a meeting on Monday that was called by the association to discuss the issue of fee rationalisation in these Covid times. The move was thought to be an “interference in the internal matters of schools”. “We need to stay united at this hour and the message that we should give out as a community is that of unity and peace. When the discussions were on, two CNI heads of schools were there. There is no question of imposing any decision on any school. How can we do that? The letter will request the Bishop to reconsider his decision over the misunderstanding,” Hart said. Members felt the split did not augur well for the community at a time when it had already lost its representation in Parliament and most legislative assemblies. Neville McNamara, a permanent member of the association and former principal of St Joseph’s Bowbazar, said: “I am pained. I had already written that the damage needs to be controlled and the Bishop’s confidence needs to be won back immediately,” he said. The association has a strong representation in the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) with eight principals from Anglo-Indian Schools of the city. The CNI walking out with nine schools will have a negative impact on this too, it has been pointed out. Bishop Canning said he would first have to read the tenor of the letter. “As of now, all principals of the CNI are united in this decision of moving out of the association. We have not thought of anything to the contrary. We stand by our decision,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/anglo-indian-school-heads-to-urge-bishop-to-reconsider-walk-out-move/articleshow/76329152.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Aditya Rao planted bomb to trigger scare, says chargesheet||Mangaluru: City police on Thursday filed a 700-page chargesheet in connection with the arrest of Aditya Rao, 36, accused of planting an IED at Mangaluru International Airport on January 20. The chargesheet has some startling facts. It states that the bag placed near MIA entrance had a real bomb, as per the FSL report. The IED in the tin box was made of sulphur, ammonium nitrate, potassium chlorate and charcoal. Rao, who learnt bomb making through online videos, had also placed a timer along with it and some sharp objects such as nails and metals. However, he had not fixed wires to trigger a blast. “His intention was not to cause a blast but only to create a scare,” said sources investigating the case. The entire bomb was made in less than two weeks. However, it had taken Rao several days to procure raw materials. The investigating officer mentioned that Rao had procured them from Madhya Pradesh through an e-commerce giant. He had also procured cyanide from Tamil Nadu. Police had completed the chargesheet process in April and sent the same for approval from the state government. Aditya Rao, an engineer and management graduate had triggered bomb scare and surrendered before police in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/aditya-rao-planted-bomb-to-trigger-scare-says-chargesheet/articleshow/76328623.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vadodara||Car catches fire; owner has narrow escape||Vadodara: A trader from Ahmedabad had a narrow escape as his car caught fire opposite Vadodara railway station on Thursday morning. The trader, Himanshu Jani, suddenly smelled something burning while driving and saw smoke emanating from the engine when he was passing by the railway station. Jani stopped the car on the side of the road and got out. Within a few minutes, the car was engulfed in flames, and the stock of packaged snacks which Jani was carrying got gutted. An alert auto rickshaw driver nearby informed the fire brigade. Firefighters said that a spark in the car’s wiring could have ignited the fire. “We quickly doused the fire and could even salvage some of the stock of the car owner. A major incident was averted as the flames had not spread further towards the car’s CNG kit,” a fireman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/car-catches-fire-owner-has-narrow-escape/articleshow/76328350.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn installs hand wash facility at public spots||Madurai: Madurai Corporation installed water tanks and placed soaps at around 180 public spots in the city on Thursday to encourage people to wash their hands, in an effort to control the spread of Covid-19. As the number of cases are going up, both in city and rural parts, the corporation authorities are planning an aggressive hand washing drive.Hand washing facility has been installed at all corporation offices, pumping stations, tax collection centres, ward offices and sanitary inspector offices. Zone four has the highest number of hand washing facility at 50 places, which is followed by 45 each in zone one and two and 40 in zone three.The employees have been instructed to ask public to wash their hands before entering into corporation premises. All the commercial spaces including hospitals and residential associations have been advised to keep water and soap for public use and warned of action under the Tamil Nadu public health Act and epidemic diseases Act.A senior official from the corporation said that a sticker will be pasted at houses where people above the age of 60 reside, discouraging those outside the family from entering. An official from the health wing said that the number of cases in city limits has been on the rise and it is expected to go up further in the coming days. Apart from washing hands frequently, he urged public to avoid crowded places and maintain social distancing in places like markets.“People should come forward and alert the corporation if they come across people in their respective area, who have returned from other states and region. They can call up 8428425000 and pass the information,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-installs-hand-wash-facility-at-public-spots/articleshow/76330140.cms||V Devanathan
June 12, 2020||Kolkata||HC seeks govt report on fee PIL||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked for a report from the state government on a PIL on the fee demanded by unaided educational institutions during the lockdown. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee will hear the matter again on June 25. The HC said it was aware that the matter had already gained attention of the state government, which has a say on the matter as per “executive administration and control over educational institutions” under state laws. The HC also sought a response from AG Kishore Dutta on it. Advocate Rishabh Choraria moved the PIL against the demand of fees by private schools during the lockdown. His plea is that the unaided schools should not be permitted to collect fees during the lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-seeks-govt-report-on-fee-pil/articleshow/76329164.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Can’t rely on Goa government, we need to save ourselves: Villagers||MARGAO: As Covid-19 spreads to the hinterlands and amid fear, panic and a sense of scepticism over the state government’s measures to control the spread, several rural and urban areas across the state have gone for a self-imposed lockdown for several days. If on Wednesday over 10 local bodies had announced lockdown for a few days, Thursday saw several more towns, including Collem-Shigao and Mollem jumping on the bandwagon. “We know there won’t be a dramatic turnaround, but we wish to convey to the government that it should focus more on protecting people than on anything else,” Poinguinim sarpanch Pravir Bhandari said. Poinguinim is observing a four-day lockdown from Thursday to Sunday. A lack of confidence in the government’s battle against the virus is palpable in the villages. “It is a question of one’s life. One cannot rely on the government for everything. If I fear for my life, I need to take some measures to save myself, and that’s exactly what the villagers are doing—willingly and instinctively,” said Snehalata Naik, ex-sarpanch of Mollem panchayat, who is among the many strong votaries for a lockdown in the village. “This is a voluntary lockdown on the lines of the junta curfew,” she said. The Mollem villagers have decided to keep the village bazar closed from Friday until Sunday. “The government erred in opening the borders so soon. Even now, I feel the government should once again seal the borders until there is some improvement in the situation,” said Bhandari. Nevertheless, some like Manish Lambor, sarpanch of Collem-Sigao panchayat which has announced a five-day lockdown from Friday to Tuesday, feels the government isn’t to be blamed. “Weren’t we the ones who were vociferously demanding that the government immediately bring back our people stranded in several parts of the country and also overseas?” questioned Lambor. “The government brought all of them back and the virus also sneaked in along with them. People should now own responsibility and take self-imposed measures instead of blaming the government. This lockdown is just one of such actions.” Canacona has also been observing a lockdown from Thursday to Sunday. Ex-chairperson of Canacona Municipal Council, Ramakant Naik Gaonkar, who has also strongly supported the bandh, was also of the view that the local lockdown shouldn’t be construed as a trust deficit between the people and the government. “While the government is making all out efforts to contain the pandemic, the voluntary lockdown in Canacona is to complement government’s efforts and shouldn’t be construed as any lack of faith in the government,” he said. Nevertheless, beneath the veneer of voluntary public good, the local lockdowns seem to project the sentiment that the government needs to do more is too loud to be ignored. As Bhandari said, “The government needs to take some strong decisions considering safety of the lives of Goans. Rest everything can wait. Else, Goa will be doomed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-rely-on-govt-we-need-to-save-ourselves-villagers/articleshow/76330715.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Wedding planners offer ‘corona-proof’ packages from Rs 1.5L||Bhubaneswar: With the wedding season almost here, city-based wedding planners have come up with attractive packages for clients, keeping in mind existing restrictions, especially the cap on the number of guests. These packages range from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3.5 lakh and include services like photo shoots, basic sound and lighting arrangements, socially distanced seating arrangements, e-invitations, standard menu with starters, main course and desserts, and limited videography. “We have revised our package rate keeping in mind the restrictions imposed by the government because of the current pandemic. We are offering a starter package of Rs 1.5 lakh, which will take care of almost everything. Only the venue has to be finalised by the client,” Durgajeet Patnaik of Flymoon Events said. The wedding business has been badly hit by the lockdown and by large-scale cancellations in April and May. The upcoming Hindu wedding season will begin from June 16 and last for about a month. Patnaik’s firm has two bookings, one for for June and the other for July. Both clients have chosen the Rs 1.5 lakh package. “The government has limited the number of wedding guests to 50 people. We have designed our package keeping this in mind. Clients are requested not to violate the rules by increasing guests,” he said. The packages offered by the city-based wedding planners include services centred around virus protection, including thermal screening of guests, setting up of hand-wash stations at venue entrances, provision of hand sanitiser and mask for all 50 guests and registration of participants. A few wedding planners, however, have chosen to consult their clients and customise packages according to their desires. Samarendra Satpathy of Aayojan Event and Wedding Planner said he was not offering set packages but was designing them according to the client’s needs. “Many of our bookings are pending,” he said. Satpathy explained that several families had pushed back weddings to the end of this year because of the ongoing situation. “The restricted guest list is not feasible for many clients. They have decided to push back the ceremony,” the wedding planner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/wedding-planners-offer-corona-proof-packages-from-rs-1-5l/articleshow/76329140.cms||Sandip Mishra
June 12, 2020||Mysuru||Seer tests Covid +ve in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: A leader attached to a national religious organization in Shivamogga tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and has been moved to the designated Covid facility. The district administration has launched a drive for contact tracing and has sealed down the place of worship. Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar told TOI that the seer was suffering from cold and fever. Samples of four people including a personal assistance and a domestic help have been sent for tests. The seer has an influenza-like illness and was later declared infected. “I have not travelled outside Shivamogga and I am not sure how I got the virus,” the seer told TOI. As the mutt’s administration has not made note of visitors, The district administration is facing a tough time tracing visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seer-tests-ve-in-shivamogga/articleshow/76327677.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Daily commuters from villages await opening of 17 inter-state borders||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district administration is issuing inter-state passes to daily commuters, who are working in government and private sectors in the district, on the condition they enter/exit the district via Talapady border only. However, no decision has been taken yet about 17 other inter-state border roads that remain closed for more than two months. As a result, hundreds of villagers from both sides of the border in Karnataka and Kerala still are deprived of the lockdown relaxations. For example, though the distance between Sullia in DK and Mulleria in Kasaragod is just 35 kms via Jalsoor, one has to travel more than 140 kms via Talapady to reach the destination with the inter-state pass. Similarly, the distance between Vitla in Bantwal taluk and Perla in Kasaragod via Saradka is approximately 28 kms. However, people have to travel more than 120 kms to reach the destination via Talapady. Similarly, there are many other interstate border roads, which are still remaining closed even in the unlock phase. Mangaluru MLA UT Khader said many people in villages have been complaining about difficulties in reaching their work places. “Hundreds of people in villages of Sullia, Vitla (in DK), Mulleria and Perla (in Kasaragod), especially farmers, depend on the nearest towns in their neighbouring states for their daily needs. The issue should be resolved by taking necessary steps to allow people with passes to commute through selected major inter-state border checkposts,” Khader said. C Madan Mohan, assistant commissioner, Mangaluru, told TOI the district administration has received around 6,100 applications for inter-state pass from people in Kerala. “We have seen around 4,500 applications and already issued daily commuters pass to 1,310 people from the neighbouring state. Meanwhile, those who want to commute regularly to Kasaragod will have to obtain passes from the Kasaragod district administration,” he added. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that only the state government can take a decision on opening more checkposts for daily commuters. She told TOI that commuters from Kerala will have to enter Dakshina Kannada only through Talapady. “There are 17 checkposts between Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod. The state government has to take a decision on opening other inter-state checkposts. Only those daily commuters from Kerala, who have received our passes, can enter the district through Talapady. Others from Kerala, who are entering the district on a one-time travel permit, will have to remain in quarantine compulsorily,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/daily-commuters-from-villages-await-opening-of-17-inter-state-borders/articleshow/76328070.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hubballi||Siblings reunited after four years, thanks to Covid-19 crisis||Ballari: Thanks to the efforts of the officers in charge of handling the migrants leaving and returning to Karnataka, two siblings estranged for four years were reunited. A 20-year-old woman was reunited with her brother, 25, both of whom are residents of Latur village in Maharashtra. Supriya Joshi had been working at a hotel in Hospet in Ballari district, while her elder brother Prasanna Joshi, a teacher in Latur, had registered a complaint about his sister being missing. However, on March 23, when Hospet was declared a containment zone, she was forced to move into ‘Shantidhama’, where those rendered homeless by the Covid-19 crisis were housed in Ballari district. Supriya, however, was reportedly not very cooperative in divulging personal details to the officers, whom she allegedly abused. Officers meanwhile grouped her under the category of ‘drug addicts’, and her picture was posted online so as to help her relatives trace her. Deputy director of women and child welfare department B Nagraj said that they posted Supriya’s photograph on our Facebook page, which Prasanna Joshi chanced to visit and was able to identify his sister. “Prasanna subsequently contacted us, and Supriya too identified him as her brother, much to our delight,” Nagraj told TOI. Prasanna was the picture of elation when, after finding his sister’s whereabouts, he rushed to Ballari and beheld her after four years. “She identified me immediately. It was a happy reunion,” he said. Ballari deputy commissioner SS Nakul said that they had tested both siblings for Covid-19, and both of them had tested negative for the fatal infection. “I am very happy that the siblings have been reunited,” Nakul said. Nagraj said that they had verified Prasanna’s Aadhaar, PAN card, his address, all of which were confirmed prior to entrusting Supriya to his care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/siblings-reunited-after-four-years-thanks-to-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/76326901.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hubballi||Two test positive for novel coronavirus in Dharwad||Dharwad: Two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharwad on Thursday. According to officials, the patients have been designated as P-6222 and P-6245. P-6222 is a 59-yr-old man, who is a resident of Morab in Navalgund taluk. Contact tracing is being done for the patient. Sources said that his two sons had recently returned from Delhi, and they might have got infected there. As both his sons are primary contracts, they have been quarantined in a hospital, and their throat swab samples have been collected and sent for testing. P-6245 is a 34-yr-old man who is a resident of Bengaluru. He was working as a police sub-inspector in Bengaluru, and had come to the district to invite his friends for his wedding. A patient designated P-3913, who is a 54-yr-old man, was cured and discharged from KIMS on Thursday. The total positive cases has risen to 72 in the district, out of which 46 patients have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-test-positive-for-novel-coronavirus-in-dharwad/articleshow/76327807.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 upsets sub-inspector’s wedding plans||Dharwad: Had everything gone according to plan, a police sub inspector was to tie the nuptial knot and enter wedlock in a couple of days. But Covid 19 has upset the plans and has landed the officer in KIMS hospital in Hubballi. The SI attached to Shankarapuram police station in Bengaluru was to get married at Athani in Belagavi district. After availing leave for a month, he had visited his fellow officers in Dharwad and Hubballi to invite them for the wedding. Before leaving Bengaluru, he had undergone a covid test at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital and was awaiting the result. When he was about to leave for Belagavi after meeting his friends at Hubballi and Dharwad, a caller from a Bengaluru hospital informed the officer about the him testing positive for Covid 19 and asked him to get admitted at KIMS in Hubballi. The district administration has instructed five persons including an SI in the twin cities who had come in primary contact of the officer to be home quarantined. Since the SI had also visited the suburban police station in Dharwad, the station was sanitized on Thursday. The swab samples of the sub inspector of suburban police station were sent for testing the result is awaited. New containment zones Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Thursday declared Yalakkishettar Colony and Hukkerikar Nagar in Dharwad and Annigeri town in Navalgund taluk as containment zones and has sealed down the areas. The area within a 200 metre radius of the containment zones has been declared as buffer zones. The decision comes in the wake of a 31-year-old female (P-5970), a resident of Yallakkishettar Colony in Dharwad testing positive on Wednesday. She developed Influenza like illness (ILI) and was admitted at KIMS. She is a teacher at an English medium school in Fort area of Dharwad. Since she had also attended a teachers' meeting in the school last week, the authorities instructed all those who attended the meeting to get tested at the district civil hospital and be home quarantined for a week. A 40-year-old CRPF jawan (P-5972), a resident of Annigeri town in Navalgund taluk, a 29 year-old female (P-5969) and a resident of Shantiniketan Colony near Hubballi and a 26-year-old female (P-5971), a resident of Nekar Nagar in Hubballi have tested positive on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-upsets-sub-inspectors-wedding-plans/articleshow/76328873.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to build housing for 22,000 workers||CHENNAI: If things go as per plan, 1.5 lakh workers of the five industrial parks on the outskirts of Chennai would have housing facilities under the state government’s industrial housing programme over the next five to ten years. The project is targeted to accommodate blue-collared workers, particularly migrants, in order to retain the skilled workforce to aid the state’s industrial and economic growth. As a step towards this, the industries department has taken initiative to take up two industrial housing projects to accommodate around 22,000 workers. The department has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) to build the state’s first industrial housing facility, including guest workers, near Oragadam industrial park. It would come up at a cost of Rs 300 crore across 9.5 acres. The housing facility would be designed in such a way that it would house 5,000 workers in dormitories, besides housing units to accommodate 2,000 people. “Each dormitory will be designed to accommodate 5 to 6 workers with common toilet facility, while tenements for executives and senior staff of the companies will also be built,” said a senior official. The state industries promotion corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) would execute the projects utilising the shelter fund of the Tamil Nadu infrastructure fund and mezzanine debt. “We conducted a demand survey among the 719 companies in the five industrial parks on the outskirts of Chennai and found they need housing facilities for 1.5 lakh workers. More such housing projects will come up in coming years based on the response from the companies,” he added. The first project would soon take off. “We are also working on a special purpose vehicle to maintain the facilities. Once the construction is completed, we will allocate units (dormitories/ tenement types) to the companies, which will pay the rent for the facilities,” said another officer. He added that the second such project to accommodate 15,000 workers would come up Vallakottai near Sriperumbudur. A leading electronic company in Sriperumbudur has requested an exclusive housing facility for its women workers. “We are preparing a DPR for the project that will cost Rs 500 crore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-build-housing-for-22k-workers/articleshow/76330159.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Chartering a flight to India from Gulf is no smooth affair||MANGALURU: In the absence of repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Mission from middle east to Mangaluru, expat businessmen from coastal Karnataka in the gulf countries are forced to charter flights to fly back their employees and others back home. However, chartering a flight is an arduous task as it requires paperwork and approvals from various government ministries of originating as well as the receiving country. “It took almost two weeks. It was a long procedure to make the landing smooth for the first charity flight from Dammam, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Mangaluru. The flight was chartered by Al Khobar-based Saad Al Qahtani Contracting (SAQCO) managing director Althaf Ullal and CEO Basheer Sagar. The flight with 175 passengers landed at 1.30am on Thursday. “When the flight was almost approved by both countries, KSA issued a fresh guideline saying any chartered flights need 72 hours prior approval. This happened when sponsors had already brought passengers to the hotel and some of them were cancer patients or terminally ill. We spoke to the ambassador to India from Saudi Arabia and it helped the flight take off. Otherwise charity flight wouldn’t have been a reality,” explains Dr Arathi Krishna, former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka. The flight had 61 senior citizens, 55 pregnant women, 20 people with medical emergencies, four wanted to return to attend their parents’ funeral, and about 35 infants and kids, she added. As the flight got delayed for a few days, sponsors had to take care of their medical expenses, including blood transfusion for people with cancer. Before GACA rules, there was a problem with Go Air ,the airline that sponsors chose for charter flight had some technical issues for landing in MIA after getting all the approvals. The flight had to be changed to Gulf Air GF-7272. Others who have booked chartered flights from Dubai and Saudi Arabia are facing similar trouble. According to sources, flights chartered by expat business from Mangaluru have been withheld in Saudi Arabia due to new norms. How to charter a flight To charter a flight, one has to seek permission from the government of the origin country. In India, one needs permission from the embassy, ministry of external affairs, Directorate General of Civil Aviation, ministry of civil aviation and approval from the state where the flight is landing. Chartered flights exceed VBM ones The Mangaluru International Airport has seen more chartered flights than flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. Interestingly, it’s the first time that the airport is witnessing chartered flights landing from foreign countries. So far, three flights from the Gulf have landed at MIA and a few more are scheduled in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/chartering-a-flight-to-india-from-gulf-is-no-smooth-affair/articleshow/76328241.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 12, 2020||Goa||Public service commission recommends promotions||Panaji: The Goa public service commission (GPSC) held departmental promotion committee meetings on Thursday, and the chief engineer as well as the additional chief engineer for water resource department (WRD) were recommended for appointment through promotions to the government. GPSC chairman Jose Manual Noronha said that another 17 engineers were also promoted to the position of assistant engineer in WRD in mechanical, electrical and civil engineering. WRD has been facing problems with cadre management in the past since many positions were not filled when officials were due for promotions, resulting in some officers retiring from service at lower positions. “These promotions will bring some relief to the officials and the department for the moment. It is learnt that the department is in the process of submitting more promotion proposals to the commission for consideration,” Noronha said The commission has also promoted two principals in the department of skill development and entrepreneurship besides promoting professor, associate professor and assistant professor in anesthesiology in at the Medical College & Hospital, Bambolim. The commission has also lifted probation orders and confirmed five assistant directors of education, in the department of education. The commission continues to conduct these meetings through circulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-service-commission-recommends-promotions/articleshow/76330713.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Low testing leading to poor detection of Covid cases||Slug: KolhapurKolhapur: Only one Covid-19 case was reported in Kolhapur district for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The patient is from Hatkanangale taluka, who recently travelled from Mumbai. The number of active cases have come down to 94 after 22 patients were discharged from hospitals on Thursday. Of the 696 positive cases registered in kolhapur district, 594 people have been discharged. The number of Covid-19 cases surged after May 3 as a large number of people travelled to Kolhapur district and those who came from red zones were put in quarantine till the testing was done. The fact that only few cases are being reported in the last two days has been attributed to the low number of throat swab samples tested on Wednesday. “Currently, we are focussing on the symptomatic patients who are put in the isolation facilities. We will soon start testing the asymptomatic cases. The testings will be ramped now as most of the patients have been discharged and there is minimal strain on the health staff,” said a senior health official. The official further said that the discharged patients have been asked to be in home-isolation for a week. The discharged patients have been given multivitamin tablets and been asked to strictly follow the diet suggested by the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/low-testing-leading-to-poor-detection-of-covid-cases/articleshow/76327848.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Two more cases in Malpan, Morlem||Keri: On Thursday, two more coronavirus cases were detected in Malpan and Morlem. The total count of cases in Sattari taluka has now risen to 14, with 12 positive cases detected in Morle, Shiroli, Guleli and Malpan, upto Wednesday. Morlem has the highest number with nine patients, followed by two each in Shiroli and Malpan, and one case in Guleli. In Malpan, of the 12 swabs that had been sent for testing, 11 cases were found to be negative, while the wife of a health worker tested positive. Health minister Vishwajit Rane visited Guleli, Malpan, Morle and Shiroli villages and told the villagers not to fear. He urged them to strictly follow the guidelines that have been issued and necessary precautions for curtailing the transmission of the virus. Rane also assured the locals that all assistance would be provided to them. Rane also visited the Keri checkpost and urged the police and government officials posted there to remain vigilant with regards to vehicles entering the state. Meanwhile, the self-imposed four-day lockdown in Keri ended on Thursday, while in Shiroli the lockdown will be observed for 10 more days, up to June 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-cases-in-malpan-morlem/articleshow/76330716.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 12, 2020||India||Historian Ramachandra Guha in online row with Rupani, Nirmala||NEW DELHI: Historian Ramachandra Guha was involved in an acerbic online exchange with Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. The war of words started when Guha tweeted around 8am: "Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province... Bengal in contrast is economically backward but culturally advanced: Philip Spratt, writing in 1939." Spratt was one of the three British communists - Ben Bradley and Lester Hutchison being the other two - who had come to India to organise the trade union movement in the late 1920s. Spratt stayed on and later became "a free-market liberal". Rupani retorted: "Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians... Gujarat is great, Bengal is great...India is united..." Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians.… https://t.co/14qmEYeTtK— Vijay Rupani (@vijayrupanibjp) 1591860874000Sitharaman joined the exchange tweeting the link of an article about a king based in Gujarat's Jamnagar who is known to have saved 1,000 Polish children during World War II. "In 1939, when Philip Spratt... belonging to the Communist International wrote, this was what was happening in Gujarat..." she tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/historian-guha-in-online-row-with-rupani-nirmala/articleshow/76331409.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Journos detained for trying to film Tamil Nadu CM switching cars||VILLUPURAM: Three journalists were detained and interrogated for trying to take photos and videos of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami switching from his official convoy to his private vehicle at Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district on Wednesday. A police officer privy to the details said Palaniswami was heading to his native in Salem district in his official convoy on Wednesday, when he decided to switch to his private vehicle at Ulundurpet. Reporters Selva Kumar who worked for a Tamil daily, Arumugam and Hari Rajan from two TV news channels, present at the spot tried to take photos and videos of him switching cars. Based on the orders of Kallakurichi superintendent of police T Jayachandran, the three were detained by Ulundurpet DSP P V VIjay Kumar and inspector Ezhilarasi, and were let off after about half an hour, when the CM;s vehicle had left the spot. Vijay Kumar refuted claims of the journos being mistreated and said since it was a matter concerning the CM’s security; it was against protocol to capture him shifting from his convoy. Journalists from Ulundurpet, however, were upset over the issue and sent a petition against the SP and condemned the behaviour. “If the police deployed on the duty had told us not to film it, we would have just left the spot. This was humiliating,” said Hari Rajan, a colleague of one of the detained journalists. Jayachandran told TOI that the reporters were simply stopped from getting closer to the convoy and not detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/journos-detained-for-trying-to-film-cm-switching-cars/articleshow/76330171.cms||Karal Marx
June 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mother illegitimate child's first guardian, no custody to father: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has dismissed a custody claim by a man over his “illegitimate” child by holding that the mother has an indefeasible legal right to natural guardianship. When it comes to an “illegitimate” child, Hindu law says the mother is the first natural guardian and the only exception is if she were to cease being a Hindu or renounce the world, said Justice S C Gupte, observing since neither exception applied to her, the father has “no case in law…to claim guardianship or custody of the child over her”. The father had challenged a 2019 Pune family court order which granted an interim custody to the mother, a citizen of New Zealand. He claimed the mother was “unsound” and hence unfit to have custody or to take the child abroad. The HC, after perusing his submission, held he had not even remotely made any case of “unsoundness of mind” or “her incapacity to look after her own child” as required under the Mental Healthcare Act. There is no medical opinion or any other authoritative record produced. “Any mental or emotional instability, by itself, is no ground to deny custody to a natural guardian, except insofar as it bears on the physical or mental security and welfare of the child,” said the HC. The HC said the family court had fairly considered the dispute on merits and its order brooked no interference. The HC allowed the mother and child to travel to New Zealand, which her lawyer, Aditya Pratap, said was “virtually free of the Covid-19 pandemic as of date”. The HC turned down a plea by the father’s advocate, Abhishek Pungliya, for a status quo order to continue. The father’s case was it was a “romantic relationship” while the mother claimed it was a marriage as per Hindu rites. The child was with the mother since birth in 2012 and raised by her “single-handedly”, she said. The father said he used to visit, but from June 2018, she cut off his access. Justice Gupte said it was the father’s own case that the child is “illegitimate’’ and in such a case “it is difficult to see how the petitioner, who claims to be its putative biological father, can claim the custody of the child over the ...biological mother. Under Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, by which both parties are admittedly governed, in the case of an illegitimate boy or an illegitimate unmarried girl, it is the mother who is the natural guardian, and the father’s claim of such guardianship comes only after hers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mother-illegitimate-childs-first-guardian-no-custody-to-father-bombay-high-court/articleshow/76330186.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 12, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: In her 4th litter, Tadoba’s friendly queen Maya delivers 5 cubs; no sighting due to Covid-19||NAGPUR: A day after the death of a Tadoba tigress and capture of a problem sub-adult male, wildlife buffs have some news to cheer about. Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve’s (TATR) most charismatic tigress Maya (T-12) has delivered five cubs. Sources said they are now around 3 months old. With the reserve closed since March 18 due to the outbreak of coronavirus, it might be a while before wildlife buffs can have ‘darshan’ of the family. Also, the state forest department is yet to decide whether to throw open parks and sanctuaries in Maharashtra before and during the monsoon after the National Tiger Conservation Authority gave a nod with several conditions on June 5 after the lockdown was eased. This is Maya’s fourth litter since June 2014. Till now she has delivered 12 cubs of which five were killed by other males. Her first litter of two cubs was from Tadoba’s dominant male Gabbar, followed by three cubs from Namdeo in 2015, and third litter of two cubs from Matkasur (T-54) in 2017. This is the first time the dominant female of Tadoba has delivered five cubs. Maya was part of a four-cub litter born in 2010 to Leela and a Hilltop male. She took over the territory after her mother Leela’s untimely death, and has been ruling over Tadoba since then with her tourist-friendly approach. Maya is so popular that she has a Twitter handle in the name of @MayaTadoba which updates developments with her. This handle also helps tourists and general people understand jungle and tiger behaviour in particular. According to reliable sources, the cubs were first sighted by forest staff near a waterhole in Tadoba in March when lockdown was in force. The cubs were again sighted in April and are being monitored. Naturalist Himanshu Bagde says, “The last time I sighted Maya was on March 15. I was with two German veterinarians who said the tigress was lactating and must have delivered cubs.” Forest sources, who did not want to be quoted, confirmed the development. In November-December 2019, Maya was seen mating with Matkasur and a tiger nicknamed Tala (T-101), who had entered Tadoba with his male sibling Rudra from the park’s Kolsa range. With a gestation period of 90 days, the cubs must have been delivered in March first week. “Considering past tragedies with Maya, where other opportunistic males have attacked her cubs to lure her into mating, we are cautious. There are six males and two females in her territory. We will ensure these cubs are safe and attain adulthood,” said sources. Maya is not the first from Tadoba to deliver more than 10 cubs. The Katezari tigress, which too once had a litter of 5, had delivered totally 15 cubs, which have now dispersed. Madhuri, another tigress, has delivered 19 cubs since 2010 in Tadoba’s buffer zone Agarzari. As per the latest report on ‘Status of tigers, co-predators and prey in TATR’ released jointly by forest department and Wildlife Institute of India (WII), there are 115 tigers in TATR landscape, with major chunk being in Tadoba. Bagde says, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic wildlife tourism is paralysed. Tourists would now be eager to come to Tadoba and witness memories for a lifetime.” “It also means people have a bigger responsibility towards forest and wildlife protection. With increase in tigers, we hope the economy around it also grows without disturbing nature,” said Bagde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-her-4th-litter-tadobas-friendly-queen-maya-delivers-5-cubs-no-sighting-due-to-covid/articleshow/76330176.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||In 465 Gajapati villages, mask is the new normal||Berhampur: From children to women, the more than 430 residents of Luhangar, which is a tribal-dominated village in Gajapati district’s Nuagada block, all can be seen moving around wearing masks. Luhangar is one of the villages that have been declared as the ‘Swapurna Mask Gaon’ by the district administration. “We were happy to see that the villagers are aware of the benefits of the use of masks,” district collector (Gajapati) Anupam Saha said after assessing the situation there on Wednesday. Luhangar is among 465 of the 1,534 villages in Gajapati district to have earned the ‘Swapurna Mask Gaon’ tag so far. Sources said the rest are expected to become cent percent mask-wearing villages by the end of this month, thereby making Gajapati a district where every one dons a mask. The Gajapati district administration had launched the ‘Swapurna Mask Gaon’ campaign on May 2 to ensure that all its residents wear masks to keep the life-threatening virus at bay. “Our objective is to make Gajapati a ‘Swapurna Mask District’ where everyone puts on a mask, which is one of the major tools to protect oneself from the killer virus,” the district collector said. The masks are being made by members of 110 women self-help groups across the district with the active support of the Odisha Livelihood Mission (OLM) and Mission Shakti. Around four lakh masks are expected to be stitched by these women self-help groups. The sources said they have made around three lakh masks so far, of which they have already sold more than two lakh masks. “The women self-help group members are selling the masks in their respective villages with the active support of volunteers. The campaign has also helped these women earn during the pandemic,” the district collector said. The district administration has made the wearing of masks in public places mandatory. Those who step out without one are liable to be fined. This apart, the district administration has also laid thrust on ‘No mask, no grocery’ and ‘No mask, no petrol’ to drive home the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/in-465-gajapati-villages-mask-is-the-new-normal/articleshow/76329167.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
June 12, 2020||Goa||Man ‘missing’ from Delhi lands in Goa, tests Covid positive-19, goes missing again||PANAJI: In a strange turn of events, the state authorities have found that the person they were hunting for since Wednesday after he disappeared on testing positive for Covid-19 has a missing case registered against him in Delhi. He used to work in a tavern in Panaji before he went missing from here, too. There is a missing report registered against him with Delhi police, health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters. Mohanan said they do not have any information on him other than what he has stated in his self-declaration form and that he came to Goa on a train. “The address given by him was very vague and on verification it was found to be not valid,” she said. Since Wednesday afternoon, the state administration and police have been trying to find his whereabouts and, during call tracing, it became known that he is officially a missing person, Mohanan said. It can be assumed that he is a resident of Delhi, she added. Meanwhile, Goa’s active count of Covid-19 cases increased to 350 on Thursday as 30 fresh cases were detected, 13 of which were from Mangor Hill and nine were contacts of those who tested positive. Two members of the family of the ‘tea boy’ at the Covid hospital, who tested positive on Wednesday, have also tested positive. His wife and daughter have been admitted to the hospital. The other staff in the ESI hospital will be tested soon. Mohanan said cases linked to Mangor Hill have been found in other parts of the state as people of the area were in contact with several from other areas. Additionally, Vasco health workers, post office employees as well as KTC staffers who tested positive are residents of different locations. “People from Mangor Hill had come into contact with several people. The health workers themselves are residents of six to seven different locations. Then we have KTC and post office employees,” she said, replying to a query if they have found traces of local transmission other than in Mangor Hill. Mohanan said in contact tracing investigation starts with the primary source of infection or a person who has tested positive. His family members and close associates and basically all who come in direct contact with him are termed as primary contacts. People who interacted with primary contacts are counted as secondary contacts, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-missing-from-delhi-lands-in-goa-tests-covid-positive-goes-missing-again/articleshow/76330720.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Don’t boycott Covid patients: Satara collector||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has warned co-operative housing societies of strict action if they are found boycotting Covid-19 patients or health workers. Stating that the societies must enforce directives laid out by the local administration, Singh said that many patients who have recovered from the contagion or are suffering from it are facing non-cooperation from their neighbours or society members. Singh’s warning comes in the wake of complaints against certain housing societies. District administration officials said it has come to their notice that people who provide essential services to Covid patients or health workers, too, are not allowed to enter society premises. Sangli registers 6 new Covid-19 cases Sangli district has registered six new Covid-19 patients in Shirala tehsil’s Mandur village, all of which are members of one family. Of these six patients, one has a travel history to Mumbai. Sangli district currently has 83 active patients, of which, nine are in critical condition. The district has recorded seven deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dont-boycott-covid-patients-satara-collector/articleshow/76327861.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||Three get 10 years in jail in murder case||Rajkot: Three persons were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment on Thursday for the murder of Umesh Patel (26), who succumbed to his injuries on January 3 after he was badly beaten up on the night of January 2. While Rajkot additional sessions court sentenced Vaibhav Mundhawa alias Bhima, Veja Gamara and Gopal Gamara to 10 years rigorous imprisonment, it acquitted Sagram Mundhawa, Jaga Mundhawa, Ram Mundhawa, Manoj Mundhawa, Parbat Mundhawa and Kala Karathiya for want of evidence. The accused had allegedly kidnapped Umesh while he was sleeping in his orchard in Bhangada village on the night of January 2. The accused then had taken Umesh to Sardar village and thrashed him with iron pipes and bats. The attack was the result of Umesh’s elopement with Vaibhav’s sister on December 10 last year, subsequent of which Vaibhav had been nursing a grudge against him. Umesh was a widower. His wife Bhoomi Patel had committed suicide six months ago.The court had taken into record the fact that Umesh had named the accused in his complaint lodged from the hospital bed and the post mortem report.The court sentenced the accused to imprisonment under sections 304, 364 and 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-get-10-years-in-jail-in-murder-case/articleshow/76329185.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu diverts Rs 376 crore savings of World Bank scheme to fight Covid-19||CHENNAI: The cash-strapped Tamil Nadu government has got the sanction of the World Bank to avail the savings of Rs 376 crore from its Coastal Disaster Risk Reduction (CDRR) project to fight Covid-19. The fund will help Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation procure 1 crore face masks, 1 lakh sample testing kits, 10 lakh PPE kits, 10 lakh N95 masks, besides establishment of additional testing laboratories – RT-PCR machines, and disinfectants, according to an order issued by the revenue and disaster management secretary Atulya Misra on Thursday. The state government implemented the World Bank assisted Coastal Disaster Risk Reduction project with an outlay of Rs 1,481 crore. While the actual date of completion of the project was July 31, 2018, it was extended up to March 31, 2020. Thereafter, based on the request from Tamil Nadu government, and as per the recommendation of department of economic affairs, Government of India, the World Bank granted an extension till June 30, 2020. While a sum of Rs 404 crore is available as potential savings under the project, it was proposed to divert Rs 376 crore of it for Contingency Emergency Response Component (CERC). “The World Bank has conveyed its concurrence to activate the CERC and for the utilisation of Rs 376 crore savings amount under the CDRR project,” the order said. Of this, the state granted sanction to adjust Rs 130 crore to the state disaster response fund as funds have already been released under this head for provision of food to people affected by Covid-19 and quarantined across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-diverts-rs-376-crore-savings-of-world-bank-scheme-to-fight-covid/articleshow/76330188.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 12, 2020||Pune||Southwest monsoon enters parts of Maharashtra, advent over Pune by today||PUNE: The Southwest monsoon entered parts of Maharashtra on Thursday. The normal date of monsoon’s entry in the state is around June 7. It entered parts of South Maharashtra, including South Konkan, after a delay of four days. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said a delay of plus or minus four days in monsoon arrival was normal. The IMD had earlier forecast a delayed entry of monsoon in South Maharashtra , around June 10, as parts of South peninsular India such as Telangana, interior Karnataka and coastal Andhra Pradesh had not been getting rain. This had held up monsoon’s advance over south Konkan. On Thursday, monsoon advanced into some more parts of central Arabian Sea, entire Goa, some parts of Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, remaining portions of Karnataka, entire Rayalaseema, coastal Andhra Pradesh, most parts of Telangana, some parts of south Chhattisgarh and south Odisha, some more parts of west-central, North Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, most parts of Arunachal Pradesh and some more parts of Assam and Meghalaya. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI, “Monsoon’s advent over Pune will be around June 12 and that over Mumbai around June 13. By June 15, monsoon is likely to cover the entire state of Maharashtra. Normally, monsoon advance completes over Maharashtra by June 15. This means monsoon is likely to cover the entire state as per the normal date this year. The monsoon’s entry into the state was delayed in the past few years.” He added that rainfall spells were expected to be heavy to very heavy in isolated locations in Konkan, as well as Madhya Maharashtra, during the next few days. For Pune city, the IMD has forecast moderate rain with isolated heavy rain in the ghat areas till June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southwest-monsoon-enters-parts-of-state-advent-over-pune-by-today/articleshow/76330191.cms||Neha Madaan
June 12, 2020||Goa||Vasco priest tests +ve; reports of 30 civic staffers -ve||Vasco: A priest in Vasco has tested positive for Covid-19. He was reportedly suffering from high fever and had voluntarily got himself tested a couple of days ago when he found that his fever wasn’t subsiding. According to sources, a councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) had taken the priest for the test. On Thursday, as his condition worsened, the priest called up another councillor, who then contacted the sub-district hospital in Chicalim and was told that the priest had tested positive for the virus. The 52-year-old priest has been admitted to the ESI hospital in Margao for treatment. The priest’s residence and the surrounding areas were sanitised by the Mormugao Municipal Council, in the presence of Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida. Eight people, including other priests in the residence, were tested and the results are expected on Friday. Since the priest is connected to two high schools and a higher secondary school, the municipal authorities have advised the teaching and non-teaching staff of all the three institutions, as well as all those who came in contact with the priest, to voluntarily get themselves tested. Meanwhile, on Thursday, 30 municipal staffers tested negative. The reports of 38 others are awaited. The New Vaddem councillor, Yatin Kamurlekar, has started thermal screening in his ward after 16 cases were reported until Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-priest-tests-ve-reports-of-30-civic-staffers-ve/articleshow/76330723.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KU is top varsity in state, 23rd at nat’l level||Thiruvananthapuram: Five colleges in the city have made it to top 100 in the country and two colleges found a slot in top three in the state in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) approved by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD). University College has been ranked number 1 in the state with a score of 61.08. Nationally it has been ranked 23rd. The honour comes as a great boost to the University College which has been mired in a series of controversies recently. Government College for Women, Mar Ivanios College, Mahatma Gandhi College and Government Arts College are other colleges in the city which have been ranked within top 100 nationally. Government College for Women has been ranked 40 at the national level and third at the state level with a score of 56.56. Mar Ivanios College, Mahatma Gandhi College and Government Arts College have been ranked 48, 93 and 98 at the national level respectively with scores of 55.51, 50.59 and 50.22 respectively. Fathima Mata National College, Kollam, is ranked 100 in the list with a score 50.13. Amongst universities in Kerala, University of Kerala has been ranked at the top. Nationally it has gained rank of 23 with a score of 52.35. As per a press note issued by the university, the research projects grabbed by the departments of Kerala University proved crucial in retaining the top rank in the state amongst universities. Reforms in teaching, indigenously developed information technology for teaching and IT facilities installed at Kariyavattom demonstrated the academic capabilities of the university, the release said. It further added that the university has been able to bring higher education sector to the lower strata of the society at an affordable rate. In addition to accomplishments in academic sector, achievements in sports also accounted for top ranking. This framework outlines a methodology to rank institutions across the country. The methodology draws from the overall recommendations and broad understanding arrived at by a core committee, to identify broad parameters for ranking various universities and institutions. The parameters broadly cover “Teaching, Learning and Resources,” “Research and Professional Practices,” “Graduation Outcomes,” “Outreach and Inclusivity,” and “Perception”, according to the website of NIRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ku-is-top-varsity-in-state-23rd-at-natl-level/articleshow/76329193.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Can’t Chennai alone be under lockdown, Madras HC asks Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On a day when the Madras high court prodded the state to explore the possibility of bringing the city under lockdown, representatives of the state’s largest traders guild, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, met finance secretary and offered their support for a 15-day lockdown, while at least two senior ministers asserted that a decision would be taken only by the CM and it would be based on the advice of a panel of health experts. Earlier on Thursday, at a virtual court hearing, the HC flagged concerns over rising Covid-19 cases in the city. “Despite the steps taken by the state government to contain the Covid-19 spread, every day the number of cases is steeply rising and the situation has become alarming, particularly in Chennai and its outskirts,” a bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar told government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan. “Therefore, we want to know whether the government has devised any special scheme, which includes complete lockdown or curfew, to contain the spread in Chennai,” the judges said. The court, however, made it clear that it was not a suo motu proceeding and it has not initiated any PIL either suo motu or otherwise on the issue. Narayan told the court he would get instructions from special officer J Radhakrishnan and other officials on the issue, including a proposal on any special scheme, by Friday. After social media was rife with rumors about an imminent lockdown, senior minister D Jayakumar told reporters that the state cannot take a suo motu decision and it will be a call taken by health experts. “Our CM has been announcing relaxations based on consultations with health experts. We can act only as per their advice,” he said. The four-day complete lockdown announced by the CM in April for Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai corporations had received widespread condemnation after it sparked panic buying. Meanwhile, A M Vikramaraja, president of the guild, said, “People must get at least four to five days to purchase goods. We can offer mobile service to sell goods at some places suggested by the government and close our shops during the lockdown. The government can allow one member from each family to buy goods.” With the CM stationed at Salem, officials were tight-lipped about the development. He is expected to return to Chennai on Sunday night. Talking to reporters in Coimbatore after inspecting ESI Hospital along with municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Thursday, health minister Vijayabaskar said decisions on lockdown are being taken based on views of committee of health experts and guidelines of the Centre.  “Livelihood of people should not be affected, spread of the virus should be contained and Covid-positive patients should be cured. So decisions are being taken after considering all these factors,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cant-chennai-alone-be-under-lockdown-madras-hc-asks-tn/articleshow/76330189.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolhapur||45 new cases takes Solapur dist’s total to 1,504||Kolhapur: Solapur district registered 45 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, of which 42 are from the city, taking the total number of patients to 1,504. The district has recorded 128 coronavirus-related deaths so far. At present, Solapur city has 429 active patients while 759 have already been discharged from various hospitals. The city has recorcded 122 deaths so far. The situation of Solapur district is relatively better as compared to city with 64 active patients and six deaths. A total of 33 patients have been discharged from the district so far. Meanwhile, Solapur district guardian minister Datta Bharne has said that the administration would make arrangements for better swab testing with the help of which the test results would be generated within an hour. Talking to media after a review meeting on Thursday, Bharne said that the administration would increase the number of tests so that more patients are identified and treated accordingly. Bharne’s statement comes in view of the continuous surge in Covid-19 cases in Solapur city since April mid-week. Bharne asked officials of the Solapur Municipal Corporation and district collectorate to implement all the steps suggested by the government to contain the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/45-new-cases-takes-solapur-dists-total-to-1504/articleshow/76327908.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Pune||PuLa’s unique handwriting turned into a digital font||Pune: Ahead of his death anniversary and to mark the centenary of his birth, the theatre, film, and literary legend Purushottam Laxmanrao “PuLa” Deshpande’s distinctive handwriting has been turned into a font for phone and computer users. The font, to be made available for downloads, is the result of work done by a city-based digital media agency.On Friday, which marks Deshpande’s death anniversary, the font will be formally launched by the agency Be Birbal. The font has also been named in his honour and his centenary, titled PuLa100. The developers took the help of Deshpande’s archives — his letters stored at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) as well as professional font developers. “Considering the huge following that PuLa still enjoys all across the world, creating a digital font of his handwriting was a task loaded with responsibility. The basic challenge was to capture the essence of his writing in the font. The process started as an in-house exercise with data sampling of the letters written by PL Deshpande, which were procured from IUCAA. Subsequently, a font expert was brought on board to realize the dream,” said Gandhaar Sangoram, founder and director of Be Birbal. The planned ‘offline’ tribute concert on June 12 had to be nixed due to the COVID-19 pandemic but Friday will also be witness to another unique tribute to Deshpande online. The organizers of Pulotsav, an annual cultural festival as a tribute to Deshpande, have signed on a number of film and theatre personalities to read essays submitted as part of the contest Coronavarchi Varaat, where contestants had to imagine Deshpande writing about the current pandemic across the world.The essays will be read aloud by film, TV, and theatre personalities, including Mohan Agashe, Sarang Sathaye, Mrunal Kulkarni, Amey Wagh, and others.The programme will also feature personalities across various fields speaking about the life and work of Deshpande. They include former cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, actor Dilip Prabhavalkar, academic Narendra Jadhav, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pulas-unique-handwriting-turned-into-a-digital-font/articleshow/76330197.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||AITF up in arms against ESIC working||Ludhiana: Claiming that Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has failed to address the problems of businessmen and the workers during lockdown, the All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF) has launched a scathing attack on the department and shot off a letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh and asked him to pursue the matter with the central government. In his letter, Badish Jindal, national president of AITF, said, “The ESIC scheme was launched in India in 1952 to provide health and sickness benefits to the employees and their families, but unfortunately the ESIC failed to perform its duties. During the lockdown, the employers and employees were seeking some relief from this department but unfortunately they extended no support to employees or employers except some extension of dates. I have been closely associated with the ESIC as its board member and also part of many prominent committees in the ESIC. It’s a shocking fact that as per ESIC annual report the average per capita income is Rs 6,380 per insured person and per capita expenditure on medical care is merely Rs 2,165 per insured person. If we take an example of Punjab, the total average collection from the state by ESIC is around Rs 726 crore. In this amount the total medical expenditure incurred on insured persons (IP) in Punjab is merely Rs 283.48 crore. The state government contributed Rs 37 crore in this. So the per capita expenditure of ESIC in state is merely Rs 2,166 per insured person.” Jindal added, “If we go through the services provided by the ESIC in Punjab, the figures are really shocking as the in patient department (IPD) occupancy of Model Hospital of ESIC in Ludhiana is 103%. Whereas the occupancy of 125-bedded ESI Hospital in Amritsar is merely below 20% and similarly the 100-bedded ESI Hospital, Jalandhar, has occupancy of around 32%. The hospitals of Hosiarpur and Gobindgarh also have an IPD rate of 32% and Phagwara have a little better IPD rate of 50%. So the state must come forward to discuss this important issue with the Centre for a better care of employees of our state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aitf-up-in-arms-against-esic-working/articleshow/76329211.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Health workers to stay in residencies||Panaji: After 19 health workers and some family members tested positive, the government decided that persons posted at Covid-related facilities and Mangor Hill will stay in a residency or hotel requisitioned by the government. They will stay till they complete their duty as well as quarantine period, Nila Mohanan, health secretary said. Health workers getting infected while in the line of duty is a matter of concern but equally the cause of concern is that from them, it has gone to several parts of the state, she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-workers-to-stay-in-residencies/articleshow/76330735.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Ranked 77, Goa institute second best among new NITs||PANAJI: National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, has climbed up ten spots, improving its rank in the engineering category at the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020. Ranked 77 among the 100 top engineering colleges in India, it has also emerged as the second best among new the NITs, after only NIT Meghalaya. NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said that it proves that “buildings do not make institutions”. The national institute became operational in Goa in 2010 and continues to function from its temporary campus at Farmagudi, while its own campus is getting ready at Cuncolim. NIT Goa is the only engineering college from Goa to have made it to the 100 best engineering institutes in the country at NIRF. “We have also emerged as the 18th best among all the old and new 31 NITs at the NIRF ranking. In the ranking, we are ahead of more than 50-year-old NITs like Jamshedpur and Patna. It is a great occasion for us. It proves that institutions can be built with research and people and not with buildings,” said Mugeraya. In 2018, NIT Goa started off in the NIRF on the 137th spot, only to climb up to 87th position last year and move up another ten spots in 2020. “It is an achievement for a new NIT to feature in the top 100 engineering institutes in the country,” said Mugeraya. Meanwhile, Goa College of Engineering, Farmagudi, Padre Conceicao College of Engineering, Verna, Don Bosco College of Engineering, Margao and Agnel Institute of Technology and Design, Assagao were among the other engineering state institutes that participated in NIRF. But they did not find a place in the top 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ranked-77-goa-institute-second-best-among-new-nits/articleshow/76330732.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen take precautions to check Covid spread among workers||Ludhiana: After sudden spurt in the cases of Covid-19 after lifting of restrictions, fear has gripped city businessmen as they are worried about the probability of an outbreak of the disease among workers and other personnel coming to their factories. According to businessmen, they have made proper arrangements about hygiene and safety measures in the wake of Covid-19 inside their factories but still there is constant fear of workers and other persons getting affected with the coronavirus at other places and later spreading the virus to other persons in their factories. Considering the situation, the businessmen are taking up different ways to ensure safety of their workers outside their workplace as well like getting their living places disinfected regularly, giving them free sanitisers and masks and other related things as well. Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “As far as our factories are concerned we have made complete arrangements to fight coronavirus as we have taken all required steps, be it social distancing, keeping the premises clean and disinfected, not allowing entry of anyone without mask and without checking body temperature inside the factories. But as we cannot be sure whether the conditions are same at the homes of the workers, we decided to take matters into our own hands and we have regularly started getting their accommodations disinfected regularly at our own cost. Along with this, we are providing them free supplies of masks, sanitisers, soaps for use at their homes. Through this we can at least try and keep our workforce safe for their and our own betterment.” According to Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, “In order to ensure the safety of our workers we are already providing free lodging facility to our workers inside our factory, where they are even being provided hygienic meals, which are cooked inside the factory. In addition to this, some of our members have also started the facility of free health check of our workers on regular intervals to rule out any infection. As far as visitors are concerned we have earmarked a proper area beyond which they cannot go anywhere else in our factory and without following proper safety procedure like using hand sanitiser, using mask or face shield we are not allowing anyone to enter our premises.” Shammi Ahuja, a nut bolt manufacturer from Shimlapuri, said, “We can very much guarantee about the conditions inside our factories but we are unsure about the conditions of our workers after they exit our factories. Therefore, in order to ensure that they do not catch this deadly infection we have made arrangements of home delivery of groceries and any kind of essentials they want. Moreover, we have also deputed one person, who on workers’ behalf goes to deposit money into their family members accounts or gets mobile recharges or other tasks done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-take-precautions-to-check-covid-spread-among-workers/articleshow/76329201.cms||Mohit Behl
June 12, 2020||Goa||Dharbandora taluka records first case of Covid-19||Ponda: Officials from the health department on Thursday rushed to the remote forested village of Shigao in Dharbandora taluka after the wife of a KTC bus conductor tested positive for coronavirus. After news of the 27-year-old woman’s infection spread in the area , villagers from Collem and the neighbouring village of Mollem declared a self-imposed lockdown from Friday for five days and four days, respectively. Both panchayats have backed the decision taken by the villagers. The Covid-positive bus conductor has a total of eight members in his family, and except his wife, all others tested negative in TrueNat test, said an official from the heath department. The husband had tested positive recently and is suspected to have acquired the infection from a colleague, a bus conductor working on the Mangor Hill route in Vasco. Villagers from Collem panchayat, of which Shigao is a revenue village, have announced the lockdown between Friday and Tuesday. The local body has issued an advisory and requested people to stritcly adhere to safety guidelines in force. Following the suit, villagers from the Mollem panchayat have decided to shut down for four days, from Friday to Monday. Mollem’s officiating sarpanch Sushant Bhagat said they decided on a lockdown inorder to restrict the movement of people from Collem into their village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dharbandora-taluka-records-first-case-of-covid-19/articleshow/76330729.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lions break cattle shed, jump inside to kill ox||RAJKOT: Spotting lions hardly excites villagers Amreli district now. But seeing what this lion pride did on Thursday, the residents of Monvel village of Dhari taluka, were shell-shocked.Some from the pride of lions somehow climbed the roof of the cattle shed in a farm, broke the tin shed, jumped inside and preyed on the ox tied inside. The lions which could enter then feasted on the prey while others kept sauntering outside the house. There been instances of lions entering the cattle sheds outside the houses in villages, but this pride struck in broad daylight at around 11am. The incident, which was videographed, happened in the farm of Kanu Kotadiya. Monvel is on the border of Gir east and Gir west division of the forest department near Visavadar. The pride of seven lions have their territory in the both the divisions of the forest. This village is treated as the border of forest and revenue area. Kotadia was at the farm as the sowing season had started. He had tied two bulls inside the cattle shed. According to Kotadia, two to three lions scaled 10 foot height and broke the rooftop to barge into the cattle shed. “They preyed on one ox and feasted on it. Other lions which could not jump to the height were seen moving outside the cattle shed anxiously. The lions exited from the same way by jumping through the rooftop,” said Kotadia. Deputy conservator of forest, Anshuman Sharma, told TOI: “This is a normal occurrence in this area. This is the lion’s territory and the village is very close to the sanctuary. They broke into the cattle shed which is 8 to 10 foot tall.” Watch Shocking: Lions climb cattle shed in Gujarat, jump inside to kill ox||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-break-cattle-shed-jump-inside-to-kill-ox/articleshow/76329207.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Devotees rejoice but traders unhappy with low footfall||Tirupati: The Venkateswara Temple reopened to all devotees after a three-day trial run at Tirumala on Thursday. Other pilgrim services, including lodging, tonsure facility and annaprasadam distribution also resumed as well on the day. A group of 6,000 people offered prayers on the first day. TOI spoke to many of the devotees about the security arrangements. They expressed their satisfaction with the fool-proof arrangements made by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams. Speaking to TOI, several devotees felt that their darshan at the Tirumala temple on Thursday was the best darshan they ever had. ‘‘Although we prayed at the Tirumala temple several times in the past amid heavy crowds, today’s darshan was an altogether different experience for us. It felt like VVIP darshan. Owing to social distancing practices and other health guidelines, no devotee had to wait in the queue outside or in the compartments at the Vaikuntam Q complex. They could complete their darshan within an hour,” said one of the devotees. Meanwhile, unlike the devotees shop owners and traders were not too happy as most shops, commercial establishments and restaurants continued to remain closed in the hill town. While shops and businesses across the country, and some even in the containment zones, have opened up, Tirumala is perhaps the only place in the country where normalcy is yet to be restored as far as businesses and trade is concerned. While state and central governments, banks and other financial institutions have extended relief and assistance to revive the economy through a series of measures, no such help has been extended to the traders at Tirumala who have had to face financial difficulties since the temple was shut 84 days ago. “Usually 60,000-80,000 devotees visit Tirumala everyday. On festivals, over a lakh devotees visit Tirumala. We are completely dependent on pilgrim footfall for business. But with TTD allowing only 6,000 devotees a day, which is just one-tenth of the daily average footfall, traders at Tirumala cannot survive as the sales per day will be meager or even nil. We are not sure if we can pay salaries to employees, rents and power bills if the pilgrim footfall continues to remain low owing to the Covid-19 scare”, rued a trader. But TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy clarified on Thursday that the temple body was not in a hurry to allow darshan to more number of devotees immediately as the health and safety of the visiting devotees continues to remain its top priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/devotees-rejoice-but-traders-unhappy-with-low-footfall/articleshow/76329216.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Low wages, poor safety gear, say Asha workers on coronavirus frontline||GURUGRAM: Even after three Asha workers tested positive in the district, these frontline workers claim that they’re still not being given good quality masks, gloves or PPE kits when they go out for Covid-19 survey or visit containment zones. These footsoldiers of the health department who have been carrying out Covid duties diligently since the outbreak, worry about their own safety and that of their families. In order to get the government’s attention to their problem, Asha workers in the city have decided to stage a protest on June 12. Apart from protective gear and Covid-19 tests, they have also sought better wages. An Asha worker gets paid Rs 4,000 per month and an extra Rs 1,000 for the survey work. “While the government has doubled the salary of doctors and other health workers, we are only getting an additional Rs 1,000. Aren’t we equally at risk?” said Manita Gulliya, who is with Asha in Laxman Vihar. She added that they do not even get money for the commute required for the surveys. All 1,030 Asha workers in Gurugram have been provided safety gears but they claim that some are of inferior quality and do not serve the purpose. They also complained that three of their colleagues who got the infection were not given any special treatment and are recuperating by themselves at home. “We want that all the workers be given good quality masks, and those going into containment zones be provided with reliable PPE kits,” said Pinky Rohilla, who works with Asha in Farrukhnagar. They also requested the government to conduct monthly tests on the workers on Covid-19 duties but these demands have fallen on deaf ears, they said. Moreover, as recent incidents have revealed, patients at quarantine centres and at the homes they are surveying, often misbehave with these health staff. “Ever since the novel coronavirus broke out, we have been working on the frontline. We conduct the surveys, we take the patients into the ambulances and we even have to take the medical kits to those in home isolation. Many times, while doing these visits, people even misbehave with us,” said Meena Devi, who is an Asha facilitator in Pataudi. Devi recalls that on a recent visit to a patient’s house, she found that both the husband and the wife had tested positive and were isolated. “The couple asked me to arrange for food for their children,” she smiled. Risking their health and lives during this pandemic, these Asha workers hope that the protest will help them get the government’s attention towards their issues. “Ever since the pandemic broke out, we have been working tirelessly but the government doesn’t care for us at all. We do not even receive our salaries on time. There should be a proper platform for redressing our problems,” said Puspha, 40, who is with the Farrukhnagar team. JS Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram did not reply to requests for a comment on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/low-wages-poor-safety-gear-say-asha-workers-on-corona-frontline/articleshow/76330743.cms||Shubhra Pant
June 12, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras wins top engineering institute tag for fifth time in a row||CHENNAI: IIT-Madras was ranked number one engineering institute in the country for the fifth time in a row in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020 rankings released on Thursday. It has also secured number one ranking in the overall category for the second straight year. In the universities category, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, was ranked number one, while Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University ranked second and third, respectively. Christian Medical College, Vellore, has been ranked third best medical college in the country after AIIMS, New Delhi, and PGIMER in Chandigarh. Presidency College in the city secured fifth rank and Loyola College secured sixth rank among colleges. Miranda House, New Delhi, stood first. Among private universities, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham got fourth rank in universities category. Thirty-two TN colleges made it to the top 100 colleges list across the country. However, state universities including Anna University and Madras University slipped five and two places from their last year’s position to secure 12th and 22nd rank on the list this year. Meanwhile, Bharathiar University climbed one position to rank 13th on the ranking list. “We are delighted to maintain our top position for the fifth time running. This is the result of the excellent work of our faculty, students and staff, and we look forward to continuing on the path of excellence in the coming years and making a mark nationally and internationally,” said Bhaskar Ramamurthy, director, IIT-Madras. Surprisingly, Anna University which was ranked seventh among universities and ninth among engineering institutes has slipped five ranks in both the categories. The university has lost 10 points in research and professional practice parameters. “The research data is being gathered by NIRF independently. We have to look at the data because our research output has not gone down in 2019,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor, Anna University. He further said the university lost two more points in graduation outcome as nearly 400 students left the university departments to join the MBBS course. “The state government needs to address the issue,” he added. Madras University has slipped by two places to 22. Madurai Kamaraj University has slipped 15 places to secure 60th position while Bharathidasan University moved up by seven places to 53rd rank. Vellore Institute of Technology and Amrita Vishwa Vidhyapeetham are two private institutions among the top 20 with 15th and 20th ranks. “Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham and its medical college have once again found the place in the top 10 in the NIRF Ranking 2020. This achievement would not have been possible without the efforts put in by all students and staff of the university,” said P Venkat Rangan, vice-chancellor, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-wins-top-engg-institute-tag-for-5th-time-in-a-row/articleshow/76330223.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Salon owners in Kolhapur threaten to open from June 15||KOLHAPUR: Barbers in Kolhapur city have threatened to open their salons from June 15 even if the district administration refuses to grant them permission. The salons have been closed since the lockdown and were opened only twice, just to be shut immediately. The barbers claim that salons in others states have been allowed to function. Sayaji Jhunjar, head of the barbers’ association, said many of them were living on money borrowed from relatives and acquaintances. “We have no other businesses. Our lives depend on the shops. We have taken unanimous decision to face the action but still open shops from June 15.” A senior district administration official, requesting anonymity, said there is large scale movement of people ever since the unlock phase has begun. “So far, we have succeeded in curbing the spread of the covid-19. If no precaution is taken in salons, the disease may spread and it will become difficult to trace customers. We will ensure all precautionary measures are in place before granting permission to open salon,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/salon-owners-threaten-to-open-from-june-15/articleshow/76327934.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panaji market to be shut for 4 days||PANAJI: The municipal market complex in the state capital will remain shut till Monday after one positive Covid 19 case was detected in the market premises and with authorities identifying a vegetable vendor as a probable case, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. The Corporation of the City of Panaji has asked 61 staff members who reside in Chimbel to take a “seven-day break”, get themselves tested and then return to work. On Thursday, the department of health services said that patients with Covid-19 were detected in Chimbel and Merces. A man who used to operate a tavern next to the fish market has also been tested positive for the coronavirus but he remains untraceable, the mayor said. “The market will remain closed for four days and we will review this decision on Monday. The entire market will be closed, including the fruit sellers, the flower vendors, the meat stalls and the fish market,” he said. As the news spread about the market being closed for the next few days, there was an unusual increase in footfalls at the market as people tried to stock up additional provisions. The CCP says that 60% of the market vendors reside at Chimbel and around 3,500-4,000 people visit the market every day. According to the mayor, the man who operates the tavern next to the fish market, returned from Delhi four days earlier. The man was tested and asked to home quarantine, but came to the market and opened the tavern with the excuse that he wanted to clean it. “His regular customers came to the tavern, is what we have learnt. Now it has been found out that he has tested positive and the police are searching for him. He has switched off his phone and is not reachable,” said Madkaikar. CCP officials suspect that a few CCP daily wage workers, loaders and those working in the fish market may have visited the tavern. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate, CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues and the councillors discussed the issue after the case came to light and finally agreed that the market had to be closed as a precautionary measure. “Positive cases have been found at Chimbel and Merces and one of the positive cases is a lady who sells vegetable in the market,” the mayor said. “The commissioner has issued the order to the workers. The health department will check the workers. Three workers from near Mangor Hill, Vasco, have also been asked to stay at home and get themselves tested,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-market-to-be-shut-for-4-days/articleshow/76330747.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Restrict vending activities at markets: Civic chief||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided not to allow vendors from conducting business outside markets as well as restrict the number of vendors and customers in those markets which have been marked as potential high-risk zones or emerging hotspots as per Aarogya Setu Application. Earlier, the municipal corporation had detected 18 potential high-risk zones after many people from these areas downloaded the application. Now, some more areas in the city have been marked as potential high-risk zones ever since the influx of people from cities and town outside Kolhapur has increased. Since, a number of markets are located these areas, they too have been marked as high-risk zones. These zones include Kapiltirth Market, Lakshmipuri Grain Market, Shahu Market Yard, Mangalwar Peth, Shukrawar Peth, Shivaji Peth, Rajarampuri and Pratibhanagar. “In potential high-risk areas, the chances of community transmission of virus is quite high. As per Aarogya Setu. eight new places have been included in the high-risk category. In these markets, the movement of people, especially those selling or buying essential goods, is continuous. I have asked the authorities to restrict roadside vending activities at Lakshmipuri market and Shahu Market Yard,” municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said. “The infection risk at these two places is very high since drivers or helpers come from distant places to deliver or buy essential goods. I have asked the local authorities to ensure that such people follow social distancing, wear mask and carry out disinfection after arriving at the market and while leaving from there,” Kalshetti added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/restrict-vending-activities-at-markets-civic-chief/articleshow/76327924.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Pune||Drought-prone Parbhani gets 190mm rain in 24 hrs, breaks century-old record||PUNE: Drought-prone Parbhani in Marathwada recorded 190mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, breaking a century-old rain record and crossing its monthly rainfall quota for June in just one day to become the wettest spot in the country on Thursday. It was in June 1914 when Parbhani had recorded more rain than this — 401.3mm rain in a 24-hour period. Thursday’s rain for the location became the highest one-day quantum in over a century. Triple-digit rain for Parbhani is a rare phenomenon, revealed India Meteorological Data (IMD) data. In the last decade, the highest 24-hour rainfall for Parbhani in June was 73mm in 2007. Pulak Guhathakurta, head, climate application and user interface, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “Rainfall records show that between 1915 and 1991, Parbhani did not receive triple-digit rain during a 24-hour period even once in June.” He said, “After 1991, Parbhani saw some instances of triple-digit rainfall in a day in June. But the rainfall was lower than that recorded on Thursday morning. For instance, during one of the days in June 1992, Parbhani had recorded 176.1mm rain. The district had in June 1991 recorded 130.4mm rain during a 24-hour period as well.” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said though the monsoon did not make an entry into Parbhani on Thursday, it received triple-digit rain due to the sheer amount of moisture available over parts of Maharashtra. “The Arabian Sea branch of the monsoon is strengthening, while there is a low pressure area over west-central and the adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts. This means that moisture has been flowing from two directions — from the Arabian Sea as well as the Bay of Bengal,” he said. “Add to this the high temperature over Marathwada since the last few days as well as the orography of the region. The current situation is a perfect recipe for intense thundershowers caused by the increase in temperatures and the copious moisture availability,” Kashyapi said. What Parbhani experienced during the 24 hours till Thursday morning was still a result of pre-monsoon activity, though the monsoon is very close to making an advance over the location. “The rainfall was also a result of the pressure gradient force acting from South to North off Maharashtra coast and the adjoining land area of Konkan. It is this kind of pressure gradient force that had also resulted in heavy rainfall events in parts of Maharashtra during the 2019 monsoon. The orography of Marathwada, including the lack of vegetation, soil type and the lack of water bodies can cause high temperatures. When such high temperatures combine with huge amounts of moisture, heavy rainfall events could be a result,” Kashyapi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drought-prone-parbhani-gets-190mm-rain-in-24-hrs-breaks-century-old-record/articleshow/76330213.cms||Neha Madaan
June 12, 2020||India||Nagpur hospital to conduct world’s largest plasma therapy trials||NAGPUR: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the city will lead ‘Platina Trial’, which is a state-level clinical trial to assess the efficacy of plasma therapy to treat severely ill Covid-19 patients. Officials said more than 500 patients in the state would be given blood plasma obtained from recovered patients as part of these trials. “Medical Education Department’s proposal of world’s largest trial for plasma therapy for severe Covid-19 patients has got DCGI nod. Will cover over 500 patients,” tweeted Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of medical education, on Thursday. These are being touted as the largest such trials in the world. After the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its final nod, GMCH, Nagpur, is planning to involve 238 patients from 23 hospitals across the state. State nodal officer and administrative coordinator for trials, Dr Mohd Faizal, said his team believed plasma therapy may save the lives of at least 5,000 critical patients in the next six months. “We are working on the concept of ‘from cured to the critical’. We believe that the therapy is effective and has shown positive results so far,” Dr Faizal said. “Results of these trials can be the turning point of Covid-19 treatment in India. Based on our results, ICMR may revise national guidelines for plasma therapy and bring relief to people,” Dr Faizal added. Watch Nagpur: GMC hospital to lead world’s largest plasma therapy trials||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagpur-hospital-to-conduct-worlds-largest-plasma-therapy-trials/articleshow/76331412.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Cousin, another relative held for siblings’ murder||AURANGABAD: The city police on Thursday claimed to have cracked the double-murder case with the arrest of the victims’ cousin and his brother-in-law from Jalna and added that robbery was the motive for the crime. Kiran Khandade (18) and her brother Saurabh (16) were found brutally murdered in their bungalow in the Satara area of Aurangabad on the evening of June 9 and gold jewellery weighing 1kg, along with some cash, missing. The suspects — Satish Kaluram Khandade (20) and his brother-in-law Arjun Devchand Rajput (24) — have confessed to the murder and robbery, said police. The duo are residents of Pachanwadgaon in Jalna taluka, about 60 km from here, and allegedly hatched the plot soon after spotting the siblings’ family members in Jalna, where they own land. “The suspects came to Aurangabad from Jalna on a motorcycle and spent about four hours with Kiran and Saurabh before brutally murdering them and escaping with about the gold jewellery and cash,” said city police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad. The officer said teams, led by DCPs Rahul Khade and Meena Makwana, as well as the crime branch and Satara police station staff worked in coordination and zeroed in on the culprits. “A part of the booty has been recovered,” he added. The double murder came to light when the siblings’ father, Lalchand Khande-Rajput, returned home along with his wife and their older daughter from Pachandwadgaon in Jalna, where they own a farm, around 8 pm on Tuesday. Khandade had shifted to Aurangabad, along with his family, and rented the bungalow near the Beed bypass. He would visit his farm in Jalna frequently. His wife and older daughter had gone to Jalna district along with him when the crime happened. Kiran was studying in a Pune-based colleged while Saurabh had appeared for his SSC exams in Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cousin-another-relative-held-for-siblings-murder/articleshow/76327950.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Neelachal Ispat staff request reopening of plant||Bhubaneswar: The employees of the Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited (NINL) on Thursday urged the state as well as the central government to resume the plant’s operation and give their wages, which they are not receiving for the last three months due to the closure. They have also requested the governments not to take steps for privatisation of the plant but to merge NINL with SAIL or RINL, which according to them will boost capacity of the steel unit and ensure proper functioning of the plant. Merger with SAIL or RINL will allow investment in NINL and will lead to future modernisation and expansion, an employee said. To achieve SAIL’s capacity expansion target of 50 metric tonnes per annum by 2030 or RINL’s target of 16 metric tonnes per annum by 2030, SAIL or RINL need not to go for land acquisition for capacity expansion. “NINL has 2,500 acre undisputed land sufficient for expansion,” said Ajit Pradhan, general secretary, Neelachal Executive Association. He said after the government took the decision of strategic disinvestment of 100% equity shareholding in NINL, severe liquidity crunch compelled suspension of production in July 2019. In March this year, major promoter MMTC also refused further funding and supply of imported coal, Pradhan said. Pradhan added as a result of this, only one unit, which was running with bare minimum capacity — coke oven — shut down on account of paucity of imported coking coal from March. At present all the units are shut, he said. The NINL is an integrated steel plant at Kalinganagar in Jajpur earlier run by the state and the central government jointly. It is one of the public sector unit steel plants of the state government in which it has a share of 32.47% through two companies Ipicol and OMC. However, the employees said despite NINL being a profit-making plant, the government decided to privatise it last year. NINL has made remarkable achievements in terms of production, sales and growth in almost all areas and generated an operating profit of about Rs 14 crore, a member of the employees’ association said. He said right now the plant is closed resulting in huge revenue loss of more than Rs 2,400 crore per annum to the government apart from more than Rs 400 crore per annum in the form of taxes and duties. Future of about 5,000 employees, mainly of local population, has plunged into uncertainty, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/neelachal-ispat-staff-request-reopening-of-plant/articleshow/76329214.cms||Sandip Mishra
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Showers bless 17 revenue circles in M’wada||Aurangabad: After a small hiatus, rainfall has made a strong comeback in Marathwada with as many as 17 revenue circles in different districts of the region receiving over 65mm showers, which falls in the category of heavy rainfall, in the past 24 hours ending Thursday morning. Aurangabad and the nearby areas also reported light to medium rainfall on Wednesday night. The met department has predicted more showers over the next 48 hours, which could prompt a section of farmers to undertake sowing activity if the region receives the desired quantum of rain. As per data obtained from the Aurangabad divisional commissionerate, five revenue circles each in Parbhani and Hingoli districts, four in Latur, two in Osmanabad and one in Aurangabad district reported over 65 mm rainfall. In the last 24 hours ending on Thursday, Hingoli district reported maximum rainfall with 40mm followed by Osmanabad (34mm). Both Beed and Latur received 25mm each, followed by Jalna (17mm), Nanded (14mm) and Aurangabad (10mm). B S Asewar, chief scientist at Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani, said farmers should not take up sowing activities in haste. “Even if most parts of Marathwada have received surplus rainfall, farmers must wait for monsoon to begin properly. Farmers are advised to wait a little more till the condition of soil is conducive and the weather conditions are fit for sowing,” said Asewar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/showers-bless-17-revenue-circles-in-mwada/articleshow/76327969.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold smuggling case: HC quashes Cofeposa charges||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court quashed the charges of Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa) slapped against three main accused in the case of smuggling gold through Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, which is being probed by the directorate of revenue intelligence. Following the court decision, the accused, Prakashan Thampy, advocate Biju Mohanan and Sareena Shaji, have been released from prison. The trio were detained by the crime branch officials and sent to prison based on the move by central economic intelligence bureau which invoked Cofeposa charges against them following their alleged involvement in the gold smuggling that was exposed in May last year. The three accused had challenged their detention before the HC. While delivering the order, justices C T Ravikumar and K Haripal held that the continued detention was illegal, invalid and unconstitutional. The case pertains to alleged large-scale gold smuggling carried out with the help of customs superintendent B Radhakrishnan, who was posted at Trivandrum International Airport between October 2018 and May 2019. The racket was exposed with the arrest of Sunil Kumar and Sareena Shaji, on May 13, 2019, by officials of directorate of revenue intelligence. The gang allegedly smuggled gold from Dubai for a jeweler here and made a profit of Rs 4 lakh each time they smuggled one kilogram of gold by avoiding tax. Soon, the other members too were arrested. This even included Radhakrishnan, who according to DRI officials, had facilitated the smuggling activity while he was on duty at the airport. The case assumed new dimensions when Thampy and advocate Vishnu Somasundaram were arrested. Both of them were very close to musician Balabhaskar, who met with an accident on September 25, 2018, and died a week later. Balabhaskar’s family had raised doubts regarding the accident. The arrests of Thampy and Somasundaram gave traction to Balabhaskar’s family’s claim that financial dealings of Balabhaskar could be the reason behind culprits staging an accident. The DRI had arrested 12 people in connection with the case. Out of this, Cofeposa charges were invoked against eight of them and six people - Thampy, Mohanan, Shaji, B Radhakrishnan, Somasundaram and Jaseel - were detained. Two persons, Sunil Kumar and Hakkim, were never detained. Initially, all the six accused approached the advisory board of the state government. The board granted release to Jaseel alone. It was following this they approached the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gold-smuggling-case-hc-quashes-cofeposa-charges/articleshow/76329246.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
June 12, 2020||Pune||Testing bills soar as Pune hospitals add price of protective gear||PUNE: On March 17, the Indian government said the price of a Covid-19 test at a private lab or hospital should not exceed Rs 4,500. But reports have emerged of private laboratories and hospitals in Pune charging as much as Rs 7,000 for a single test. Analyses of receipts submitted by citizens and interviews with hospital officials revealed that these private establishments have been transferring the purchase cost of protective equipment — worn by lab technicians while drawing the swabs — on to the customer. In addition to the cost of PPE kits, a few have also been including sample collection expenses and costs of gloves and N95 masks in the final Covid test bill, despite the fact that a PPE kit contains all protective gear, including specialised facial covers and gloves. The Pune branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said it has indeed received complaints from citizens who said they were overcharged for tests at designated labs and hospitals. Sanjay Patil, the chairman of the Hospital Board of India, (the IMA’s hospital wing), said, “In most cases, the extra charges are because hospitals and labs are including the price of PPE kits. But the government had set the cap of Rs 4,500 after considering all such expenses, including operational and infrastructure cost. So any extra charge over Rs 4,500 amounts to an offence. The IMA has condemned this fleecing amid a pandemic.” The CEO of the Ruby Hall Clinic, Bomi Bhote, admitted to charging for PPE during the early phases of the Covid-19 lockdown. “But since June 1, we have stopped charging citizens for PPE,” Bhote said. He said, “Our Covid-19 test charge has always been Rs 4,500. But during the early days of the lockdown, we had very few patients coming to the OPD and few staff. So employees had to use a new PPE for every patient while drawing a swab. That’s why we were charging extra for a Covid test initially.” In one instance, in June, the Jupiter hospital in Baner charged a person Rs 6,982 for a test. The hospital’s administration didn’t deny the charge when TOI produced receipts from the test. Jupiter’s medical superintendent Vikas Patil said, “I have brought up the matter with our higher authorities.” The Pune Municipal Corporation's health department has now urged people to register complaints if a private laboratory or hospital has charged more than Rs 4,500 for a Covid-19 test. Complaints can be registered by calling 020-25556800 or by writing to health@punecorporation.org — the health department’s email. “Citizens should submit their complaint along with receipts,” said public health expert Ramchandra Hankare, the chief of the PMC's health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-labs-hospitals-charge-over-covid-test-price-cap/articleshow/76330246.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Welfare schemes get cabinet green signal||Vijayawada: The cabinet on Thursday cleared the welfare schemes proposed by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. These schemes are in addition to the existing ones already being implemented. The cabinet cleared the YSR Cheyuta scheme to extend Rs 75,000 to women from the SC, ST and minority sections for the next four years. Women above 45 years of age will receive Rs 18,142 as pension per year from now. The scheme would be launched on August 12 and would benefit 26 lakh women. The Jagananna Thodu scheme for small vendors was approved as well through which they will get Rs 10,000 as interest-free loans every year. The scheme, meant mainly for the artisan and pushcart vendors, would be rolled out in October. A revised budget for supply of nutritious food for kids and mothers was also approved by the cabinet. The YSR Sampoorna Poshana scheme will benefit children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. The cabinet cleared Rs 1,863.11 crore for the programme. The previous government had spent Rs 762 crore on this scheme in 2018-19, while the present government spent Rs 1,076 crore in 2019-20. The fee reimbursement scheme too was cleared in which mothers of beneficiary students would get the money paid directly into their bank accounts. It also approved changes to the housing GO as per the directions of the high court. The new GO will restrict the beneficiaries of the housing programme from selling their houses for five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/welfare-schemes-get-cabinet-green-signal/articleshow/76329226.cms||Gopi Dara
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Migrants are desperate to come back: Punjab minister Sundar Sham Arora||Industry in Punjab is passing through a rough time in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. In addition to suffering unprecedented losses, the industry after opening, almost after two months, is now battling the problem of labour shortage. Punjab’s industry minister Sundar Sham Arora spoke to Mohit Behl on various issues concerning the industry of the state and in particular Ludhiana. According to the minister, only 5 lakh workers have left the state and now a huge majority of these too are urging the factory owners of Punjab to call them back as they are getting no support from their home states and want to start earning again. The minister also claimed that Centre had failed to refund the GST share of Punjab because of which the state had been unable to give any kind of financial relief to the industry. What is your view on the current labour shortage in Punjab ? Is there any plan to bring the workers back from states like UP and Bihar systematically ?Around 10 lakh migrants got themselves registered with the government to go back to their home states and 50% of these have already left Punjab while 5 lakh opted not to go back as the industrial units re-opened in the state. But now the situation is such that those who went back are desperately calling industrialists in Punjab to arrange for their comeback as they are not getting any kind of support from the governments in their home states. As far as the comeback of the workers from other states is concerned I am in regular touch with the Union railway minister and have asked him to start special trains from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to Punjab, so that the workers willing to come back can return. But I have learnt that from June 20, the Railways are going to resume a large number of trains from both these states in any case and labour comeback would be facilitated. In case this does not happens, then we will see what steps we can take to make the comeback of workers easier. What do you think was the biggest reason for such a huge exodus of workers from Punjab, was there dearth of facilities?There was no shortage of facilities for the migrant workers working and living in any district of Punjab. The exodus took place only due to the fear and tension of coronavirus among the migrant workers. Not only the workers but everyone got so scared because of this and wanted to return home to be with their families. Look at such a large number of Punjabi students who came back from other countries just to be with their family. So, same was the case with the exodus of labour from Punjab, and talking of the facilities, the workers are now thinking that they were better off in Punjab as compared to their home states and that is why they want to return to Punjab now. What has Punjab government done so far to aid the Punjab industrialists who have suffered losses worth several hundred crores due to lockdown? Micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) industry is the backbone of Punjab and there are lakhs of such units on which livelihood of a huge number of locals and migrants depends. As soon as the lockdown occurred we approached the industry and asked for their requirements and the major demand put forward by them was relaxation in the fixed charges of power, and chief minister Amarinder Singh acted immediately and waived these charges for two months. The biggest reason why we have not been able to take more initiatives for industry of our state is the shortage of funds, which has been caused by the blockage of our share of GST by the Centre. Crores of rupees of businessmen of Punjab are lying with the Centre’s ESI and EPF departments and we requested it to at least allow the businessmen to pay salaries of their workers using these funds, but this too was refused by the Centre. I have already approached several Union ministers, including Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal and Smriti Irani and have sought their personal intervention in this matter, but no result has been yielded yet. We have also requested that if the Centre is unable to give us anything, it should at least announce waiver of the interest on the loans of MSME industry for six months. If the farmers can bring back the workers from other states back to Punjab, what do you think is stopping businessmen from doing so ?There is no question of industrialists hesitating to bring back their labour. During the past one week at least several industrial groups have brought back their workers by hiring buses. Farmers are a bit more aggressive to bring back the farm workers as they have fixed seasons and require them more desperately, so they are bringing back labour in large numbers as compared to industry, which does not require the labour so desperately. What is the state government doing to aid the PPE manufacturers, who are complaining of huge shortage of orders and steep fall in prices?Textile manufacturers of Punjab and industry department did a wonderful job together and as on date more than 120 manufacturers of PPE suits from Punjab, out of which 108 were from Ludhiana, have got approval from the central government labs. I have been personally monitoring the situation and so far our industry has got orders worth Rs 300 crore from government departments alone. But now suddenly the situation has changed as a huge number of manufacturers all over India have got approvals and huge production of these PPE suits is being done everywhere. Though we are still making efforts to ensure that Punjab’s manufacturers get orders, we are also giving them preference in the purchases in the state and urging other states to buy from Punjab. Our government is committed to go to any extent to help our manufacturers and we will do what so ever it takes for overcoming their problem of orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/i-am-in-touch-with-rail-minister-for-bringing-back-labour/articleshow/76329223.cms||Mohit Behl
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat has third highest test positivity rate||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has the third highest Covid test positivity rate in the country with 8.09 positive cases per 100 tests as on June 10. The state is only better than Delhi, which is at 9.58, while Maharashtra had the country’s highest test positivity rate of 13.7%, as on May 31. Despite these high test positivity rates, Gujarat lags behind in contact tracing, being the third worst in the country and way behind states like Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Goa. In contact tracing, while Goa conducts 258 tests for every Covid-19 positive case, Bihar conducts 20 tests per case, but Gujarat conducts 13. This is the third lowest figure in the country. Maharashtra is the lowest with 7 tests for every positive case. Several northeastern states are way ahead in contact tracing. “It is observed that states which have better contact tracing have lower Covid positivity rates. States like Kerala also have dispersed housing, unlike the congested localities of Ahmedabad or Mumbai, where isolating Covid-19 patients or containing the disease becomes a challenge. A difference can be seen between Covid spread in villages of Ahmedabad district and that of the city. There are other reasons also which are a matter of scientific investigation,” says a senior health official. Recently, scientists at ICMR-National Institute of Occupational Health (NIOH), Ahmedabad, were first to report on how a person with high viral load spread the infection at a rate almost eight times higher that of one with a low viral. NIOH, Ahmedabad had studied samples from about 2,000 individuals of whom 140 were Covid-19 patients. The Covid test positive rates for Gujarat had been hovering between 3.9% and 4.9% between April 10 and April 15, after which by May 8 it had gone beyond 7% and by June 10 it went up to 8.09%, after the lockdown was eased on May 31. Meanwhile, contact tracing records for Gujarat has been hovering between 13 and 14 per case till the last week of May and then dipping to 12 tests per Covid patient by June 10, despite the high number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-has-3rd-highest-test-positivity-rate/articleshow/76330382.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Illegal colonies face water shortage as MC looks the other way||Ludhiana: The ‘carelessness’ of civic officials in curbing the mushrooming of illegal colonies is proving dearer to the people living in those colonies as they are facing acute shortage of water supply in such hot weather. The residents of New Sunder Nagar in ward number 31 are facing through a similar problem for the past four days as there is no water supply in the locality. The colony was developed illegally by developers and water supply connection was also linked with the MC line in an illegal manner. With an increase in the demand of water, the residents are not getting the supply on time. This is not the case of one colony as on the outskirts several such colonies have been developed by the developers, who illegally connected water supply and sewerage lines with the MC lines and sold the plots or houses to public. But since these colonies are developed illegally, the civic body is not liable to provide any facility there and ultimately the residents bear the brunt. A resident of New Sunder Nagar, Raju Sharma, said they were dependent upon the water tankers for which they were paying from their own pocket or they were forced to fill water from other areas. He said the authorities should take action against such developers when they start developing illegal colonies, so that people like him should not suffer. Meanwhile, an Akali worker in area, Sandeep Shukla, said, “In this colony a 10-year-old boy, Ashu, also resides who is suffering from kidney problem and due to shortage of water supply in locality his parents are purchasing water bottles from shop so that he could get water to drink.” He further said they had requested everybody in the MC, but nobody listened to their problems. “When it comes to provide water, the officials say it’s an illegal colony but when residents were installing a submersible at their expenses the MC team had reached in locality to stop them. If they take action then why they cannot provide help to public,” he asked while adding that when he raised the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu and zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain, a water tanker was provided to residents. Meanwhile, the BJP councillor from ward number 31, Sonia Sharma, said, “I had raised this matter last year as well and despite several complaints the officials did nothing to resolve this problem.” She said there was a problem of low water pressure these days due to summer, that is why these colonies were getting affected. However, senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra admitted the fault of officials and claimed that he would take up the matter with the mayor and commissioner so that a suitable solution can be reached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/illegal-colonies-face-water-shortage-as-mc-looks-the-other-way/articleshow/76329239.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government to set up revenue intelligence directorate||VIJAYAWADA: The cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to establish a directorate of revenue intelligence to check tax evasion and monitor tax payment. The directorate will work under the finance department with an initial staff of 55. The cabinet also cleared the proposal to fill these posts. It also approved the proposal to set up an integrated renewable energy project at Pinnapuram village in Kurnool district. The project was originally cleared by the previous TDP government, which had signed an agreement with Greenko Energies Private Ltd in Feb 2019 to provide it government land at Rs 2.5 lakh per acre for the project. After the YSRC government took charge in May 2019, it reopened the issue and convinced Greenko to pay Rs 5 lakh per acre. In addition, Greenko has also agreed to pay Rs 1 lakh to the government for every MW produced and increase it to Rs 2 lakh per MW after 25 years. The project is projected to produce 550 MW of wind power, 1,200 MW of hydro and 1,000 MW solar power. The cabinet also cleared a proposal to issue an ordinance to amend the AP Higher Education Regulatory Monitoring Commission Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-set-up-revenue-intelligence-directorate/articleshow/76329238.cms||Gopi Dara
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||38% of fresh cases from western part of city||Ahmedabad: The western part of Ahmedabad city accounted for 38%, or 119 of 316 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. Ahmedabad city on Thursday reported 302 fresh cases. Of the 119 cases in western Ahmedabad on Wednesday, 57 were from Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura, Vejalpur, Thaltej, the AMC’s North West and South West Zones, while the remaining 62 were from the West Zone, which includes Navrangpura, Naranpura, Vasna, Paldi, Sardar Patel Stadium, Ranip and Nava Vadaj. Of the 57 cases, 33 cases were reported from North West Zone, while 24 were from the South West Zone. In the North West Zone, there were nine cases each from Bodkadev and Gota wards, and six each from Ghatlodia and Thaltej. The nine cases from Bodakdev were Sthapatya Apartment, Asawari Towers, Sakansh Apartments, Sahajanand Upscale, Shri Aangan, Tarunnagar, Aalay Apartments. In Gota, cases were reported from Abhilasha Society, Green Meadows, Yogeshwar Apartment, Kasturi Niwas, Horizon Lifestyle and Sanskar Apartments. Three cases were reported from Manichandra Society Part II in Thaltej. Of the 24 cases in South West Zone, eight were from Jodhpur, six each from Maktampura and Vejalpur and four from Sarkhej. The eight cases from Jodhpur were from Orchid Park and Satellite Society, Shardul Apartments, Rivera 30 Society and Sarathi Avenue, among others.Of the 62 cases in the West Zone, there were 12 each in Paldi and Sabarmati, eight in Naranpura, 10 in Vasna, six each in Nava Vadaj and Navrangpura, five in Ranip, two in Chandkheda and one in Sardar Patel stadium ward. The western part of the city now has 1,013 active cases with 553 cases in the West Zone, 213 in the North West Zone, and 243 in the South West Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/38-of-fresh-cases-from-western-part-of-city/articleshow/76330377.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Lorry owners seek waiver of toll fee||Vijayawada: The increase in fuel prices after the financial woes of the lockdown has come as a double blow to the transport sector, said Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners’ Association (APLOA). The association urged the central and state governments to rescue the beleaguered sector. The APLOA said in a statement on Thursday that diesel prices have been increased by more than Rs 3 per litre in the last five days in Andhra Pradesh. “There is an urgent need to give a helping hand to the transport sector by putting a cap on diesel prices” said Y V Eswar Rao, general secretary of APLOA. The association contended that when the crude prices in the international market hit an all-time low, the Union government had imposed additional excise duty without transferring the benefit to the consumers. Now, the oil marketing companies are increasing the prices based on crude oil price rise in international market. Meanwhile, the Centre has been collecting Rs 18 in road cess and Rs 10 in the form of additional excise duty on every litre of diesel. The state government taxes are in addition to these charges which have become a burden to the lorry owners as the businesses have been hit hard due to disruptions in supply chain management and labour shortage, said Eswar Rao. The trucks either have to wait longer periods to get a return load or come back empty because of the lockdown, he said. He urged the Centre to waive collection of toll fee for at least six months and fix the price of diesel at Rs 45 per litre to help the ailing transport sector. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lorry-owners-seek-waiver-of-toll-fee/articleshow/76329249.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||NIFR: NIT Rourkela top institute from state, Utkal breaks into top-100 varsity list||Bhubaneswar: Four educational institutions of the state were among the top 100 institutions on the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) list announced by the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) on Thursday. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Rourkela ranked 32 overall, improving from 38 last year, followed by Siksha ‘O’ Anusandhan (38), Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (44) and IIT Bhubaneswar (56). Like NIT Rourkela, SOA and KIIT improved their overall rankings from 41 and 50, respectively, last year, but IIT Bhubaneswar slipped 10 places from last year’s 46. In the university category, SOA ranked 20, followed by KIIT (24). The SOA has been securing the top rank among universities in the state consecutively for five years. Utkal University, which last year fell in the rank band of 101-150, secured a place among the top 100 universities this time. It ranked 96 in the university category. “This is indeed a great thing. Utkal University, the oldest government university of the state, got a place among the best 100 universities of India this year,” said vice-chancellor Soumendra Mohan Patnaik. In the engineering category, NIT Rourkela and IIT Bhubaneswar ranked 16 and 22, respectively. Other institutions that found a place on the list were SOA (34), KIIT (42), CV Raman College of Engineering (93) and VSSUT (119). In the medical category, SOA ranked 23 and KIIT, 32. In the management category, Xavier Institute of Management (XIMB) ranked 31, while KIIT and International Management Institute ranked 32 and 63, respectively. IIM Sambalpur was in the rank band of 76-100 in the same category. KIIT ranked 12 rank in law, while National Law University Cuttack secured 14. Not a single institution from the state secured a rank among the top 100 colleges of the country. Berhampur University and Centurion University of Technology and Management, Paralakhemundi, found a place in the rank band of 151-200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nifr-nit-rourkela-top-institute-from-state-utkal-breaks-into-top-100-varsity-list/articleshow/76329232.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Won’t tolerate hospitals extorting patients: Nitin Patel||AHMEDABAD: Reacting strongly to hospitals who are charging exorbitant sums from Covid-19 patients, deputy CM and health minister Nitin Patel said that such hospitals will face cancellation of licences. Patel said that his office will be open for complaints against such hospitals.  The minister added that following the high court’s order, the government has revised rates for private hospitals — raising it by almost 150% for treating Covid-19 patients. “Anyone can approach my office for lodging a complaint against such hospitals. As per the disaster management act we can issue permanent closure or even take the hospital under government control," said Patel. He added, “Through patients, their families and media my department has came to know that a few hospitals are charging exorbitant sum. We have taken strong note of this.” Warning such hospitals Patel said, “Don’t blackmail and exploit emotions of corona positive persons. After corona crisis, we will take permanent action to cancel their license." Patel said that he had information that few hospitals had charged Rs 30,000 a day as room rent. “We don’t have objection for reasonable rates but blackmailing citizens will not be tolerated," Patel said. A few days back Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had fined two hospitals, Artham Hospital in Ambawadi area and Bodyline Hospital in Paldi, Rs 5 lakh each under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The AMC had warned them that if they fail to deposit this sum the licences will be cancelled. Under the revised rates the state government now pays Rs 4,500 per day for occupied isolation beds and Rs 11,250 for occupied beds with ventilator facility. A ceiling of Rs 10,000 is fixed for occupied isolation beds and Rs 23,000 per day for occupied beds with ventilator facility. The rates for empty beds remain unchanged. The ceiling rates per day for private beds do not include cost of medicine Tocilizumab, special doctors’ visiting fee and specialise lab test and dialysis. The rates cover two meals, breakfast and evening tea with snacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wont-tolerate-hospitals-extorting-patients-dycm/articleshow/76330376.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Heavy rain forecast for Kolhapur, Sangli||KOLHAPUR: The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, has predicted heavy rainfall in Kolhapur and Sangli districts till Sunday. The IMD Mumbai has issued an orange alert for both districts as well as the coastal regions of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts indicating that the regions have to ‘be prepared.’ Though the IMD declared the arrival of monsoon in the state on Thursday, experts said that the showers in Kolhapur and Sangli could not be attributed to the arrival of monsoon. Raifall was reported in some parts of northern Karnataka and the southern districts such as Sangli and Solapur. The IMD has predicted normal rainfall this year. With the IMD predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall, officials of the district disaster management issued an advisory asking people not to move out of their homes or travel to the ghats on Friday as rainfall is likely to be accompanied by strong winds. Even the water resources department (WRD) sprung to action and took not of the water storage levels in the dams. A senior official of the WRD department said, “Compared to last year, the water level in the dams is very high this time. We have started discharge from the barrages to bring down water level of the river so that if water is released from the dams, it does not lead to floods. We have set up systems to monitor the water levels in dam and the rainfall in the catchment systems per hour.” Currently, the water level of Panchganga river at Rajaram barrage is 12.9ft, much below the danger mark of 43ft. Around 4,158 cusec of water was discharged on Thursday. The official said such on-off discharge would be carried out regularly to ensure the water level in the river remained constant. Similar discharge is being carried out from the barrages along other rivers of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heavy-rain-in-kolhapur-sangli/articleshow/76327982.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana-Ladowal bypass project likely to get delayed by 2 months||Ludhiana: With the Covid-19 threat affecting many development works in the district, the Ludhiana-Ladowal National Highway bypass project may also get delayed by a few months. The project is expected to help in decongestion of traffic in the city as vehicles coming from Jagraon, Moga, Ferozepur and other cities on way to Jalandhar and Amritsar, etc., which normally enter the city on way to Ladowal, will take this route. A representative of the private agency that is constructing the road, said normally they would have completed the work by December this year, but with work remaining suspended for around two months, the project completion might be delayed by about two months. He added that even as the work on the project had started, but they were facing shortage of labour. “As of now we are working with just half of the labour required for the project. Usually, we would have around 400 workers, but now we have only about 200 workers. So definitely these factors are expected to delay the project,” said the representative of the road construction agency. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) authorities said that like other projects the work on this project had also been delayed due to stopping of work during lockdown and labour shortage. “As part of the project, we have to get 17km road constructed and we have got work on 12km completed. The work on the project remained suspended for around one and half months due to Covid-19 related lockdown/curfew and now the construction agency is working with 40% labour, which may delay the project by a month or two. During the lockdown, we couldn’t get permission for closure of water in the canal as we have to get a major flyover constructed near Jhammat, but now we have got permission for the same and work has started on that,” said Bhupendra Chauhan, project director NHAI. He added that they had to get four flyovers constructed, including one near Jhammat, one on Hambran road and one each at Jainpur and Ladowal, whereas they have to get approach roads to flyovers near Food park in Banka Dogra area and Banda Kalan constructed. NHAI officials said that even a stretch of 2km from Ferozepur road to South City, a major part of which runs close to boundary walls of PAU, is also to be constructed. They added that as part of the project, apart from metal beam on either side of the road on the canal, necessary lights will be installed as road safety measures so that are no accidents on the road. Meanwhile, residents of South City area are waiting for completion of the project. “I go cycling along the road being constructed almost daily and even as work remained stopped on it for long time, now it has started again though with a small number of workers. We are anxiously waiting for the start of the project as the traffic coming from Ferozepur side to Jalandhar and Amritsar is expected to go on this road, which will decongest the city traffic significantly as those vehicles will not enter Ludhiana as they are entering now. Also it will save about an hour of our time if we have to go to Jalandhar, Amritsar or Jammu as we don’t need to go to city first and then to Ladowal,” said Samir Verma, a yarn trader of South City. Many residents said that the bypass would be helpful for the city but proper road safety measures should be taken to ensure that no road accidents occur on it. “We know that traffic in city will decrease after this bypass is constructed, but there should be proper road safety infrastructure, including slip roads, protective infrastructure on canal side, road markings, speed breakers, etc on the road to make it safe for people,” said Manpreet Singh, another South City area resident. Many South City residents said once the NH bypass opens with proper road safety measures, the chances of mishaps during foggy weather would decrease. The road between Ferozepur road and South City and beyond have witnessed many fatal accidents with vehicles falling in the Sidhwan canal. Box: Toll may be charged from users The road construction agency said the road would pass through South City, Ayali, Malakpur and Jainpur and join with highway at Ladowal. They added that toll might be charged from the road users using the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-ladowal-bypass-project-likely-to-get-delayed-by-2-months/articleshow/76329251.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||Husband, mother-in-law booked for woman’s suicide||Rajkot: The father of the woman who had hanged herself to death on Tuesday night lodged a complaint on Wednesday night against the woman’s husband and her mother-in-law for suicide abetment. The incident occurred in Nana Lakhiya village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district. Pravinsinh Jadeja (55) accused Shaktisinh Chudasma (31) and his mother Dhrupatba Chudasma of the suicide abetment of his daughter Kiran Chudasma (31). “In his complaint, Jadeja alleged that Shaktisinh and Dhrupatba used to mentally torture Kiran over household works, tired of which she ended her life,” said an official from Meghpar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/husband-mother-in-law-booked-for-womans-suicide/articleshow/76329247.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC collects Rs 1.45 lakh from vendors not wearing masks||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Thursday collected Rs 1.45 lakh in penalites for not wearing a face mask. With Wednesday’s total, the cumulative fines for not wearing masks have hit Rs 3.30 lakh in two days. On Thursday, 149 teams of the solid waste department targeted vegetable markets in the city and fined 726 vegetable vendors who were not wearing masks. Harshad Solanki, director, solid waste, said, “The AMC has now decided to target one particular segment every day instead of moving randomly. On Thursday, we targeted vegetable vendors. On Friday, teams will crackdown on shops and vehicle drivers.” He said they found that the majority of the vegetable vendors had masks but they did not cover the mouth and nose. The vendors also had a common excuse that they were not able to communicate properly with the customers and some even misheard the prices, leading to disputes. In two days, the most penalties were levied in the West Zone, where 271 people were fined. Officials said that in some paan shops they found they found two people standing at the counter but one of them were not wearing the masks. The officials said that vegetable vendor were given free masks and hand sanitizers, but barring big shops they hardly found sanitizer at shops and where it was on offer, it was diluted with water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-collects-rs-1-45-lakh-from-vendors-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76330375.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||25-year-old from AP's Guntur helps 15,000 labour reach home||AMARAVATI: The last three weeks have seen Kamal Saida, a 25-year-old engineering graduate from Atchampet village in Guntur district, pull out all the stops to help thousands of migrant workers stuck in the forest areas of Guntur and Prakasam districts. His dedication has not only moved the locals and officials but also NRIs, who have come forward to help him. Saida, a few weeks ago, came upon hundreds of workers, including children, sitting in the scorching heat, while he was going around the fields. On speaking to them, he found out that a majority of them were from Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Odisha and worked as farmhands at chilli fields in the state. He also found out that many of them have not had a square meal in days. Moved by their plight, Saida distributed grocery among them by spending around Rs 10,000 from his pocket. He, however, realised the seriousness of the issue when he found hundreds of workers continuing to arrive not just in his village but also in several neighbouring villages. “I was shocked to see their plight as many of them had not eaten for several days while some were managing by eating leaves in the forest. The local administration was busy handling Covid-19 operations elsewhere. Since my financial resources are not enough to manage the situation, I started posting the information on social media seeking help from the friends,” Kamal told TOI. His posts soon went viral. It also caught the attention of top technopreneur Prasad Charasala of US, who mobilised funds through crowd funding apart from sending money from his own pocket. A social activist, Indus Martin of Hyderabad, too extended his support to Saida. Martin has been organising relief camps for migrants at Perkit in Rangareddy district. Later, following Martin’s example, Saida contacted senior officials in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Odisha and secured travel permits for the migrant workers. “We have sent nearly 15,000 people from remotest areas of Guntur district to their native places through private vehicles,” said Saida humbly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/25-yr-old-helps-15k-labour-reach-home/articleshow/76329255.cms||Samdani MN
June 12, 2020||Ludhiana||CMCH at 18 , DMCH at 26 in NIRF rankings||Ludhiana: In the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking, Christian Medical College has retained last year’s ranking of 18 while Dayanand Medical College and Hospital is at 26. The NIRF takes into considerations all medical institutions such as medical colleges (private and government), postgraduate institutions and specialty medical institutions. Christian Medical College is a 125-year-old Christian minority unaided institution of all India character. Among the medical colleges, in the list the CMC is at number 13 and among the private medical colleges, it is at number 6. Jeyaraj Pandian, principal of CMCH, said, “This year our Christian Dental College also applied, and they have been ranked 18 among the dental Institutions of the country. I sincerely thank the faculty and the staff for their contribution in maintaining the rank. We will be focusing on obtaining more research grants from national and overseas funding agencies. Infrastructure development for the college will be another area that we will lay emphasis on.” Meanwhile, Dayanand Medical College, which was ranked 24 last year has slipped to 26 this year. Dr G S Wander, vice-principal of DMCH, said, “Last year, more colleges, including other central institutes which are non-medical college and post graduate medical institute had applied for the same, but this year almost all colleges applied for rankings, which is one of the reasons that the DMCH slipped to 26th ranking.” Talking about the prime reason behind the slip, Dr Wander said, “Admission criteria was one of the major factors which decided the ranking. While the DMCH followed the state admission procedure, many other colleges have the national-level admission procedure.” Meanwhile, PAU and Gadvasu are out of list. Baldev Singh Dhillon, PAU VC, said , “ No agriculture university is there and I am not aware of the reason for this development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cmch-at-18-dmch-at-26-in-nirf-rankings/articleshow/76329258.cms||Mehak Jain
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabbed to death over financial dispute||Rajkot: A man was stabbed to death allegedly by his friend over a financial dispute in Ronakigam locality of Rajkot on Wednesday night. The accused was arrested on early Thursday morning. Police said the accused, identified as Anil Jhinjhuvadia (24), had allegedly stabbed Ashok Rathod (30).“Jhinjhuvadia dealt three to four stabbing wounds in Rathod’s stomach. Rathod was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment,” said K A Vala, inspector with Gandhigram police station. Jhinjhuvadia is a divorcee, while Rathod’s wife had walked out on him. “Both were friends and used to spend time together,” added Vala. Jhinjhuvadia has been booked on the complaint of Rathod’s mother Gita Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabbed-to-death-over-financial-dispute/articleshow/76329257.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medical college docs demand DPC promotions||Ahmedabad: The medical faculty doctors with various government colleges who have been treating Covid-19 patients from the last three months, have put forward their demands to the state government. Their main demand is that they should be promoted through the direct promotions committee (DPC), a decision on which has been stuck since 2014, stated a representation made by Gujarat Medical Teachers’ Association to the government on Thursday. By doing this, as many as 400 medical teachers will get promoted, creating vacancies for as many senior doctors. This will increase the number of medical teachers at government medical colleges (GMCs), especially when the government is facing huge shortage of doctors in fighting Covid-19. GPSC exams for promotions of medical teachers have not been held for over a decade now with doctors being stuck in the same positions and pay grades for a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-college-docs-demand-dpc-promotions/articleshow/76330380.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Fishermen, hotel boys turn to agriculture after returning home||VISAKHAPATNAM: It seems migrants returning to their home towns has emerged as a boon for Andhra Pradesh. Agriculture joint director for Srikakulam district K Sridhar, on Thursday, said “There are nearly 20% more labour for the farming sector against the average of 200 labour per acre when talking about paddy.” Usually, the agriculture sector every year is hit by a shortage of farmhands primarily because local labourers migrate to cities for work. But this time, almost all daily wage workers have returned to their home towns due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “This Kharif season we have come across that people from fishermen community, construction workers and many who worked in hotels and restaurants in city have joined the agriculture sector. This is a good change,” Sridhar told TOI. A crop season usually includes several works, including nursery bed preparation, land preparation, field levelling, ploughing bund formation, seedling picking, weeding, adding fertilizers fertilisation, pesticide sprinkling, alleys formation, harvesting, and crushing. “An acre of crop at least requires 200-220 labour till the yield reaches the farmer. Each male labour is paid nearly Rs 500 per day while a female is paid around Rs 300-Rs 400 per day,” said another agriculture officer from Visakhapatnam. Speaking to TOI, a fisherman who identified himself as V Mutyalu, is a case in point. After he returned from Gujarat during the lockdown he was a worried about how he would run his household. So with the help of an agriculture labour contractor he was now going to the fields daily in his village and earns Rs 500 per day. “At present, I and preparing bunds and levelling land. It is a relief to have a paying job. Besides I get some exercise and there is the added satisfaction of working in my own village,” Mutyalu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fishermen-hotel-boys-turn-to-agri-after-returning-home/articleshow/76329279.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Board awards most grace marks since earthquake year||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board has awarded the highest ever grace marks this year, up to 21 marks, to Class 10 students to up the low results since 2001. Nearly 85,000 students have been benefited and they could make to the next academic year because of this beneficial policy, sources said. During the year of the killer quake in 2001, the Board had awarded total up to 24 grace marks to students, who failed to make up to 35 marks in subjects. The year was marked by disturbance with more than 14,000 lives lost across the state. This year, the Board has awarded up to 21 marks, and in some cases the push is in three different subjects to a student who failed to reach the minimum passing marks. Maximum grace marks were awarded in mathematics and science, yet nearly 3.5 lakh students have failed in these subjects, a Board official said. Around 10.83 lakh students appeared in the Board exams including 8,04,268 regular students. Out of the total students, 5.02 lakh, cleared the exams. And of 4,80,845 regular students, 60.64% cleared the test. The result is considered to be the lowest in last five years. But if a Board official is to be believed, not even 50% of regular students would have cleared the test, had the Board not decided to award up to 21 grace marks. “Awarding grace marks was required because the result was very low this year,” the official said and added that if the grace marks push was not given, the depleted number of students may have disastrous effect on higher secondary schools. The reason for poor performance, according to an official, was introduction of National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCRT) syllabus for class 10 students from last year. Moreover, the 50% OMR was also replaced with other questioning styles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/board-awards-most-grace-marks-since-earthquake-year/articleshow/76330381.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid patient runs away, returns||Ahmedabad: Fears are playing out differently in the minds of Covid-19 patients. A Covid positve patient made two dry runs, climbing a tree, before finally jumping over the boundary wall and escaping from the Covid care centre set up at the Samras Hostel on the GU campus. He did so after learning that his father was in a critical condition, and was on a ventilator. On Tuesday evening, 30-year-old Prakash Patni, a resident of Meghaninagar, fled from the Covid care centre. He later returned on his own volition and surrendered to Gujarat University police. An official of Gujarat University police station said, “It was revealed in primary questioning that Patni found out that his father had been put on a ventilator at SVP hospital. This instilled fear in his mind and he decided to run away from the Covid centre.” Patni began making plans to escape on learning that another patient, Samir Ansari, had climbed a tree to escape the Covid care centre on May 28, said the official. Official said Patni used the same tactic to escape. “After getting out of the Covid care centre, he did not find any transportation to go and see his father. He also had no clue as to where he ought to go. He then stayed on the footpath at Helmet Circle near the police chowky,” added the official. When he realized that he could not go anywhere, he decided to return the Covid care centre. “He had a fear that his condition would deteriorate and he would be put on a ventilator like his father,” said the officer, adding that this was what led him to flee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-patient-runs-away-returns/articleshow/76330372.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Doctor refuses to assist CID, demands CBI probe||Tirupati: CID sleuths entrusted with probing the allegations of a doctor who has accused ruling party activists of harassment, were in for a rude shock when she not only refused to cooperate with them but also demanded a CBI enquiry to prove her allegations. CID SP V Ratna said they took over the inquiry of the case from Penumuru police on June 9. “Since then we have made several attempts to meet the doctor and record her statement, but she has refused to cooperate. We first went to her place of work, and after not finding her there, went to her house. But she refused to meet us,” Ratna said. “We then spoke to her over phone, where she said she has no faith in the state police or the CID and demanded a CBI inquiry into her allegations. She also wants the government to sack deputy CM K Narayanaswamy and suspend the staff working at Penumuru PHC,” the CID SP added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/doctor-refuses-to-assist-cid-demands-cbi-probe/articleshow/76329268.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||Politics sullies corona warriors’ felicitation||Rajkot: BJP MLA from Dhrangadhra Parshottam Sabariya and former minister and veteran BJP leader Jayanti Kavadiya entered into a heated argument during a function held to honour the ‘Covid warriors’ at the Halvad government hospital in Morbi district on Thursday. They supporters also created ruckus in the hospital alleging that old BJP leaders were being ignored.Sources said that during the function a veteran BJP workers Bipin Dave was ignored by Sabariya’s men. This led to argument between the two groups. Kavadiya termed it as an insult with led to ruckus in the hospital with supporters of both the leaders hurling abuses and coming to blows.In a video of the incident, Sabariya is heard saying “I am accepted by the state leadership but in my constituency, I am not accepted by the workers.” Surendrangar member of parliament Mahendra Munjpara was also present at the function. According to sources, Sabariya and Kavadiya have been bitter political rivals since long. Kavadiya had won from Dhangadhra seat on BJP ticket in 2012 assembly election. In 2017, Sabariya contested from the seat on Congress ticket and defeated Kavadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/politics-sullies-corona-warriors-felicitation/articleshow/76329286.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM launches ‘Ariyam Kattakada’||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Thursday, inaugurated ‘Ariyam_Kattakada’, a digital map to know the nook-and-corner of the constituency. The portal ‘kattakadalac.com’ provides comprehensive details of the constituency ranging from land revenue details to public distribution centres. The website managed by Kerala State Land Use Board is the brainchild of Kattakada MLA I B Satheesh. It was developed by Mahesh A R. The portal includes details such as land, geography and public offices in the constituency. The map is created in such a way that any resident of Kattakada could be able to find the location, photos and contact of schools, hospitals, government officers, public places, essential services centre and their route map. “It is a unique initiative. The portal gives a comprehensive database of Kattakada. It will help people understand land revenue details at ward, panchayat and constituency level. Also, it would help people know about public institutions and its route map. PWD roads, bridges and ponds have been marked separately. The details regarding agriculture land and transformers are being collected for the portal,” said Satheesh. Water resources, paddy fields and information on tourist locations have also been included in the portal. Public information, population, boundary and extent of constituency and panchayats are also provided. Similarly, boundaries of each ward and information regarding land survey numbers are also mentioned. It was proposed to launch the website a few months ago, but Covid crisis delayed the work. “In the next phase, we have planned to collect details of bus stops as well. In association with KSRTC, we can even provide the timings, route and even track buses plying in Kattakada. In a similar way, availability and movement of ambulances could be added to the website. We hope that residents of Kattakada constituency would benefit from this project,” added Satheesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-launches-ariyam-kattakada/articleshow/76329281.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Three arrested for printing fake notes worth Rs 7 lakh||TRICHY: Three people were arrested for printing and hoarding counterfeit currency in Pudukottai district on Thursday. A total of Rs 7.16 lakh counterfeit currency was seized from them. The arrested have been identified as Jeyaraj, 52, Velu, 50 and Palaniappan, 53. The trio, which was involved in printing counterfeit currency was caught while making purchase using the fake notes. According to police, Jeyaraj from Pudukottai had approached a nearby shop to purchase grocery with a Rs 500 fake note on Thursday. The shopkeeper Ganesh developed suspicion after checking the note and informed the police. Jeyaraj was picked up for inquiry. During investigation, it was revealed that the trio was staying in a house in Kamarajapuram in Pudukottai town and printing the counterfeit notes. Police carried a search in the house and seized 263 notes in the denomination of Rs 2,000 and 380 notes in the denomination of Rs 500. A car and computer was also seized from the house. A senior police official said that Bashir, who is the prime accused in the case is absconding and a search is on to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-arrested-for-printing-fake-notes-worth-rs-7l/articleshow/76330284.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Hyderabad||IRDAI prescribes benefits for health policy holders||Hyderabad: In a double bonanza for health insurance policy holders, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on Thursday announced guidelines that will help people save on out-of-pocket heathcare expenditure. While the insurance regulator said health insurers can no longer bracket costs associated with pharmacy & consumables, implants & medical devices as well as diagnostics under ‘associate medical expenses’ as part of their health policies, it has also directed insurers to start including telemedicine as part of medical consultation cover in health policies after Medical Council of India (MCI) issued ‘Tele Medicine practice guidelines’ in March, that enable registered medical practitioners to provide healthcare using telemedicine. As per the modified guidelines on product filing in health insurance, IRDAI said insurers shall not recover any expenses towards proportionate deductions other than the defined ‘associate medical expenses’ while processing claims. It said insurers are not permitted to apply proportionate deduction for ‘ICU charges’ as different categories of ICU are not there. IRDAI has said the provisions of these modified guidelines are applicable to new health insurance products filed on or after October 1, 2020, and all policy contracts of existing health products not in compliance with these guidelines shall be modified as and when they are due for renewal from April 1, 2021 onwards. Bhaskar Nerurkar, head, health claims, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, said the move will reduce out-of-pocket expenses of customers and insurers will have to negotiate with their hospital networks to ensure that the increase in rates of the associate medical expenses with change in room category are in control. Terming both the moves as beneficial for customers, Shanai Ghosh, ED & CEO, Edelweiss General Insurance, said, “Earlier, if the customer opted for a room that was higher than entitled, there was proportionate deduction on associated medical charges. Now, IRDAI has advised insurers to be specific about what these medical costs would entail and that pharmacy, diagnostic, consumables and other implants, will not be included under any circumstances. IRDAI has said that there will be no deduction for ICU admission as it is a single category. For insurers, this will translate into higher claim size.”  S Prakash, managing director, Star Health and Allied Insurance, said telemedicine has emerged as a credible additional health services delivery mechanism in times of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-prescribes-benefits-for-health-policy-holders/articleshow/76330282.cms||Swati Rathor
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||28 new cases in rural Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad rural reported 28 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the number to 488 cases. Bopal, the area adjacent to Ahmedabad city, reported three new cases — one each from Amrapali Complex, Shyam Villa 2 and from Abadnagar area. The Ahmedabad rural reported three deaths on Thursday — a 70-year-old male from Dholka, one 76-year-old female from Jetalpur and a 53-year-old male from Dhadhivas in Viramgam. With these three deaths, the number of deaths in Ahmedabad rural reached 33. According to officials, the district barring Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation area has 10.85 deaths per million people against 19.60 in the state. Officials said the deaths per million figure is 21.54 in Dholka followed by 20.56 in Daskroi and 14.02 in Viramgam. The three talukas have reported the all 33 deaths. Shela, the area adjacent to Bopal, reported its second case. A 57-year-old male was tested positive in the Sky City. The first case from the area was reported in April. Of the 28 cases, the maximum nine cases were from Sanand, seven from Daskroi, five from Bavla and six from Dholka. Of the 488 cases in the district, excluding the city, 136 were reported from Dholka, 12 from Daskroi taluka, 88 from Sanand, 34 from Viramgam, 63 from Bavla, 25 from Dhandhuka, 11 from Detroj, 10 from Mandal, and one from Dholera. Of the 488 cases, 96 were under treatment in the various hospitals, while 62 were under treatment at Covid care centres, the remaining 297 were discharged and 33 died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-new-cases-in-rural-ahmedabad/articleshow/76330384.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Chennai||Virulent strain, says minister; Tamil Nadu records highest one-day toll of 23||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 23 deaths on Thursday, its highest single-day toll, as the surge in Covid-19 infections showed no signs of slowing, especially in Chennai. “The virulence is slightly different from what we saw earlier. We are seeing strains that are stronger,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The TN tally went up to 38,716 with 1,875 fresh cases, 1,405 in Chennai. The official death toll now stands at 349, but this does not include the 236 deaths in Chennai that are yet to be added to the TN count. Vijayabaskar said though 80% of patients are asymptomatic, the remaining 20% suffer acute symptoms and require ‘high flow’ oxygen supply. “We are studying various factors in all districts since it’s a new virus.” The count is increasing in other parts of the state too with only five districts — four of them in the west region — not registering fresh cases. As has been the trend so far, Chennai’s neighbours reported a high count — Chengalpet (127), Tiruvallur (72) and Kancheepuram (19) together added 218 cases. But the southern districts too reported a spike, with Madurai reporting 20 cases. Tenkasi and Thirupathur, which did not have any new cases a day ago, also reported infections. Erode, Krishnagiri, Nilgiris and Tirupur from west TN and Karur, from Central zone, had zero cases. “The number of cases is increasing rapidly. The focus for the state now is to cocoon people most vulnerable to Covid-19,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. The state tested 15,456 people in one day and found nearly 12% of them positive for the viral infection, he said. “Our village and urban health nurses are making calls to people with diabetes, hypertension, kidney and heart diseases asking people for latest test reports or inviting them to clinics for testing,” he said. Inside hospitals, the state has been redrawing plans to make provisions for more beds with oxygen supply. On Thursday, of the 1,996 patients undergoing treatment in government hospitals across the state, 168 were considered “severe” and 602 were moderate and in private hospitals, of the 1,187 admissions, 63 had severe infections and 207 had moderate. While more than 2,500 people were in Covid care centres, nearly 3,000 others were in home isolation. “We plan to add simple equipment such as pulse oxymeter to intensify monitoring and prevent complications due to hypoxia,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “We are also planning to loan or sell the devices at low cost to people in home isolation. So they can call their doctors as soon as they see the oxygen level coming down,” she said. As more senior doctors were either testing positive for the viral infection or being sent for mandatory quarantine for safety, young postgraduates, including those from the districts, were being deputed to Covid-19 wards in the city health centres and medical college hospitals to care for patients amid the increasing surge. “We are preparing handbooks, flash cards and easy to remember acronyms to help young doctors,” said Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital dean Dr P Vasanthamani. For instance, many young doctors walking into the ward on Thursday were given flash cards that read – LAMP. “It refers to the regimen – low dose heparin (blood thinner to prevent clotting), azithromycin (antibiotic with or without anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine), methylprednisolone (steroid) and prone nursing,” she said. “We told young doctors that many sick patients recover without ventilator if they follow the protocol,” she said. Another team of doctors were working on repurposed drugs such as indomethacin and doxycycline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virulent-strain-says-min-state-records-highest-1-day-toll-of-23/articleshow/76330277.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||MLA distributes vitamin syrup to 1.6 lakh people||Tirupati: Government whip and Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy distributed multivitamin syrup to 1.6 lakh people in several areas of his constituency on Thursday. He said chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed all legislators to reach out to people who are in distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “People of Chandragiri constituency have elected me twice and I have taken it upon myself the responsibility of ensuring their wellbeing. Today we distributed multivitamin syrup bottles to 1.6 lakh people to help improve their resistance levels,” he said. Throughout the lockdown period, Chevireddy reached out to people of his constituency by distributing provisions, hand sanitisers, rice bags, fruits and vegetables etc. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mla-distributes-vitamin-syrup-to-1-6-lakh-people/articleshow/76329290.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||BSF DG reviews border situation at Bhuj||Rajkot: S S Deswal, director general (DG) of the Border Security Force (BSF) arrived at Bhuj to take stock of the international border situation on Thursday. The DG chaired a meeting in which BSF officers and other civil and army officials discussed security related issues. During his two-day visit, Deswal will be visiting the international border to review the security scenario.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bsf-dg-reviews-border-situation-at-bhuj/articleshow/76329302.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Rains wash away rly tracks in Guntur div||Vijayawada: A portion of railway track on the Guntur-Guntakal section was damaged due to heavy rains that lashed Jaggambotla Krishnapuram village in Bestavaripeta mandal of Prakasam district on Thursday. The flash floods washed away the soil beneath the tracks, causing it to become unstable. Though no passenger train transits on that route, the freight trains heading in that direction had to be stopped. The electric poles adjacent to the tracks also collapsed due to the floods. The Khammam to Somidevipalle section on the route connects AP to Telangana. Railways officials said it would take several days to restore the tracks. Several areas across Prakasam, Guntur and Krishna districts also received heavy rains. The IMD has sounded an yellow and orange alert in the region, warning of heavy to very heavy rains in the next three days. Meanwhile, Vijayawada city witnessed its first monsoon rains which brought temperatures down after two months of scorching summer. The city areas registered 21mm rain. Verlapadu mandal in Krishna district received the highest 137.5 mm rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rains-wash-away-rly-tracks-in-guntur-div/articleshow/76329299.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 tally crosses 1,000 mark in Agra dist||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: The number of Covid-19 cases in west UP's "hotspot" Agra has surpassed the 1,000 mark with nine new positive cases reported in the district till Thursday evening. The district's tally is now 1,008. The new cases include a six-year-old, an 18-year-old student and an elderly health worker. Two persons also died in Agra. They included a man, 53, from Rajpur Chungi and another, 83, from Etmadulla. Both died of comorbid conditions. So far, 56 people have died here. Bareilly witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases after 19 people tested positive on Thursday. Bareilly crossed the 100 mark, with the total tally now at 107, including 67 active, 38 discharged and two deaths. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "Of these 19 cases, nine are migrants." The Covid-19 tally in Budaun rose to 53 after five fresh cases surfaced on Thursday. Shahjahanpur too reported five new cases, taking its tally to 54. In Meerut, at least 10 cases were reported, taking the tally to 565, including one found in Kanpur, and with one more death, the toll reached 42, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. Five more people tested positive in Bijnor district taking the tally to 189. Out of them, 92 are active. Also, a Delhi police constable was found positive in Shamli. Meanwhile, at least 45 people, including two policemen and 11 migrants, tested positive in Mathura in the past 48 hours, taking the district’s tally to 137.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-tally-crosses-1000-mark-in-agra-dist/articleshow/76328078.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||5 nilgais killed in Kheda village, cops seize car, gun||Ahmedabad: As many as five nilgais or blue bulls were hunted in Sastapur village in Mahudha taluka of Kheda district on Wednesday. According to a complaint filed with Mahudha police in Kheda, two of the suspects were from Ahmedabad and their car was seized by cops. Officials of Kheda police said that they suspect some people from Ahmedabad come frequently and hunt blue bulls in the area. But this time, cops gathered evidence and a case was registered. The FIR filed by Mahudha police constable Mohammed Haaris Abdul Rauf states that he along with other cops were patrolling on their beat when they got an input that some persons were hunting blue bulls in Sastapur village. The cops also got input that some persons were using a gun to kill the animals and a knife to butcher them. Cops rushed there and saw two persons with a gun and a knife. But as the cops tried to catch them, they managed to flee. On searching, police found carcasses of five nilgais in the village killed by gun. Police, however, managed to seize a country-made gun, gunpowder, a knife and the car of the accused which they abandoned while making their escape. A police official said that this was not the first time that hunting has been reported from the village. “We usually get information that some people from Ahmedabad come to Sastapur and nearby villages for hunting. But every time, they managed to escape without a trace. This time we got substantial evidence and a team of Mahudha police has now been hunting for the accused persons in Ahmedabad,” said in-charge of Mahudha police station, PSI Sajidkhan Pathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-nilgais-killed-in-kheda-village-cops-seize-car-gun/articleshow/76329683.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Rajkot||233 Indians brought back from Iran||Rajkot: As many as 233 Indian citizens, all from Gujarat, were brought back safely from Iran on Thursday.The citizens were stuck in Iran and had been brought back in INS Shardul ship at Porbandar port as part of operation 'Samudra Setu'. "All the citizens have been placed under quarantine at the port itself where they are being provided with shelter and food. Once their quarantine period is over, they will be allowed to go to their respective villages and towns," said K V Bati, nodal officer and Porbandar regional officer. "The luggage of the citizens will be sanitized. There will be a medical check-up of all the citizens and they will be quarantined at Godhania College, Atma College, Polytechnique College and Vanana Nursing College," added Bati. Rajesh Tandel, one of the fishermen who has been brought back from Iran, said, "I have been fishing in the sea off the coast of Iran for the past seven months. My family in Valsad was extremely worried about my health condition due to coronavirus. The government came to our rescue and brought us back to our country." Echoed Hasmukh Tandel, another fisherman from Valsad, "Setting my feet on the soil of Porbandar makes me feel as if I am back home again. I thank the government for its initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/233-indians-brought-back-from-iran/articleshow/76329323.cms||---
June 12, 2020||India||Phase 3 of Vande Bharat to have 432 flights from 43 nations||NEW DELHI: The government started the third phase of the Vande Bharat mission of bringing back stranded Indians from different parts of the world. Announcing this, MEA spokesperson said it would last until July 2. It would have "432 international flights from 43 countries reaching 17 States & UTs. In this phase, we also have 29 flights from private carriers - 24 IndiGo (GCC, Malaysia); three GoAir (GCC) and two Vistara (Singapore)." The government is also organising flights from six countries in Africa. Srivastava said, "As of today, 1,65,375 Indians have returned."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/phase-3-of-vande-bharat-to-have-432-flights-from-43-nations/articleshow/76331420.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Barrier wall of head sluice collapses||Trichy: The sudden collapse of a barrier wall of the bridge built on the head sluice of Peruvalai canal has created disquiet among farmers about getting water for kuruvai cultivation. The 84-year-old head sluice is located on the north bank of the Cauvery, a few hundred meter away from the Mukkombu barrage. Peruvalai canal irrigates 19,500 acres, mostly in Lalagudi block in Trichy district.  On information, PWD divisional chief engineer, Trichy, S Ramamoorthy along with executive engineer (RC division) R Baskar rushed to the spot and inspected the head sluice. When contacted, Baskar told TOI that there was no hindrance in releasing water in the canal for irrigation. “We have immediately started renovation work. Within 10 or 15 days, the entire work would be completed. Farmers need not worry about the release of water,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/barrier-wall-of-head-sluice-collapses/articleshow/76330294.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Worker killed while laying UGD pipeline||Trichy: A worker involved in underground drainage (UGD) works on Lawson’s road here was killed after he was buried under soil on Wednesday. The contractor was booked on charges of causing death by negligence. R Vijay, 23 of Thirumangalam near Lalgudi in the district, was buried alive in a 9ft deep trench dug for UGD. Vijay and two others were engaged in UGD works by corporation contractor R Ramasamy, 45, of Khajamalai in Trichy. The complaint was filed by one of the workers – R Madhan, 26 of Thiruvanaikovil in Srirangam – with the Session’s court police station. According to his complaint, Vijay, Surendrababu and he were assigned to lay UGD pipeline in the area. “Vijay and I were inside the trench. The drinking water pipeline broke and water entered the trench. The earth heaped around the trench caved in suddenly. I managed to climb up and tried to rescue Vijay, but he could not come out,” Madhan told TOI on Thursday after Vijay’s funeral. When they got him out from the trench using an earth mover he was unconscious. A 108 ambulance service that reached the spot checked his vital and declared him dead. Madhan blamed contractor Ramasamy for not implementing safety measures at the work site. “There must have been certain arrangements in place at the site to prevent the soil from caving in. Despite our repeated appeals to him, he was not bothered about safety of the workers,” he said. The Session’s court police booked Ramasamy for death by negligence. They were yet to arrest him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/worker-killed-while-laying-ugd-pipeline/articleshow/76330296.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Computer operators stir for unpaid salaries||Jaipur: Around 212 computer operators at the secretariat have not been paid salaries since the lockdown was imposed in the state. Their contracts got over on May 31 and these have not been renewed, said one of the operators. They staged a protest outside DOP joint secretary Anju Rajpal’s room on Thursday. The computer operators threatened of a bigger protest if their issue was not resolved by Monday. “We have not received our salaries from March 21 to May 31. Our contract also got over on the same day (May 31). We earned Rs 6,419 per month. At least, 15 of us staged a protest outside joint secretary’s room today (Thursday). We have been told that the file has been sent to finance department for approval,” said Jeevan Sejwal, one of the computer operators, who has six members in his family. “Now, we neither have salaries nor job to sustain ourselves. Our contract also got over on May 31. They have issued tender for 142 employees out of 212. But, the whole process will take 1.5 months to complete. We have given them an ultimatum of two days to resolve the issue. If it is not resolved in a couple of days, we will go for a bigger protest on Monday,” he added. Additional chief secretary (finance) Niranjan Kumar Arya said, “If the file has come (from DOP), we will definitely examine it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/computer-operators-stir-for-unpaid-salaries/articleshow/76330297.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Retired govt employee loses Rs 8 lakh to cybercrooks||AHMEDABAD: A retired government employee, Bharatkumar Vyas, 63, of Isanpur, lost total Rs 8,31,770 to fraudsters in two successive incidents — one of a foreign job offer in December 2019, and another in a con call to update Paytm account documents in May 2020. An FIR in the matter was registered at Isanpur police station on Wednesday. According to his statement in the FIR, Vyas retired from his government job in 2016 and holds three bank accounts and one Paytm account. In December 2019, he received an SMS from one ‘Crowley maritime shipping’ who were seeking job candidates. By making a search on the internet, Vyas found the email address hr_departmentcrowleyshipping@worker.com and applied for a job for himself and his younger son Vishal, 34, on December 19, 2019. Police said that on the very next day, Vyas received a reply stating both of them had been selected for the job and they have to send a mail attaching copies of their passports and deposit Rs 45,500 for various fees. Vyas paid the money from his bank to the account number provided. He was also asked to pay the same amount for his son’s job. However, Vyas said he didn’t have so much money and would like to proceed only for himself. The company then told him that they will offer the job to both or none and asked Vyas to take his money back. Vyas agreed. However, the company made him pay Rs 40,000 in total as visa transfer charges into two bank accounts in parts. “Again next day, the cheats sent an email telling Vyas he will have to pay Rs 25,500 and will get his money back within five hours of payment. They again asked him to pay another Rs 34,500 on another pretext which he didn’t pay. In all, the first group of cheats took Rs 1,11,000 from Vyas,” said an official of Isanpur police station. In the second incident, on May 19, 2020, Vyas received a message that validity of his Paytm documents will expire in 24 hours and he should immediately contact the helpline number given in the message. Vyas called the number and the person who responded instructed Vyas to download a screen-sharing application and convinced him to open his Paytm account and his bank account from the computer. Within minutes the cheats siphoned off Rs 3,95,374 and Rs 3,02,390 from his bank accounts and Rs 23,016 from his credit card, said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retd-govt-employee-loses-rs-8-lakh-to-cybercrooks/articleshow/76329681.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra nears one lakh with 3,607 Covid-19 cases; 152 deaths in a day||MUMBAI: The state reported a surge in Covid-19 infections and fatalities on Thursday, adding 3,607 cases and 152 deaths, both highest for a day so far. The state’s total caseload touched 97,648— overtaking Canada’s tally of 97,472— and is inching close to the one lakh mark. Its total death toll is 3,590. For the second day in a row, Mumbai reported 97 deaths, its highest for a day, taking the toll to 1,954 and close to the 2,000 mark. The city added 1,418 cases, pushing the tally to 54,085. Mumbai has added 14,400 cases and 675 deaths in the last 11 days, an average of 61 per day. In the same period, Maharashtra recorded 1,304 deaths, an average of 118 a day. It also added nearly 30,000 cases. The state now has 47,968 active cases, including 27,915 in Mumbai. Of the total 152 deaths reported in the state on Thursday, 35 are from the last two days and the other 117 are from April 1 to June 8, the state bulletin said. Union minister asks state government to increase ICU availabilityUnion minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan reviewed the situation in the state via video conferencing on Thursday and directed the state to increase ICU and ventilator availability and said special attention was to be given to pregnant women and people requiring chemotherapy and dialysis. Vulnerability mapping of densely populated areas should be done for effective containment strategy to be put in place, Vardhan said. Of the total 152 deaths reported in the state on Thursday, 35 are from the last two days and the other 117 are from April 1 to June 8, the state bulletin said. Civic officials said that of the 97 deaths recorded in the city, 43 had taken place before June 7. Out of the deceased, 65 patients had co-morbidities. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said delay in coming to hospitals was resulting in deaths as well. He also denied that there were not enough ICU beds. “We have over 7,000-plus oxygen beds, and the occupancy is around 70%,” he said. The BMC also claimed the growth rate of Covid cases in the city was 3%. However, there are individual wards where the growth is double of that. Meanwhile, in Thane, 8 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Thursday, taking the toll there to 145. With 170 new cases, Thane city’s tally of cases breached the 4,500 mark. Of the 8 fatalities, three were reported to have succumbed at home while the others died while under medical attention at hospitals. 195 cases were reported from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Thursday, taking the overall count there to 3,414. Six deaths were also reported from NMMC areas on Thursday, taking the toll there to 107. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area reported 44 cases, taking the total number in the area to 861, while 36 deaths have been reported. Panvel taluka rural area has reported seven new cases, taking the total to 267. No new case has been reported from Uran taluka. State health minister Rajesh Tope said as on Thursday, 95 testing labs were operational in the state, which meant the state has added one per day. Of these, 54 are government and 41 private labs, and 6.09 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. The positivity rate in Maharashtra was 16%. He added that the rate of discharge too was steadily going up and was 47.2% on Thursday, with a total of 46,078 people discharged so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-nears-1l-with-3607-cases-152-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/76330779.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Monsoon late in Mumbai, 100-year record rain in Parbhani||MUMBAI: Mumbai missed its official date for the monsoon onset (June 11), but the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday announced the arrival of southwest monsoon over Maharashtra. This coincided with drought-prone Parbhani in Marathwada receiving a record 190mm rain in 24 hours, becoming the wettest spot in the country on Thursday and crossing its monthly rainfall quota for June in one day. The last time Parbhani received so much rain was over a century ago: in June 1914 Parbhani had recorded 401.3mm rain in 24 hours. Officials said conditions were favourable for further advancement of monsoon into more parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, in 48 hours. An orange alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for June 14, indicating heavy to very heavy rain at few places. Between June 10 and 11 (8.30am-8.30am), light rainfall was recorded by IMD Colaba (5.6mm) and Santacruz (1.1mm). The southwest monsoon advanced into more parts of central Arabian sea, Goa, parts of Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada on Thursday. "With morth westward movement of low pressure system, enhanced rainfall is expected over west coast, including Mumbai, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha in 2-3 days," said an IMD official. Thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning and gusty wind with speed of 30-40kmph at isolated places is likely on Friday. The city reported above normal rainfall, accompanied by severe cyclonic storm Nisarga last week. Rain reported since June 1 at Colaba and Santacruz was 211mm and 186.7mm, which was 118.3mm and 89.1mm above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-monsoon-late-in-mumbai-100-year-record-rain-in-parbhani/articleshow/76331423.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Trichy||Ethiopian Air brings 75 Indians from Africa||Trichy: An Ethopian Airlines rescue flight carrying 75 Indians, stranded in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Addis Ababa in Ethiopia due to the lockdown, landed at the Trichy International Airport at 9.40am on Thursday. The rescue service by Ethiopian Airlines was the first flight from another continent to arrive at the Trichy airport. A total of 52 Tamils, including 15 children and 23 from Gujarat, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka and Puducherry heaved a sigh of relief after touchdown. Tamils, who returned were working as teachers, labourers and in other fields. All of them were being brought under screening at the airport by workers from the district health department. Passengers from Trichy have been sent to quarantine facility and hotels. District collector S Sivarasu oversaw the entire process before they were sent off to their respective destinations. Meanwhile, 179 passengers landed at the Trichy airport on Wednesday evening by and Air India Express from Singapore under the Vande Bharat Mission. Of them, 148 passengers hail from the central region, including 21 from Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ethiopian-air-brings-75-indians-from-africa/articleshow/76330298.cms||---
June 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajya Sabha elections: MLAs shifted to Jaipur resort as part of abundant caution||JAIPUR: The Congress MLAs and Independents backing the government have been shifted to a Jaipur resort as part of ‘abundant caution’ by the ruling party against the alleged poaching attempt ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections. The MLAs were asked to reach Jaipur by 5pm for a meeting on Thursday, but the proposed meeting has been postponed for Friday. Party chief whip Mahesh Joshi said the meeting of the MLAs with the party central leaders has been postponed for Friday due to the delay in the arrival of party general secretary organisation and candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat K C Venugopal. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Thursday asserted that the Congress in the state is united and both the party candidates will win with overwhelming majority. “Before every election, some people try to create confusion. But ultimately the ground reality prevails. The reality is that the Congress party has the numbers. Besides the party has the support of Independents and other parties,” he said. He alleged that ‘some parties or persons are trying to create an impression that there is factional feud within the party, but I assure that all MLAs and workers are united. He said once the AICC and Sonia Gandhi decided on the candidate, there is no question of dispute over the decision.” Political observers view it as a veiled attack on the CM. Joshi, while talking to TOI, said, “The MLAs will stay in the Jaipur resort till the Rajya Sabha election on June 19 and if any MLA wanted to leave for any personal reasons could do so only after getting permission from the chief minister.” The ruling party MLAs were called for an emergency meeting on Wednesday after the chief minister alleged that the MLAs were given lucrative offers by the BJP. Gehlot said there were reports that some of the party MLAs were offered Rs 25 crore in cash with Rs 5 to Rs 10 crore in advance. AICC general secretary incharge of the state Avinash Pande, who reached Jaipur on Thursday, said, “They (MLAs) themselves felt that we should all be together and remain at one place.” The BJP, however, denied the charge of ‘operation lotus’ in Rajasthan. Joshi, who had filed a complaint with the ACB against some people trying to destabilize the government, asked, “I had not named the BJP in my complaint, why are they connecting the issue with it.” AICC secretary Vivek Bansal said a couple of MLAs admitted that they had received offers. But he did not disclose the names. He said the shifting of MLAs to the resort is on the side of ‘caution’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-shifted-to-jaipur-resort-as-part-of-abundant-caution/articleshow/76330308.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 12, 2020||Pune||PCMC areas recorded 800 of total 1k cases in last 30 days||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Of the total 1,003 Covid-19 cases in PCMC limits, over 800 were recorded in the last 30 days, which civic officials have attributed to lockdown relaxations. As per the data provided by the health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), the twin city had 177 positive cases on May 10, which increased to 1,003 June 10. “Ease in relaxations in the fourth lockdown is one of the major factors that has shown steady rise in the coronavirus cases. The slum areas with dense population and narrow lanes have become major hotspots for the fresh cases,” additional commissioner of PCMC Santosh Patil told TOI. He said areas like Anandnagar, Bhatnagar and Boudhnagar were some of the major hotspots showing steady emergence of fresh cases. “We need people’s cooperation from these and other areas to contain the contagion. Strict discipline when it comes to social distancing and personal hygiene is necessary and needs to be practised by the residents,” Patil said. He said Pimpri Chinchwad’s first case with an international travel history was identified on March 11. While the following cases too had travel history, the ones being recorded now are from the densely populated areas, which is creating a challenge. Patil said they had ample facilities when it came to bed availability in corporation-run hospitals. The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital has around 550 beds available at present. The beds from private hospitals are available as well, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-areas-recorded-800-of-total-1k-cases-in-last-30-days/articleshow/76330300.cms||Piyush Bhusari
