June 13, 2020||World||Donald Trump says he will 'do other things' if he loses 2020 election||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said he will go on to other things if he loses the Nov. 3 election, after Democratic opponent Joe Biden said the Republican might cheat and refuse to leave the White House. "Certainly if I don't win, I don't win. I mean, you know, go on and do other things," Trump told Fox News Channel in a television interview broadcast on Friday. As the race between Trump and Biden heats up ahead of the election, the two have increasingly asserted that the other side intends to cheat their way to victory. Biden, who is leading Trump in most national polls, earlier this week said his greatest concern was that Trump would try to "steal" the election, though the former vice president did not elaborate on how he thought Trump might cheat. Biden said he is confident soldiers would escort Trump from the White House if he loses and does not recognize the result. Trump's comment to Fox News suggested he could accept the election result but the president did not specifically say so. Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh on Thursday said Trump would accept the result. ? Trump has accused Democrats of aiming to use an increase in mail-in voting as a venue for rigging the election, while Biden has pledged to deploy lawyers to polling stations across the country to look out for Republican efforts to suppress the vote. Election experts and officials are bracing for a potentially tumultuous election night. A surge in mail-in voting is expected due to concerns over the coronavirus pandemic, and experts warn the process could be marred by chaos of the type already seen in primary elections held in states during the viral outbreak. Large numbers of mail ballots not delivered in time to be cast or counted could lead to legal challenges over election results. Counting mail ballots also takes more time because a voter’s identity must first be validated, raising the prospect that the election outcome will not be known well past Election Day, experts say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trump-says-he-will-do-other-things-if-he-loses-2020-election/articleshow/76348823.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||#BooksForLife: College Street comes home, thanks to these cycling enthusiasts||Fitness enthusiasts, good Samaritans, book lovers — a combination of all three, some city residents are cycling their way into bibliophiles' hearts. Ever since the lockdown began, tour cyclist Arghya Mondal and 14 of his friends have been delivering medicines and other essentials to the elderly and ailing residents of Kolkata. And now, with the easing of the lockdown, their focus has shifted to delivering books from College Street — where business has taken a severe hit by the double whammy of lockdown and Cyclone Amphan — to avid readers in every nook and corner of the city. “It’s heartbreaking that books are not listed under essential commodities in our state, unlike Kerala. We were first approached by Guruchandali publishing house last month. After that, as the lockdown started phasing out, several other publishers, including Dhyanbindu, reached out to us. As of today, I’ve made almost 50 deliveries. The number is going up steadily,” Arghya told us. The initiative has come as a boon to several publishers, who have temporarily stopped selling books over the counter. “First the pandemic scare and then Amphan, our business is facing the most excruciating crisis of our lifetime. Though we have started operating from our College Street outlet, over the counter transactions are currently off,” said Avik Bandyopadhyay of Dhyanbindu, who is receiving orders from different parts of the city through social media. “These cycle messengers are helping us deliver books to our readers from Behala to Rajarhat and from Sonarpur to Barasat. Not just our own publications, we get orders of different fiction and non-fiction books too,” he added. While some members of the cycling squad have high-speed bikes, the rest have ordinary cycles. But all of them follow safety norms and wear masks at all times. They do not enter gated communities and maintain social distancing at the time of delivery. Most of them are practicing cyclists, but some belong to other professions too. For Dwaipayan of Nager Bazar, who runs a theatre group called Bisargo Theatre, it all started as a temporary work after lockdown was imposed. “We are trying to make a robust chain so that we can reach out to more readers,” he said. Nibedita Mukherjee, a Master’s student of Vishwa-Bharati, has also joined the delivery chain. “I have been cycling for ages in and outside the city. So far, I have delivered around 18 book consignments. Right now, I am delivering in north Kolkata, including Dum Dum. Recently, I made a delivery in Barasat,” Dwaipayan added. The cyclists charge a nominal delivery fee, based on what the publishers can offer. “It is almost as much as courier charges. But soon we will have a well laid out fee structure,” said Arghya, who thinks this initiative can help people earn a living at a time many have been rendered jobless. “Book delivery is currently a small business model, which we would like to expand in future,” he added. College Street sees a digital tiltThe lockdown has made traditional key players of boipara realise the importance of digitisation. Following in the footsteps of online bookstores like Boichoi and Boighor, traditional publishers are now revamping their digital presence. While online selling is the focus for some, several publications, including Patra Bharati, are also focusing on audiobooks and ebooks. “While the available range is low, the traction of our audiobooks has gone up during the lockdown,” said Esha Chatterjee from Patra Bharati. These cyclists are doing great work: TarundaTarun Kumar Shaw aka Tarunda, who has been home-delivering books to readers on his scooter for over three decades, has lauded their efforts. “I live in central Kolkata, which was a containment zone for a long time. I could only start delivering by the end of May. Besides, no foreign publications are reaching here due to the flight ban. While I have started delivering books and magazines now, the volume has taken a hit. I hope the demand goes up. I really appreciate the initiative of delivering books on bicycles. Reaching out to the readers is a wonderful feeling,” he told us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/booksforlife-college-street-comes-home-thanks-to-these-cycling-enthusiasts/articleshow/76348871.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
June 13, 2020||Delhi||From disinfecting clothes to contactless shopping, apparel shops follow safety measures post lockdown||As India prepares for the new normal with Unlock 1.0, apparel stores, too, are making a comeback, with several brands opening stores after obtaining necessary permissions from authorities. These stores are putting in place a slew of measures to ensure social distancing and adequate sanitation measures. Mandatory Masks and thermal screening at storesThe store manager of a Louis Phillippe outlet that is yet to reopen tells us, “Buying clothes requires personal contact with the product. In most cases, people try the clothes on. So yes, there’ll be greater apprehension among people when it comes to buying clothes, and that’s why we need to go the extra mile in reassuring them that it’s safe to return.” Some measures taken by stores include mandatory thermal screening, wearing masks and ensuring social distancing is maintained. In addition, clothes and common areas such as escalators and cash counters are being regularly disinfected. Mandatory masks, thermal screening are few safety measuresAcrylic shields at cash counters Stores are pushing for contactless shopping, wherein a customer does not need to interact with any attendants. “We are trying to minimise direct contact between shoppers and attendants to maintain social distancing. However, attendants will be present and ready to assist if a shopper requires,” says a salesperson at an H&M store in Delhi. Similarly, Uniqlo has made using sanitisers mandatory before handling the shopping basket, apart from thermal screening and sanitisation at the entrance, and have put acrylic shields at cash counters to maintain social distancing. Cash counter at an apparel shop being disinfected after a transactionProtective gear for staffFor luxury brands, having personal attendants for their clientele is a must. So, they are ensuring the staff is wearing protective gear. Surya Suri, Director, Steele Collection, says, “We are leaving no stone unturned to make sure our customers receive the highest levels of satisfaction in terms of our products as well as safety measures.” The brand has distributed protective gear among its employees, and is conducting regular sanitisation and temperature checks. Disinfecting trial rooms between useThough using trial rooms is not allowed as per government guidelines, stores are preparing for the time when these will be allowed. Most stores will open up only half of their trial rooms. Ramesh, who works at a Lifestyle store in Delhi, says, “When trial rooms are allowed to reopen, each room will be sanitised and disinfected between use. In addition, each garment tried on by shoppers will be disinfected before being put back on the shelves.” Other brands are taking similar measures. Measures undertaken by apparel stores to ensure safety post-lockdown Watch How apparel shops are ensuring safety in post-COVID world||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-disinfecting-clothes-to-contactless-shopping-apparel-shops-follow-safety-measures-post-lockdown/articleshow/76341985.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
June 13, 2020||World||Coronavirus hitting the Americas hardest, says World Health Organization||ZURICH/GENEVA: The Americas are bearing the brunt of the global coronavirus pandemic at present, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday, with North and South America currently having four of the 10 worst hit countries in the world. The disease was "highly active" in Central and South America, the WHO's top emergency expert Mike Ryan said, highlighting problems in Brazil and Mexico. The current situation in Brazil, now one of the global hot-spots for the virus, was of increasing concern especially in heavily-populated cities, he told a press conference. The country's health system was "still coping", although some intensive care units were at a critical stage and under heavy pressure with more than 90% bed occupancy rates, Ryan said. Mexico meanwhile has nearly 130,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19, and more than 15,000 deaths, the WHO said. Brazil is the second worst hit country in the world, with more than 800,000 cases and 41,000 deaths, according to a Reuters tally. Both countries lag behind the United States, the worst hit country, which has had more than 2 million cases and nearly 114,000 deaths. "We are very much in the upswing of this pandemic, particularly in the global South," Ryan said. "Some countries are having trouble exiting of the so-called lockdowns as they are seeing an increase in cases." It was possible the disease was spreading again as societies reopened and people began meeting again, especially when there was inadequate testing and social distancing was insufficient. Still, he acknowledged the pressures on countries to get back to normal especially to reduce the economic damage the crisis has wrought. "There is a careful balance between keeping people at home... and the untoward effect of that on economic and society. That is not an easy balance. There are no correct answers," Ryan said. Ryan said that although some countries appeared to be over the worst of the virus, clusters of the disease were still occurring. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Gheybreyesus said that vigilance was required worldwide against the "very dangerous virus" even in regions where it appeared to be on the wane. "Our fear is although it is declining in Europe it is increasing in other parts of the world. Even Europe cannot be safe because the virus can be reintroduced to Europe," he said. Tedros was also firm on the need for any vaccines had to be shared fairly between countries, amid concerns some could hoard any drugs they develop. Vaccines should be made available as a global public good, to ensure everyone had fair access to any life-saving products that are developed, Tedros said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/coronavirus-hitting-the-americas-hardest-says-world-health-organization/articleshow/76349196.cms||---
June 13, 2020||India||India's Covid count tops 3 lakh as fresh cases hit new peak||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic in India crossed another sombre milepost of 3 lakh cases even as fresh infections zoomed to a new record of 11,775 on Friday, while the death toll grew by 389 to 8,886. The coronavirus count in the worst-hit state of Maharashtra also topped 1 lakh during the day, adding another grim statistic in the western state that has so far accounted for a third of India's cases and nearly 42% of deaths. Friday was the second straight day when the tally of new cases topped 11,000, putting India in the third place after Brazil and the US in the list of countries currently with the highest daily caseloads. On Thursday, 11,442 positive cases were recorded. With this, Covid-19 cases reported by India rose to 3,09,360, as per data from state governments. It took just 10 days for the count to hit 3 lakh after crossing the 2 lakh mark on June 2. The growth rate of the infection, however, reduced from 4.5% to 4% during this period, mainly because of the rising base of cases. While Maharashtra again accounted for the highest count of new cases at 3,493 - the second-highest in the state after Thursday's peak of 3,607 - it was the massive surge in infections in Delhi that was the latest cause for worry. The capital reported 2,137 fresh cases, breaching the 2,000 mark for the first time. Delhi on Friday also became the first state in over a month to report a higher daily death toll than Maharashtra. It reported 129 fatalities, higher than 127 by Maharashtra. The total tally of the infection in Delhi was now 36,824. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 had risen to 1,214, the third-highest after Maharashtra (3,717) and Gujarat (1,416). More worryingly, data shows that 741 (61%) deaths have been reported in the state in the last 12 days, from June 1 to June 12. In March, April and May, Delhi reported 2, 57 and 414 Covid-19 fatalities respectively. Meanwhile, adding 366 Covid-19 cases, Haryana crossed the 6,000-mark on Friday, the 11th state in the country to do so. It took 93 days for Haryana to get to its first 3,000 cases. For the next 3,000, it took seven days. Gurgaon, with 2,922 cases, alone accounts for 46% of these cases. The surge is in keeping with the national trend, only much sharper in Haryana. In Tamil Nadu, another state where infections are raging, hospitals in Chennai have begun to put low-risk patients on the waitlist for admission. The city recorded 1,479 of the 1,982 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu that took the state tally past 40,000. Eighteen deaths were also reported. The doubling period – time taken for infections to double – is now 14 days for Tamil Nadu and 13 days for Chennai. Of the 18,281 active cases in the state, Chennai is treating 13,906 and hospitals are stretched. Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 chart recorded its highest single-day spike with 538 cases on Friday, pushing the overall score to beyond 12,700-mark. Of the new cases, Gautam Budh Nagar accounted for a maximum of 76 entries which is also maximum in a single day for the district, taking the total to 864, including 379 active cases. The neighbouring Ghaziabad recorded 27 cases taking the total to 581. Watch TOI Daily: India's Covid-19 count tops 3 lakh as fresh cases hit new peak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-tops-3-lakh-as-fresh-cases-hit-new-peak/articleshow/76349412.cms||---
June 13, 2020||India||SC tears into Delhi govt for ‘deplorable’ state of hospitals||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday tore into the Delhi government for the pathetic condition of government hospitals, citing low number of daily tests, improper treatment of Covid-19 patients, undignified handling of dead patients' bodies and denial of salaries to doctors to question the government's claims about its preparedness to fight the pandemic. The court was particularly upset about the "deplorable" condition of hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, making a specific mention of images from Delhi's LNJP Hospital. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah said, "We are more concerned with the living than the dead. Look at the pathetic condition in the hospitals. Bodies are there in the ward where patients are getting treated. The undignified manner in which bodies are handled, dumped... They are being treated worse than animals. And why is testing so low in Delhi? Mumbai and Chennai are testing 16,000 to 17,000 whereas in Delhi, it is falling below 7,000. Media has highlighted this issue." The court said besides Delhi, the situation was grim in Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal and issued notices to the chief secretaries of the four states and ordered them to file status reports on treatment status and preparedness by Wednesday. A separate notice was issued to Delhi's LNJP Hospital for a separate status report, given its "deplorable condition". "We direct that chief secretaries of the states shall immediately take appropriate notice of the status of patients' management in government hospitals in their respective states and take remedial action. Status reports with regard to government hospitals, patient care and details of staff, infrastructure etc should be brought before the court so that appropriate directions can be issued by the court on the next date of hearing," the bench said. Referring to a series of media reports depicting the depressing and deplorable state of affairs in Delhi's government hospitals, the bench said, "Patients are in the wards and dead bodies are also in the same wards. Dead bodies are seen also in the lobby and waiting area. Patients were not supplied with any oxygen support or any other support, no saline drips were shown with the beds and there was no one to attend to the patients. Patients are crying and there is no one to attend to them." When the bench took strong exception to bodies lying unattended or getting dumped, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Centre, as far back as March 15, had issued 'Covid-19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management', which were in the nature of directives. The SC said, "We notice that there is no proper adherence to the guidelines, nor are hospitals giving due care and concern to dead bodies. Close relatives of patients are not informed for several days about details of cremation, as to when the body will be cremated due to which families of patients are not even able to see the bodies or attend their last rites." Turning its focus on Delhi and the gap in the state government's claims about the number of beds and those actually available, the bench said, "This is the condition of a government hospital of Delhi, which has a capacity of 2,000 beds. As per the government app, only 870 beds were occupied in LNJP Hospital as on June 11. The government app itself gives details of beds occupied in government and private hospitals in Delhi. In government hospitals, the number of beds is 5,814, out of which 2,620 are occupied." "The (media) reports also indicate that patients suffering from Covid-19 are running from pillar to post to get admission in hospitals whereas a large number of beds are lying vacant in government hospitals. The large number of beds in government Covid hospitals being vacant in a situation where patients suspected of Covid-19 are running from pillar to post to get admission in any hospital tells about the mismanagement and sorry state of government hospitals in Delhi. "The state is not only duty bound to increase the number of beds but also to provide appropriate infrastructure and staff to attend to Covid-19 patients. The pathetic condition of patients and improper care and treatment of patients shown by the media has pained this court. The state, on whom the duty lies to take care of the health of its citizens, cannot abdicate its responsibility of ensuring that all hospitals including government hospitals take care of Covid-19 patients." Criticising the publicity resorted to daily by the AAP government on steps taken to increase bed capacity in Delhi for Covid-19 patients, the bench said, "The duty of the state of NCT Delhi does not end in informing people that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds in private hospitals. The state and its officers are also duty bound to ensure that patients are taken care of, attended to, provided all medical facilities, (and ensure that) the hospitals have necessary infrastructure and staff." The Delhi government also drew flak for not being able to increase the number of tests conducted to identify Covid-19 patients. "We have also noticed that the government app of Delhi itself indicates that the number in testing of Covid-19 patients has gone down in the month of June as compared to the month of May. On May 27, the number of samples tested was 6,018, on June 9, the number was 4,670, on June 11, the total testing in Delhi was reported as 5,077," it said. In contrast, Maharashtra carried out 16,000 tests daily and Tamil Nadu 17,675. The bench said when the number of patients was spiralling, it did not understand why tests have gone down in NCT Delhi. “Non-testing of patients is not a solution to the problem, rather increase in testing facility is the duty of the state, so that people may come to know about their health status regarding Covid-19 and they may take appropriate care and treatment," the bench said. "We impress upon states to ensure that there should be a steep increase in testing, both by government hospitals and private labs, and whosoever desires for testing should not be denied on any technical ground or any other ground. The states may consider simplifying the procedure so that more and more tests be held to benefit the patients." Watch 'Covid-19 situation horrendous; dead bodies not only in wards, but also in lobby and waiting areas'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-tears-into-delhi-govt-for-deplorable-state-of-hospitals/articleshow/76349717.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 13, 2020||India||Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu rule out another lockdown||NEW DELHI: Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and the National Capital Territory of Delhi announced on Friday that there would be no reimposition of the lockdown. The statements came in response to wide speculation that there would another shutdown from June 15 due to the unabating growth of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday there was no plan to reimpose a lockdown from June 15. The CMO tweeted an appeal not to believe in rumours after a spate of messages flooded social media sites speculating that a total lockdown would be enforced in Maharashtra due to the rising number of novel coronavirus cases. In Pune, state health minister Rajesh Tope said it was time people learned to live with Covid-19 by abiding by government instructions rather than having a complete lockdown. With the state having touched 1 lakh positive cases on Thursday, the health minister told TOI there were only 47,980 active cases while an equal number of affected patients had been cured and discharged. In Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain officially rejected the possibility and stated in clear terms that “the lockdown in Delhi will no longer be extended”. Till June 1, Delhi had 20,834 Covid cases and 523 deaths. As of Friday, a total of 36,824 people in Delhi had been infected (including recoveries) and the number of deaths rose to 1,214. The capital had witnessed 1,877 Covid cases in one day on Thursday, leading to speculation that the government may order another lockdown. The TN government informed the Madras high court that it had no plans for now to completely lock down Chennai or any other part of the state. Separately, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami denied a social media post attributing an announcement of a new lockdown to him, saying, “A message circulating on social media with my photo is a false one. Criminal action will be taken against people who circulate the false message.” Earlier in the day, additional advocate-general of Tamil Nadu S R Rajagopal told a Madras HC division bench: “Cases are increasing in Chennai. We have taken stringent steps to contain the spread. But so far, there is no proposal to implement 100% lockdown. We are containing streets where cases are high by restricting movement of people.” To this, the bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar asked whether reports of people being denied permission to move out of Chennai and about authorities denying e-passes were true. “All such reports are rumours. We are issuing e-passes. District collectors concerned are issuing such passes,” Rajagopal said. In Delhi, the health minister said banquet halls, community halls and stadiums were being prepared to house patients for Covid treatment. “A total of 80% beds in Covid-dedicated Delhi government hospitals are oxygen beds, and we are also preparing oxygen beds in non-dedicated Covid hospitals of the Delhi government,” Jain said. The Maharashtra CM appealed to people to maintain social distancing and refrain from crowding. “News such as these create confusion in society, forwarding and posting these kinds of false reports on social media is a crime,” Thackeray said in response to speculation about a further lockdown. Health minister Tope said that in Mumbai 500 more ICU beds would soon be added and that a help desk at every private hospital would address refusal of admission and increased charges. The main challenge is to bring down the mortality rate. Death audit reports across almost all districts of Maharashtra clearly indicate that comorbidity is the main reason. "As of now our death rate is 3% percent,” said the minister, adding that “less than 1% of deaths were due purely to Covid-19” and that the remaining were due to comorbidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-rule-out-another-lockdown/articleshow/76349856.cms||---
June 13, 2020||India||Shunned by Covid-scared hospitals, woman dies days after losing newborn twins||DEHRADUN: A 24-year-old woman who needed urgent medical attention due to complications in her pregnancy but was told by a hospital to come after two months died days after giving birth to twins as four more hospitals she went to later turned her away suspecting her to be a Covid-19 carrier. The woman was finally admitted to a fifth hospital after a local MLA intervened, but she died on Thursday, two days after giving birth to the babies in the seventh month of her pregnancy. The Uttarakhand health secretary, chief medical officer and the district magistrate have ordered three separate inquiries into the incident. Kamlesh Saini, who cremated his wife, Sudha, on Friday said they had gone to a government hospital on Monday when his wife first complained of pain in the stomach. “The hospital told us to come back when she completes nine months of her pregnancy and said that she was anaemic and must be administered blood. They didn’t even examine her properly.” A day later, Sudha gave birth to twins, who died just hours later. Her health then got worse. On Thursday, the couple was turned away by several hospitals as the woman was running a temperature. “I took her to two government hospitals and two private hospitals but all of them refused to admit her, claiming that she had high temperature and could be a Covid-19 patient,” said Saini, who does odd jobs here and there to make a living. After the victim’s family managed to contact Cantt MLA Harbans Kapoor on Thursday evening, the woman was admitted to a government hospital. She died two hours later in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). “How can government hospitals turn her away when she was in a critical condition? A departmental inquiry has been ordered in the matter,” said Dehradun CMO D C Ramola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shunned-by-covid-scared-hospitals-woman-dies-days-after-losing-newborn-twins/articleshow/76350023.cms||---
June 13, 2020||India||It’s a war on corona, don’t upset warriors, pay docs salaries: SC||NEW DELHI: “It is a kind of war (against Covid-19). You do not dissatisfy soldiers during a war. So, travel the extra mile to make the corona warriors feel secure,” the Supreme Court said on Friday after complaints from doctors about lack of proper lodging and quarantine facilities and non-payment of salaries, both in government and private healthcare sectors. A PIL by a doctor, Arushi Jain, questioned the rationale behind the new quarantine rules for doctors and healthcare workers. Senior advocate K V Vishwanath said the new rules provided for institutional quarantine facilities for those with high risk exposure while treating Covid-19 patients and the rest were asked to undergo home quarantine. He said doctors and healthcare workers treating Covid-19 patients could not take the risk of going back to their families for fear of getting them infected. The petitioner, through Mithu Jain, had also said that the government must provide proper lodging near the place of work so that health workers could keep their family members safe. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah told solicitor general Tushar Mehta that in a war-like situation, it would be counter-productive to keep corona warriors dissatisfied. “It has come in newspaper reports that many doctors are not paid salaries. In some places, doctors are on strike. You cannot be disrespecting soldiers." The court further said, “In Delhi, doctors are not paid salaries. This issue should not engage courts. You (the government) should do it. It is a matter of concern. You should do something to mitigate the concern of doctors and health workers. If the corona warriors become half-hearted in their approach while treating Covid-19 patients, what will happen?" The SG agreed and said doctors and health workers were precious assets during the pandemic. He assured the court that the petitioner’s suggestions would be placed before the ICMR director general.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-a-war-on-corona-dont-upset-warriors-pay-docs-salaries-sc/articleshow/76350131.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||Bootlegger, four aides get life term for murdering cop in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A bootlegger and four of his associates were sentenced on Friday to life imprisonment for the murder of a policeman in Devnagar on Kuvadava Road in Rajkot in 2013. According to the details of the case, Haka Bhakhodia, the bootlegger, and his aides - Pravin Koli, Ranjeet Koli, Bhavesh Koli and Vanraj Koli - had stabbed Pramod Awadhvasi (35), a constable with Kuwadava Road police station on March 27, 2013. Awadhvasi was murdered as he he had gone to raid Bhakhodia premises after getting information about liquor trade. After killing him, the accused dragged his body to the roadside on Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway and dumped his motorcycle too near the body to make it look like an accident. All the accused were arrested on March 28 after the blood trail from Awadhvasi’s body led the investigators to the house of the bootlegger, said public prosecutor Smita Atri. “They found blood splattered on the floor. Also found were the blood-stained clothes of the accused which they had failed to dispose. When Bhakhodia and the co-accused were arrested, they confessed to the crime,” said Atri. On March 27 evening, Awadhvasi had told his colleague Dahya Sura that he was going to conduct a liquor raid in Devnagar as he had received a tip-off. On the same day night, Sura received a message about Awadhvasi’s body lying by the roadside of Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway in a pool of blood. The Rajkot additional sessions judge court pronounced the judgement after taking into record 42 witnesses, 100 documentary evidences and circumstantial evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-bootlegger-four-aides-get-life-term-for-murdering-cop/articleshow/76348101.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||Opposition divided on imposing lockdown again||PATNA: As the number of coronavirus cases has been increasing in Bihar and Jharkhand, Congress has demanded strict restrictions in the two states. Congress is a partner in Jharkhand government. “Bihar needs complete lockdown. After Unlock 5.0, there is a feeling that there is no need to fear as coronavirus has gone. In Bihar, even the health infrastructure is poor and the problem will further increase. Government has to rethink now, because we are already in community spread stage though the government will never accept this,” said Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. He demanded more Covid-19 tests in state. Opposition RJD also demanded more tests and accused the government of hiding the actual figures. However, unlike Congress, it said complete lockdown was no solution as it will hamper the economy and daily wage earners. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari, instead, suggested the state government to enhance health infrastructure and increase ICU capacity to fight coronavirus. “Even Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal once boasted of his preparations to tackle Covid-19. But look at the situation there today. They are running short of beds now. Bihar government should start preparing for extra beds and ventilators,” Tiwari said. He said even though people were told to follow social distancing norms, it was practically not possible. “How can people living in slum and small shanty follow social distancing norm,” he added. RLSP national secretary general and spokesperson Fazal Imam Mallick said the government should be stricter as people are coming out in large number in public places and many without masks after Unlock 5.0. “Both lockdown and unlocking were done in an unplanned manner. Opening all the markets and shops without time restrictions is not safe. State government should rethink as cases are multiplying fast. Shops and markets should be opened on alternate day and for certain period,” said Fazal. He accused the government of intentionally leaving everyone free to roam because of election. “Elections can be held only when people will survive. The priority now should be saving life and an all-party meet should be called to discuss this issue,” he said. While opposition parties blamed the state government for failing to tackle the situation, ruling JD(U) and BJP said the situation was being monitored on a daily basis. “There are relaxations as well as restrictions in different sectors. CM Nitish Kumar is himself monitoring it. There are restrictions in containment zones. Government will take whatever necessary measures are required as per the need. But we cannot go back to lockdown days,” said JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad. BPJ spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “State government is taking necessary steps to check the coronavirus spread. But at the same time, we request political parties not to create panic among masses by playing petty politics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-divided-on-imposing-lockdown-again/articleshow/76346513.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Armed men loot Rs 7L from Gill Road office||Times News Network Ludhiana: Four masked miscreants looted Rs 7 lakh from an industrialist’s office on busy Gill Road around 2pm on Friday.They struck minutes after a man reached there to make a payment of Rs 5.28 lakh.Police said at the time, there were three men in the office — Tejwant Singh and Bahadur Singh, both employees, and Nirmal Singh, who had come to give the cash.As the office was locked from inside, one of the robbers posed as a courier and knocked on the door. He was carrying a parcel and his face was covered with a handkerchief. As soon as he entered the office, his three accomplices barged in. They were wearing helmets. While one of them was armed with a pistol, another had a sharp-edged weapon.Deputy commissioner of police (detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said, “The four accused came on two bikes. They brandished a pistol and asked for money. When Tejwant refused to give any, they tied the trio with ropes. They were escaping with Rs 1.72 lakh kept in the drawer when one of them saw a polyethene bag kept on the table. It had the cash Nirmal brought. The accused took that along, too. CCTVs installed in the office and the area have captured the accused.” After the robbers left, the trio managed to free themselves and raised the alarm.“Tejwant said they kept the office locked from inside as on November 8, 2019, four suspicious-looking men had tried to gain entry,” the ADCP added.The office is owned by Happy Gupta. He runs a factory in Focal Point and collects payments at the Gill Road office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/armed-men-loot-rs-7l-from-gill-road-office/articleshow/76347119.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Surat||SMC shuts seven diamond units||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday shut down seven diamond polishing units from where Covid-19 cases were reported, following the eleven cases reported from the units in Katargam zone in Surat city. On Friday, 68 Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat city. The highest numbers were reported from Katargam zone with 27 cases. The central zone recorded 10 cases, while Varachha (A) zone reported five. A 60-year-old man from Katargam succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 95 in the city. SMC has shut down diamond polishing units and jewellery shops which included Shivam Jewels, SRK Empire, Dharmanandan Diamonds, Rinkle Impex, C. Dinesh and Co., J B and Brothers and Royal Diamonds in Katargam zone. "We have made it clear that every industrial unit must follow Covid-19 rules to contain the virus and if cases are coming from any unit, they will be shut,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. "Katargam zone has become Covid-19 hotspot and we will put the area under the containment zone if we find Covid-19 cases from there. People will not be able to come out of the containment zone as restrictions will be imposed. So, industrial units, shops or any other commercial establishment need to understand it and ensure that workers wear masks and maintain social distancing,'' Pani added. Meanwhile, 80 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged in Surat city on Friday. A total of 1,629 patients have been recovered till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-shuts-seven-diamond-units/articleshow/76347924.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Surat||Eight positive cases in Surat rural, five in Bharuch||Surat: With about eight fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Friday, even Surat district is witnessing a rise in the number of cases in the past few days. According to health department officials, total 217 cases have been reported so far in Surat’s rural area. Of these, 117 patients have recovered and were discharged till Friday, while two persons have succumbed to the virus till date. Meanwhile, Bharuch district recorded five fresh positive cases, taking the total number of Covid cases in the district to 73 on Friday.Health officials said that three of a family including a 15-year-old girl and her parents from Bharuch town and two brothers from Pipaliya village near Bharuch tested positive for the virus on Friday.Sources said that Piyush Srivastava, 50, his wife Rachana and their 15-year-old daughter — residents of Malhar society in Bharuch — tested positive after they had travelled to Vadodara a few days ago.Two brothers — Sohail Suleman Ganchi, 23 and Samir Gandhi, 20 — had gone to Surat to attend a marriage ceremony of their relative on May 31. A few days ago, both brothers developed symptoms of Covid-19 and later their samples tested positive for the virus.Navsari also recorded three Covid-19 cases on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-positive-cases-in-surat-rural-five-in-bharuch/articleshow/76347943.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 spreading its tentacles in Surat’s posh Athwa zone||Surat: The coronavirus seems to be spreading its tentacles in city’s posh Athwa zone with localities such as Athwalines, City Light, Piplod and Parle Point. This areas have seen a spurt in Covid-19 infections after the unlock-1. According to the official data from the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Athwa zone was the least affected with less than 10 cases in the early May. However, the number of cases has increased to 100 by June 11, with majority of the cases being reported after May 25. Between May 25 and June 11 alone, about 56 cases have been reported in Athwa zone. Interestingly, city’s first Covid-19 case was reported from Athwa zone on March 19. A 21-year-old girl, who returned from London, was among the few first Covid-19 patients of Gujarat. She had recovered from the virus on March 29. Health officials believe that the residents in the upmarket Athwa zone, which has a mix of migrant population connected with diamond, textile and other businesses, religiously followed the lockdown rules and stayed at home. However, during the unlock phase, people started moving out for work and businesses resulting in the increase in Covid-19 cases. Many have also been travelling by air to domestic destinations for work purpose. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik told TOI, “People with co-morbid conditions including diabetes, heart problems, hypertension etc. are highest in Athwa and West zones of the city. The residents in Athwa zone are elite class people and they followed the lockdown rules strictly and avoided moving out of their houses thereby decreasing the chances of infection” Majority of the people living in Athwa have their industries, factories and work places located in the hotspot areas of Limbayat, Central zone, Katargam, Udhana etc. After unlock-1, they have started visiting these areas and the threat of contracting the deadly infection has increased. About four asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients in Athwa zone have chosen to stay at home and recover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-spreading-its-tentacles-in-surats-posh-athwa-zone/articleshow/76347885.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Surat||Odiya migrant’s death: Fresh complaint file in Surat||Surat: Police registered an offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder at Amroli police station on Thursday in connection with the suspicious death of Odiya migrant Satyawan Swain (36).The complaint was registered in Surat after a complaint filed by Swains kin in Bhanjanagar police station of Ganjam district in Odisha was transferred here. Swain, a worker in Anjani Industrial Estate (AIE) died on May 14, following which city police registered a case of accidental death. But Swain’s elder brother Santosh lodged a complaint of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in Odisha on May 17. In the complaint lodged in Odisha, Amroli police was named as accused, however, in the offence registered in Surat on Thursday, nobody has been named as accused.In the fresh complaint registered here, Santosh has been named as complainant. According to the fresh complaint, Santosh received information from eyewitnesses Padmanabh Swain and Sanjay Pradhan that, Swain died after lathi-charge by police. Police had chased the deceased in the unit where he was staying and beat him up and other workers. Swain sustained injuries and was taken in 108 ambulance to hospital where he died mid-way, according to the complaint. Investigation of the offence has been handed over to assistant commissioner of police S M Patel. The National Human Right Commission (NHRC) had issued notice on May 28 to city police commissioner, state DGP and district magistrate seeking report of the investigation done in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/odiya-migrants-death-fresh-complaint-file-in-surat/articleshow/76347978.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||19 women guest workers rescued, sent back to Jharkhand in spl bus||Coimbatore: The district administration has rescued 19 guest workers, all women, from a garment company at Thirumuruganpoondi on Wednesday and made arrangements for sending them back to their home state Jharkhand in a special bus.More than 300 guest workers, including the 19 women from Jharkhand, were employed at the garment company at Thirumuruganpoondi. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the women guest workers approached the company management and expressed their interest in returning to their home state at the earliest. But the garment company did not budge and allegedly asked the workers to wait for a Shramik special train to Jharkand to be announced. Meanwhile, the women workers contacted senior officials in Jharkhand on social media. The officials then approached Tirupur district administration and requested them to take necessary steps to send back the guest workers to their home state.Based on this, Senthilkumar, village administrative officer from Pudhupalayam, filed a complaint with Thirumuruganpoondi police against the garment company on Wednesday. A team of police personnel rushed to the company and met the 19 guest workers, who told police that they wanted to go back to Jharkhand but the management was not allowing them to go.Police rescued the 19 guest workers from the garment company on Wednesday. The workers boarded a private bus to Jharkhand arranged by the Tirupur administration the same night. Police registered a case against the company’s human resources (HR) manager and booked him under IPC section 342 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/19-women-guest-workers-rescued-sent-back-to-jharkhand-in-spl-bus/articleshow/76348942.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||Man attempting to extort Rs 30 crore from ex-minister booked||Rajkot: A man was booked on Thursday night for allegedly trying to extort Rs 30 crore from a former minister and his son in Sutrapada of Gir Somnath district. Police said the accused, identified as Mulu Mori, had allegedly tried to blackmail Dilip Barad, chairman of the Sutrapada market yard and his father Jasha Barad, who has been a former BJP minister in Anandiben Patel cabinet in 2014 and demanded Rs 30 crore as hush-up money. Mori wanted the amount to withdraw his complaint against the duo in which he has accused the Barads of mineral theft from Bhetali village of Veraval taluka in Gir Somnath district. “One Sharif Abdul told Dilip that Mori had met him and said that he had a strong evidence against Dilip about the alleged mineral theft committed on 300 bigha land and that if he wanted the case to be withdrawn, he would have to cough up Rs 30 crore,” said V R Rathod, inspector with Gir Somnath local crime branch. “Dilip claims that he had spoken to Mori over phone and saved the conversation in video recording as an evidence against Mori,” added Rathod. Mori had filed an application of complaint against the Barad father-son duo with Prabhas Patan police station on May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-attempting-to-extort-rs-30-crore-from-ex-minister-booked/articleshow/76348082.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Nandaram Market trader tests +ve, one floor shut||KOLKATA: The ground floor of Nandaram Market was shut on Friday after a shop owner tested positive. This is the third instance in three days where portions of big markets — New Market and College Street being the other two — had to be shut, driving home a point for the trading community that ignoring safety guidelines will adversely impact their businesses. On Friday, the market association at Nandaram reacted swiftly, shutting 170 shops on the ground floor and started sanitizing the place after informing cops. The members will meet on Monday to decide when to reopen the ground floor and prevent such incidents in future. “As soon as we learnt that a trader on the ground floor had tested positive, we decided to shut the entire portion. We also got the floor sanitized. The committee will meet on Monday to decided when the floor will reopen and the measures we need to take,” said Purushottam Agarwal, president of Nandaram Market Traders’ Welfare Association. “Though it is not like the pre-lockdown period, the business did take off well contrary to what we were thinking. All shops reopened and customers started coming in. But the incidents at the markets have forced us to rethink if we are going wrong somewhere. We cannot keep shutting down every time someone tests positive,” said Agarwal. The associations and market committees are regularly reminding members to practise social distancing. “Our confederation has issued a safety guideline and we are also taking feedback,” said Narendra Kapadia, advisor to Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations. “We are constantly reminding members the importance of following the safety rules for the well-being of their business, employees and families. Coronavirus is here to stay and we must adapt to protect businesses,” said CWBTA president Sushil Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nandaram-mkt-trader-tests-ve-one-floor-shut/articleshow/76348109.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Church closed after trustee’s brother tests Covid-19 +ve||By:Sandeep Thomas THRISSUR: After the brother of a trustee of the Kacheri Madona Church in Thrissur tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday, the health department has directed the vicar and members of the laity that attended mass to go into quarantine. The health department found that a trustee of the church had contacted the infected person, who works at a warehouse in Thrissur. On the direction of health officials, Fr Thomas Poopadi directed members of the laity that had attended mass at the church in the last seven days to quarantine themselves. The church had resumed mass two days ago with only nominal participation. “The parish has 575 families but we allowed only 65 people to attend the holy mass,” said vicar Thomas Poopadi. “The trustee had attended the mass so as instructed we will follow quarantine.The church is closed,” he added. On Friday, Fr Poopadi circulated an audio clip in a WhatsApp group comprising members of the parish. In the clip, the priest conveyed the development and urged any member of the laity who had come in contact with the trustee to go into quarantine. Meanwhile, the Archdiocesan Movement for Transparency has urged the Thrissur archdiocese to act accordingly. “In the wake of the Kacheri Madona Church incident, the Thrissur archdiocese authorities should close the churches under its jurisdiction immediately in the view of the danger posed by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Riju Kanjookkaran, general secretary of the movement. “Thrissur district is already in an alarming situation and holy mass at churches will increase the threat. The Ernakulam-Angamali archdiocese has already followed the model and other dioceses must follow it,” he added. However, Thrissur Archdiocese PRO, Fr Nyson Elanthanathu said they will not close all the churches. “The Madona Church were the case was reported is already closed and the churches under the containment zones will remain closed. But there is no need to close all churches under the archdiocese. However, we will follow all directions from the health department,” said Fr Elanthanathu. Meanwhile, the health department has directed those who participated in the mass to go into PHC-level quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-closed-after-trustees-brother-tests-ve/articleshow/76347141.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||Subordinate courts in Bihar start restricted physical functioning||PATNA: The subordinate courts in state have started functioning physically with utmost precautions like maintaining social distancing norms and thermal screening of everyone entering the court premises. At present, urgent matters, including hearing of bail petitions, are being taken up to ensure that fundamental rights of those in custody are not infringed upon. Matters such as recording of evidences, framing of charges after filing of chargesheets by the police when final argument is pending for judgement and few others are also being taken up to keep the justice delivery system functional while restricting congregations on the premises to ensuring safety of the people visiting the courts amid Covid-19 pandemic. Patna district and sessions judge KK Tripathi has prepared a roster for 93 courts at Patna civil court and Patna City, Danapur, Barh, Masaurhi and Paliganj sub-divisional courts for physical as well as virtual functioning as per the schedule till June-end. The district judge’s court is functioning physically on every working day. Similar rosters have been prepared in other districts following direction from the Patna high court. There are around 1400 subordinate courts in state. Patna civil court public prosecutor Vijay Kumar Sinha said mostly bail and other selected matters are being take up for hearing. “Only six chairs are inside the district judge courtroom. The court employee announces the case number and party names. The lawyers concerned enter the courtroom while others wait for their turn outside,” Sinha said. “The mixed system of physical as well as virtual hearing, as per roster, has been adopted for hearing of cases. No senior member of the bar is coming as a precautionary measure,” he said. The state government’s registration department has also rolled out a system for people to visit the registrar office as per time slot and appointment given to them for registration purpose. Sources said around 4,500 properties, including plots and flats, used to be registered per day in state before the lockdown. “Now, applicants are given time slot for registration in order to avoid any gathering at the registrar office,” a senior registration department officer said, adding registration process has picked up again and the department is to touch its average per day revenue generation mark soon. Incidentally, the registration department was at second position in revenue collection amid all state government departments in 2018-2019. That year, it had collected Rs4,440.63 crore, which was 16.13% higher than Rs3,823.91 crore collected in previous financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/subordinate-courts-start-restricted-physical-functioning/articleshow/76346530.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 13, 2020||Chennai||More strays being run over as lockdown eases in Chennai||CHENNAI: Ever since lockdown eased, Dr M Alagesan, a veterinarian at Blue Cross of India (BCI), has had his hands full attending to dogs hit by speeding vehicles. “Many of them have pelvic, head and crush injuries,” he says. With very few people and vehicles on the roads during lockdown, stray animals, especially dogs, have got used to sleeping on the roads. And now, with restrictions relaxed and more people back on the streets, accidents cases involving animals are being reported across the city. Animal welfare activists are requesting people to drive slowly and keep an eye out for strays. “In April, we had 155 rescues, of which 37 were accident cases. In May, we had 156 rescues, 50 being accidents, and by June 8, we have had 51 cases, of which 14 were accident cases,” says Dr Alagesan. The reason is simple. “Many motorists, especially those riding two-wheelers, are speeding as roads are less busy. Dogs, who have got used to lying on the roads, are getting hit,” says Chinny Krishna, co-founder, BCI, adding that people who have not taken out their vehicles for months also need to check under them before moving them. “Many dogs seek shelter under vehicles, so give them a chance to get out.” Animal welfare activist Shravan Krishnan, who runs Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary, says they are prepared to handle the increasing cases. “More accidents will happen and also get reported as people are out there now. We have four vets working round the clock,” he says. “People should drive slowly and carefully, especially at night, and also make sure their headlights and horn are working properly. It can save an animal’s life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-strays-being-run-over-as-lockdown-eases/articleshow/76348941.cms||Priya Menon
June 13, 2020||Allahabad||Bodies of couple found hanging, suicide suspected||Prayagraj: Panic gripped Pragaspur village under the limits of Kandhai police station of Pratapgarh district on Friday after bodies of a 20-year-old youth and an 18-year-old girl were found hanging from a mango tree outside the village. After carrying out initial investigation, police claimed that Shubham Patel and Sujata Patel, both residents of Pragaspur village, have committed suicide after failing to marry each other. IG Allahabad (range) K P Singh said , “Kandhai police are probing the incident. Iitial investigation indicates towards suicide. However, the exact reason is yet to be ascertained.” Locals told police that the deceased were friends for the last two to three years and wanted to marry each other. However, their family members did not agree. The girl’s family members were planning to solemnise her marriage to another youth in Raniganj at the earliest. Kandhai police said there were no injury mark on the bodies of the deceased, indicating they were not assaulted or hanged. Both had left their houses on Thursday midnight and apparently hanged themselves to death, police claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bodies-of-couple-found-hanging-suicide-suspected/articleshow/76346375.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||7 CRPF men test corona positive in Aurangabad||PATNA: Altogether seven CRPF personnel deployed in Aurangabad in anti-Maoist operations were tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. This is the first instance of paramilitary personnel getting infected by the virus in state. All the seven belong to 153rd battalion of CRPF. When contacted, CRPF Bihar sector DIG (administration) SM Hasnain told TOI over phone that the samples of 26 CRPF men living at the district police lines in Aurangabad were collected for Covid test. “Of them, seven tested positive when their reports came on Friday,” he said, adding all precautionary measures as per standard operating procedures of the central government were being followed by the CRPF for its men in Aurangabad. He said the samples of the CRPF men were collected after an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of state police tested Covid-19 positive after death. “Rest of the CRPF personnel deployed in Aurangabad are safe as they were not stationed at the district police lines,” he said. Besides CRPF, the state government has deployed Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawans for guarding the Indo-Nepal border and anti-Maoist operations. Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel are guarding Patna and Gaya airports besides the power plants at NTPC Barh and Aurangabad. No positive cases had been reported yet from the other paramilitary forces in state. The state police ASI, aged around 58, was found dead at the Aurangabad police lines on June 7 morning. Later, his samples tested positive for coronavirus. His was the first such case in state police. Several policemen at the Aurangabad police lines were quarantined and their samples tested after that incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-crpf-men-test-corona-positive-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76346347.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Crackdown on tax evaders, 16 goods-laden trucks detained||Ludhiana: In a major crackdown on tax evaders, the state taxation department has detained 16 trucks carrying finished goods and scrap without proper bills on various roads of the state, majority of which connect with Ludhiana, said an official on Friday.The value of goods being ferried by these trucks has been estimated at over Rs 75 lakh and the department is set to earn a revenue of nearly Rs 65 lakh in GST penalties.To conduct surprise checks, additional excise and taxation commissioner-1 Showkat Ahmad Parray had constituted several teams comprising department officials and around 30 police officials, which intercepted the trucks on Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Samrala-Rahon, Ludhiana-Moga, Khanna- Ludhiana and Malerkotla-Khanna highways.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner, Ferozepur division, H P S Ghotra, who led the operation, said, “A major operation was conducted by us to nab the tax evaders who fleece the Centre and state government of GST worth crores by transporting goods without generating the mandatory e-way bills. The operation started at 9pm on Thursday and continued till 5am on Friday.”During the operation, 16 vehicles were detained, out of which 10 were loaded with finished goods and six with iron scrap. As the transporters failed to produce any genuine bills for the goods being transported in these trucks, the vehicles were detained under the provisions of Punjab GST Act for investigations, he said.According to Ghotra, during the entire operation, over 150 vehicles were checked on the e-way bill app to catch the evaders. The vehicles have been detained at mobile wing’s Ludhiana office, Malerkotla City-1 police station and Nabha police station. More such operations are likely in the days ahead.BOXFactory owners may also face actionAdditional excise and taxation commissioner-1 Showkat Ahmad Parray said the department would make a proper inquiry into the cases of tax evasion and take strictest possible action against the guilty, including owners of factories. “No one indulging in felonious activities to deprive the state of its legitimate revenue will be spared,” he warned||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/crackdown-on-tax-evaders-16-goods-laden-trucks-detained/articleshow/76347128.cms||Mohit Behl
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||Centre set to take over beleaguered Ghogha-Dahej ferry service project||Ahmedabad/Rajkot: The Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), formerly Kandla port, will construct a roll-on roll-off (Ro-Ro) jetty at Hazira, in what is being seen as a serious attempt to revive the ambitious Ghogha-Dahej ferry service that has run into choppy waters for several reasons since its beginning in 2017. Highly placed sources in the DPT told TOI that a tender to invite players for construction of the jetty at Hazira, a location that was always considered more feasible than Dahej, will be issued soon. It is learnt that the Gujarat government has decided to hand over this dream project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the union shipping ministry as the Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) is besieged with operational problems that are becoming a drag on its finances. While Indigo Seaways Pvt Ltd, the company operating the service, is struggling to keep the project afloat, GMB is incurring heavy expenses for maintenance dredging to ensure adequate depth in the navigation channels for the ferry vessel to operate at both Dahej and Ghogha. GMB requires to spend at least Rs 100 crore to keep the navigation channel free of siltation and the amount is a big drag on the government finances. “GMB will provide land to DPT in Hazira on lease. We have finalized the tender to assign a contract to prepare a temporary structure at Hazira which will facilitate Ro-Ro service. This structure will be ready in next three months and thereafter, DPT will construct a permanent Jetty at Hazira within a year," a senior DPT official told TOI. When contacted, Capt Devendra Manral, CEO, Indigo Seaways, refused to comment but said that the ferry service has been suspended since March 21. Last week, a video conference was also held with officials of GMB, state ports and transport department and shipping ministry to discuss the fate of the project. Dahej, in the Gulf of Khambhat, witnesses heavy siltation in the navigation channel due to its geographical location and inflow from Narmada River. Last monsoon, the overflowing Narmada dam also dumped unexpectedly large volumes of silt in the channel. The ferry service was conceived with aim to reduce the transportation time between Ghogha and Dahej from over 12 hours to just one hour as the distance by sea is just 31 km compared to road that is around 350 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/centre-set-to-take-over-beleaguered-ghogha-dahej-ferry-service-project/articleshow/76348035.cms||Tushar Prabhune
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||Year-old infant’s head gets stuck in cooker!||Rajkot: This was one challenge that looked almost like it leapt out of the pages of Ripley’s book of wonders for the doctors at Sir T hospital on Friday morning. A one-year-old girl with her head firmly stuck inside a pressure cooker was rushed in to the Bhvanagar hospital by her parents!According to hospital administration, Priyanshi Vala was brought to the hospital with the cooker as her helmet. According to family members, the girl got into the ‘sticky situation’ while she was playing. All hands from orthopaedic to paediatric department gathered to extricate the tiny head, but in vain. Administrator of Sir T hospital, Hardik Gathani said, “We had to finally summon for a person who deals in utensils. He arrived with a cutter and freed the tiny-tot from her unique headgear. The family members said they tried to extricate the head at home, but in the process she received several injuries in her forehead that led to swelling. The child is now under observation as we will monitor is she has got any problem in blood circulation in the brain or spine from the incident. If we find that she is safe, we will discharge her on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/year-old-infants-head-gets-stuck-in-cooker/articleshow/76348124.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||New Market traders plan weekly sanitization to keep business running||KOLKATA: Traders in the heritage wing of New Market are planning to undertake a weekly sanitization drive to revive confidence in the market following the scare that has gripped shoppers and a section of traders after a shopkeeper in tested positive for Covid-19. Speaking to TOI amidst the Covid gloom and the arrival of monsoon when footfall traditionally declines, traders in the market said there had been hardly any customer since Thursday. News that a dairy trader who operated a store in the E Block had tested positive had led to KMC sealing this block alongside the adjoining E(N) Block. Though the blocks were reopened on Thursday barring a few shops in the dairy range and sanitization drives were carried out by KMC and Kolkata Police on Wednesday and Thursday, customers have been scarce. Fake news on social media claiming three to five cases had been reported in New Market within 10 days of its reopening only added to the panic. “By the end of the first week of June, around 5% of pre-Covid footfall had revived. But following the Covid case and the misinformation on social media, the footfall has dropped to 2%. A small section of traders is also jittery. We are therefore trying to get involved as an association and not depend on others for the market’s safety and hygiene,” said S S Hogg Market Traders’ Association joint secretary Ashraf Ali. While the association had earlier provided six thermal scanners to the market superintendent, it now proposes to undertake sanitization of the entire market complex every week. It has held talks with two companies on Thursday and will take quotation from a third one on Saturday before convening a meeting of traders to decide on the issue. “We discussed the matter at our executive committee meeting on Thursday and there is a concensus that we traders need to take hygiene and safety of the market into our hands. This will not only build customer confidence, it will also drive away the misgivings of a section of traders,” said association secretary Uday Kumar Shaoo. While 60% of the traders will agree to the additional payout, the association members are trying to reduce charges so that the remaining 40% also join in. “Paying out anything will hurt because there has been virtually no earnings for three months. At the same time, we need to do this to keep the market operational. Apart from the shops, the sanitization will include the corrodidors and toilets. To reduce costs, we are looking at supplying the chemicals and the portable spray machine,” said association president Ashok Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-market-traders-plan-weekly-sanitization-to-keep-biz-running/articleshow/76348086.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid-19 positivity rate higher than Indore||BHOPAL: In a warning sign for the administration, Bhopal has surpassed Indore — MP’s worst-hit district — in number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the first 11 days of Unlock 1.0. The rate of positive reports per 100 tests in Bhopal is nearly 1.5 times that of Indore in June. While more people were tested for Covid-19 in Indore and fewer tested positive, Bhopal tested far fewer samples yet more people tested positive. Between June 1 and June 11, 15,186 samples were tested in Bhopal and 17,949 in Indore. While 571 people tested positive in Bhopal, Indore had only 433 fresh patients in the same period. Things seemed to be normal during the first two days of Unlock 1.0. On June 1, fewer people per 100 tested positive in Bhopal than Indore. The same on June 2. But on June 3, the tide started turning with Bhopal and Indore level at 3.2%. The two districts drew nearly level again on June 8 (4.2%). But between June 4 and June 11 (barring June 8) Bhopal shot past Indore in number of people testing positive. Also, Bhopal has pushed Indore to second place in corona daily count for seven days this month – June 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, and 12. On June 11, Bhopal in fact had over twice as many fresh cases as Indore. While Indore has added 433 new cases this month, Bhopal is alarmingly ahead with 571. Indore, Bhopal account for 60% MP casesIndore (3,972 cases) and Bhopal (2,082) together account for nearly 60% of MP’s corona tally. They also account for 53% of the toll. The administrations in these two districts have been battling the pandemic on a war footing, but there are worrying signs in Bhopal this month. Since June 1, Bhopal has enjoyed more relaxations than Indore. Malls have opened and public transport has been allowed in Bhopal while Indore continues to have stricter restrictions. Bhopal district officials refused to comment on the reason for the higher positivity rate in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-covid-positivity-rate-higher-than-indore/articleshow/76349503.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 13, 2020||Patna||Patna societies did a world of good for residents||PATNA: Residential societies, apartments and colonies in the city went out of their way to ensure that residents and staff were safe during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. They also organised activities for engagements of all members of the society, including children and senior citizens. As part of TOI’s MySocietyPride initiative, dozens of residential societies have written to us, sharing what they did for helping out the support staff during the lockdown. While most societies provided food to daily wagers and workers, others paid monthly salary to their domestic helps even though they were not allowed to visit the houses. For instance, Ajay Kumar Gupta, treasurer of Jeevan Shree Enclave in Danapur, paid wages to essential services staff despite financial constraints. “We even provided masks and sanitisers to them,” he said. Aparna Bharti, secretary of Manav Enclave near Patliputra, said the residents paid full salary to their domestic helps, drivers and other staff even though they did not work during the lockdown. Bharti added the residents took active participation in communication with each other through WhatsApp group in order to stay connected during the lockdown. “Residents shared videos, photos and other information related to Covid-19, including recipes of immunity food and drinks in the WhatsApp group,” she said. Some societies also organised yoga and game sessions for the residents. Abhishek Raj of Vasudev Enclave Apartment, where around 1,000 people reside, said yoga sessions were organised everyday on the terrace, especially for the senior citizens. “Several games were also organised for children,” he added. Raj said food, water and masks were arranged for daily wagers and the poor at the society’s compound on Saturdays and Sundays. “As we have a huge compound, we did not face hassles in maintaining social distancing while distributing the food. After distribution, we used to give the remaining food to rickshaw pullers,” he added. Meanwhile, some societies, where entry of vegetable and fruit sellers was prohibited, made arrangements for the same outside the society’s premises. Abhishek Raj of Kashyap Green City near Nahar Khagaul Road said arrangements for vegetable and fruit vendors were done outside the society’s entrance. “Residents used the lockdown time to engage with each other and discuss about their whereabouts. Videos and photos of sanitisation and other things were shared in the WhatsApp group in order to make the residents aware about the steps being taken by the society for their welfare,” he said. At Patliputra Cooperative Society, secretary Rai Ajeet Prasad ensured that none of the residents or workers faced hassles due to the lockdown. He circulated contact numbers of the society’s welfare committee members among the domestic helps, workers and daily wagers. “We anyhow collected funds and helped people who were in need,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/societies-did-a-world-of-good-for-residents/articleshow/76346426.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hubballi||Kashmiri sedition case: Inspector suspended for delay in filing chargesheet||HUBBALLI: An inspector was suspended on Friday in connection with the sedition case filed against three Kashmiri engineering students in February. IGP - northern range Raghavendra Suhas suspended Jackson D’Souza, police inspector of Hubballi Rural Police station. Confirming this to TOI, sources in police department said the inspector was suspended for not filing the chargesheet within 90 days of registering the case. “He was unable to file the chargesheet as the courts were closed due to Covid 19 lockdown,” they added. Three Kashmiri students - Talib Majeed, Basit Asif Sofi and Amir Mohiuddin Wahi -studying engineering in KLE Institute of Technology, were arrested after their video in which they allegedly sang pro Pakistan slogans went viral in February. They were arrested under section 124A (sedition) of the IPC. After right wing-activists protested on the college premises on Gokul Road, Gokul Road police had arrested them and the case was transferred to Hubballi rural police station. The hostel in which the students had allegedly played the song in the background during a birthday celebration, comes under the jurisdiction of rural police station. Advocates representing the students had filed a bail petition in Hubballi court on June 1 but police filed the chargesheet on June 4. Inspector Jackson then had cited closure of courts due to the lockdown as the reason for the delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kashmiri-sedition-case-inspector-suspended-for-delay-in-filing-chargesheet/articleshow/76347020.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Business||India’s forex reserves hit half-trillion mark||MUMBAI: The country’s forex reserves rose by $8.2 billion during the week ended June 5 to cross the half-a-trillion-dollar mark for the first time. Forex reserves rose to $501.7 billion from $493.5 billion a week earlier. The increase was due to an $8.4-billion jump in foreign currency assets to $463 billion. Of the other components of the reserves, the value of gold declined by $329 million to $3.2 billion, and reserve position in the International Monetary Fund rose by $832 million to $4.2 billion. Bankers attributed the increase in reserves to dollar inflows arising out of deleveraging by Indian corporates. Reliance Industries has been selling large chunks of its holding in Jio Platforms to global investors and has received a commitment of Rs 97,885 crore. Bharati Telecom too raised $1 billion selling stake through a block deal. GSK sold $3.3 billion in Unilever. Bankers say that large deals, even the ones in local markets, end up drawing foreign investor interest. “The RBI has been buying dollars since governor Shaktikanta Das took charge in 2018. With forex reserves, the more you have, the less the need to sell. The forex market knows that the RBI can easily sell $50 billion worth of dollar to ward off speculative attacks,” said Bank of America Securities India economist Indranil Sen Gupta. He added that as a result, forex markets have avoided testing the rupee even as other currencies like Brazil, South Africa, Turkey, and Indonesia have come under pressure. But banks say that high reserves does not mean that all is well on the external front. “The dollar bond yield on Indian credit is still higher than pre-Covid level. Yields have come down of late because of easing dollar liquidity, but they are still away from pre-Covid levels. The reason for the underperformance is how the macros are stacking up, plus uncertainty in respect of the infection and associated costs,” said DBS head (treasury) Ashhish Vaidya. “The positive is that there is a larger coverage of imports, which makes India less vulnerable. The corporate deleveraging also reduces the overall risk in the corporate sector,” said Vaidya. Gupta said the collapse in oil prices has helped offset the outflows in foreign portfolios. Also, there is no potential stress build-up on the rupee because the RBI has been following a prudent strategy of letting the Indian currency slide gradually. “The RBI has been following an asymmetric forex intervention policy of buying dollars when there are inflows and letting the rupee go a bit when there are outflows,” he said.India is the only country among the top five — in terms of forex reserves — to have a current account deficit. What this means is that unlike others where the reserves are an outcome of intervention aimed at preventing currency appreciation, India builds its reserves since a large part of the foreign inflows are liabilities that have to be repaid at some point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-forex-reserves-hit-half-trillion-mark/articleshow/76348407.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 13, 2020||Surat||Surat: Murder accused who jumped bail held||SURAT: Acting on a tip off, the Surat Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) arrested on Friday Sanjay alias Sanju Vasava, an undertrial prisoner at Lajpore Central jail in Surat who had jumped bail. Vasava was arrested from Singapurivadi cross road in Salabatpura area of city. According to police, Vasava was was arrested in a murder case registered at Athwa police station in 2016. He and his accomplices Vicky, Jemish, Jay, Ramesh, Rohan and Gotu had allegedly killed one person identified as Banti in Kailashnagar area over a petty issue. Vasava got 17-days interim bail on April 14 and was supposed to report to the jail authorities after the completion of the bail period. However, he did not turn up and was declared absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/murder-accused-who-jumped-bail-held/articleshow/76348065.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||African sacred ibis spotted in Vadodara||VADODARA: From the plains of central Africa their presence is distributed till southern Africa. From pockets of Iran, they migrate to Iraq. In fact, such are these wanderers who fly to Turkey, Oman and at times to Kazakhstan and Russia, that they are even known as the ‘wandering vagrants’. But never before were the African Sacred Ibis sighted outside of the middle east. That was till April-end when India was under its first lockdown. When the country was witnessing strictest restrictions on movement of the people, the wanderer of the sky was moving around freely in Vadodara. The bird, taking its flight, got captured in the lens of an engineer cum birdwatcher whose rare sighting with photographic evidence was confirmed by zoologist of M S University. “After the lockdown was announced I started watching birds and taking their photographs from my terrace daily morning for two hours. It was just by chance that I unknowingly clicked African Sacred Ibis on April 20,” said Sarang Dalvi, a resident of housing society on Sun Pharma Road, who otherwise works as maintenance head at a private firm. Dalvi came to know about his lucky click when his school-time friend Dr Ranjitsinh Devkar from MSU’s Department of Zoology informed him that he had recorded a rare sighting. “I was stunned. There is no evidence of any African sacred ibis sighting in India. It has never been photographed nor documented from any part of India,” Devkar told TOI. “They do stray here and there,” said Devkar, who is still wondering how this bird made it way from Iraq, crossed the whole of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kutch and reached Vadodara. “It was a single bird which was moving alone. I sighted it multiple times in April-end and first week of May,” said Dalvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/african-sacred-ibis-spotted-in-vadodara/articleshow/76345782.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 13, 2020||Business||Axis Bank reports e-fraud on coops platform||MUMBAI: Axis Bank has reported a cyberfraud of over Rs 2 crore. It was perpetrated by fraudsters who hacked a platform that the lender provided small cooperative banks to facilitate the electronic transfer of funds. The fraud was reported by the bank’s Dhule branch to the district police station in respect of an account pertaining to Dhule Vikas Sahakari Bank. In the complaint filed with the police, the bank official said that it offered cooperative banks an online portal PayPro, through which they can offer fund transfer under real-time gross settlement (RTGS) and national electronic fund transfer (NEFT) to their customers. On June 8, Dhule Sahkari Bank officials contacted Axis Bank and reported unauthorised transactions and sought freezing of the account. The police have filed an FIR under section 420 of the IPC, and section 43 and Section 66F of the IT Act. According to Axis Bank, the system requires authorisation by two persons — a maker and a checker — and both of them will receive a separate one-time password. Dhule bank had said that funds have been transferred without OTP. According to Advocate Prashant Mali, a cyber expert, “If a bank is compromised so much that even OTP is not received by maker and checkers, then bank’s database itself may have been compromised.” He added that this could mean other cooperatives are also at risk. According to Mali, Section 66F is wrongly applied in the case. “Section 66F is for Cyber Terrorism. Here the section should be Section 43(a) read with Section 66 for hacking into a computer system,” he said. “We are looking into this matter and basis early investigations, we can confirm that there has been no compromise of Axis Bank systems. We understand that similar attempts have been made in the past at cooperative banks and counterparties, and we are investigating the incident thoroughly from all angles,” said an Axis Bank spokesperson in a statement. The statement added that the bank invests heavily on all security aspects against cyber threats and has taken necessary action as required by internal control requirements and regulatory guidelines. In the police statement, Axis Bank official has said that prima facie it appears that someone has hacked into the system and stolen the bank’s data. On June 8, Rs 2.03 crore went out through 27 transactions, with money going into over a dozen private and public sector banks across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-reports-e-fraud-on-coops-platform/articleshow/76348373.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||1,000 cases in Kolkata in 10 days, spike in micro-clusters||KOLKATA: In the last 10 days, Kolkata had recorded over 1,000 Covid positive cases. And in the last 48 hours, the city has reported 228 cases, leading to the addition of 118 new containment units, taking the total tally to 1,163. South Kolkata has reported a case surge with reports of cases in Alipore (seven on Belvedere Road), Gurusaday Road in Ballygunge and Golf View Road in Tollygunge, along with South City Tower 2. Reports of positive cases also came from the middle-class neighbourhoods of Pallishree, Regent Park, Shantigarh Colony, Haridevpur, Parnasree Pally, Sarsuna and Sakherbazar. According to the state health department, Bengal on Friday crossed the 10,000-case mark with 476 new cases, 111 of them in Kolkata. The Bengal Covid figures on Friday is the sharpest single-day spike. The spike in Kolkata has been rapid. On June 2, the city had reported 2,295 cases. On June 12, this figure stood at 3,356. The health department report indicated 216 people were discharged from hospitals on Friday. Bengal also reported nine Covid deaths on Friday, taking the total death figure to 451. Four of these deaths were in Kolkata. The state data sheet indicated 67.8% positive patients who died had co-morbidities and 19. 6% of them were over 75-year-old. In south Kolkata, Haridevpur has reported six cases. “Three of them are admitted at a cancer hospital. The other three were staying close to the hospital in a rented accommodation,” said a police officer. This spike has prompted people to take guard. Sayantani Gupta, who works at a financial firm in Sector V and used to travel by office bus to work from Behala’s Santosh Roy Road, has applied to her office to extend her WFH. Her neighbour, who stays two blocks away, has been diagnosed with Covid. “I had attended office for two days. I spoke to my senior to extend my WFH. He thankfully agreed,” said Gupta. Arunava Roy, who stays at Shaktigarh in Jadavpur, has stopped using buses and is now travelling to his Rajarhat office in his bike. Senior citizens Chhanda and Piyush Roy have not stepped out once from their ninth-floor flat after Panchanantala slum near Dhakuria was declared a containment unit again recently. “We are not even going to the ATM. We are getting grocery delivered at home along with medicine. Our maid servant is staying with us0,” said Roy. In one instance, an ambulance which came to pick up a Covid positive cancer patient in Thakurpukur, arrived 20 hours late. “We had contacted both KMC and the health department. But there were five similar cases to handle at Haridevpur itself on Wednesday evening and the process got delayed,” said an officer from Haridevpur police. “We are investigating it. Appropriate action will be taken,” said DCP (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1k-cases-in-kol-in-10-days-spike-in-micro-clusters/articleshow/76348066.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 13, 2020||Business||3 Tata ships sell for Rs 1,600 crore||MUMBAI: The Tata Group has agreed to sell three ships to Germany’s Oldendorff Carriers for $213 million (Rs 1,600 crore) as part of its debt-reduction plan. The three merchant ships were bought by the conglomerate through Trust Energy Resources, a company based in Singapore, to transport coal from international markets to India. The group uses imported coal to fire its power station in Mundra, Gujarat. Once the sale of the cargo carriers are concluded, the group will have an asset-light model for the shipping requirements of the thermal power business. Trust Energy was set up in 2007, a year after the conglomerate bagged the 4,000MW Mundra project. Apart from Trust Energy, the conglomerate owns ships through Tata NYK, a 50:50 joint venture between Tata Steel and Japan’s NYK Line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/3-tata-ships-sell-for-rs-1-6k-cr/articleshow/76348191.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Business||RBI sets up panel to review bank ownership, structure||MUMBAI: A day after it released a ‘discussion paper’ proposing to cap the tenure for promoter-CEOs in banks at 10 years, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has constituted a panel to review ownership guidelines and corporate structure for private banks. The panel headed by RBI director P K Mohanty will review licensing guidelines and recommend new rules, keeping in mind the issue of ‘excessive concentration of ownership and control’. The RBI said in a statement that, while the overarching principle that the ownership and control of private sector banks should be well-diversified and that the major shareholders are ‘fit and proper’ have remained unchanged, “the specific contours have evolved over the years with specific prescriptions being given as part of licensing guidelines issued at various points in the past”. The working group, which has been asked to submit its report by September 2020, will also study the current regulations on holding of financial subsidiaries through a non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) and suggest the manner of migrating all banks to a uniform regulation in the matter. It will also examine and review the norms for promoter shareholding at the initial/licensing stage and, subsequently, along with the timelines for dilution of the shareholding. The panel will comprehensively review the current guidelines on ownership, governance and corporate structure in private sector banks, “taking into account key developments over the years which have a bearing on the issue”, the RBI said. The key developments appear to be the crisis in Yes Bank and various corporate governance issues that led to a change of guard in several private banks. The RBI said that the review would provide an opportunity to harmonise the norms applicable to banks set up at different time periods, irrespective of their date of commencement of business. The RBI had recently entered into an out-of-court settlement allowing Kotak Bank to hold 26%, subject to capping promoter voting rights at 20%. Since then, promoters of IndusInd Bank had sought to increase their stake in the bank in the wake of the sharp drop in the bank’s share price. The RBI has also directed Bandhan Bank to dilute promoter stake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-sets-up-panel-to-review-bank-ownership-structure/articleshow/76348240.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Shocked by two elder brothers’ death due to Covid-19, man dies of heart attack||PALANPUR: A pal of gloom descended over the Chokhawala family in Deesa town of Banaskantha, who lost three brothers within a span of four days. While the elder two brothers had succumbed to Covid-19 infection, the younger sibling died of heart attack upon hearing about the news of their death on Friday. According to Deesa taluka health officer Jignesh Haryani, 60-year-old Vinod Chokhawala died early on Friday morning at his house in Paratp Chali in Deesa. “Vinodbhai had suffered a heart attack after he heard about death of his elder brothers — Jaychand Chokhawala (74) and Dashrat Chokhawala (76) — early this week,” said Haryani, adding that the younger brother was, however, not found infected with coronavirus. Haryani said that Jaychand had tested positive on June 6 and was admitted to Dharpur Medical Hospital in Patan, where he succumbed on June 9. Dashrat had tested positive on June 7 and was admitted to a private hospital in Deesa where he died on June 11. Haryani said that the two Chokhawala brothers may have got infected during the funeral ceremony of their sister-in-law held in Deesa on June 1. Of the two Chokhawala brothers who had settled in Ahmedabad, wife of Harchand died in Ahmedabad on May 31. Her body was brought to Deesa, where a small prayer meet was organised for relatives after the last rites were performed. “It is suspected that during this meeting the two brothers got infected with coronavirus,” said Haryani, adding that all other members of the family have tested negative for the virus. The Chokhawala family runs a grain shop in Deesa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shocked-by-two-elder-brothers-death-due-to-covid-man-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/76348000.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Surat||Teachers turned obedient students to sharpen skills||Surat: A recent study categorised lockdown as a better learning period by 98% of the 210 college and university teachers. It was utilised aggressively for gathering knowledge by majority of the teachers in the institutes of higher education in south Gujarat region. The study was done by Hitesh Patel, assistant professor in BBA at Bhagwan Mahavir College, Vinod Patel, professor at department of business and industrial management and Baxis Patel, assistant professor in the department of commerce and business management at the MSU. Teachers from VNSGU departments and colleges across south Gujarat participated. The teachers were from areas such as management, commerce, arts, engineering and computers. “We tried to cover the maximum colleges of the region and these teachers are already in touch through various online platforms. Hence it was easy to get maximum participation from each college spread across south Gujarat,” said Hitesh. Out of all the participants, 96% teachers got e-certificates for the online learning that included webinar and short- term skill development studies. A total of 35% teachers wrote and published research papers while 53 % teachers did paid online courses. A total of 66% teachers took part in faculty development programme, 58% did certificate course and 30% attended lectures by experts. “Interestingly, 76% teachers took Covid-19 test. Apart from learning these teachers were teaching their students on a regular basis through online module,” said Hitesh, who is doing PhD.. “The main purpose of the study was to find out what the teachers did when the educational institutes were closed. We found that they were busy throughout the lockdown,” said Vinod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teachers-turned-obedient-students-to-sharpen-skills/articleshow/76347829.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||RMC cuts water supply to 100 houses in two wards||Rajkot: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials on Friday severed water connections of at least 100 houses of Gujarat Housing Board quarters in ward 6 and 17 as the occupants refused to vacant the dilapidated buildings despite notices.The civic body acting on instruction of Gujarat Housing Board cut the water connections of five blocks in Aakashdeep society in ward 6 having 60 houses. The RMC had served several notices to the occupants as the structure was in a bad condition and could collapse at any time. RMC officials said that with monsoon approaching, the building blocks cannot be termed as safe for living as flats are very old. Similarly, the civic body officials also severed water connection to houses of Shakti chowk area in Aanandnagar colony of ward 17. The residents there too were served notice to vacant the premises. The, next step, RMC officials said would be to cut power and gas supply to these houses if they do not vacant the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-cuts-water-supply-to-100-houses-in-two-wards/articleshow/76348052.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Rajkot||BJP govt harassing Cong MLA: Dhanani||Rajkot: The Gujarat Congress on Friday alleged that state government has trying to frame Una Congress MLA Punja Vansh in false case. Vansh is being interrogated by the police in connection with firing on former BJP MLA Kalu Rathod a few days back.Leader of the opposition Paresh Dhanani and senior Congress leader Arjun Modhwadia told media persons in Rajkot that BJP government was harassing their MLA in wake of the Rajya Sabha elections.Modhwadia said, “The government is trying to threaten Congress MLAs ahead of Rajya Sabha election. The police has been asking same questions to Punjabhai since last three days. He has no role in the alleged offence.”“We are going to make representation to election commission in this regard,” said Dhanani. “The government is misusing it’s power. They are doing it to get one vote of Punjabhai. The action of the government is not fair,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bjp-govt-harassing-cong-mla-dhanani/articleshow/76348135.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||Gandhi Maidan thrown open to joggers, visitors||PATNA: The historic Gandhi Maidan was thrown open to the general public after remaining shut for more than 80 days on Friday. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper that all precautionary measures, including thermal screening and regular sanitization of the ground, were being taken to ensure the safety of the visitors. “Masks have been made mandatory for all and people above the age of 65 years or below 10 years are not allowed to enter Gandhi Maidan,” he said. Agarwal added, “Instructions have been given to the officials concerned for setting up a control room and a medical help desk. “Continuous monitoring of visitors will be done through closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. Those, who are found violating social distancing norms, will be fined.” Several joggers, dog owners and fitness enthusiasts visited Gandhi Maidan, which was open from 5am to 10am in the morning and 4pm to 7pm in the evening on Day 1. One Sudha Yadav, a resident of Bans Ghat, said, “I have come here almost after three months. Being a diabetic, I make sure I don’t miss my morning and evening walks.” A dog owner, Shristy, who visited the ground with her 21-month-old Labrador on Friday morning, said, “My dog was elated today because he got an open ground where he could run and play after so long.” Street food vendors near Gandhi Maidan were also happy as they did brisk business on Friday. Arjun Prasad Gupta, who sells ‘sattu’ drink near gate number 12 of the Maidan claimed, “At least 20 people visited my stall and I earned a decent amount of money. I hope the number of customers increases gradually.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gandhi-maidan-thrown-open-to-joggers-visitors/articleshow/76346564.cms||Archi Rani
June 13, 2020||Patna||RLSP HQ ‘spared’ demolition||Patna: The Patna district administration on Friday spared the state headquarters of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) from demolition on the first day of its two-day drive to demolish 11 government quarters on Beerchand Patel Marg here. A JCB machine, guarded by a posse of police force and civil magistrate, demolished the boundary walls of five of the six listed government quarters – quarter numbers 22, 23, 24, 26 and 27. The RLSP state headquarters is housed in quarter number 25. The demolition squad is now scheduled to raze quarter numbers 28, 30, 32, 33 and 34 on Saturday. “A magistrate accompanying the district administration team told us that they had not been asked to demolish the RLSP headquarters,” said Jitendra Nath, a senior RLSP functionary. The demolition drive is being carried out to pave way for construction of a high-rise building to house the commercial taxes department, sources said. Patna DM Kumar Ravi had issued an order for demolition of these government quarters on June 1. Bhaatu Prasad, the occupant of quarter number 24 who works in the social security directorate, had been asked to shift to a government building near Lalit Bhavan on Bailey Road, but the building is still incomplete, Prasad’s close relative said. A few others have been asked to shift to the Kazipur (west of Rajendra Nagar) government quarters. “We have not been served any notice yet. The building construction department has just asked us to clear the water, electricity and other dues worth over Rs 2.11 lakh, which we will do,” Nath said. “We should be allotted an alternative place. Otherwise, it would amount to political vendetta,” Nath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlsp-hq-spared-demolition/articleshow/76346469.cms||Abhay Singh
June 13, 2020||Kanpur||Three more city advocates, mayor’s son test positive for coronavirus||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: Three more advocates, including the mayor's son were found positive on Friday. The news created panic among the advocates who demanded closure of all courts for ten days. So far, as many as four advocates, who used to visit courts regularly, have been found positive in the last 72 hours. The health teams are busy in tracing their contact history. The two associations of advocates--Kanpur Bar Association and the Lawyers Association-- on Friday in a memorandum to the district judge Kanpur Nagar demanded that courts be closed for ten days otherwise they would go on indefinite strike. The three advocates who have been infected are Ramji Tiwari, joint secretary of the Lawyers Association, Rishabh Awasthi, joint secretary, Kanpur Bar Association and Anurag Pandey, son of mayor Pramila Pandey. Anurag is at present staying at a guest house of Kanpur Municipal Corporation in Moti Jheel. The mayor said the infection might have spread from courts.” People should not be panicked as all precautions would be taken”, she said. The three advocates who are close friends, used to visit courts regularly even during the lockdown period. The mayor said that his son, after his accident, was staying at a guest house in Moti Jheel and his friends would visit there to meet him. It is possible that one of his friends might have infected him. Moreover, Anurag too had visited the court in a matter. There was no need to get panicked as all would get well soon, she said. In compliance with the order of Allahabad high court, Kanpur courts reopened on June 8 last after two- and- a-half month long lockdown. The courts were once again closed on June 10 last when an advocate- Kanhaiya Lal Gupta-- was found infected with coronavirus and thereafter the courts were closed for two days. “The news that three more advocates have been found positive has sent an alarm bell that the courts are not safe and are emerging as a new hotspot”, said Kapil Deep Sachan, general secretary, Kanpur Bar Association. Talking to TOI, he said. “Earlier, the Kanpur courts were brought into the containment zone after a police constable was found infected in the Reserve Police Line. “Since UHM and Dufferin hospitals which are new hotspots are within the 500 metre radius of Kanpur courts, therefore, there are more chances of the spread of infection”, Sachan said. The news has created fear among advocates as well as court employees and they have demanded that the entire court campus and chambers of advocates be sanitized and closed for at least 10 days, he said. The two associations of advocates, after an emergency meeting, gave a memorandum to the district judge Kanpur Nagar and urged him to close the courts for ten days .The two associations clearly stated in the memorandum that advocates would observe indefinite strike if courts were not closed. Almost all office- bearers of the two associations were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-more-city-advocates-mayors-son-test-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/76347680.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Transportation of royalty-paid ore extended till July 31||Panaji: The state government has partially modified the Goa Mineral Policy, 2013, to allow transportation of royalty paid ore till July 31 to comply with the Supreme Court directive. As per the Goa Mineral Policy 2013, all iron ore transportation for non-captive purpose was supposed to stop on June 7. “In view of the Supreme Court directive in its January 30 order that the transportation of mineral to be completed within a period of six months, the Goa government in partial modification of clause 11 of the Goa Mineral Policy, 2013, hereby directs that transportation of mineral in the state shall be completed by July 31,” mines and geology director Vivek H P said. After a gap of almost two-years, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty paid iron ore in the state in March. Mining came to a halt on March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed a second renewal of 88 mining leases. On January 30, the apex court permitted the export of ore extracted before March 15, 2018. Senior mines department officer said that that currently there is 1.45MT of ore on which royalty has been paid and those companies have started transportation and there is 7.7 MT of ore on which royalty has not been paid. Recently merely 7% of the total ore which was put out for e-auction was bought by the mining companies, the directorate of mines and geology said. A senior officer said that mining companies will not be allowed to transport e-auctioned ore, but if the ore is lying at jetties they can take the ore to port via barges for export. The officer said that when mining in the state first came to a halt in 2012, the apex court had declared the ore lying at plots and jetties as illegal. It had directed the state government to confiscate the ore and conduct e-auctions. The mines department had identified 15 million tonne of such ore, from which 10 million tonne was e-auctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/transportation-of-royalty-paid-ore-extended-till-july-31/articleshow/76349459.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Business||Hospitality firm takes Oyo to court||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: A Delhi hospitality firm Pearl Hospitality & Events has taken Oyo Hotel & Homes to court for reneging on their contract and refusing to pay the amount Oyo allegedly owes for exiting the property before the expiry of the lock-in period. tnn Court documents show the Delhi HC issued a notice last week to Oyo to respond to the complaint filed by Pearl Hospitality & Events, which is seeking financial compensation for the alleged breach of lock-in period terms in the contract. In the case against Oyo, Pearl Hospitality has said it entered into a ‘Management Service Agreement’ with Oyo on September 4, 2019. “The said agreement also contained a lock-in period clause, which required the respondent, in the event of its deciding to terminate the agreement prior to the expiry of 16 months from September 12, 2019, to pay, to the petitioner (Pearl), certain amounts,” the court documents showed. Before the matter reached court, both parties had exchanged legal notices against each other. Responding to TOI’s query, an Oyo spokesperson said, “Since the matter is sub judice, we cannot comment on the specifics. At Oyo, safety and security of guests and employees is paramount. Hence, compliance of all mandatory guidelines and licences is non-negotiable and any failure to comply invokes relevant corrective actions. We hope to amicably resolve any outstanding matters through the dispute resolution mechanisms of the honourable court.” Pearl has said it got payments from Oyo till November and since then there has been no payment. This brings the lock-in period compensation demand from the hospitality firm as the main grievance against the SoftBank-backed firm. It is seeking compensation of over Rs 5 crore, excluding taxes. Oyo’s legal counsel has told the court that Pearl Hospitality took the discussed property on lease from the original landlord and that the same agreement was terminated in January this year. “..there would be no question of the petitioner maintaining any claim,” Oyo’s counsel told the court, who also added that various documents such as licences, no-objection certificates were yet to be obtained from Pearl despite repeated requests. The matter has been re-notified for June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hospitality-firm-takes-oyo-to-court/articleshow/76348310.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 13, 2020||Patna||Devotees offer ‘Juma namaz’ at mosques||PATNA: Devotees offered ‘Juma namaz’ at city mosques for the first time after Covid-19 restrictions were eased and people allowed to visit places of worship. Masjid committees in all localities ensured that all precautionary measures were taken. Elderly people and devotees without masks were not allowed to enter the mosques. Former secretary of Dariyapur Jama Masjid, Hammad Qasim, told TOI that the ‘imam’ in his sermon asked people to follow the government’s instructions and take care of their health. Samanpura resident Sagheer Mallick said congregations at his local mosque were held in three shifts to avoid gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-offer-juma-namaz-at-mosques/articleshow/76346600.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Trams, more buses from Monday to ease commuters’ travel trauma||KOLKATA: The state government will press into service more buses, along with starting trams, from Monday to ease commuters’ movement and avoid crowding. Private operators are also planning to run more buses from Monday. In the last two weeks, commuters had to face a harrowing time on the road because of severe demand-supply mismatch. Because of scanty private buses, the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) fleet could not tackle the rush. Commuters had to wait for more than two hours to board a bus. On Friday, senior officers swung into action to mobilise more buses for the city, apart from restarting trams from Ballygunge to Tollygunge. Most of overhead tramway wires were snapped when Cyclone Amphan ravaged the city. The Maidan area was the worst affected. WBTC engineers have been working on a war-footing to restore the tracks, poles and overhead wires to resume services. “The state government is mobilising 400 additional buses in greater Kolkata to facilitate commuters’ movements from Monday. Out of these, 200 will be air-conditioned,” a home department tweet read. Another 200 non-AC state buses will be mobilised by South Bengal State Transport Corporation (SBSTC). These buses will run on different routes: Howrah station-Esplanade-BBD Bag-Sector V areas with outlying points at Garia, Behala, Barasat and Barrackpore, said a transport official. SBSTC has already deployed 50 buses in Kolkata from Durgapur and Jangalmahal divisions. All these buses have reached Kolkata and will start plying from Friday. Meanwhile, the transport department has also urged private operators to run more buses. The latter has assured the state that more than 3,000 buses will ply in the city from Monday. But they hae once again drawn the attention of the state government towards how higher operating cost and low fare was leaving them bleeding profusely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trams-more-buses-from-monday-to-ease-commuters-travel-trauma/articleshow/76348133.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 13, 2020||Patna||Patna: Prices of veggies low as many hotels and hostels still remain closed||PATNA: Even though economic and business activities have started picking up gradually in the state, the negative impact of coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown continues to cast their malevolent shadow on the vegetable market. The vegetable prices are still at an all-time low. But the low prices have benefited neither the farmers nor the middlemen or wholesale traders. For example, a farmer sells lady finger at Rs2/kg to a wholesaler or middleman, who sells it to the retailer at Rs10/kg. The retailer sells it to general customers at Rs15-20/kg. As the supply chain has been somewhat restored, onions and potato have been coming from outside the state, but the demand curve has remained flat, rather tilted down. All this because bulk vegetable purchasers like hotels, restaurants, roadside dhabas, guesthouses and hostels are closed. Also, Patna has remained deprived of its daily intake of floating population on which the small restaurants and roadside dhabas used to sustain. Even the general retail customers have yet to overcome the shock that the financial crisis the lockdown inflicted on their sentiments and the market, resulting in the pulling of the purse strings and low consumption of vegetables, no matter if they are available at low prices. “Traditionally, vegetable business of Patna is dependent on the performance of hotels, hostels, dhabas and daily customers in residential areas. Things are yet to become normal,” said Suresh Sah, a vegetable vendor from Lalganj in Vaishali district and in the retail vegetable business for the last 10 years. “Even last year the vegetable prices were in Rs40-60/kg range around this time. Today, the prices are just around half,” said Satish Kumar Yadav, who has been in this business at Kidwaipuri since 1986. In some localities on Friday, pumpkin was selling at Rs10-20/kg, ‘nenua’ Rs16/, brinjal Rs30/kg, local cucumber Rs30/kg, tomato Rs24/kg, ‘parwal’ Rs20/kg and ‘bhindi (ladyfinger) at Rs20/kg. However, around the closing time, the prices crash to even half of the going rates for the day. “I drastically reduce the prices of green vegetables around 7pm to sell most of them and empty my stock,” said Munna Kumar at S K Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prices-of-veggies-low-as-many-hotels-and-hostels-still-remain-closed/articleshow/76346449.cms||Abhay Singh
June 13, 2020||Patna||Three Bihar universities to hold pending exams in July||PATNA: Three universities of the state—Veer Kunwar Singh University (VKSU), Ara, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) and Munger University—will conduct the pending examinations in July and ensure publication of results in September-October with a view to regularizing their academic sessions. The decision was taken following an interaction of the vice-chancellors of these universities with chancellor Phagu Chauhan through a videoconferencing on Friday. All the VCs agreed to conduct the examinations as per the UGC guidelines and maintain social distancing and other protective measures. They also agreed to complete the courses by facilitating online classes and uploading e-learning content on varsity websites. The chancellor has asked the VCs to fix the schedule of admission of students to the three-year-degree courses in such a way that students passing Plus Two examinations from CBSE, ICSE and BSEB are able to submit their application forms. He said that in no case admission beyond the sanctioned seats in first year degree course will be taken in any college. If any college is found violating the rule, a show-cause notice will be served on the principal immediately. The VCs were also directed to determine the teacher-student ratio in their respective colleges and postgraduate departments and also to furnish the subject-wise vacancies of assistant teachers with reservation roster to be cleared by the divisional commissioner. They were also asked to upload the degrees and certificates of students on the National Academic Depository (NAD). State higher education director Rekha Kumari, who also participated in the interaction, informed the chancellor that the pay verification of teachers of different universities in the revised 7th pay scale was going on at war footing in the state education department and that payment of arrears will be made to the teachers soon. Governor’s principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad and other senior officials of Raj Bhavan, besides the VCs of three universities participated in the conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-universities-to-hold-pending-exams-in-july/articleshow/76346417.cms||B K Mishra
June 13, 2020||Chennai||J Radhakrishnan replaces Beela Rajesh as Tamil Nadu health secretary||CHENNAI: With Covid-19 positive cases rising dangerously in Chennai, the state government on Friday brought back J Radhakrishnan to replace Beela Rajesh as the health secretary. Sources said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash may soon be replaced by Pankaj Kumar Bansal, who is now special coordinator for the corporation. Sources said Beela’s style of functioning, often not taking into confidence even her senior colleagues, had incurred her the wrath of many in the government. And the spike in Covid-19 cases in Chennai hastened her exit. Top sources said the order came from chief minister K Palaniswami on Friday morning.  “It came out of blue. There was no discussion till last night, though there was some speculation,” said a senior bureaucrat. Radhakrishnan, who was the health secretary before being appointed as the commissioner of revenue administration and disaster management makes a comeback after being made the special nodal officer for the Greater Chennai Corporation on May 1. “After the initial momentum to trace the Tablighi Jamaat cluster, the health department failed to coordinate. The record spike in Chennai put the government in a spot, and something had to be done,” said a top official. Radhakrishnan is one of the officers who has the chief minister’s ears. He drops by almost daily to brief the chief minister. A team player who delegates work to juniors, Radhakrishnan starts his day early morning with field visits. He distributes free masks to people wherever he goes. Radhakrishnan has been a go-to person for Tamil Nadu government for disaster management ever since his stint in Nagapattinam during the 2004 tsunami. The political leadership had taken note of his work also during the 2015 floods and the Gaja cyclone. “His stint at Ripon Buildings as the Chennai corporation commissioner in the late 90s and his long tenure as the health secretary makes him a natural choice during the crisis,” said a senior official. Outgoing health secretary Beela Rajesh has been advocating increased testing and intensified surveillance, but Chennai remained “out of bounds” – as an official put it – for her as several senior bureaucrats were working on containment zones, contact tracing and testing in the capital city. “Beela has been asking for more testing,” said a health expert who worked with her. “It remains to be seen if the testing in Chennai goes up or down in Chennai; that will reflect the new plan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/j-radhakrishnan-replaces-beela-rajesh-as-tamil-nadu-health-secretary/articleshow/76348940.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 13, 2020||Patna||18-year-old boy killed in celebratory firing in Bihar||PATNA: An 18-year-old youth, Sonu Kumar, was killed in a celebratory firing at Kabaidih village under the Tisiauta police station area in Vaishali district around 2am on Friday. Police said a bullet hit Sonu when one Dev Kumar Sahni, a close relative of bride, opened fire during wedding rituals. Sonu, a resident of Maruaha village under the Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur district, was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. SHO of Tisiauta police station Nityanand Prasad said three people — Dev Kumar Sahni, Mukesh Sahni and Awadhesh Sahni — have been named as accused in the FIR. The SHO added the deceased was a worker in a tent company. Eyewitnesses told police that Dev Kumar had an altercation with the deceased over sharing drinking water during the marriage ceremony. The baraat had come to the house of one Amar Sahni, he added. Maoist arrested: Aurangabad police on Friday arrested Pushpa alias Gauri, a Maoist leader wanted in many cases from her ancestral village Langurahi under the Madanpur police station area. The Maoist was mounting pressure on a person to marry her, which led to her arrest. ASP (operation) Rajesh Kumar Singh said, “Gauri was an active Maoist leader and played an important role in carrying out many operations. She had found a place in the personal squad of Maoist commander Sandeep Yadav, where she was givan an Insas rifle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-yr-old-boy-killedin-celebratory-firing/articleshow/76346409.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||Chicken, mutton prices skyrocket in Patna||PATNA: Prices of non-vegetarian food like chicken and mutton, which had fallen during lockdown period due to lack of demand, have suddenly increased in the city. For instance, mutton, which used to be sold at Rs 550-Rs 650 per kg, is now available at Rs 800 per kg. Likewise, chicken is being sold at Rs 150-Rs 200 per kg. During lockdown, chicken prices had gone down to as low as Rs 30-Rs50 per kg. “Prices of non-veg food, especially mutton, do not reach this level even during Holi,” said Sujeet Kumar, a resident of Bans Ghat area. Meat shop owners have blamed unavailability of non-vegetarian food for rise in prices. Gyasuddin Khan, owner of a meat shop near Raja Bazaar, said there has been a scarcity of chicken as well as goat in the city as an after-effect of lockdown. Chintoo Alam, a chicken trader, said he has no option but to sell chicken at the rate of Rs 180 per kg. “The lockdown had caused massive financial losses to us. We are left with no other option but to sell chicken at increased prices. Moreover, there is a huge scarcity of chicken in the market. Though people have started eating chicken, the demand is still comparatively low,” Alam added. Rajesh Singh, manager of a restaurant on Boring Road said, “Despite the increase in prices of raw meat, we have not increased the prices of cooked non-veg food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chicken-mutton-prices-skyrocket/articleshow/76346476.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa University defers all exams, post-grad tests to be held online||PANAJI: Goa University on Friday deferred all examinations — scheduled to begin from July 1 at the university’s teaching departments and in affiliated colleges — to August 3. The decision was taken after GU’s vice-chancellor and registrar held a virtual meeting with principals of all affiliated colleges. In a circular issued later on Friday, the university’s registrar, Y V Reddy, said all regular and repeat exams for final year and repeat exams for lower semesters of general stream post-graduate programmes will be conducted online from August 3 onwards. Semester-end assessment for lower semesters of PG programmes have been cancelled. “Detailed guidelines for online examinations shall be issued subsequently,” Reddy said in the circular. Sources said the possibility of conducting online exams for undergraduate degree programme is also being explored. GU, in its circular for undergraduate degree programmes, only said that ‘the mode in which the (undergraduate) examinations are to be conducted from August 3 onwards will be communicated shortly’. The deferred date to hold examinations is applicable for final year and repeat tests for BA, BSc, BCom and all other programmes that were to begin from July 1, except for tests scheduled under the faculty of medicine. Earlier, considering the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa University had decided to extend the current academic year 2019-20 for undergraduate and postgraduate students. The new academic year 2020-21 was to begin from August 1. But on Friday, it decided to further extend the date for start of the new academic year to after August 14. The university has further decided not to hold semester-end assessments for lower semester students of all PG programmes of general education offered by it and affiliated colleges for the current academic year 2019-20. This also applies to the integrated MBA (hospitality, travel and tourism) programme offered at the Goa Business School and integrated MCom programme offered at S S Dempo College of Commerce and Economics in Cujira. Students of these programmes will be graded on the marks they’ve scored in the intra-semester assessment during the current semester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-defers-all-exams-post-grad-tests-to-be-held-online/articleshow/76349457.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 13, 2020||Indore||Bhopal Covid-19 positivity rate higher than Indore||BHOPAL: In a warning sign for the administration, Bhopal has surpassed Indore — MP’s worst-hit district — in number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the first 11 days of Unlock 1.0. The rate of positive reports per 100 tests in Bhopal is nearly 1.5 times that of Indore in June. While more people were tested for Covid-19 in Indore and fewer tested positive, Bhopal tested far fewer samples yet more people tested positive. Between June 1 and June 11, 15,186 samples were tested in Bhopal and 17,949 in Indore. While 571 people tested positive in Bhopal, Indore had only 433 fresh patients in the same period. Things seemed to be normal during the first two days of Unlock 1.0. On June 1, fewer people per 100 tested positive in Bhopal than Indore. The same on June 2. But on June 3, the tide started turning with Bhopal and Indore level at 3.2%. The two districts drew nearly level again on June 8 (4.2%). But between June 4 and June 11 (barring June 8) Bhopal shot past Indore in number of people testing positive. Also, Bhopal has pushed Indore to second place in corona daily count for seven days this month – June 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, and 12. On June 11, Bhopal in fact had over twice as many fresh cases as Indore. While Indore has added 433 new cases this month, Bhopal is alarmingly ahead with 571. Indore, Bhopal account for 60% MP casesIndore (3,972 cases) and Bhopal (2,082) together account for nearly 60% of MP’s corona tally. They also account for 53% of the toll. The administrations in these two districts have been battling the pandemic on a war footing, but there are worrying signs in Bhopal this month. Since June 1, Bhopal has enjoyed more relaxations than Indore. Malls have opened and public transport has been allowed in Bhopal while Indore continues to have stricter restrictions. Bhopal district officials refused to comment on the reason for the higher positivity rate in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/bhopal-covid-positivity-rate-higher-than-indore/articleshow/76351029.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest worker arrested||Coimbatore: Police on Thursday arrested a 32-year-old man for attempting to cheat a section of guest workers who were stranded in the city. According to the Saibaba Colony police, Badal Kumar Das, 23, from Odisha, had contacted Ollywood actor Sabyaschi Mishra, who has been extending help to guest workers who were stranded in Tamil Nadu, via Twitter to help him and his friends by arranging transport facilities to return to their hometown. Meanwhile, Gopal Chandra Shaoo, 32, another guest worker from Odisha, contacted Badal Kumar and said he was the agent for the actor and demanded Rs 6,000 for the travel expenses. Immediately, Badal Kumar contacted the actor who told him that he would bear the whole cost of guest workers’ travel. On Thursday, Badal Kumar Das asked Gopal Chandra Sahoo to collect the amount near new bus stand at Saibaba Colony. When he came to the spot, Badal Kumar caught the conman and handed him over to Saibaba Colony police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-worker-arrested/articleshow/76348950.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Allahabad||Farmer beaten to death in Kaushambi||Prayagraj: A farmer was beaten to death while his son was injured over a petty dispute in Tikri Nagi village under Paschim Sarira police station of Kaushambi district on Thursday night. The deceased farmer, identified as Mann Singh Patel (46), was a resident of Tikri village and owned fields in Barua village. On Thursday morning, his daughter Roli was safeguarding the field from stray cattle. She plucked some manages from a nearby mango field which belonged to one Udayraj. As per police, Udayraj allegedly rebuked the girl who later narrated the incident to her father and brother Vipin. On Thursday night, Patel, along with Vipin, reached Udayraj’s house to confront him about his misbehaviour whith his daughter. But Udayraj and his aides started thrashing Patel and his son. Hearing their cries, villagers rushed to the spot but the Udayraj and his fled from the scene. Patel became unconscious due to the brutal thrashing, and succumbed to his injuries before he was taken to the hospital. IG (Allahabad range) K P Singh told TOI that the police have detained four persons for interrogation and probe is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/farmer-beaten-to-death-in-kaushambi/articleshow/76346429.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Divyang farmers may get agri power connection on par with SC/ST||JAIPUR: The energy department, in its reply to a demand made earlier, had said on February 26 that the demand — for provide agriculture power connection to divyang farmers along the lines with connection given to people belonging to SC/ST category — will also be put forward for consideration in the new agriculture policy. Commissioner for specially abled persons and principal secretary social justice and empowerment department Akhil Arora, on the request of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh’s Hemant Bhai Goyal to provide agriculture power connection to divyang farmers, had written to principal secretary, energy department, on February 11. On June 8, court of commissioner for specially abled persons again wrote to energy department seeking to know the action taken for including in the new agriculture policy the provision for the above demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/divyang-farmers-may-get-agri-power-connection-on-par-with-sc/st/articleshow/76348951.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||30 Covid-19 tests a day, Telangana govt’s new order||HYDERABAD: Even as the high court and the Opposition have questioned the low number of Covid-19 tests being done by the government, new directions have been issued to health authorities restricting the number of samples to be taken in a day in districts and in areas falling under Greater Hyderabad. According to highly placed sources, the state government has asked the authorities to conduct not more than 30 tests in an area in a day. The government argues that it had to take this step as the load of coronavirus positive cases was increasing. Sources said the instructions were issued — two days ago — orally to the authorities. If the samples are tested in Greater Hyderabad limits, the entire area is taken as one unit. Similarly, in districts, the town is taken as one unit. Under the new testing policy, all samples from asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 patients will be taken first. In the existing policy, the authorities were collecting samples of symptomatic first contacts (including family members) of Covid patients. When contacted, a top health official said they were doing everything as per the ICMR guidelines. “We are following the ICMR guidelines and taking steps accordingly,” he said. In the new testing policy, a fever survey will also be undertaken around the area where a Covid positive case is found. Unlike the earlier instance where only the patient’s house was taken into account, the fever survey will cover about 70 to 80 houses close to the residence of the person who had tested positive. “While the fever survey is welcome as it indicates the health parameters of an individual, restrictions on the number of samples is not a good idea,” said an official. Previously, officials were taking the samples without conducting any fever survey in and around the residence of a Covid positive patient. Meanwhile, private labs and hospitals in Hyderabad have started conducting Covid-19 tests. “But, if a person tests positive, they are informing him/her personally and mentioning it as ‘some other viral infection’ in their reports furnished to the government,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-covid-tests-a-day-t-govts-new-order/articleshow/76349463.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist reports 2 imported cases, Bommanampalayam sealed||Coimbatore: The district on Friday saw two imported Covid-19 cases when a 52-year-old returnee from Chennai and another 29-year-old man from Gurgaon tested positive for the virus. There are 23 indigenous active cases in the district and its Covid-19 tally has gone up to 173. It was also the day when Bommanampalayam village in Vadavalli was sealed to contain local transmission of the virus. Three of a family from the area had earlier tested positive for the virus. While the man from Gurgaon took a flight to the city and headed to Keeranatham, the one from Chennai reached Magadavapuram in Mettuapalayam municipality by road to attend a funeral.Health department officials have begun the exercise to trace the contacts of the new patients. An official said, “We have send teams to Keeranatham and Magadavapuram for the purpose. The flyer has provided a local address in Keeranatham. We will check if there are other returnees from Gurgaon in that area and if anyone has met him during arrival to help him with baggage or so.”In the case of Chennai returnee, the official said, they would take things slowly as members of that house were mourning the loss of a kin. “We will talk to them and draw the list of people who had come in contact with the man who tested positive for the virus. We will probably start collecting samples from them on Saturday.”Meanwhile, the health department has sealed all the entry and exit points to Bommanampalayam village in Vadavalli, from where three of the family tested positive for the virus. One of them had returned from Chennai very recently.The city corporation and police officials have barricaded areas like Arun Nagar Main Road, Bommanpalayam Pirivu Road and Navavoor Pirivu, among others, as they all have shortcut to reach Bommanampalayam. “This was necessary because we received reports that two of the three positive people were moving freely in the area. While vehicles won’t be allowed, people would be allowed to step out and buy essentials,” an official said.All the commercial establishments, except grocery stores, medical shops and fruit stalls, would remain closed in the area. The city corporation officials had collected samples from 209 people for Covid-19 test from the locality and all of them have tested negative for the novel coronavirus. In another instance, the 19-year-old nursing student, who tested positive for the virus, was added to the Covid-19 tally of Tirupur on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-reports-2-imported-cases-bommanampalayam-sealed/articleshow/76348953.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Man, minor girl kill boy to keep their affair secret||Coimbatore: A 21-year-old man and a 17-year-old girl were arrested on Friday for stabbing to death an eight-year-old boy, who saw them in a compromising position and threatened the former to reveal his sexual relationship with the minor to his lover.The boy, who went missing from his house near Uthukuzhi in Tirupur district on Thursday, was found murdered near a graveyard in the same locality on Friday morning.An investigation officer identified the deceased as Bhavanesh, son of Thangaraj-Sumathi couple. He was a Class III student. “A team led by Uthukuzhi police inspector Thavamani held inquiry with the children in the area and they told them that they had seen him with the minor girl and her friend.” The team subsequently picked up the duo, who confessed to the crime. “The man said Bhavanesh had seen them in a compromising position at the girl’s house and threatened to inform his lover,” the officer said.On Thursday, the two took Bhavanesh to a nearby graveyard and the man gave his mobile phone to him to play games. Later, the man requested him not to reveal his relationship with the minor to his girlfriend. “When the boy told him that he would reveal the incident to his lover, the two, in a fit of rage, stabbed him with a broken bottle indiscriminately and left the spot,” the officer said.As the boy didn’t return home, his parents lodged a complaint with the Uthukuzhi police, who registered a boy missing case and launched a search for him, but in vain.Meanwhile, a passerby spotted the body and alerted the Uthukuzhi police, who identified the deceased with the help of the boy’s parents. “He had sustained injuries to his throat, forehead, abdomen, mouth and eyebrow,” the officer said.The Uthukuzhi police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested the minor girl and her friend, who are likely to be remanded in judicial custody on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-minor-girl-kill-boy-to-keep-their-affair-secret/articleshow/76348947.cms||A Subburaj
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sees over 2,000 Covid-19 cases in a day for first time||NEW DELHI: The daily count of Covid-19 in the capital crossed 2,000 for the first time on Friday with 2,137 people testing positive for the disease. With the highest single-day count, the total tally of the viral infection has reached 36,824 in Delhi. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has mounted to 1,214. This includes 129 fatalities confirmed by the state’s death audit committee on Friday, of which 71 took place in the past 24 hours while 58 deaths occurred between May 9 and June 10. After Maharashtra and Gujarat that have reported 3,717 and 1,416 Covid deaths, respectively, Delhi has witnessed the maximum number of deaths due to the disease. More worryingly, the data shows 741 (61%) deaths have been reported in the national capital in the last 12 days, from June 1 to June 12. In March, April and May, Delhi reported 2, 57 and 414 Covid-19 fatalities, respectively. The daily incidence of Covid-19 has also gone up significantly, with over 1,000 new cases being reported every day since May 28, except on June 1. “The situation in Delhi is worrisome. If the infection continues to spread at this pace, the hospitals will fall short of beds and there will be a crisis situation soon. Lockdown or not, people should go out only if they must. They should take all possible precautions, for example wearing masks at all times and washing hands frequently,” said a senior doctor. Some of the residents welfare associations (RWAs), he added, are imposing lockdown measures in their own societies to protect residents. Many RWAs are also making their own isolation rooms and arranging oxygen cylinders for managing Covid-19 cases, in case the patients find it difficult to get a bed in a hospital when the pandemic is at its peak. In a statement on Friday, health minister Satyendar Jain said that in view of the growing cases, Delhi government was making preparations on its part. He said, “Beds and ventilators will be increased. The central government has also told us that they will ensure full cooperation, so we will also seek their help. Their hospitals have a lot of ICU beds. There are around 13,000 beds in the central government hospitals, we would like to request the Centre to use those beds for Covid-19 treatment.” Delhi government has also decided to utilise stadiums, banquet and community halls, and religious places such as dharamshalas to create more beds and run temporary hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sees-over-2000-cases-in-a-day-for-first-time/articleshow/76349468.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur cases on expected lines: Kerala minister||THRISSUR: Local self-government minister AC Moideen on Friday sought to dispel fears of an alarming situation prevailing in Thrissur and claimed that the spike in Covid-19 cases in the district was along expected lines. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting, here, he rejected the demand, put forward by some political leaders, including Thrissur MP T N Pratapan, for a complete lockdown of the district. Moideen argued that as of now there was no community spread in the district. He said there was also no need for increasing the number containment zones from the present ten. However, strict restrictions will be enforced on the movement of people in these zones. According to the minister, district health and administration officials had estimated Covid-19 cases to touch 350 during the 15-week period from May 7, when the state opened up its borders for Malayalis abroad and in other states to return. However, the district has so far reported only 204 cases (till Thursday). But the state government has already worked out plans for treating 350 patients at a time, he said. Moideen said most of the contacts of patients who contracted the infection have been identified. However, the source of infection was not yet clear in the case of 87-year-old Kumaran, from Engandiyur, who died last Sunday. The LSG minister said markets in the corporation and municipal areas will remain closed on Tuesday and Wednesday for cleaning and sanitisation operations. He warned of strict action against those spreading false information through social media. Rapid response teams will be deployed at the ward levels in local bodies to ensure that those in quarantine are not violating restrictions. The minister disclosed that more antibody tests will be carried out among health workers and other groups to assess the level of spread of the disease in the district. 14 new cases reported Meanwhile, an official release said 14 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 218. In another development, Guruvayur MLA, K V Abdul Khader, decided to quarantine himself following reports that he had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient at Chavakkad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-cases-on-expected-lines-min/articleshow/76347156.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hubballi||69 booked for temple fair in Haveri||HAVERI: As many as 69 people have been booked for organising a fair or jathre in honour of the God Brahmalingeshwara in Karjagi village in Haveri district, in flagrant violation of the prohibitory orders in place to curb the spread of the Covid-19 infection. Although the fair was held on Thursday, videos of events held at the jathre, which is an historic annual affair in the village went viral on social media portals on Friday, compelling police to act against members of the committee of the Brahmalingeshwara temple. Notwithstanding orders issued by Haveri deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai, the committee members of the temple went ahead with the Kara Hunnime celebrations, which was attended by scores of devotees from nearby villages and towns. A procession wherein scores of people were seen jostling one another, and an event involving bullock carts were held during the jathre. Haveri district additional superintendent of police Mallikarjun Baladandi said that Haveri rural police had booked cases against the members of the temple committee under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The committee members of Brahmalingeshwar temple in Karjagi village of Haveri taluk have organized Kara Hunnime celebration on Thursday at the temple premises despite Deputy Commissioner Krishna Bajpai’s order. Haveri DC Bajpai said that Karjagi residents had called on him at the office, seeking permission to hold the jathre last week. “Citing prohibitory orders that were in place, I refused permission. In fact, Haveri assistant commissioner and tahsildar for Haveri taluk held several meetings with the villagers requesting them not to hold the fair. But they have gone ahead nevertheless, and we will certainly take action against those responsible,” the DC said. Despite repeated attempts, none of the members on the Brahmalingeshwara temple committee responded to TOI’s queries. A historic event The Karjagi Kara Hunnime is a historic event, which has been held without fail each year for more than a century. A three-day event, as many as seven bullock carts participate in the jathre, which also includes several other rituals. The organisers however decided to reduce the fair to a one-day event this year owing to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/69-booked-for-temple-fair-in-haveri/articleshow/76345965.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Clean choked drains before monsoon: Mayor||In a meeting attended by ward councillors and Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) officials, city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama directed to identify choked drains in all wards so that they can be cleaned before the advent of the monsoon season. During the meeting, the ward councillors were also asked to update the list of worn-off roads and sensitive spots in their respective wards for spraying of anti-larva solution. Meanwhile, the ward councillors expressed their concerns over faulty fogging machines. In response, DMC officials assured that the machines would be repaired on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/clean-choked-drains-before-monsoon-mayor/articleshow/76348172.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Trawler owners count losses as extended season winds up on Mon||Panaji/Colva: As the extended fishing season culminates on Monday, trawler operators will look to put a disappointing period behind them and hope for better days once the ban ends. The state directorate of fisheries has prohibited fishing from June 16 till July 31 by vessels along the sea coast and the territorial waters of Goa. A 61-day ban is annually imposed in the state to facilitate the breeding process. This year, the ban was reduced to 45 days by the Centre. While fishing activities were extended till June 15, it has brought little solace to over 1,500 trawler owners who have faced a turbulent season. Many trawler owners at Cutbona fishing jetty at Betul have already folded their nets and are either transporting it home or have stacked them at the jetty itself. Trawler owner Martin Fernandes said the fishing season was unproductive as the first three months of the season (August, September, October) witnessed heavy showers while sea conditions were rough. And the two-month lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak proved to be a double whammy. “We are only hoping that we break even to cover the costs of salaries and food for staff and fuel,” he said. Another operator, Hector Da Costa lamented that the season was not lucrative. “During the first two weeks of the lockdown, we lost money because the borders were sealed and there was difficulty in transporting fish to Kerala. Hence, we had to sell fish at cheap rates to the agents. Moreover, the fish meal plant was also closed in Goa due to which even waste fish was not being accepted.” However, even after the fishing season was extended, cyclone Nisarga claimed almost five days as rough weather warnings prohibited vessels from venturing into the waters. “Now the monsoon has arrived, so the extended 15 days have not really helped,” another trawler owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trawler-owners-count-losses-as-extended-season-winds-up-on-mon/articleshow/76349464.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Confusion reigns over free ration supply date||JAIPUR: While the state government had sent SMS to the migrant workers and others (who are not covered under NFSA) stating that they will get free ration from June 12 to 17, the district supplies officer on Friday in an order stated that free ration will be distributed to families of migrant workers and people belonging to the special categories from June 15. The SMS which sent to them also stated each family will be given 2 kg dal and each family member will be provided 10 kg wheat. It also asked them to collect the ration from the fair price shops and also carry their Aadhar or Jan Aadhar cards. Meanwhile, the civil society groups wrote to food secretary Siddharth Mahajan on Friday complaining that the district administration was not following the order issued by the state government on June 2. DSO-I Kanishk Saini said, “It (the SMS) was issued for the whole state where distribution will be done. It has become difficult for FCI to supply food grains that is four-five times the regular supply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/confusion-reigns-over-free-ration-supply-date/articleshow/76348960.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Testing becomes a concern as Covid-19 cases go up in state||With the number of Covid-19 positive cases on the rise in several districts across the state, testing of samples has become a cause for concern. While health officials say they have ramped up sample collection and testing, data shows testing in some districts is very low.For instance, Ariyalur, which figures in the top 10 Covid-hit districts in the state with 391 cases, has one of the lowest sample testing numbers. According to the health officials there, only 60 to 100 samples are tested a day. This is despite the district having 26 active cases.Some of the other Covid-hit districts are not any better, despite showing higher number of sample testing per day. On Friday, a man identified as Andrew was turned away when he went to the government hospital in Madurai for test. Even after informing the staff that he was from Chennai, a hotspot, he was not entertained. He was summoned and tested only after the issue was taken up with collector T G Vinay.Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has been raising issues for the past several days noting that testing has to be ramped up.According to the government data, Madurai district, with a population of about 30 lakh, had tested 14,102 people as on June 8, which translates to 3,975 tests per million (TPM) population. But districts, which have lesser population than Madurai, has been testing more. For example, Tuticorin, with a population of just over 17.50 lakh, has done 13,227 tests, which translates into 6963 TPM.The Madurai collector, however, says they are testing 500 samples on an average daily, which is adequate. All those entering the district and those with symptoms, contacts of positive cases are tested, he says.Ariyalur officials too sounded content with the current testing numbers. Officials there say since there are very few people visiting hospitals with flu symptoms requiring tests and even lesser entering the district now, the number of tests were less.In Coimbatore, deputy director of health services G Ramesh Kumar said, on an average 600 samples are tested daily. When the cases dropped to zero, the testing also fell to 200 samples a day in May. As influx of people started after opening of district borders, the samples tested per day rose to 400 samples. With flights, trains and buses coming to the district with droves of people, sample testing has gradually increased. On some days the samples go up to 800, he said. “We will increase testing if required,” he said. Health officials in other districts too said they were prepared to increase sample collection and testing in the coming days, if required.Trichy collector S Sivarasu said the central district has ramped up testing to 500 samples a day. “Not just government hospital, but pregnant women, people with severe acute respiratory infection and influenza like illness visiting primary health centres are also tested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/testing-becomes-a-concern-as-covid-19-cases-go-up-in-state/articleshow/76348957.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Southwest monsoon sets in slowly in dist||Coimbatore: The southwest monsoon has set in the district. While most parts of the district have recorded only drizzle and light showers so far, temperature has dropped to 28 deg C and 23 deg C, offering a pleasant climate for the residents.Despite the delayed onset of monsoon and scanty showers, officials are hopeful of receiving normal rainfall during the season.Some parts of the district recorded light drizzles and heavy wind through Thursday night and other areas, nil (rainfall).While Peelamedu weather station recorded no rainfall, the rain gauge at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) recorded 2.5mm rainfall as on Friday morning.S P Ramanathan, director, agro climate research centre, TNAU, said, “It is a slow and mild onset of monsoon. But we don’t think this means a deficit rainfall. We stick to our predictions of 194mm rainfall by September-end.”He said the onset of monsoon was delayed in Kerala too and that the neighbouring state has recorded only mild rainfall so far.While no rainfall is expected over the next three days, officials say rain will start intensifying by the month-end.“This is true Coimbatore weather,” said R Nithya, a jogger in Saibaba Colony on Friday evening. While walking and jogging at Race Course are banned, people still come to the area to enjoy the weather by just sitting on benches along the track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/southwest-monsoon-sets-in-slowly-in-dist/articleshow/76348961.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Man bitten by cobra brings it to hospital, creates scare||Coimbatore: A 48-year-old drunk painter set off a commotion at the casualty ward of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Thursday night by a carrying a live cobra in a bag that bit him while consuming alcohol with his friend. Soundarajan, 48, was bitten by a snake while drinking and smoking marijuana with a friend at Kallimadai, Singanallur. Since it was dark and anticipating that the doctor would ask him about the snake that bit him, Soundarajan caught the snake and put it in a bag. Soundarajan and his friend reached the casualty ward of CMCH immediately. While narrating the incident to a duty doctor, the reptile slipped out of the bag. Staff members and doctors were shocked when they saw the snake slithering slowly in the ward. As it was too late in the night to call a snake catcher, the staff members killed the snake in a few minutes. “It was just a few minutes of shock, after which things were brought under control,” the dean of the hospital Dr P Kalidoss said. “The patient is on ventilator. He has been given 30 vials of anti-snake venom. But his condition remains critical,” he added.“We generally see a patient bringing the snake dead after bitten by it, as doctors want to assess whether it’s a poisonous snake or not,” he said. “However, these two men were drunk and brought a cobra with them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-bitten-by-cobra-brings-it-to-hospital-creates-scare/articleshow/76348959.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||Showers to pour relief over weekend||Lucknow: People can expect some relief from humid weather prevailing for the past few days, with the state Met office on Friday predicting thundershowers between Saturday and Tuesday. Another bright news is that monsoon is on the track and is expected to arrive in the state and the city by June 20, the ‘new normal’ fixed by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The maximum and minimum temperatures on Friday were 39.5 and 29.4 degrees Celsius, respectively, which, coupled with high relative humidity, made conditions uncomfortable. Similar mercury levels are expected on Saturday, but there is possibility of one or two spells of thundershowers. “Cyclonic circulations over Haryana and Chhattisgarh may cause scattered thundershowers in the state and city from Saturday till Tuesday,” said state Met director JP Gupta. He also predicted that monsoon is expected to lash UP by next weekend. According to IMD, conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement in coming days. It may reach Bihar by Sunday. In the past 10 years, monsoon had arrived in the city between June 19-July5 except for 2013 when currents entered Lucknow on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/showers-to-pour-relief-over-weekend/articleshow/76349465.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Allahabad||4 migrants among 5 new coronavirus cases, tally now 142||Prayagraj: Migrants returning to the city from various National Capital Region (NCR) formed the bulk of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases reported from Prayagraj on Friday. On Friday, five more persons tested positive for the virus in the district, taking Prayagraj’s tally to 142. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “A 28-year-old youth tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. He is a resident of Munsi Ka Pura in Puresurdas area of Jhunsi and had returned from Delhi on Friday. He had reportedly tested positive in Delhi.” A 44-year-old Fatehpur native, who had returned from Gurugram on June 6 via a train, was among the new cases reported from the city. After returning from Gurugram, he went straight to a private hospital in the city. Another 44-year-old man from Bamrauli who returned from Delhi on June 7 and was in institutional quarantine was also diagnosed with the disease. Besides, a 31-year-old man from Pratappur village and had come back to the city from Delhi on June 7 also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. A 39-year-old patient from Patrakar Colony in Ashok Nagar was the lone new case to be reported from the city on Friday who did not have a travel history. In Pratapgarh, a 51-year-old woman who had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital of the district was also tested positive for novel coronavirus. Health department officials said that currently there were 41 active cases in Prayagraj, while 96 patients had recovered and been discharged from the hospital. Five persons have died of Covid-19 in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/4-migrants-among-5-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-now-142/articleshow/76346438.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Scare in air: Air India crew on edge as Vande Bharat staff test positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: The Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission might have brought thousands of stranded Indians back home over the last one month, but it has left the Air India crew that flew the aircraft worried. A number of the pilots and cabin crew have tested positive making many of them wonder about the quality of the protective gear they were given. Sources told TOI that at least four from Hyderabad — two pilots and two cabin crew — tested positive for Covid-19. One cabin crew member was hospitalised while the remaining were home-quarantined. Four cases have been reported from among the Kolkata crew as well. A senior official claimed that the numbers were higher for Delhi and Mumbai. When TOI asked AI about the four from Hyderabad testing positive for Covid-19, a spokesperson refrained from commenting on it. “To respect the privacy of our employees we will not be able to share this information,” the official said in an email. The spokesperson also did not comment on the total number of AI staff across India who have tested positive so far. “We are entirely focussed on our evacuation flights under Vande Bharat Mission and also on our scheduled domestic operations. We are operating in sync with strict safety protocols and taking full care of our employees,” was the AI spokesperson's response. The spokesperson also said that they are taking care of the medical expenses of all its employees and assured that those testing positive for Covid-19 can “join after recovery and mandatory tests as per laid down procedure”. Although AI officials maintain that it is providing its crew “with a complete protective gear including face masks, Hazmat suits, gloves, disposable foot covers which are best available in the industry”, the staff disagree. Citing a particular example, another senior pilot said: “We have to change our gloves at least 20 times on a three-hour flight. Also, by the time we finish one trip, our PPE is in tatters.” “Right now, they are footing the bill for those admitted to hospital. But what happens to those who have to be quarantined? That also involves a cost, especially in cases where people cannot be quarantined at home and have to opt for a paid facility. How are people going to survive?” asked another pilot from Mumbai. From Hyderabad alone, AI has operated 34 repatriation flights so far ferrying close to 5,000 people back to the city. A ticket from the US to Hyderabad was priced at Rs 1 lakh (approx) while for other sectors it ranged from Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 (average).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scare-in-air-ai-crew-on-edge-as-vande-bharat-staff-test-ve/articleshow/76349477.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: LLB entrance from June 20 to 22||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Entrance examinations for three-year LLB, KMAT and integrated five-year LLB for academic year 2020-21 are scheduled on June 20, 21 and 22. Controller of entrance examination has urged candidates to download admit card by logging into the candidate portal on www.cee.kerala.gov.in. The candidates should report at examination centres with the admit card. There will be a mock test to get familiarise with the examination. For three-year LLB and five-year integrated LLB courses, the examination will be of two hours and will be online. For KMAT examination, the duration will be two-and-a half hours. There will be 200 multiple-choice questions each for three-year and five-year LLB courses. For KMAT examination, there will be 180 objective-type questions. An access card will be given to the candidates at the examination centres for logging in to the computers. The access card will have seat number, user name and password. The candidates should come with a photo-identification card. Aadhaar, voters’ identity card, driving licence and PAN card will be accepted as identification cards. No gadgets like calculator, mobile phone, smart watch or any other electronic gadgets will be allowed inside the examination hall. No candidate will be allowed to leave the hall before the conclusion of the examination. All candidates will have to comply with the security measures initiated by the state government in the wake of the Covid-19 situation. The students will be allowed entry into the examination centres only after thermal scanning and they should also ensure social distancing inside the centre. No candidate will be allowed to write the examination without mask. At the examination centre, hand gloves will be distributed to the candidates. The parents who are accompanying the candidates will not be allowed to enter the centre premises. Those who are coming from the hotspots should come in the vehicle arranged by themselves and should follow all the instructions given by the health department for writing the examination. They will be allowed separate rooms at the examination centres to write the exam. Rectifying errors in KEAMThose who have applied for KEAM examination for 2020-21 have been allowed to rectify errors if made in the application till 5pm on June 22. The application form has been made available at KEAM 2020 candidate portal of www.cee.kerala.gov.in The helpline number is 04712525300.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/llb-entrance-from-june-20-to-22/articleshow/76347193.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa puts Ghodemal under containment as villages continue lockdownsGhodemal is state’s 2nd containment zone, CM links most other cases to Mangor||Panaji: The spike in Covid-19 cases continued as it spread across the state, forcing the government to declare Ghodemal in Sattari taluka’s Morlem village a containment zone—the second after Mangor Hill—after it reported 15 positive cases. While there were demands from other areas where there was a surge in cases, like Shiren in Chimbel, to make it a containment zone, the government said it has not taken a decision as it was only from one family. But fear and panic continued to grip villages as more panchayats declared self-imposed lockdowns after positive cases were detected, squarely blaming the Pramod Sawant-led government for compromising the safety and health of the people. Ghodemal was declared a containment zone after 15 persons tested positive, after a health worker from the village posted at the Vasco urban health centre has got the virus. Sawant said only a portion of the ward has been declared a containment zone, and the houses along its periphery have been earmarked as a “buffer”. He said the government was looking at other areas that have seen a spike in cases o turning them into a containment zones and “the decision about them will be taken in a phased manner”. After Ghodemal reported four cases on Friday, health minister Vishwajit Rane requested the district administration to declare it a containment zone. Rane also discussed the issue with health secretary Nila Mohanan. “We have taken necessary precautions to break the chain of transmission,” Rane said on social media. One of the Covid positives from the village is a security guard who was posted at the Goa Medical College (GMC). Dean Dr S M Bandekar said the guard was stationed at the hospital’s parking lot for the past three-four days. “Since he is asymptomatic, he has been transferred to the Covid care centre,” Bandekar said. “Those who travelled with him from Morlem to Bambolim have been tested on Friday.” Goa’s active Covid-19 tally neared the 400 mark on Friday, as 46 new positives pushed the total up to 396. However, it was the first day in more than a week that Mangor Hill reported no new cases. However, cases “linked” to the containment zone shot up to 117, up from Thursday by 39. Most of the new cases were from Baina and New Vaddem in Vasco, Chimbel and Morlem. Five travellers also tested positive. Meanwhile, after eight cases (three on Friday) were reported at Shiren in Chimbel, Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes and several other locals demanded that the area be sealed. However, Sawant said all the Chimbel cases are linked to Mangor Hill. North Goa collector R Menaka, too, said that no decision had been taken on sealing a portion of Chimbel, as the cases were limited to one family and its contacts. Two more villages — Cumbharjua and Sanvordem — have joined the ever-growing list of villages opting for self-imposed lockdowns to prevent the transmission of Covid-19. The two village panchayats took the call after some of their residents tested positive. Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s son Siddesh requested Sawant to take necessary measures to protect the villagers. Cumbharjua panchayat secretary Ramita Murgaonkar said the voluntary lockdown would include the closure of shops, alcohol stores, salons and construction activity. Of the four cases in the village, one person who tested positive was living with five other family members. Local sources said the family has been moving about the village, visiting others, over the past two days. The state health department has tested 10 persons who came in contact with the family, and reports are expected on Monday. The other three are individuals who returned from Mumbai. “We can’t understand how the government takes decisions,” said former Cumbharjua sarpanch and current panch Suresh Naik. “People are being allowed to come from Mumbai, stamped with ‘home quarantine’, and sent off. Some are not even tested. There is no support from the government. The chief minister makes one statement in the morning and another statement in the evening.” Thus, the panchayat has decided to block roads leading to the village, and to stop the ferry service except for emergencies. “Nobody will be allowed to enter Cumbarjua and nobody will be allowed to leave the village,” Naik said. “Our village boys will be there to close the bridge that leads to the village.” Meanwhile, the Morlem panchayat, which had already imposed a seven-day lockdown, extended it by another seven days, sarpanch Vidya Sawant said. On Friday, two patients were discharged from the Covid hospital, taking the total tally of cured patients to 67. Also, 3,501 samples were tested on Friday, of which 2,072 returned negative. 1,383 reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-puts-ghodemal-under-containment-as-villages-continue-lockdownsghodemal-is-states-2nd-containment-zone-cm-links-most-other-cases-to-mangor/articleshow/76349469.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Dance studio owner held for cheating||Hyderabad: The owner of a dance studio was arrested on Friday for harassing women and cheating them of lakhs of rupees by making them invest in his business. The incidents happened in the first week of June but came to light on Friday after the accused was arrested. The accused, V Chiranjeevi (29), a resident of Serilingampalli, runs three zumba dance and fitness studios in Gowlidoddi, Hydershakote and TNGOs colony. Chiranjeevi had convinced one of the complainants, who attended his classes, to invest Rs 6 lakh in his business, saying that he is launching more dance studios in the city. “Recently, on June 3, the accused launched his third fitness studio at TNGOs colony in Gachibowli and when the complainant went there along with her husband to ask Chiranjeevi to return the money, he misbehaved with her by holding her hand,” Gachibowli police said. Subsequently, police received another complaint from a school teacher from Hydershakote who lost Rs 9 lakh in a similar manner. The second victim used to visit Chiranjeevi’s dance studio in Hydershakote. Based on the complaints lodged by the victims, a case was registered on June 4 against Chiranjeevi under sections 354-, 420 and 506 of IPC. “We have arrested Chiranjeevi and remanded him in judicial custody. We are checking if he has duped more victims,” Gachibowli inspector R Srinivas said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dance-studio-owner-held-for-cheating/articleshow/76348970.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb to finish land acquisition for 4 mega industrial parks by June-end||Chandigarh: In a step to attract investment and industries moving out of China, the Punjab government hopes to complete land acquisition and transfer process by June-end for developing four mega industrial parks across the state. A 1,000-acre northern India textile park is being developed at Mattewara in Ludhiana district and another 1,000-acre integrated manufacturing cluster is being established at Rajpura in Patiala district on the Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor(AKIC). The third mega industrial township with the focus on green industries is coming up on 1,000-acre land in Bathinda. The fourth project — a pharma park — is being established on 130-acre land at Wazirabad in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora said the state government is in touch with various industries and his department has held video conferences with interested companies in Japan who have projects in China and other industries in Chennai on Wednesday and Thursday. The first thing an incoming industry wants is land and the state government is committed to support the industry by providing better infrastructure and hassle free process, said Arora. “We hope many industries will move out of China and we are targeting such industries,” he added. Punjab has a total of 2,59,799 registered industries and before Covid-19 lockdown, these industries were employing 20,29,895 registered workers. The industries minister said he has asked the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to start the process of providing around 200-acre land for the electronics, system, design and manufacturing (ESDM) cluster in Mohali through land acquisition from landowners. For the four mega industrial parks, the state government is either acquiring village panchayat land by payment of compensation or getting the land of other state government departments transferred. “We are not forcing panchayats to part with their land but since they are interested we are paying them compensation. At the same time, industrial parks will generate jobs for villagers,” said the minister. The Punjab cabinet had in December last year gave its nod to amend the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Rules, 1964, for creation of land banks in rural areas to boost industrial development. The Wazirabad mega industrial project is coming up on panchayat land and the process is being undertaken by the Punjab State Industries Export Corporation (PSIEC). The state housing department is undertaking the land transfer process for the remaining three mega parks. The Mattewara project is coming up on panchayat as well as rural development department land, Rajpura industrial park on panchayat land and the Bathinda industrial township on the land owned by the PSPCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-finish-land-acquisition-for-4-mega-industrial-parks-by-june-end/articleshow/76348962.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 13, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Mother kills 3-year-old son, ends life||MYSURU: A woman committed suicide after killing her 3-year-old son in Palya village near Kollegala in Chamarajanagr district on Friday. Bodies of 24-year-old Sangeetha and her son Karan were found in a pond in the village. According to police, Sangeetha had left home early morning to visit the temple. After she failed to return home, the family launched a search and found her body in a pond in the village, about 9km away from Kollegala. Kollegala police said a probe is on to find the motive for the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mother-kills-3-yr-old-son-ends-life/articleshow/76347177.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||14-year-old daughter of a peon lives her ‘SDM dream’ for day||Dharamshala: The joy of 14-year-old Heena Thakur — daughter of a Grade IV employee in Kangra, who scored 94% marks in matriculation examination — knew no bounds as the local SDM, an IAS officer, offered his chair for a day to the young achiever. The 32-year-old SDM, Jatin Lal, not only gave his chair to the girl, whose father serves as a peon in his office, but also helped her understand the routine functioning of the office. “I have lived my dream today. It’s an inspiration for me,” said an overwhelmed Heena when asked to express her feelings. An affable Jatin Lal told TOI that when he learnt that the daughter of his peon has scored high percentage in exams and wants to become an IAS officer, he decided to encourage her in his own way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14-year-old-daughter-of-a-peon-lives-her-sdm-dream-for-day/articleshow/76348974.cms||Shri Puri
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Temples gear up to reopen, get safety protocol ready||KOLKATA: Dakshineshwar Kali Temple will re-open on Saturday but with riders, such as restricted timings, sanitisation and social distancing norms. At Kalighat temple, too, sanitisation gates will be installed by the weekend and meetings will be held on Saturday to fix SOPs for likely reopening next week. But Kalighat committee members are worried about whether to allow devotees in the narrow sanctum sanctorum or not. Times ViewThe focus should be on following the rules mandated by the government and experts. We are at a dangerous point in the virus’s spread and need to do everything to bring down the number of fresh infections.If the government-recommended 25 devotees are permitted inside now, the committee members felt it would be a challenge to take all of them into the narrow passage of the garbha griha, even if they offered prayers without flowers, prasad, charanamrit or touching the deity. They pointed out that unlike the massive Dakshineshwar premises built according to a specific plan by Rani Rashmani, Kalighat temple in the heart of the city had the problem of lack of space. “Re-opening the Kalighat temple is a huge challenge, though we cannot defer it for long. Entry to the garbha griha is part of our tradition that we will continue, maintaining safety and social distancing. But touching of idols, flowers and prasad are out for now,” said Bidyut Haldar, committee vice-president. Another member said, “We may have to take one devotee inside the garbha griha at a time. He or she will have to do a pranam and return.” The committee is also discussing the tradition of ‘pandas’, who are not licenced by the temple but for years, act as guides to devotees. Allowing pandas to enter the premises will add to the number of people and so, the committee may ask devotees to go inside on their own. Kushal Chowdhury, spokesperson for Dakshineshwar temple trust, said, “We are re-opening but it will be a challenge. Restrictions have been imposed right from the skywalk. Kamarhati Municipality and Barrackpore Commissionerate are extending their support.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/temples-gear-up-to-reopen-get-safety-protocol-ready/articleshow/76348981.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry finalises land lease policy for foreign investors||Chandigarh: Less than a month after suggesting Haryana as an alternate for multinational companies and foreign investors keen on shifting base from China, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has issued details of land lease policy for such investors. Unlike previous allotments, this time there will be two categories of plots less than one acre (but above 1800 sq metre) and one acre and above. HSIIDC has fixed Rs 10 crore as price for plots less than an acre (above 1,800 sq metre) and Rs 25 crore for plots measuring one acre and above. The plots will be allotted on basis of e-bidding and the winning bidder will have to deposit 20% of the cost upfront and then complete implementation of the project within two years. There is a provision of two extensions of one year each but there will be no extension after four years of allotment. The industries which will be given priority in allotment include auto, auto components and light machines, agro-based food processing and allied industries, textile apparel, footwear and accessories, IT and ITES. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had video interactions with representatives of MNCs, especially from US, Korea, and Japan in May and had offered Haryana as an investment destination. Around 60 companies had expressed keenness to invest in India and most of the companies keen to shift their base from China to India have already got units in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-finalises-land-lease-policy-for-foreign-investors/articleshow/76348965.cms||Manvir Saini
June 13, 2020||Kanpur||Missing boy found dead in Rasoolabad||Kanpur:The body of a six-year-old boy with grievous injuries was found on Friday in a village in Rasoolabad area of Kanpur Dehat district. The father of the boy had registered a complaint on Friday morning after he went missing while playing near his house on late Thursday evening, police said. The boy, identified as Happy, son of Sunil Kumar of Bhaisanya village under Rasoolabad police jurisdiction, had been missing from his house in Bhaisayan village since Thursday evening. Police said the child’s body was recovered from near a bore-well in the same village and few suspects with criminal background were taken into custody and their questioning is underway. Police later sent the body for post-mortem examination after superintendent of police Anurag Vatsa visited the spot. The child’s family said they first searched for him whole night and then filed a police complaint. “Going by the preliminary findings, it appears that the boy was done to death. The post- mortem report could help in solving the murder mystery. It is too early to draw any conclusion with regard to motive behind the gory crime. Investigations are continuing in this regard,” said SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/missing-boy-found-dead-in-rasoolabad/articleshow/76347964.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for selling fake air fresheners||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) has arrested a 26-year-old man for selling duplicate room fresheners in the city on Friday. Hitesh Gothi had set up a small unit in the fields of Dashrath village on the outskirts of the city over last few months. Gothi used to make room fresheners in the unit that he operated under the name of Sitaram Agency. “He used to fill up the room air fresheners in bottles and label them with branded companies. Gothi used to sell the stock to small shops,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The cops raided his unit and seized stock worth Rs 15.84 lakh.. The accused is a graduate and used to sell duplicate air fresheners for earning quick money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-selling-fake-air-fresheners/articleshow/76345806.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Accused in girl’s suicide case nabbed||Ahmedabad: Sardarnagar police on Thursday rounded up one Samay Gagdekar, 18, a resident of Chharanagar, who was on the run for five months in a case in which a minor girl, 15, had committed suicide because the accused and his friends had made her nude video viral on social media. Sardarnagar police said four other accused were arrested earlier. Inspector M B Barad of Sardarnagar police station said that the girl was friend of one of the accused who had forcibly filmed her at an isolated place. “About five months ago, other accused took the video of the girl from her friend and blackmailed her. However, she did not succumb to their demands and informed her parents about the incident. The accused then made her video viral on social media,” said Barad. At that time, police had arrested four of the accused while Gagdekar was absconding. “Meanwhile, the girl whose video was made viral committed suicide by hanging herself at her house,” said Barad. Sardarnagar police on Thursday got a tip-off that Gagdekar had come to Kubernagar. “We immediately dispatched a team to his house and rounded him up. He has been sent for Covid -19 test after which he will be officially arrested,” said DCP, Zone 4, Neeraj Badgujjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accused-in-girls-suicide-case-nabbed/articleshow/76348980.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Panaji market to open for 5 hours on Saturday, Sunday||PANAJI: The Panaji municipal market complex will open briefly on Saturday and Sunday for vendors to sell perishable goods. The complex had been shut by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) on Thursday as a precautionary measure after a liquor vendor tested positive for Covid-19. The complex was scheduled to remain shut till Monday. However, due to the limited shelf life of mangoes and other perishable items, the CCP resolved to keep the premises open from 7am to 12 noon. Only one gate of the building, however, will be unsealed. “We understand the plight of vendors, and we are giving them this duration to sell their items,” said mayor Uday Madkaikar. “Vendors from Chimbel must produce the Covid-19 negative certificate issued to them by the health department, along with their ID and address proof.” Mass testing is currently underway in Chimbel, which has seen a spike in cases over the past few days. Madkaikar, hence, has appealed to vendors from the area to get themselves tested. “If tested negative, the Chimbel-based vendors will be permitted to resume business from Monday onwards,” he said. The market was earlier sealed for six weeks during the lockdown, and only opened its gates in May for clothing businesses, masala stores and mobile phone repair shops. This month, fruit, vegetable and coconut vendors began operating from the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mkt-to-open-for-5-hrs-on-sat-sun-for-vendors-to-sell-perishables/articleshow/76349481.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala cops warn against skipping quarantine||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police will act against those who cheat authorities by breaking their train travel in between and then arriving at their destination in their own vehicle to avoid quarantine. State police chief Loknath Behera urged all district police chiefs to take strict action against such persons who violate their travel plan. Their details can be accessed from the arogya jagratha portal of the government where they would have registered. CM Pinarayi Vijayan had directed the police to take action against persons hiding their travel details after alighting at stations which are not mentioned at the government portal. His decision came following an incident in Pathanamthitta where a woman from Bengaluru came for a medical emergency at a hospital. After her death, the relatives admitted that she had come from Bengaluru. The entire hospital, where she did her angioplasty, had to be shut till her result came back as negative. Police considered this as an attempt to evade the 14-day quarantine by covering up travel details and cheating authorities. Police decided to have a discussion with railway authorities and take steps to identify such people who cheat authorities. Apart from this, police have also taken seriously the incidents that are reported from various parts that the passengers – coming by air or train – are visiting their relatives on their way home where they undergo room quarantine. Highway police, control room and police stations have been asked to ensure strict monitoring of persons who are arriving at airports, railway stations and via checkposts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-warn-against-skipping-quarantine/articleshow/76347222.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Varanasi||Veteran Samajwadi leader Paras Nath passes away||Varanasi: Veteran Samajwadi Party leader Paras Nath Yadav passed away after a prolonged illness at his Olandganj residence in Jaunpur district on Friday. He was 71. He was ailing for a long time. Party workers and his admirers paid tributes to this popular leader, who was considered close to the SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. Being one of the strong pillars of SP, Yadav played a long political innings in his lifetime. He represented Malhani assembly constituency of Jaunpur district. He was elected to legislative assembly seven times. He was also a parliamentarian for two terms. Besides, he also served as minister in UP for three times. Beginning his political career as a gram pradhan, his journey took him to the parliament. He enjoyed a great influence in party fold, and was very popular among the party workers and people. He is recalled as a prominent politician of eastern UP. The news of his demise sent a shock wave among the party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/veteran-samajwadi-leader-paras-nath-passes-away/articleshow/76346526.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Allahabad||AU scholar to work on anti-cancer drugs in US||Prayagraj: Making Allahabad University proud, a research scholar of the university’s department of botany, Piush Srivastava, has been invited to join the department of surgery at the University of Illinois at Chicago, US, where he will be carrying out the testing of anti-cancerous drug(s) on animal model. A research scholar under Prof Anupam Dikshit, former faculty member of the department, Piush would be leaving for the US from in September and his invite comes through the US department of state J1-exchange visitor program. Piush’s would soon be submitting his thesis and completing his PhD under Prof Dikhit. But, before he could finish his PhD, he has bagged an invite from the reputed institute. Piush would be given an amount of $39,000 per year, which means around Rs 2.4 lakh per month for his research fellowship, starting September 16, 2020. “If international flights start operating, I would leave for the US as scheduled. Through my work I will try my best to make AU and my city proud,” said Piush. During the course of his sponsorship, he would be supported and directly supervised by Professor Ajay Rana of the university. Piush’s guide, Prof Dikshit informed TOI that his student has been working on molecular taxonomy of higher plants in collaboration of a scientist of the Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Lucknow. “This technique is useful in saving the time for identification of plants one need not to wait till flowering of plant. In his work he has discovered many DNA markers that will be helpful for identification of plants in their vegetative form,” said Prof Dikshit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-scholar-to-work-on-anti-cancer-drugs-in-us/articleshow/76346470.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: 12 arrested for Azamgarh violence, SO suspended||VARANASI: A couple of days after Dalits were attacked in Maharajganj township of Azamgarh, the government on Friday suspended Maharajganj SO Virendra Pandey for laxity in duty and initiated the process of invoking National Security Act (NSA) and Gangster Act against the accused. Earlier, Dalits were targeted in a Jaunpur village on Tuesday. Maharajganj had witnessed largescale violence on Wednesday against members of Dalit community. The police have arrested 12 accused and launched a manhunt has been launched to nab seven absconding accused. A reward of Rs 25,000 each on the absconding accused has also been announced. According to reports, a group of Dalits was allegedly attacked with sticks and weapons by the people of another community at Sikandarpur Ayama village in Maharajganj police station area on Wednesday evening. Several persons were injured in this attack. The injured persons were admitted to the hospital for treatment. On the complaint of one Vinod Kumar, the police have lodged an FIR against 19 persons under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC and sections of Epidemic Act, SC/ST Act and Criminal Law Amendment Act. Acting on the complaint, the police have arrested 12 accused including Parvez, Faizan, Noor Alam, Sadar-e-Alam, Amir, Ashif and Suhail. “Maharajganj SO Virendra Pandey has been suspended for laxity in duty, and process of NSA and Gangster Act has been initiated against the accused,” Azamgarh SP Triveni Singh told TOI on Friday. “Some youths of Muslim community allegedly used to harass and pass on lewd remarks on the girls and women of SC community. When objected, they allegedly attacked the SC people in which over 10 persons were injured,” he added. He said that four teams of police have been constituted to nab the absconding accused. “Since the crime is of serious nature impacting law and order situation, the process of NSA and Gangster Act has been initiated against the accused,” the SP added. In the Jaunpur incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered strict action against the accused who attacked Dalits and set their homes on fire in Bhadethi village on Tuesday evening, following which 37 accused were arrested on Thursday and total compensation of over Rs 10 lakh was given to the victims. Taking note of the incident, Yogi had ordered invoking NSA and Gangster Act against the accused and departmental action against the SO Sarai Khwaja for failing to control the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/12-arrested-for-azamgarh-violence-so-suspended/articleshow/76346498.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mysuru||Locals suspect miscreants ofpoisoning five stray dogs to death||MYSURU: Close on the heels of two horrific incidents of cruelty against animals – one in Kerala where an elephant died after eating a fruit filled with firecrackers, and a pregnant cow in Himachal Pradesh was fed firecrackers stowed in flour – five stray dogs in Mysuru allegedly died of poisoning. The dogs were found on a vacant Mysore Urban Development Authority (Muda) plot in TK Layout in Mysuru city, not very far from former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s residence. The residents, who noticed the carcass of the dead dogs, alerted the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), who rushed to the spot. The dead animals were subsequently moved to a rehabilitation centre run by an NGO, People For Animals (PFA) in Dattagalli. Members of PFA collected samples from the dogs, and are conducting tests to ascertain the exact cause of death of the dogs. Assistant director of the department of animal husbandry VO Thirumala Gowda told TOI that the death of the stray dogs had occurred over the course of three days. “On the first day, two stray dogs were killed, while on Wednesday and Thursday, one and two dogs were respectively killed. Going by the information we have collected from the residents, and primary analysis of the condition of the dogs, we suspect that miscreants removed petrol from bikes, and used it to poison the animals,” Gowda said. It is likely that the miscreants laced bread or another food item with the poison in order to lure the dogs, he said. “We have filed a complaint with police,” Gowda added. Since the vacant site was in the jurisdiction of two local police stations in Mysuru city, cops from both the centres have stepped up patrolling in the locality. Area corporator J Gopi told TOI that cops had brought the incident to his notice. “I will soon visit the spot along with MCC officials, and members of the Abhaya team. All efforts will be made to find the miscreants,” Gopi said. Meanwhile, police have sought all relevant details, including photographs of the carcasses being lifted from the vacant site in order to file an FIR in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/locals-suspect-miscreants-ofpoisoning-five-stray-dogs-to-death/articleshow/76347202.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 13, 2020||Goa||Revoke decision to stop housing scheme: Digambar||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday expressed his disapproval over the abrupt discontinuation of the House Building Advance (HBA) scheme for state government employees as also over the decision to transfer the loans availed under the HBA to a banking institution. He termed the move as one “without any thought of welfare for its employees and most regressive for the state and the people.” “The assumption of treasury receiving Rs 300 cr as liquidation of state guarantee is a misnomer,” Kamat said in a press note. He has also written a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant demanding immediate revocation of the decision. “The decision of the government has come as a rude shock to the scores of government employees who have had a dream to have an affordable dwelling unit of their very own and to those who had availed the HBA at the beneficial rate of interest and had adjusted their monthly incomes to match the loan requirements besides the top-up amount availed on loan,” Kamat said. Stating that the chief minister has been incorrectly advised, Kamat said that the state guarantee was merely a document and not a cash instrument. “The state has been investing in Consolidated Sinking Fund and Guarantee Redemption Fund, in the unforeseen circumstances and eventuality of non-repayment of loans or the designated bank installments,” Kamat said. He suggested that “a pragmatic and practical approach or resolution would have been to enhance the rate of interest suitably, and adjust the higher amount payable against the retirement or terminal gratuity of the employees.” “By denying such (HBA) benefit to its employees and putting more fiscal hardships on the existing loanees is grossly anti-Goan, as it goes against the fabric of Goan society to pull the rug from below of their fellow citizen and to bring about disruption in the process of someone who is building a home for themselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revoke-decision-to-stop-housing-scheme-digambar/articleshow/76349490.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kanpur||Lightning causes blast in Mahoba stone mine, 3 killed||Kanpur:Three labourers were killed and two others sustained serious injuries in a powerful explosion that apparently occurred following lightning in a stone mine in Kabrai area of Mahoba district on Friday. Rescue operations were underway and senior district and police officials have rushed to the spot. The dead workers have been identified as Buddhu (45) and Bala (40) of Gandhi Nagar and Chanda alias Dal Chandra from Kabrai. The injured have been identified as Harprasad and Mahipal of Kabrai. “They along with nine others were working in the stone mine,” said police. SDM Rajesh Yadav said the accident happened when about a dozen labourers were laying out gunpowder and ED for blasting stones in mine situated near Pahra Pahada village of the district, when lightning struck the explosives causing powerful explosion, which killed three labourers and injured two others. “While Buddhu and Bala died at the spot, Chanda succumbed to wounds at hospital,” said SDM further and added, “Injured labourers have been referred to Jhansi Medical college in a critical condition.” The bodies were shifted to district hospital for post-mortem. “It is a natural disaster, we will make recommendation to the government for all the victims to be paid a compensation,” said a senior district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lightning-causes-blast-in-mahoba-stone-mine-3-killed/articleshow/76347757.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ex-TDP minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu held in Rs 150 crore ESI scam in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: TDP legislator and former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu was arrested early Friday morning by officials of the AP central investigation unit (CIU) of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) from his residence at Nimmada village in Srikakulam district for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore ESI scam. While the total purchases were for Rs 988.77 crore, the scam was pegged at Rs 150 crore. The ACB charged him with financial irregularities in the procurement of medicines, medical equipments and furniture for ESI hospitals during 2014-19 when he was the labour minister in the N Chandrababu Naidu-led previous TDP government. A posse of policemen descended on his house and took him into custody. The ACB also arrested five officials from across the state — former directors of DIMS, Dr CK Ramesh Kumar and Dr G Vijay Kumar, at Tirupati and Rajahmundry respectively, joint director of ESI Janardhan, superintendent Chakravarthi and a senior assistant. Soon after coming to power, CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy had ordered investigation into various contracts and agreements entered into by the previous regime. Atchannaidu’s name was the first to crop up in the probe launched by Andhra Pradesh vigilance and enforcement department. Later, the ACB registered a case and began investigation. ACB officials said they had followed all procedures before arresting the TDP MLA. The ACB team, led by DSP (CIU) TSRK Prasad and cops from Srikakulam, reached Atchannaidu’s residence at around 7.20 am. Later, Atchannaidu and others were shifted to Vijayawada where the ACB court magistrate remanded them to judicial custody. Atchanaidu had allegedly asked the head of the directorate of insurance medical services (DIMS) to award contracts or purchase orders to a particular firm based in Hyderabad. The DIMS had allotted the work to the firm without calling for e-tenders. The firm had allegedly violated the guidelines and procured medicines with fake bills and fake invoices for prices more than 50 to 129 per cent than the market prices on nomination basis from a few companies and caused loss to the government. Joint director of ACB (CIU), PV Ravi Kumar, said that their investigation has revealed that DIMS had purchased medicines, medical equipment, lab kits, biometric devises, furniture and others things for Rs 988.77 crore during the TDP regime (2014-2019) and there was a scam of over Rs 150 crore. Kumar said that there were also irregularities in call centre, toll-free and ECG services. There were irregularities in the sewerage and biomedical waste disposal and they are being investigated, he added. “We have identified the involvement of 19 persons in the entire scam,” he said. He said investigation also exposed that DIMS staff created fake invoices, quotations and fabricated fake company letterheads and played a key role in the scam. A few staff of the DIMS created benami medical companies in the name of their family members and fabricated bills, Ravi Kumar said. The ACB official said that Atchannaidu as the labour minister during the TDP regime gave orders and the DIMS led by the then director Dr CK Ramesh Kumar had given the contract to Tele Health Services Private Limited for running the call centre, toll free and ECG services. As per the MoU, the service provider has to provide toll-free services to patients whenever they call for assistance in pending reimbursement and referral bills. The director also entered into MoU with the same service provider to provide ECG services to the patients at Rs 480 per ECG while it was Rs 200 for an ECG in other hospitals. During inquiry, it was found that the service provider claimed the bill by submitting call logs of Hyderabad based IPs and the director paid the amount without verifying the genuineness of the call logs. “We are also investigating the irregularities in the sewerage and biomedical waste disposal plans in the state,” Ravi Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ex-tdp-minister-atchannaidu-held-in-rs-150-cr-esi-scam-in-ap/articleshow/76349483.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb’s 1st plasma therapy at Faridkot hosp||Chandigarh: Punjab’s first convalescent plasma therapy was conducted at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on Friday. Punjab medical education minister O P Soni said the plasma of a recovered Covid-19 patient had been collected and stored at the hospital. Medical education and research principal secretary D K Tiwari said Government Medical College, Patiala, is also going to start plasma therapy soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pbs-1st-plasma-therapy-at-faridkot-hosp/articleshow/76348982.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Say hello to ‘workations’ and ‘work near home’||KOCHI: Home is where the heart is, sang Elvis Presley. Kerala IT parks seem to have taken a leaf out of the song to engineer a shift from work from home (WFH) to work near home (WNH) by setting up a chain of shared micro-office spaces in all districts of the state. The shift to co-working spaces stems from the understanding that WFH may be detrimental to the mental health and productivity of employees in the long run. Packed workplaces are also not ideal in the backdrop of the pandemic. In the first phase, IT Parks is planning to set up 100 co-working spaces in all urban conglomerations and tourist spots that would altogether provide 6,000 seats. “We are not building anything new. There are a lot of stressed assets available, like hotels and finished buildings. Real estate and hospitality sectors aren’t expecting revival in near future and this would be an opportunity for them,” said CEO, IT Parks, Kerala Sasi PM. As per the business plan, all investment on infrastructure and interiors would be borne by private players, while marketing and facility management would be done by IT Parks. “This would be like a McDonalds or KFC. Wherever you go, you will have the same look, feel and service. We will standardize the layout, facility, furniture and standard operating procedures (SOPs),” he said. These trendy and premium facilities would be a mix of common seats, cubicles, cabins and conference rooms apart from cafes. For companies looking for providing ‘workations’ that combine work and vacation, IT Parks is offering resorts for remote work. “As of now resorts are lying vacant. Premium facilities can be arranged in resorts and houseboats,” he said. The state is also using the trivia that Travis Kalanick developed Uber while staying in a resort in Varkala. A survey on social media targeting expat Malayalis has been initiated to have a better understanding of their location preference and create a demand map. “We are not targeting IT companies alone. The initial queries were all from non-IT companies like NBFCs and banks. A major corporate from the Gulf also approached us saying they have a lot of employees based in Kerala,” said Sasi. “Most sectors are digital now and anyone, who can do work remotely, can utilize this facility,” said Ajit Prasad Balakrishnan, CM’s IT Fellow. IT Parks would soon be inviting expressions of interest for setting up the spaces. Sasi said the concept of IT Parks wouldn’t be affected by the model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/say-hello-to-workations-and-work-near-home/articleshow/76347275.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Migrants now leave UP for Punjab cities||Shahjahanpur: After losing their factory jobs in Uttarakhand during the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown, poverty-stricken migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur – in desperate need of work to support their family – have now decided to travel to Khanna in Punjab to work on paddy farms. “There is no infection bigger than poverty for us," said one of them. At least 15 such workers had recently returned to their hometown in UP with the hope of getting some work. However, according to their families, getting work in Shahjahanpur remained a far-fetched dream for them. Moreover, they didn’t receive any support from the administration, they claimed. Arjun Singh Kushwaha, 22, a resident of Kataiya Usmanpur village in Nigohi block, had struggled his way back home from Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, along with several others during the lockdown. And now, he left for Punjab on June 6 along with 14 workers in a minibus. All of them have been hired on a monthly contract basis in Khanna. Arjun’s elder brother Karan Singh told TOI, “We don’t have work here. So, my brother and 12 others went to Punjab for paddy cultivation. All of them will be staying at a farm house in Khanna and would get Rs 3,500 per acre for sowing paddy seeds and some additional work. This means that each will get around Rs 300 per day along with meals and accommodation. I am looking after the family at the moment and would also shift to some other state since the work here is insufficient for survival.” Sanchit, whose uncle Suneel Singh has also migrated to Punjab, said, “There are many villagers who are ready to move out. My uncle Suneel along with Rohit Kumar, Damodar, Radhe Shyam, Harinandan Kushwaha, Vijay Kumar, Shyam Babu and some others have gone to Punjab for work. We don’t have any opportunities here." One of the villagers even alleged, “Gram pradhans are being biased while making MGNREGA job cards. People who were already living in the village have job cards and receive government support of Rs 1,000 to their account.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/migrants-now-leave-up-for-punjab-cities/articleshow/76348986.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress sends complaint to EC||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat Congress has sent a complaint to the Election Commission of India, alleging that the BJP government in Gujarat is misusing official machinery to threaten Congress MLAs ahead of the crucial Rajya Sabha election in the state on June 19. In his letter addressed to the chief election commissioner and other election commissioners, Chavda said, “We are constrained to bring to your kind notice the blatant misuse of official machinery and power by the BJP. As per the strength of MLAs, BJP was able to win only two Rajya Sabha seats while Congress was set to win two seats. BJP was not in a position to contest for the third seat, however to win the third seat illegally, it filed the third candidate.” Chavda further stated in the letter that the BJP used unfair means to get eight Congress MLAs to resign. He listed out the sequence of events where five MLAs resigned in March this year, just before the scheduled RS election. However, the election was deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress leader alleged in the letter that after the ECI declared June 19 as the date for election to four Rajya Sabha seats of Gujarat, the BJP used coercive tactics to get three more Congress MLAs to resign. “Since no more Congress MLAs could be pressurised to quit, the BJP has resorted to illegal and unnecessary harassment to the MLAs of INC. As a matter of fact, one of the senior MLAs from INC is being harassed by misusing the power by police at the instance of the ruling party. Congress MLA Punja Vansh has nothing to do with the recent case of firing at Una (which was an incident that erupted at the spur of the moment between private parties). Yet, he has been issued a summons and is being repeatedly harassed at the behest of the BJP,” Chavda wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-sends-complaint-to-ec/articleshow/76349005.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Varanasi||Nation treading on path of ‘self reliance’: Min||Gorakhpur: BJP ‘Parivar Sampark ‘campaign was inaugurated by primary education minister Satish Dwivedi in his constituency Itwa in Siddharthnagar district on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, he enumerated achievements of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath, presented letter by PM Modi for people of India and also distributed mask, cotton towels (Gamcha), soaps and sanitizers among people. “Amidst corona challenge our nation is taking steps and we are treading on the path of self reliance. With far sighted policies in the interest of nation, the government is focusing to bridge the distance between rural and urban India,”said the minister. Satish Dwivedi said. He also asked people to use local products so that nation could move on the path of self reliance. He said, “Yogi government is working on development and public welfare work in the state, especially in the villages. The Centre as well as the state governments are fighting against corona pandemic and it was ensured that food and cash help was provided to the needy during lockdown period. And the way migrant workers were send home is appreciable.” “The entire world is praising India and even people in other countries are giving example of our country which is a big achievement for us. Rs 20 lakh crore package was given under MNREGA to provide jobs during corona crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nation-treading-on-path-of-self-reliance-min/articleshow/76346605.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||700 Indians in Pak may return on June 23||Amritsar: Nearly 700 Indians including students stranded in Pakistan due to the Covid-19 lockdown in both countries are likely to return home on June 23 via the Attari international border with the Indian High Commission in Islamabad taking up the issue of their repatriation with the Pakistan government. According to sources, the high commission in Islamabad had approached Pakistan’s minister of foreign affairs to open the Wagah (Pakistan) international border on June 23 to facilitate their return to India, but Pakistan’s reply is awaited. Source said formalities for their return are being completed by the Pakistan government. Sources said 693 Indians from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir are among those stranded there. A large number of Indians had travelled across the border to meet their relatives and for paying obeisance at religious places while over 80 medical students from Jammu and Kashmir couldn’t return due to sealing of borders by both countries. Of those stuck in the neighbouring country, several suffer from heart ailments and had sent video messages stating that they had run out of medicines and money and sought the Indian and Pakistan governments’ intervention to facilitate their safe passage home. Both India and Pakistan had sealed Attari (India) and Wagah (Pakistan) international borders to contain spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/700-indians-in-pak-may-return-on-june-23/articleshow/76348983.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Restriction leave long queues at border||JAIPUR/ALWAR: The restriction of vehicles and people entering Rajasthan at interstate borders has resulted in long queues of people waiting for screening. The outbound journey has almost come to a halt as those with medical emergencies are allowed to leave the state. The state shares its border with Gujarat, NCR, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. The state has regulated the movement since June 11 due to spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. A report says that from June 1 to 10, almost 2,500 cases have been recorded by the state. The busiest interstate highways or borders are with Haryana and Gujarat. It forms the entry point for North and Central and South India into Rajasthan. Jai Yadav, SP, Dungarpur, said they have re-activated the check post on the Ratanpur border to Gujarat. “As per the rule, every visitor will be screened at the check-post,” Yadav said. The regulation comes at a time when people have started travelling for personal and business reasons. Those entering have to give information like reason, vehicle number and mobile number. Krashna Rajsingh, a political activist in Dungarpur, said queues will get longer with each passing day as travel by routine businessmen has opened up with the Unlock 1 on June 8. “It is going to be time-consuming as every individual has to be screened,” said Rajsingh. The Shahjahanpur border, which is a major entry point, is facing long queues of people waiting for screening. Surinder Singh Rawat, SHO, Shahjahanpur, told TOI, “Every vehicle is being screened thoroughly and those with passes are being allowed to exit the state. It is obvious that it is a time-consuming exercise.” Similiar are the queues at the border between Bharatpur and Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regulation-leaving-queues-at-the-border/articleshow/76348996.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Salem||Water released from Mettur dam on schedule, first time in 9 years||Mettur (Salem): Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday opened the sluice gates of the Mettur dam releasing 3,000 cusecs of Cauvery water from the Stanley reservoir for the benefit of farmers of the delta region. The quantum of the water was later increased to 10,000 cusecs on Friday night, officials said. June 12 is the customary date every year on which water is released from Mettur dam for irrigation purposes.  The chief minister opened the dam gates at 10.02am and was accompanied by ministers K A Sengottaiyan (school education) P Thangamani (electricity), V Saroja (social welfare) and K C Karuppannan (environment).“The quantum of water released will be increased further to 16,000 cusecs in July and 18,000 cusecs in August,” the CM said.A total of 5.22 lakh acres of agricultural land in delta districts, including 4.91 lakh acres in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and 30,800 acres in Cuddalore district, are expected to benefit from the move. Water level in the dam stood at 101.73 ft on Friday while inflow was 1,439 cusecs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/water-released-from-mettur-dam-on-schedule-first-time-in-9-years/articleshow/76348985.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Varanasi||15 more test Covid-19 +ve, 8 discharged from hospital||Varanasi: As many as 15 more persons were confirmed Covid-19 positive in Varanasi on Friday. Meanwhile, eight coronavirus patients were discharged from Covid hospital after they got recovered from illness. According to district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, a total of 235 reports of Covid-19 samples were received from the BHU lab of which 15 were tested positive. Among the new patients, nine are migrant workers while six are local residents. With the detection of new cases, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases rose to 267 in the district. So far 177 persons have been discharged from the hospitals after getting completely cured, while the number of active cases is 83. Withe the fresh developments, 10 new areas have been declared hotspots in the district increasing the total number of hotspots areas to 137. So far 68 hotspots have turned into green zones. Currently, there are 69 hotspots including 19 in orange zone and 50 in red zones. In Ballia, two new positive cases were found on Friday increasing the tally of Covid-19 cases here to 61. However, at present there are only 12 active cases of coronavirus in Ballia. Meanwhile, No new Covid-19 positive case was found in Mirzapur district on Friday, though four patients were discharged from the hospital. Out of total 42 patients 31 have been discharged so far, leaving 11 active case in the district. In Bhadohi district, three more persons tested positive for coronavirus on Friday increasing the tally to 84. So far 36 patients have been discharged from Covid hospitals in the district. At present there are 45 active cases of Covid-19. Meanwhile, three lekhpals of Sadar tehsil in Sonbhadra district were tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/15-more-test-covid-19-ve-8-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/76346587.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Noida||Delhi cases reason for movement curbs, UP government tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Friday that restrictions on movement of vehicles from Delhi were necessary because a growing number of Covid-19 cases in Noida and Ghaziabad were sourced from infections in the capital. "As many as 42% of Covid-19 cases in Noida and 45% in Ghaziabad has source infection in Delhi. That is the reason for the restrictions," Uttar Pradesh government's standing counsel Garima Prasad said as she pointed to the the rising number of infections in the capital, with the death toll in the city crossing the 1,000-mark. However, as she justified the restrictions placed by Noida and Ghaziabad administrations, Prasad told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah that there were no curbs on movement of essential goods and services. She also clarified that the state government was bound to follow the national guidelines and the Noida district magistrate would take appropriate remedial action relating to inter-state movement of traffic. The bench, while hearing arguments on a PIL challenging the different rules and regulations on inter-state movement causing confusion and long queues of commuters on borders involving Delhi, Haryana and UP, said there could not be different policies on this issue by three governments. It had to be uniform so as not to cause distress to commuters, it said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said Haryana had lifted all restrictions on inter-state movement of commuters but the UP government had reservations on this and restricted movement of inter-state traffic. The Supreme Court bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rise-in-covid-cases-behind-border-curbs-up-tells-sc/articleshow/76350448.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Small tech companies hooked on WFH, give up costly office lease||HYDERABAD: Banking and payment solutions provider VSoft Technologies has terminated leases for 11 out of its 15 offices pan India post lockdown, while InsideView Technologies has ended the lease on its Hyderabad office housing about 180 people. In Mumbai, cybersecurity player SEQURETEK has ended the lease on a 50-seater facility, even as Bengaluru-based PromptCloud Technologies has done the same on an additional 3,000 sq ft space it acquired just before lockdown and Chennai-based e-learning player HeyMath! is halving its office footprint. After the Covid-19 outbreak forced the world to embrace 100% work from home (WFH) – many small and midsized companies have already started giving up real estate or cutting down on their office footprint. This is not just a belt-tightening exercise. These companies feel WFH makes better business sense. Arpan Jha, chief strategy officer of PromptCloud, for whom WFH was an absolute no-no, has already made her 60-people big data company adopt the new culture. “Before the lockdown we were skeptical about WFH despite employee demand. We expected people to be in office if they were working. But after Covid-19 forced us to work remotely, we realised things worked pretty well,” she explains. Jha’s company is expanding but investing the money saved on realty in tools to track employee output and engaging strategic HR consultants to formulate a detailed WFH policy. Murthy Veeraghanta, chairman & CEO, VSoft, says the fact that productivity did not dip during WFH gave them the confidence to terminate leases of smaller offices that housed 25% of the 1,200 workforce. VSoft is now looking for a more compact Hyderabad HQ. InsideView’s decision to terminate the lease on its entire 17,000 sq ft office in Madhapur, Hyderabad, last month was just part of the plan to go big on WFH, says board member Sesha Rao. “Our internal survey showed employees are enjoying the freedom, flexible hours and the fact that they don’t have to spend 2-4 hours on daily commutes. We asked ourselves why we are spending so much on a facility when everyone is enjoying WFH,” says Rao. “We always had a high WFH staff as we never viewed it as an HR benefit but an organisational culture of trusting employees. We went 100% WFH from early March,” he adds. Pankit Desai, co-founder & CEO, SEQURETEK, sees Covid-19 as a blessing in disguise. “Today, we can hire talent anywhere without getting them to relocate or having to set up an office. Our worries about productivity and customer intimacy too have been proven wrong,” explains Desai, who also shelved plans to double office footprint in Bengaluru from 50 people. In the long run, Desai is looking at a 50% WFH setup. G R Reddy, founder, Husys Consulting, an HR function management company, says many of their clients are rethinking their real estate strategies with many smaller ones resorting to lease terminations and bigger players looking at renegotiating rentals if not reducing footprint. But these companies realise that once the Covid-19 threat is over and its business as usual, employees will want to come back to office for collaboration, bonding and celebrations. “That’s why we will take a much smaller space but there’s no hurry as we expect realty rates to go down,” says Rao, who is mulling a 70-85% WFH in the long run. “If we can reduce costs without impacting productivity, why not? After two and half months on WFH we realised we need only half the space as most employees are enjoying WFH. Once things get back to normal, they can come in twice a week for which a 25-seater space is enough,” says Nirmala Sankaran, founder, HeyMath!, which has 65 employees. Realtors too admit that WFH is here to stay. It might result in a 10-20% office space reduction over next two to three quarters as companies try to reduce costs but it’s only a short-term phenomenon, believes CREDAI national chairman Jaxay Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/small-tech-companies-hooked-on-wfh-give-up-costly-office-lease/articleshow/76349521.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 13, 2020||Nashik||Railways makes more money by transporting goods from Nashik||Nashik: The lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic has helped the railways generate more revenue by transporting goods and materials produced by the Nashik-based farmers and industries.The railways has generated Rs 7.66 crore as against Rs 5.40 crore during the same period last year — March 21 to May 30 — by transporting goods from Nashik.Prior to the lockdown, the farmers and industries used to transport their goods via road. Making most of the prevailing situtaion, the railway officials approached the farmers, traders and industries, and informed them about the services being offered by them.“The railways helped us during the lockdown. Our onion was not getting any market and at that time the Railways came up with the idea of exporting the same to Bangladesh. This is for the first time the onion was exported directly to Bangladesh,” Radhehshyam Gadhakh, a resident of Niphad taluka, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/railways-makes-more-money-by-transporting-goods-from-nashik/articleshow/76328345.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 13, 2020||Ghaziabad||Delhi cases reason for movement curbs, UP government tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Friday that restrictions on movement of vehicles from Delhi were necessary because a growing number of Covid-19 cases in Noida and Ghaziabad were sourced from infections in the capital. "As many as 42% of Covid-19 cases in Noida and 45% in Ghaziabad has source infection in Delhi. That is the reason for the restrictions," Uttar Pradesh government's standing counsel Garima Prasad said as she pointed to the the rising number of infections in the capital, with the death toll in the city crossing the 1,000-mark. However, as she justified the restrictions placed by Noida and Ghaziabad administrations, Prasad told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah that there were no curbs on movement of essential goods and services. She also clarified that the state government was bound to follow the national guidelines and the Noida district magistrate would take appropriate remedial action relating to inter-state movement of traffic. The bench, while hearing arguments on a PIL challenging the different rules and regulations on inter-state movement causing confusion and long queues of commuters on borders involving Delhi, Haryana and UP, said there could not be different policies on this issue by three governments. It had to be uniform so as not to cause distress to commuters, it said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said Haryana had lifted all restrictions on inter-state movement of commuters but the UP government had reservations on this and restricted movement of inter-state traffic. The Supreme Court bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rise-in-covid-cases-behind-border-curbs-up-tells-sc/articleshow/76350449.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 13, 2020||Ajmer||Visually & physically challenged students exempted from remaining board exams in Rajasthan||AJMER: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education has exempted students with visual and physical impairment from writing the remaining board exams of class 10 and 12 starting June 18. The board on Friday released a notification exempting such students and they will be promoted on the average marks they would obtain in the previous subject exams. The board clarified that those students possessing medical certificate of 75% handicap and had received a writer for previous board exams, will now be exempted from the remaining board examinations. The board said they received a memorandum from a forum of visually challenged people on this regard. Looking at the guidelines of social distancing during examinations, the board on Friday took this decision. The board will resume the class 12 exams from June 18 and for class 10 from June 27, which will end on June 30. There are about 19 lakh students registered with RBSE for class 10 and 12. The last board exam was conducted on March 20 and the remaining exams were postponed due to lockdown. To conduct the remaining exams in the state, the board came out with 521 additional sub-examination centres and directed the examination centre heads to maintain social distancing as well as sanitise classrooms before the examinations. Sources said the state board is also prepared to release the result in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/visually-physically-challenged-students-exempted-from-remaining-board-exams-in-raj/articleshow/76349023.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: CNI churches to allow 25 devotees, may hold mass||KOLKATA: All churches affiliated to Church of North India (CNI) will allow 25 devotees on campus from Saturday, going by state government orders. Those churches that have completed sanitisation and other protocols can also seek permission to start corporate worship or mass, stated the circular Bishop Paritosh Canning sent to all member churches on Friday. “With 25 worshippers on campus, it is now possible for a parish priest to conduct mass. We are thankful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for allowing 25 people on campus now. Though I asked all churches to prepare for mass by June-end and by July, any church ready with the new norms before that can seek permission to start mass,” Bishop Canning said.Churches can even conduct three masses, especially on Sundays, depending on the request from individual parishes and the priest’s ability to accommodate such requests, the circular said. The CNI has 35 churches under the Kolkata Diocese and over 100 under the Barrackpore diocese. All churches, which had made seating arrangements for 10 worshippers, will have to accommodate 15 additional more people. The Roman Catholic church sent a circular to its 65 churches on Thursday, saying despite the state increasing the number of devotees on campus to 25, they would stick to 10 for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cni-churches-to-allow-25-devotees-may-hold-mass/articleshow/76349002.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||HC allows govt to appoint asst basic teachers as per SC order||Lucknow: A Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the order of a single judge bench, giving a go ahead to the state government to continue with the selection process to appoint thousands of assistant teachers in Uttar Pradesh. The court however barred the government from filling up 37,339 posts out of 69,000 as per a Supreme Court order on June 9, 2020 for considering them in respect of Siksha Mitras. A division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal and Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh said that the operation and effect of the interim order passed by the single-bench on June 3, 2020 halting the selection process for appointment on 69,000 posts of assistant basic teachers shall remain stayed until its furthers orders. The division bench passed the order on three special appeals preferred by the Examination Regularity Authority (ERA) on behalf of the state. The bench admitted the appeals for detailed hearing and passed the interim stay on single bench order of June 3. The bench further issued notices to the respondent unsuccessful candidates to file their reply within ten weeks. In its order, the division bench held that the single bench did not consider the legal objections raised on behalf of the ERA in true perspective. It said, “Once single bench itself was of the opinion that with regard to any doubt on any question or answer key, the benefit should be given to the examining authority (ERA), there was no occasion to pass June 3 order thereby staying the whole selection process.” The state government had declared the result of the examination on May 8, 2020 and it was set to start counselling from June 3, 2020 to fill the posts. Meanwhile on writ petitions moved by some candidates challenging the result of May 8, 2020 pleading that some questions and answers were ambiguous and false, the single bench stayed the May 8 result and the whole selection process, referring the controversy to a panel to be appointed by the UGC. Aggrieved with the single bench order of June 3, the ERA had moved to the division bench in special appeals pleading that writ petitions were not maintainable. It pleaded that in case of confusion and ambiguity in answer key, the benefit had to be given to the ERA but the single bench passed the June 3 interim order without properly considering the same and in erroneous manner. The division bench prima facie found force in the arguments of the ERA and hence passed the interim stay on June 3 order of single bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-allows-govt-to-appoint-asst-basic-teachers-as-per-sc-order/articleshow/76349514.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cases reason for movement curbs, UP government tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Friday that restrictions on movement of vehicles from Delhi were necessary because a growing number of Covid-19 cases in Noida and Ghaziabad were sourced from infections in the capital. "As many as 42% of Covid-19 cases in Noida and 45% in Ghaziabad has source infection in Delhi. That is the reason for the restrictions," Uttar Pradesh government's standing counsel Garima Prasad said as she pointed to the the rising number of infections in the capital, with the death toll in the city crossing the 1,000-mark. However, as she justified the restrictions placed by Noida and Ghaziabad administrations, Prasad told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah that there were no curbs on movement of essential goods and services. She also clarified that the state government was bound to follow the national guidelines and the Noida district magistrate would take appropriate remedial action relating to inter-state movement of traffic. The bench, while hearing arguments on a PIL challenging the different rules and regulations on inter-state movement causing confusion and long queues of commuters on borders involving Delhi, Haryana and UP, said there could not be different policies on this issue by three governments. It had to be uniform so as not to cause distress to commuters, it said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said Haryana had lifted all restrictions on inter-state movement of commuters but the UP government had reservations on this and restricted movement of inter-state traffic. The Supreme Court bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rise-in-covid-cases-behind-border-curbs-up-tells-sc/articleshow/76349520.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmed Patel writes to CM||Gandhinagar: All India Congress treasurer and senior Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Ahmed Patel, has written a letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani, complaining about alleged police atrocities against peacefully protesting farmers of Old Diva village. Patel wrote in his letter that on June 11, police arrived and damaged standing crops of farmers on the disputed land. A number of farmers were also brutally beaten up in the incident, he complained. “The farmers have already given consent for the Mumbai-Vadodara Expressway project, but they are only protesting for fair price of their land, which the government should address. Farmers from Surat and other districts have been paid fair price, and on the same grounds, farmers of Ankleshwar and Bharuch also need to be paid fair compensation,” Patel said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmed-patel-writes-to-cm/articleshow/76349039.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govt claims 84 acres of prime Rayadurg land in legal dispute||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday posted to June 26 the hearing in a land tussle pertaining to 84 acres of prime land in survey number 46 of Rayadurg village in Serilingampalli mandal in Rangareddy district. While Lorven Projects Limited and 3 others approached court seeking protection to their land from the state, the state of Telangana is contending that certain private parties had obtained fraudulent decree over this land without making the state a party to the case. When a bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy took up the hearing, senior counsel Dammalapati Srinivas appeared for the petitioners and sought protection to the land. The land is with the court of wards. “Let the police first protect it,” he said. The state’s special counsel S Sharat Kumar opposed any such relief to the petitioners and said that there is no urgency to hear this matter through a videoconference mode. “Without making the state as a party, certain private individuals fraudulently obtained a preliminary decree and there was an equally fictitious compromise decree entered into between private parties behind the back of the state,” he said. “We do not have even copies of such alleged decrees and compromise memos. This land falls under the larger litigation known as CS 7 litigation,” he said. “A division bench of this court earlier ruled that certain parties had played fraud even on the court in this matter,” he added. Since all this was done without making the state a party to the case, the fraudulent decree obtained by private individuals is not binding on the state, Sharat said, informing the court that a coordinate bench of this court gave a finding to this effect last year. “The state was made to remain a mute spectator to the whole episode because it was never informed, notified, or made a party to the tussle,” he added. The petitioners claimed that they got this land from Hyderbad Nizam and the Lorven company had entered into a development agreement with them. Their earlier plea to protect the land was referred to the chief commissioner of land administration. They wanted protection of the land from encroachments. The petitioners later filed a contempt case charging the authorities with not deciding on their protection plea. The state, meanwhile, took a stand raising doubts over the veracity of the ownership documents of the petitioners. The state said it is a necessary party to the case because it has claims over the land and was not bound by the orders of the lower courts that were issued without making the state a party. The bench posted the case to June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-claims-84-acres-of-prime-rayadurg-land-in-legal-dispute/articleshow/76349048.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kanpur||Eight city kids to get monthly stipend under Bal Shramik Vidya Yojana||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: As many as 8 children of the city have been selected under Bal Shramik Vidya Yojana which was inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath through video conferencing on Friday. Under this scheme, children of 6 to 18 years age group will get monthly cash stipends from the state government. The chief minister while inaugurating the scheme in 57 districts talked to two beneficiaries—Laxmi, daughter of late Ramesh and Nancy, daughter of Late Suraj. Both are studying at Ludhwakhera Primary School. When the two girls told the chief minister that their fathers were no more, he consoled them and said that you would get a stipend of Rs 1200 per month for continuing your studies. “Devote yourself to education. When you pass high school, you will get a stipend of Rs 6000 per month”, he added. Earlier, Yogi had asked Laxmi whether she used to go to school daily to which she replied that she was a regular student of class VII while Nancy stated that she was a student of class IV. The six other children who were selected under this scheme are: Pankaj, son of late Suman Devi of Purwa, Geetanjali, daughter of Ranjeet of Bada Mangalpur, Asha, daughter of Ram Khilawan of Bada Mangalpur, Durga Devi, daughter of late Ramesh, resident of Bada Mangalpur, Anita, resident of Bada Mangalpur, Arjun, son of late Laxman and Seth, son of Chhotey Lal of Devnipurwa. All the eight children were selected by the Unicef. The chief minister informed the beneficiaries and the district officials that under this scheme boys and girls of 6 to 18 years age group would get the benefit of monthly stipend to encourage them towards education. To get the benefit of stipend, registration of a child was mandatory. The beneficiary would be picked from those families who were landless, or the child is orphan or had lost his father and the woman of the house was head of the family, Yogi said. He said boys would get a monthly stipend of Rs 1000 and girls Rs 1200 from 6 years to 18 years of age, and after passing class 8, 9 and 10, they would get a financial assistance of Rs 6000 annually. The chief minister directed the district officials to identify such types of families and provide them ration cards if they did not have the one. During the video conference, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bonde, DM Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, Arshi of Unicef and officials of the labour department were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eight-city-kids-to-get-monthly-stipend-under-bal-shramik-vidya-yojana/articleshow/76347986.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||High court pulls up CCP for dumping waste||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday remarked that the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has virtually converted the Parade Ground at Campal into a dumping ground without any authorisation. The court has directed CCP commissioner to be present in court on June 16. After perusing the affidavit filed by CCP, a division bench comprising Justice M S Sonak and Justice M S Jawalkar said,“Now the attempt is to pass on the buck and express helplessness in the matter of clearance of the garbage, whether treated or otherwise, which is presently lying at the parade ground.” During the hearing, CCP counsel A D Bhobe sought time to give a proposal for clearing waste on the ground. The court noted that time is granted “quite reluctantly “ but in the fond hope that the commissioner comes up with some concrete proposal. Meanwhile, the Goa Pollution Control Board has informed the high court that necessary directions will be issued to CCP in the case and if the directions are not complied with, prosecution will be initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-court-pulls-up-ccp-for-dumping-waste/articleshow/76349532.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mysuru||Online exam shift may boost cheating, worry teachers||MYSURU: As varsities and colleges are offbound due to Covid-19, exams are being conducted online globally. Although students are said to be scoring exceptionally well in these exams, concerns are being raised about keeping a close vigil. Speaking to TOI, two professors who were part of college and university level online examination, said most students secured full marks in all subjects in the online internal examinations conducted by the universities, raising questions about the credibility of the examination. According to them, students were sent question papers through WhatsApp/ email and they had to revert with the answer script. “Most of the students copied answers from search engines,” the professors added. Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) vice chancellor Karisiddappa confirmed the shortcomings of online examinations conducted at the college level and the high scoring trend. “We are also unable to do much here. We come across complaints in this regard. One of the options is to not consider these marks for any records,” he told TOI. However, University of Mysore (UoM) registrar R Shivappa said the university is yet to get details on the marks scored by the students in the online exam. “So it’s not possible to say anything at this stage,” he added. According to the faculty who are involved in the online internal examination, the entire exercise looks like a poor cousin of open book examination. “These are one-hour long examinations. We ask students to send the answer scripts in one hour. Even if we ask tricky questions, they give the correct answer by looking up online. But, for the sake of documentation, we are left with no option other than conducting the examinations,” said an associate professor and HOD from a college affiliated to VTU. Another professor said his experience was much similar. “My students scored very good marks in theory subjects. When I developed suspicion, I gave a question involving statistical models for which they were not able to answer properly. It is evident that search engines are playing a big role in these examinations. Best thing to do under the current circumstances is to not conduct examinations,” he said. A city engineering college student who appeared for an internal examination on Tuesday said he wrote the examination with his friend. “Online teaching modules are not helping us in any way. We hardly understand any subject. Naturally we forced to write the examination in this way,” he said. “Online internals are a waste of time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/online-exam-shift-may-boost-cheating-worry-teachers/articleshow/76347281.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||Cattle theft gang busted, two held||Vadodara: Two members of a gang involved in cattle thefts were arrested by the detection of crime branch (DCB) on Friday from Salatwada area of the city. Four other accused, all residents of Ahmedabad, are on the run and the crime branch has formed teams to search them. The gang used to steal cattle from the city and sell them to slaughterhouses in Bharuch. The racket came to light some days ago when a local shot a video of some men stealing cattle from Salatwada area and pushing them in a multi-utility vehicle (MUV). The police was informed about the incident following which crime branch sleuths began the probe. “We tried to locate the MUV on the basis of its license plate number but it was fake. We then got tip-off about Altaf Sheikh who was involved in the theft,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The police said that Altaf has been involved in such cattle thefts for over two years. “Altaf used to keep an eye on stray cattle and tip-off the other gang members who used to pay him Rs 1,000 per animal,” Jadeja told TOI. Fazal used to sell off the cattle to slaughterhouses in Bharuch for a hefty sum. The cops are now searching for Iliyasmama, Maqbool Mansuri, Akbar and a man named Taxi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cattle-theft-gang-busted-two-held/articleshow/76345812.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Meerut||Woman ‘marries’ man of another faith, saffron outfit member threatens to set afire police station in UP||BIJNOR: A week after a woman, 23, went missing from her home, police in Bijnor on Friday claimed to have received a video from her in which she has sought protection from her family members saying that she has married a man of her choice. The woman left her home days before her wedding was to be solemnized on June 18, leaving her family members in a shock. Later, the family members approached Bijnor’s Nangal Soti police station alleging that she had been kidnapped by a man of another community. The matter also took a communal turn when a member of a saffron outfit allegedly threatened to set a police station on fire if the woman is not recovered. When contacted, city’s superintendent of police (SP) Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “The girl might have married the accused. Both the woman and the man have sent a video to police claiming that they are married. They have also sought police protection. Police have asked them to produce documents about their marriage which are yet to come.” Meanwhile, a video of Vishwa Hindu Mahasangh’s state general secretary has surfaced on social media platforms. In the video, Rajni Jauhar can be heard saying, “Police are supporting the minority community. Family members of the girl are making rounds of police officials but they are not paying heed to them. Wedding of the girl was slated for June 18. Had the girl belonged to a minority community, police would have recovered her immediately.” When asked about the inflammatory statement of the woman, the SP said, “We have got the video. A probe has been set up in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-marries-man-of-another-faith-saffron-outfit-member-threatens-to-set-afire-police-station/articleshow/76349839.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||After decades, noise pollution silenced during lockdown||NAGPUR: For the first time in decades, the noise levels in the city saw a drastic decline and came at par with the prescribed standards. Just like air pollution, noise pollution too has seen significant improvement during the lockdown. To assess noise pollution at source and receptor before and during the Covid-19 lockdown period, a scientific study was conducted by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri). Done under the guidance of Neeri director Rakesh Kumar and implemented by Ritesh Vijay, scientist and head at Neeri’s Mumbai centre, and PhD scholar Vijayalaxmi, the aim of the study was to quantify the impact of lockdown on noise pollution. The noise monitoring was carried out at the national highway on Wardha Road, which was considered as source of the noise and nearby residential areas and silent zones were the receptors of noise. According to Vijay, continuous noise monitoring was done for 48 hours at all the locations. For pre-lockdown period, decibel readings of January were compared with the readings of lockdown period taken in April. A total of 1.6 lakh readings were assessed by the scientists. The study brought to fore drastic reduction in noise levels. Along the national highway, the decibel levels dropped by 10dB (A) and 11.3 dB(A) during day and night time respectively. “Further, the noise levels complied with the prescribed limit for residential zone as well as silence zone during day and night time,” said Vijay. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the prescribed limit of noise level in residential areas for day time is 55 dB(A) while for night it is 45 dB(A). For silent zone, the limits for day and night time are 50 dB(A) and 40 dB(A) respectively. According to scientists, the major reason behind decrease in the noise pollution is low traffic volume, including reduction in honking incidents. “For the first time in last 40 years, the levels are so low. The study revealed that prescribed standard of noise levels are achievable during lockdown in residential and silence zones. The study prescribes new dimension of thought process to control the noise pollution in urban areas,” said Vijay. Stating that the study is an eye-opener for the government, the scientist stressed that many aspects of the current lockdown period can be carried forward and updated in making new guidelines and policies to curtail noise pollution later. “The government needs to brainstorm and come up with strategic solutions in traffic management, no honking policy and effective public transport system keeping in mind sanitization and social distancing,” added Vijay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-decades-noise-pollution-silenced-during-lockdown/articleshow/76349071.cms||Manka Behl
June 13, 2020||Indore||Samples of 29 contacts of security person collected||Indore: Dewas health department has collected samples of 29 people after death of a security person due to Covid-19. They are contacts of the jawan, who was posted at Dewas Bank Note Press.  “We have taken samples of 29 people of the victim’s contact in Dewas. One of the samples has tested negative, while report of remaining samples is awaited,” CMHO Dr RK Saxena told TOI. On Friday, seven new positive cases and a death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district. Local administration has started taking new steps to control the virus which has so far infected 153 people and claimed 10 lives. “Geographically, Dewas is situated between most-affected Indore and Ujjain districts. There is huge movement of people from both the districts in Dewas and checking infection coming from these routes is one of the major challenges” said collector Chandramauli Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/samples-of-29-contacts-of-security-person-collected/articleshow/76348273.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Meerut||Darul Uloom allows use of alcohol-based sanitizers on mosque premises||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, Deoband has issued a fatwa saying alcohol-based sanitizers can be used to clean the mosque premises. “There is nothing wrong in using alcohol-based sanitizers in mosques. Even it can be spread on mosque’s walls and floors to sanitize the place of worship,” read the fatwa (edict) issued by Darul Uloom on Thursday evening. It has come as a reply to a query made by a resident of Karnataka. “The alcohol which is used in medicine and sanitizers is produced from vegetables, sugarcane juice etc. So it can be used. Even if the sanitizer has a high quantity of alcohol it is also valid. It can be used to sanitize mosques and also after the Vazu-- the practice of washing one’s face, hand and feet before namaaz-- this sanitizer can be applied on hands,” the fatwa read. A Deoband-based senior cleric, Mufti Asad Qasmi, also said, “There are two types of alcohol. One is used for making medicines or sanitizers while the other is used to make liquor which is not allowed in any manner.” Spokesperson of Darul, Ashraf Usmani, said, “Several mosques are reopening now. So the fatwa was issued to dispel any doubt.” It comes just three days after Dargah Aala Hazrat – a revered Barelvi shrine -- asked followers and mosque heads to avoid using alcohol-based sanitizers. “A mosque will become impure if alcohol-based sanitizer is used for cleaning the premises. We cannot make God’s home impure. Namaz cannot be offered at an impure place. I have appealed to Imams of mosques and mosques’ committees to refrain from using alcohol-based sanitizer,” Mufti Nashtar Farooqi of Sunni Markaz Darul Ifta, Dargah Aala Hazrat has said. Farooqi also gave an alternative to save the followers from the “sin”. “Muslims should properly wash their hands and mosque campus with soap, detergent powder and shampoo,” the cleric said. In its guidelines, the government had asked all the religious places to sanitize the premises with alcohol-based sanitizers. Some temples in Mathura had also objected to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/darul-uloom-allows-use-of-alcohol-based-sanitizers-on-mosque-premises/articleshow/76349841.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 13, 2020||Indore||10 news cases reported in three districts of Indore div||Indore: Three districts of Indore division reported 10 new cases on Friday. While four cases were reported in Dhar, five were witnessed in Khandwa. Tribal-dominated Jhabua district also saw a new case. Indore district of the division reported 50 new positive cases, including one death. With this, total positive cases reported in Indore so far has reached to 3972, including 164 deaths, as per health bulletin released by Indore health department late on Thursday. Indore divisional commissioner Dr Pavan Kumar Sharma on Friday held a video-conference with all district collectors and instructed them to increase sampling as well as restart door-to-door survey to reaching out to people for their health screening. After easing lockdown curbs, a decline in reporting positive cases have been reported from all the districts of Malwa region and less sampling at part of local administration has stated to be the main reason behind this. During the meeting, the commissioner reviewed strategies prepared by all the collectors in Indore division to deal with COVID-19 spread in near future. He asked the collectors to start door-to-door health survey of people by taking Indore and Khargone as base model. He also asked the collectors to increase sampling in their respective districts. Sharma issued instructions to increase infrastructures in Khandwa and Dhar districts for taking more samples. He ordered for documentation of innovations carried out in different districts to help control the infection. Besides, he also issued order for lifting wheat lying at the procurement centres as they may get damaged in rainfall. Under Ujjain division, Dewas district reported seven new cases, including one death, while Shajapur and Neemuch districts saw five and two new cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/10-news-cases-reported-in-three-districts-of-indore-div/articleshow/76348299.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to slap NSA in communal and caste clashes||LUCKNOW: After two cases of violence against Dalits rocked UP this week, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has taken a strict view of the law and order situation and said that where necessary, the government will not hesitate in invoking the National Security Act. In both cases, one in Jaunpur and the other in Azamgarh, the accused have been booked under NSA. Yogi said that in cases of caste and communal violence, eve-teasing, loot and cow slaughter, the police officials concerned of the district, from the SHO up to the level of SSP, will be made answerable and held responsible. “The step has been taken to stem any rise in such cases in the state. By invoking the NSA, a strong message has been sent to people that the government will not tolerate any breakdown in law and order,” said a senior government official. On Tuesday, around 10 houses belonging to Dalits were set on fire after a clash between Dalits and Muslims in Jaunpur district’s Batheti village. The groups reportedly clashed after children from the two communities had an altercation earlier in the day over cattle grazing. While the SHO of Sarai Khwaja police station has been removed, cases have been filed against 57 people and NSA invoked against the accused. On Friday, the SHO of Maharajganj police station was suspended and NSA invoked against the 12 accused for eve-teasing a Dalit girl in Azamgarh and later reportedly indulging in violence against the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-slap-nsa-in-communal-caste-clashes/articleshow/76349528.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||39 test +ve on coast, 60 patients discharged||Mangaluru/Udupi: Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded 39 Covid-19 cases on Friday. While Udupi accounted for 22 cases, including 21 from those who had returned from Maharashtra and one local case, Dakshina Kannada reported 17 cases. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that the local case was a 71-year-old man, who is a contact of the patient designated P-5451. “One of our lab technicians tested positive a few days ago, followed by her child, who tested positive later. This septuagenarian is a resident in the house of this technician,” Jagadeesha said. A total 56 patients were discharged in Udupi on Friday, taking the total number of those discharged in Udupi to 702, against total positive cases of 990. The Udupi district administration will arrange for the travel of migrant labourers and others stranded in the district due to the lockdown, to their respective states. They should register their details by calling 0820-2571500 or by sending their request with supporting documents, such as their destination address, to WhatsApp number 9880831516, Jagadeesha said. Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh said 12 of the 14 cases reported in the district, who returned from Saudi Arabia, returned on June 5, and one each on June 8 and 10. Two people returned from Mumbai on June 8 and June 9, and a 70-year-old who returned from Bengaluru on June 7, too tested positive, with the septuagenarian being diagnosed with SARI. A total four patients were discharged in the district on Friday, and there are presently 105 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/39-test-ve-on-coast-60-patients-discharged/articleshow/76346218.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 13, 2020||Meerut||Meerut's top cop institutes inquiry over 'police press note'||MEERUT: A press note that allegedly originated from a local thana has put the Meerut police in a tight spot so much so that ADG Meerut zone had to institute an inquiry into the matter. The matter pertains to the non-payment of rent of a local marriage lawn. There were allegations that the Ghaziabad-based owner of the lawn did not get rent ever since lockdown was announced in March due to the Coronavirus pandemic, and hence he along with his kin came and thrashed the caretakers of the tenant. The press note also alleges that the owner Ratnesh Bhutani, claimed his closeness with dreaded jailed UP gangster Sushil Mooch while throwing everyone out of the premises. Later, he demanded Rs 50 lakh to allow tenant Saurabh Sabharwal to take back his belongings. Notably, the press note has to be released from the SSP's office and not local thana. The property is situated on the Meerut-Delhi Bypass. Besides, a rent of Rs 2 lakh per month had been agreed upon between the two parties. Secondly, the press note made reference to a non-existent government order that 'no rent can be extracted by the owner from a tenant during lockdown period.' The accused was even taken into custody. ADG Rajeev Sabharwal realising the seriousness of the situation initiated an inquiry. "There are several allegations like why a person was picked even when FIR was yet to be filed. Regarding the press note, we have to ascertain who released it or what is the authenticity of this release? The inquiry has been set up under SSP." SSP Ajay Sahani, however, skirted around the issue of press note and its contents. "We are concerned about the case. Name of a dreaded criminal Sushil Mooch has cropped up. A proper investigation is the need of the hour and we are doing that."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-top-cop-institutesinquiry-over-police-press-note/articleshow/76349846.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Collector lets desi daru flow; not consulted, says civic chief||Nagpur: Country liquor shops in city have got permission to start sales from June 10. The order was issued by collector Ravindra Thakare on June 9. Nagpur Municipal Corporation commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI he was not consulted before the decision was taken.Citing powers vested in him as chairman of district disaster management authority and district magistrate, Thakare issued the order. From June 1, country liquor shops had started functioning in the rural areas but Mundhe had disallowed it in city limits referring to state government’s orders.Thakare too said the decision was taken as per government’s guidelines. “The government did not mention country liquor in the list of prohibitory items and services. These shops were closed since March 21 and gave scope for sale of illicit liquor. We will close them again in case there are violations,” he said.Mundhe told TOI, “Country liquor shops are still prohibited in NMC limits.”Shops were told to submit an affidavit with sub-registrars promising to to follow all terms and conditions, including thermal scanning of workers before entry and prohibiting entry of those having fever, cough or any other symptoms into the shop. Some country liquor shops have reportedly submitted the affidavits and reopened.The collector has prohibited home delivery of country liquor. “Shops in containment zones and additional area within 200-metre radius cannot open. Rest can open between 9am and 6pm,” said Thakare.Thakare had allowed opening of all types of shops, including country liquor, wine etc in Nagpur rural from June 1. Referring to government’s guidelines, Mundhe on the same day permitted only home delivery in city limits.As per a government note, the civic chief is the authorized person within city limits and the collector has jurisdiction in rural areas under the Disaster Management Act. A copy of the letter was submitted with a petition in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court.The NMC on June 1 had claimed that the government vide its May 31 order has prohibited many activities including opening of country liquor, wine shops, bars etc in 10 cities, including Nagpur. The civic chief had even stopped cigarette, tobacco and related products shops from opening in the city.Last month, Mundhe had written to the government not to exclude city from the red zone. It resulted in the lockdown being extended in Nagpur from May 22 to May 31 along with Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and a few other cities where cases were on the rise. Nagpur Rural went into non-red zone and Thakare eased several restrictions.Covid-19 count in the district has surged, especially in the city limit. Cases have increased to 939 with 532 coming in just 22 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-lets-desi-daru-flow-not-consulted-says-civic-chief/articleshow/76358538.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Another state minister tests +ve for Covid-19||Aurangabad: A minister in the state cabinet, along with five of his staffers, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, making him the third minister in Maharashtra to have contracted the disease.  The two ministers who had tested positive for coronavirus earlier have been discharged from hospital after recovery. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the minister was admitted to the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai as he was suffering from breathing problem. Tope said the minister was a part of Tuesday’s state cabinet meeting, which was virtually attended by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The social distancing rule was followed by the cabinet and there is not need for testing any of those who attended,” he said. To a query that the minister had also attended his party’s foundation day ceremony earlier this week, Tope said the social distancing rule was followed there too. Meanwhile, the administration of the district from where the minister hails advised strict home quarantine for all those who came in contact with him or the infected staffers along with families for 28 days. Incidentally, the minister had also opened a Covid-19 testing laboratory recently. During the programme, he was accompanied by health and administrative officials. The officials have quarantined themselves at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/another-state-minister-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76346234.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Con call centre busted in city||Ahmedabad: Police on Thursday arrested two persons running a call centre from a residential flat in the Ghatlodia area who allegedly cheated US citizens by luring them with personal loan offers at low interest rates. The two accused are Nikhanj Vyas, 26, resident of Sudarshan Apartment and Amit Sathwara, 24, resident of Amraiwadi. They have been running the call centre and cheating US citizens, said police. On basis of an input, a team of Ghatlodia police raided Sudarshan Apartment and caught the duo while they were calling the US citizens. Investigation officer and inspector of Ghatlodia police, Pushpa Gamit, said that the accused obtained contact details from various banks through agents and then called up the US citizens. “They used to target persons who sought small amounts in personal loan. Then, they would call the person offering them loan with lower interest than offered by the bank. While talking to the US citizen, the accused took bank details of the person and then withdrew money from their accounts,” said Gamit. The accused persons used to introduce them as a caller from a lending club company and apart from the amount, they also demanded 10% on the loan provided by them. Gamit said the accused were sent to Civil Hospital in Asarwa area to conduct their Covid-19 test. They were booked under charges of breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy along with charges under information technology act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/con-call-centre-busted-in-city/articleshow/76349068.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||RTDC opens liquor outlets at its hotels after government nod||JAIPUR: After the state government allowed Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) to open liquor outlets at the premises of its hotels, the corporation has recently opened 15 shops out of the 27 operational hotels. The loss-making corporation is now looking to open more shops even in the hotels that were closed down due to adverse market conditions. Bhanwar Lal, managing director of RTDC, said, “We are working on plans to open more shops but there is no definite figure as of now. But, we will use the premises of hotels which are non-functional also. The corporation needs revenues to sustain itself after the pandemic has severely hit hospitality sector. RTDC hotels have also suffered accordingly.” In the excise policy for 2020-21, the government has allowed RTDC to open liquor outlets on its premises after discontinuation of the licences since 2005. While the government has not waived the licence fees for the bleeding RTDC hotels, it has offered a window where they the corporation can make payments in installments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtdc-opens-liquor-outlets-at-its-hotels-after-govt-nod/articleshow/76349065.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nashik||No birth control surgeries in district since mid-March||Nashik: Sterilization procedures in all government medical facilities have been halted since the last three months, senior officials of the district administration’s health department said. According to officials, approximately 2,000 sterilization surgeries are conducted in the district every year. They said that the surgeries will not be taken up until further orders from the health department. These surgeries are conducted by the health department at various places across the district after proper counselling of married couples. The aim is to bring the rising population under control, officials said, adding that the surgeries include no scalpel vasectomy (NSV), tubectomy and laparoscopic tubectomy. Additional district health officer Dawal Salve said, “Every year, the target of sterilisation surgeries in the district is roughly around 26,000. In view of Covid 19, these surgeries were stopped in mid-March and they have not been taken up so far.” The aim behind stopping these surgeries is to prevent the possibility of transmission of Covid-19 infection during the process of surgery or hospitalisation of the patient. Considering that approximately 2,000 surgeries are performed every year, this year roughly 6,000 surgeries could not be done, said Salve, adding that couples have been asked to take up alternative contraceptive methods . Salve said that though sterilization surgeries have taken a hit, medical officers at the government facilities were appealing to women to take birth control pills which are made available at government health facilities. Women are also asked to come forward for intrauterine contraceptive device, commonly known as Copper T, while men were asked to make use of condoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-birth-control-surgeries-in-district-since-mid-march/articleshow/76346245.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Five-year-old made to work as help, beaten up in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Chaderghat police on Friday rescued a five-year-old girl, who was working as a domestic help, and was beaten up by her employer. The employer and victim’s father were booked. The victim, daughter of an auto driver, has been working for the accused, M Seema, a housewife in Wahed Nagar area, since the lockdown. “The father of the girl took money from the Seema and sent his five-year-old daughter as a domestic help. Seema has been taking care of an elderly person,” said a cop from Chaderghat police station. The victim was physically abused by the employer after she allegedly started asking for her parents, said the police. “Today is International Day Against Child Labor and we found out about this incident. The girl was beaten up. Strict action should be taken against the employer and all the people involved in the child labour,” said Achyuta Rao, Balala Hakkula Sangham, the NGO who brought the incident to light. The girl was rescued by the team of police and women and child department. “She was handed over to the child welfare committee. We have booked both the employer and her father,” said the officer. The employer, was booked under Section 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of IPC and relevant sections of JJ Act and Child labour Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-yr-old-made-to-work-as-help-beaten-up/articleshow/76349086.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hubballi||19 test Covid-19 +ve in Dharwad||DHARWAD: A total 19 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharwad district on Friday, as per the bulletin issued by the department of health and family welfare in the evening. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 91. Of them, 46 have been cured and discharged from the hospital, while there are 44 active cases and one person has died of Covid-19 in the district. Among those testing positive on Friday, seven are women and 12 are men. The list includes a six-month-old baby boy and a 12-year-old girl. All the 19 patients have been admitted to KIMS hospital in Hubballi for treatment. The patients have a history of returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Goa. Many have also returned from Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Kolar and Bengaluru. A 34-year-old man designated P-6260 is the husband of the patient designated P-5970, a 31-year-old woman who is a teacher and resident of Yalakkishettar colony in Dharwad. The six-month-old baby boy, designated P-6261, is the son of the patient designated P-5969, who is a woman from Bhairidevarkoppa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/19-test-ve-in-dharwad/articleshow/76346264.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC summons GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar over godown closure||HYDERABAD: Disapproving the ways of GHMC officials in dealing with the traders of Shastripuram in Rangareddy district, the Telangana high court on Friday directed GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar to appear before the court on Monday to explain the discrepancies in the show-cause and closure notices being issued by GHMC officials. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing a petition filed by Mohammed Taufiq Ahmed who contended that his godown storing iron and steel scrap in the area was served with a closure notice in an unlawful manner. The bench would hear the matter on June 15 again. His counsel Pawan Kumar Agarwal told the bench that GHMC issued them a closure notice though they only do trade and business in the area and do not cause any pollution. “They alleged that I am dumping waste and burning it which is not correct,” Ahmed said. GHMC counsel Neeli Ashok Kumar said that this is a scrap segregation godown causing noise pollution in the residential area. “The commissioner is empowered to act against such trades,” he said. He could not give proper replies on the trade licence. At another stage, he said that the licence issued to the petitioner had expired. The CJ wanted the GHMC officials to first read the master plan and the GHMC Act properly. “Your show-cause or closure notice cites one ground as a reason for the closure and you say something else in the court. Why this dichotomy?” the CJ asked. “We are already burdened with 2.15 lakh cases and your actions are increasing the cases. Your officials are harvesting litigation,” the CJ said addressing the GHMC counsel while directing the GHMC commissioner to be present in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-summons-lokesh-over-godown-closure/articleshow/76348338.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 13, 2020||Aurangabad||27 booked for violating lockdown, other rules||Aurangabad: As many as 27 people, including bikers as well as traders, were booked by the city police on Thursday under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for violating lockdown and containment zone norms. The Cantonment police booked a shopkeeper in the Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura area for doing business beyond the permitted hours while Cidco police have registered offences against two shopkeepers — a paan stall owner in Cidco and a grocer in N-7 Ayodhyanagar — for not wearing masks and doing business without due permission. Harsul police, too, booked six grocery shop owners for violating lockdown norms and doing business beyond permitted hours in the Phulenagar, Fatemanagar, Dhangar Gali and Jadhavmandi areas. Harsul police have also booked six people for unnecessarily moving around on their bikes without wearing a mask. They have also registered an offence against a rickshaw driver for allegedly carrying more passengers than the permissible limit of one traveller. Besides, two tea stall ownerskz were booked in the Madni Chowk area for selling tea and allowing people to gather in large numbers in violation of lockdown provisions. Begumpura police arrested two bikers who were found moving around in the containment zone of the Jaibhimnagar town hall area. They were later released. In addition, two workers aged 18 were arrested by the Daulatabad police for roaming around on city streets without any valid reason. In the Kranti chowk area, police have registered offences against two businessmen for violating lockdown norms while two youths were rounded up for moving around on a two-wheelers. According to the lockdown norms, only one person is allowed to ride a motorcycle at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/27-booked-for-violating-lockdown-other-rules/articleshow/76346253.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Indore||Accountant dupes employer of Rs 40L||Indore: Lasudia police on Friday registered a case against an accountant, who had duped his employer of Rs 40 lakh by attaching fake bills. Yash Transport owner Manoj Choubey complained that his accountant Manjij Singh, a resident of Punjab, changed account number and entered his personal account number instead of the company on vouchers signed by him. Singh started transferring small amounts, which was never noticed by anyone. Around a year ago, his banker friend told him that his accountant had been living a lavish life. Suspicious of his action, Manoj ordered other employees to check the company accounts and conduct an audit. It later came to fore that the accused had duped him of Rs 40 lakh in several transactions.  Lasudia police station in charge Indramani Patel said that the accused has opened several bank accounts using which he had been committing the crime. He used to transfer the amount received from any customer into his personal account. He will be arrested at the earliest, said Patel adding that they were in the process of recording statement of the complainant, and other employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/accountant-dupes-employer-of-rs-40l/articleshow/76348330.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Lockdown hits supply of mobile spares||HUBBALLI: The lockdown has badly hit supply of cellphone spare parts and the livelihood of technicians and traders who deal in phone accessories. There are about 300 shops that deal in accessories and spares in Hubballi-Dharwad and, besides customer from the cities, they cater to thousands of clients from across North Karnataka. The business thrived with a turnover in lakhs of rupees every day, providing a livelihood for hundreds of traders, technicians and workers. Now, following the lockdown, supply of display screens, batteries, speakers and circuit boards besides others, has been badly disrupted. Prices of mobile phones too have increased by Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000. Rohit Kathigar, a technician, said: “Price of spares has gone up because of limited stock. The price rise ranges from Rs 50 to 500 depending on the part.” Sonali Miskin, a college student who visited a shop on Friday, said, “I normally change the screen guard every six months. Prior to the lockdown the price was between Rs 40 and 50, but now they are charging Rs 80 to 100 for it. When I asked why, the outlet owner said it was because of a shortage of spares.” Sources say these shops rely on supplies from Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and China and it has been hit because of transportation problems. Screen guards went up from Rs 50 to 100, while back covers from Rs 50 to 80. The price for touch pad and display combo was Rs 1,000 before the lockdown, but now it’s between Rs 1,950 to 2,000. Chargers and earphone prices too have increased by Rs 20 to 50. Santosh Kumar Murgi Patil, president, Mobile Dealers Association, said prices of phones increased because of an increase in GST (from 12% to 18%) from April 1. “Old stock was cleared after lockdown restrictions were lifted on May 8, but there has been inadequate supply of new stock,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-hits-supply-of-mobile-spares/articleshow/76347366.cms||J Abbas Mulla
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two persons who returned from Kuwait test positive for Covid-19||JAIPUR: Two persons who landed in Jaipur from Kuwait tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. The state government has allowed people stuck up in other countries to reach their homes in different parts of the state. The health authorities are taking strict measures to quarantine them for seven days after they land at airports in any district of the state. However, the health authorities said that despite being quarantined for seven days, some of them have tested positive for Covid-19 after reaching their homes. “Two persons from Kuwait have been tested positive for Covid-19,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). According to health authorities, the two persons had landed in Jaipur on May 31 and they spent seven days at the quarantine facility, but they were found infected with the virus after reaching their homes. The health department has taken it on a serious note and issued directions to keep monitoring the health of those reaching Rajasthan from different countries. An order issued by Singh mentioned that people reaching from other countries are being quarantined for seven days and seven days under home quarantine. But it has come to the notice of the state government that there are some of them who have tested positive for the virus after reaching home from institutional quarantine, which is a cause of concern. The order says that to break the chain of infection, it has been decided to conduct Covid-19 test before a person, who has reached from other country, gets shifted from institutional quarantine to home quarantine. The health department mentioned that the orders should be followed strictly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and to break the chain of infection from infected person to healthy persons. Watch Jaipur: Two test positive after 7-day quarantine, health officials worried||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-persons-who-returned-from-kuwait-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76349085.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Allow Bonalu festivities: Cong||Hyderabad: Stating that the sentiments of lakhs of women are attached to the Bonalu festival, AICC secretary and former MP V Hanumanth Rao demanded that the government allow restricted Bonalu celebrations by allowing only one woman from a family to offer bonam to the mother goddess. “The faith among the people is that it was the mother goddess who rescued them from the plague in erstwhile Hyderabad State. There is a firm belief that if prayers are offered to the mother goddess on Bonalu even Covid-19 will be wiped out. KCR should respect the sentiments of the majority community,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/allow-bonalu-festivities-cong/articleshow/76348351.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Udaipur||‘95% Covid-19 cases in Bharatpur are asymptomatic’||JAIPUR: Seven people died while 230 others tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the tally to 12,068 in the state on Friday. With seven more deaths, the state’s toll now stands at 272. Sirohi reported its fourth death, while Ajmer reported its 12th fatality and Bharatpur reported its 11th death. One person died in Chittorgarh taking its toll to five. Jodhpur reported its 27th Covid-19 death while Jaipur’s two Covid-19 deaths took its toll to 123. Districts which reported new cases are Sirohi (47), Jaipur (29), Jodhpur (29), Jhunjhunu (10), Alwar (32), Sikar (24), Ajmer (10), Dholpur (10), Sriganganagar (7), Jhalawar (3), Kota (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (2), Bikaner (2), Nagaur (2), Dungarpur (2), Tonk (2), Udaipur (2), Karauli (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1), Bhilwara (1), Dausa (1) and five people from other state. As many as 68 people have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of such persons to 8,843. Bharatpur has the highest active Covid-19 cases in the state at 566, followed by Jodhpur (535) and Jaipur (413). Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel said till date 898 people had been found infected. Out of those, 95% are asymptomatic. Directions have been issued to provide them treatment at their homes by isolating them from other family members. Of them, 319 have been cured. Aiming to prevent mortalities, the district administration is appealing elderly population, pregnant women and those who are less than 10 years of age to get tested in case they have influenza-like illness. In Jaipur, 21 places reported 29 cases. Areas which reported cases are Shastri Nagar (4), Tonk Road (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Ghat Gate (2) and one each from Malviya Nagar, Niwaru Road, Kishan Pole, Pani Pech, Gangapole, Hathroi, VKI, Mansarovar, Jagatpura, Vatika, Bobas, Jawahar Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer, Panchyawala and Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/95-cases-in-bharatpur-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/76351455.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jodhpur||‘95% Covid-19 cases in Bharatpur are asymptomatic’||JAIPUR: Seven people died while 230 others tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the tally to 12,068 in the state on Friday. With seven more deaths, the state’s toll now stands at 272. Sirohi reported its fourth death, while Ajmer reported its 12th fatality and Bharatpur reported its 11th death. One person died in Chittorgarh taking its toll to five. Jodhpur reported its 27th Covid-19 death while Jaipur’s two Covid-19 deaths took its toll to 123. Districts which reported new cases are Sirohi (47), Jaipur (29), Jodhpur (29), Jhunjhunu (10), Alwar (32), Sikar (24), Ajmer (10), Dholpur (10), Sriganganagar (7), Jhalawar (3), Kota (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (2), Bikaner (2), Nagaur (2), Dungarpur (2), Tonk (2), Udaipur (2), Karauli (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1), Bhilwara (1), Dausa (1) and five people from other state. As many as 68 people have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of such persons to 8,843. Bharatpur has the highest active Covid-19 cases in the state at 566, followed by Jodhpur (535) and Jaipur (413). Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel said till date 898 people had been found infected. Out of those, 95% are asymptomatic. Directions have been issued to provide them treatment at their homes by isolating them from other family members. Of them, 319 have been cured. Aiming to prevent mortalities, the district administration is appealing elderly population, pregnant women and those who are less than 10 years of age to get tested in case they have influenza-like illness. In Jaipur, 21 places reported 29 cases. Areas which reported cases are Shastri Nagar (4), Tonk Road (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Ghat Gate (2) and one each from Malviya Nagar, Niwaru Road, Kishan Pole, Pani Pech, Gangapole, Hathroi, VKI, Mansarovar, Jagatpura, Vatika, Bobas, Jawahar Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer, Panchyawala and Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/95-cases-in-bharatpur-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/76351457.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ajmer||‘95% Covid-19 cases in Bharatpur are asymptomatic’||JAIPUR: Seven people died while 230 others tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the tally to 12,068 in the state on Friday. With seven more deaths, the state’s toll now stands at 272. Sirohi reported its fourth death, while Ajmer reported its 12th fatality and Bharatpur reported its 11th death. One person died in Chittorgarh taking its toll to five. Jodhpur reported its 27th Covid-19 death while Jaipur’s two Covid-19 deaths took its toll to 123. Districts which reported new cases are Sirohi (47), Jaipur (29), Jodhpur (29), Jhunjhunu (10), Alwar (32), Sikar (24), Ajmer (10), Dholpur (10), Sriganganagar (7), Jhalawar (3), Kota (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (2), Bikaner (2), Nagaur (2), Dungarpur (2), Tonk (2), Udaipur (2), Karauli (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1), Bhilwara (1), Dausa (1) and five people from other state. As many as 68 people have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of such persons to 8,843. Bharatpur has the highest active Covid-19 cases in the state at 566, followed by Jodhpur (535) and Jaipur (413). Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel said till date 898 people had been found infected. Out of those, 95% are asymptomatic. Directions have been issued to provide them treatment at their homes by isolating them from other family members. Of them, 319 have been cured. Aiming to prevent mortalities, the district administration is appealing elderly population, pregnant women and those who are less than 10 years of age to get tested in case they have influenza-like illness. In Jaipur, 21 places reported 29 cases. Areas which reported cases are Shastri Nagar (4), Tonk Road (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Ghat Gate (2) and one each from Malviya Nagar, Niwaru Road, Kishan Pole, Pani Pech, Gangapole, Hathroi, VKI, Mansarovar, Jagatpura, Vatika, Bobas, Jawahar Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer, Panchyawala and Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/95-cases-in-bharatpur-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/76351458.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Doctors reattach severed palm||JAIPUR: City doctors have reattached a man’s palm which got severed after getting caught in a machine. The patient from Chomu was rushed to JNU hospital in a critical condition. “After clinical investigations, his severed hand was reattached by plastic surgeon Dr Satyabrath Mohanty. It was an eight-hour-long surgery, said Dr Sandeep Bakshi, chancellor, JNU, while appreciating the team of doctors. The patient is kept in observation in ICU. Doctors said that in case of such accident patient need to be taken to the hospital within six hours. If delay is expected beyond six hours, then the severed arm or palm must be kept in clean polythene and be covered by ice, but it should not come in direct contact with ice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-reattach-severed-palm/articleshow/76349111.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman who filed dowry plaint dies after childbirth||Hyderabad: The day a 20-year-old housewife filed a harassment case against her husband and in-laws, she died after delivering a stillborn baby in the hospital. Chandrayangutta police booked a dowry death case. The victim, Ameen Begum, got married to Shaik Sadiq in 2019. According to her complaint, her husband was mentally and physically harassing since two months, while she was pregnant, over a petty issue. The victim, in her complaint had alleged that her mother-in-law would support her husband and harass her. On Wednesday, while she was doing her chores, Sadiq allegedly started an argument with her. “Sadiq and his mother beat her up and she was treated in an hospital as an outpatient,” said Chandrayangutta police. “The victim approached the police on Thursday to register the case. The same day, she sustained labour pains and died after giving birth to a dead child,” said police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-who-filed-dowry-plaint-dies-after-childbirth/articleshow/76349114.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||‘War team’ to tackle monsoon power cuts||Panaji: To restore power as fast as possible during the monsoon, the electricity department has set up a 24-hour war room under the senior assistant engineer (AE) to coordinate with different electricity divisions. The war team has been given the authority to divert people from one division if they are free to other division to restore electricity in case there is a need. Power minister Nilesh Cabral told reporters that if there is no heavy wind and cyclone, there is no problem of power cuts during the monsoon. Reacting to complaints of consumers that they are unable to connect with the call centre to lodge their power cut complaints, Cabral said call centre executives are busy with phone calls which is why their lines are often found engaged. “We have formed a war team at the electricity department under the senior assistant engineer (AE). If there is any issue they will attend to the problem and call back. Let us try and see, and provide 24-hour electricity to the people,” he said Cabral said that this time the department has asked contractors to be ready so that they can be roped in to restore electricity if there is any issue during the monsoon. “We don’t have many contractors. Most of the contractors’ workers have left the state. We have kept a few contractors on standby in case they need to be roped in to restore power. So, we think we are prepared for the monsoon,” he said. He also said that contractors would be used if they is a major issue, otherwise electricity employees would work to restore the power. Previously, chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni appealed to consumers to register their complaints on the department’s 24x7 toll-free number 1912. “A control room monitored by two officials has been set up at the call centre, and will be functional right through the monsoon,” Keni had said. “Individual complaints will get rectified once they are registered on 1912. There are ten executives on each shift who attend to calls. The complaint once registered on the helpline escalates, and executives even get back to the complainant. “The officials monitor the complaints received and pending,” he added. “Linesmen and department engineers are busy, and need to use their phones for their own communication. Their work gets hampered while attending to calls. The same call centre can also be reached on 2490800 (not toll free).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/war-team-to-tackle-monsoon-power-cuts/articleshow/76349574.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||‘95% Covid-19 cases in Bharatpur are asymptomatic’||JAIPUR: Seven people died while 230 others tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the tally to 12,068 in the state on Friday. With seven more deaths, the state’s toll now stands at 272. Sirohi reported its fourth death, while Ajmer reported its 12th fatality and Bharatpur reported its 11th death. One person died in Chittorgarh taking its toll to five. Jodhpur reported its 27th Covid-19 death while Jaipur’s two Covid-19 deaths took its toll to 123. Districts which reported new cases are Sirohi (47), Jaipur (29), Jodhpur (29), Jhunjhunu (10), Alwar (32), Sikar (24), Ajmer (10), Dholpur (10), Sriganganagar (7), Jhalawar (3), Kota (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (2), Bikaner (2), Nagaur (2), Dungarpur (2), Tonk (2), Udaipur (2), Karauli (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Rajsamand (1), Bhilwara (1), Dausa (1) and five people from other state. As many as 68 people have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of such persons to 8,843. Bharatpur has the highest active Covid-19 cases in the state at 566, followed by Jodhpur (535) and Jaipur (413). Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel said till date 898 people had been found infected. Out of those, 95% are asymptomatic. Directions have been issued to provide them treatment at their homes by isolating them from other family members. Of them, 319 have been cured. Aiming to prevent mortalities, the district administration is appealing elderly population, pregnant women and those who are less than 10 years of age to get tested in case they have influenza-like illness. In Jaipur, 21 places reported 29 cases. Areas which reported cases are Shastri Nagar (4), Tonk Road (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Ghat Gate (2) and one each from Malviya Nagar, Niwaru Road, Kishan Pole, Pani Pech, Gangapole, Hathroi, VKI, Mansarovar, Jagatpura, Vatika, Bobas, Jawahar Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer, Panchyawala and Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/95-cases-in-bharatpur-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/76349102.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Aurangabad||105 more test positive in Aurangabad district; death toll reaches 135||Aurangabad: As many as 105 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across the district on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 2,535. Commissioner of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Astik Kumar Pandey, through social media, updated the citizens about various factors, including mingling of people in colonies, lack of social distancing and entry of around 700 people from Mumbai in the city, responsible for rise in the number of cases. According to district administration, of the 2,535 patients, 1,400 have been cured and discharged while there are 1,000 active cases till Friday evening. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said that between 6pm on Thursday and 3.30 am on Friday four people lost their lives to the contagion. The deceases were a 65-year-old man from Madani Colony, a 52-year-old man from ST Colony Fazalpura, a 36-year-old man from Mill Corner and 40-year-old man from Kailas Nagar. With these four cases, the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Aurangabad district has reached 135.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/105-more-test-positive-in-aurangabad-district-death-toll-reaches-135/articleshow/76346277.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 13, 2020||Indore||Five new cases found in Mhow||Mhow: Five new Covid cases surfaced in Mhow after which three more areas were designated as containment zone in the town on Friday. Two persons of Raj Mohalla tested positive while one from Yadav Mohalla, one from Gokulganj and one from Shantinagar. Raj Mohalla was already a containment zone and the streets of the Covid patients in Gokulganj, Yadav Mohalla and Shantinagar have been made containment areas. Ten feet high barricades have been installed at all three places and local administration has made announced instructions. Policemen were deployed in the areas to check violations. Till now, 23 persons have died of Covid-19 while 630 samples have been collected, of which 462 have tested negative and four reports were pending till Tuesday. As many as 82 persons who had tested positive have been discharged after recovery. Mhow civil hospital in charge Dr HR Verma told TOI that the prime apprehension was once it starts spreading in the villages, it would be very difficult to control it because people in villages are very closely associated with each other for their day to day activities. He said that in all such cases, it has been found that infected people working in Indore or other cities returned to their villages and that’s how it spread. The rural belt of the tehsil is maintaining the supply of vegetables in the town and if infection spreads there, it will have a direct impact on Mhow town as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/five-new-cases-found-in-mhow/articleshow/76348348.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man settles down with his second wife, first one gets him abducted||BENGALURU: A 32-year-old north Bengaluru building contractor abducted by seven men allegedly hired by his first wife was rescued in Hassan on Thursday. While four kidnappers have been arrested, three others and the woman are on the run. According to police, Roma Sheikh, a resident of Marathahalli and first wife of Shahid Sheikh, 32, a resident of Vishweshwaraya Layout on Sidedahalli Main Road, tried in vain to project that the kidnapping had been orchestrated by his second wife. The arrested are: Abhishek, 26 of Hesaraghatta, Bharath, 25, of Bagalagunte, Prakash KP, 22, of JP Nagar and Chaluva Murthy, 22, of Byadarahalli. N Shashikumar, deputy commissioner of police (north), said Shahid was living in Marathahalli with Roma. He married another woman, Rathna Khatum, a year ago and started living with her in Vishweshwaraya Layout. “Roma was angry with Shahid as he started living with Khatum permanently and gave away her jewellery and money to his second wife. So, she hired Abhishek and team to abduct her husband and paid Rs 2 lakh to the gang,” said Shashikumar. The DCP said Roma wanted to get her husband back and, therefore, she hired the kidnappers, whom she knew. According to police, the gang executed the plan around 1pm on June 7, when Shahid went to purchase vegetables. Later, they took him to Hassan and kept him captive at Bharath’s farmhouse. The gang had plans to extort money from Khatum. “The kidnappers got in touch with Khatum and demanded Rs 10 lakh for her husband’s safe release. Finally, they agreed to release him for Rs 2 lakh. Khatum approached us and a police team headed by inspector Venkategowda tracked the abductors to Hassan. We rescued Shahid and arrested four kidnappers,” an investigating officer said. The gang had assaulted Shahid and he has been admitted to a hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-settles-down-in-2nd-marriage-first-wife-gets-him-abducted/articleshow/76348355.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Aurangabad||142 workers to be hired on contract for Covid care hospital||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Friday opened 142 vacancies for 11 contract-based positions at their various Covid care centres/hospitals in the city. The hiring is crucial for the municipal corporation as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and district guardian minister Subhash Desai virtually opened the 256-bed dedicated Covid care hospital raised at Chikalthana MIDC on Friday. The new centre has been opened by transforming an old building into a Covid care facility.According to municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar, the AMC has decided to hire medical and support staff on contractual basis for healthcare services at Covid Care Centres and newly-developed Dedicated Covid Hospital at Chikalthana MIDC. There are openings for the positions of medical officer or physician (13), medical officer, MBBS (20), staff nurse (63), hospital manager (2), x-ray technician (2), ECG technician (2), lab technician (6), pharmacist (8), stockist (2), data entry operator (4) and ward boy (20).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/142-workers-to-be-hired-on-contract-for-covid-care-hospital/articleshow/76346297.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 13, 2020||Indore||Five held for murder of Dhar bizman||Indore: Dhar police on Friday solved murder mystery of the businessman, whose body was found lying at Ujadiya village ten days ago, and arrested five people including his relatives in this connection. Police had circulated picture of the businessman across various police stations and WhatsApp groups. It was found that the deceased was a resident of Kajrota and was into an auto parts business in Tanda area of Dhar district. He was identified as Gopal. Based on the autopsy report, a case of murder was registered. Sardarpur police station in charge Santosh Bharti said that they had received a tip-off about the whereabouts of the accused.  SP Aditya Pratap SIngh said that the all the accused are friends. They had entered into a dispute while consuming alcohol after which they murdered Gopal. They threw his body into a well on the farmland, where they were drinking. The next day, however, they returned, fished out his body and threw it on the road side to make the incident look like an accident. It, however, became clear during post-mortem examination.  He said that the accused- Mukesh, Prahlad alias Lala Rajput, Jitendra, Rajesh, and Nitin - were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/five-held-for-murder-of-dhar-bizman/articleshow/76348367.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Indore||4 kids drown in Ujjain||Ujjain: Four children drowned in a pond when they ventured into deep waters while bathing at village Rudra Heda of Ujjain district on Friday evening. The children – aged 11 to 14 years – had left their respective homes at Sadalpur Kheda village to a pond in the neighbouring village and failed to return, forcing their parents to launch a search, Jharda police said. Clothes of children were found near the pond, following which divers searched the water, police said adding that four bodies were fished out. The children were identified as Kuldeep, 14, Akhilesh, 14, Rajesh, 15 and Anand, 11. Police have sent their bodies for a postmortem to Mahidpur hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/4-kids-drown-in-ujjain/articleshow/76348379.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||37 more test positive in Vadodara||Vadodara: With 37 persons testing positive for Covid-19, the total number of cases in Vadodara city and district rose to 1,484 by Friday evening. The total number of cases in rural areas is now inching towards 100 due to a steady trickle of cases. Of the 37 new cases 10 were reported from the north zone of Vadodara city, nine from the south zone, eight from east zone and two from the west. With eight new cases in the rural areas, the total number of cases in Vadodara district outside the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) area went up to 98. The VMC areas has seen 1,370 cases so far while 16 are outsiders. With the VMC not confirming any more deaths on Friday, the number of victims of Covid-19 remained at 47. Two persons have died in the district outside VMC’s jurisdiction while 45 have died in the city. As on Friday, 502 persons who had tested for Covid-19 were under treatment. These include 20 on ventilators of BIPAP machines and 46 on oxygen. The condition of 436 patients is said to be stable. Twelve persons suffering from Covid-19 were discharged from the SSG Hospital and GMERS, Gotri Hospital. So far 935 persons have been cured and discharged from hospitals in Vadodara. Sources said that more deaths of persons suffering from Covid-19 or of suspected cases had taken place on Friday. Some of the deceased were cremated at the Khaswadi crematorium while others had to be shifted to a crematorium in Akota due to a snag at Khaswadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/37-more-test-positive-in-vadodara/articleshow/76345826.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana seeks release of GST compensation of Rs 3,975 crore||HYDERABAD: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Friday requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to release the GST compensation amount of Rs 3,975 crore for the months of April and May 2020. Speaking at the GST council meeting via video conferencing, he said that any delay in release of GST compensation will adversely affect the implementation of the state’s schemes. Taking GST revenue with growth of 14% into consideration, the state government had promised to implement several schemes. Harish Rao said the state was also not receiving any revenue on account of revenue deficit and 15th Finance Commission also not favouring the State. The minister urged Sitharaman to release the devolution of funds for the month of June 2020 and the compensation to the state for the months of April and May 2020, stating that the state is facing severe revenue shortfall due to Covid-19. He said that Telangana has performed well on the revenue front and is one of the few states which had taken little GST compensation from the Centre since the introduction of GST. “When the need for compensation amount arises and the Centre is not coming forward to fulfill its obligation, it will be very disappointing for the state,” he said. Rao also requested the Centre to release the Rs 2,8000 crore share of the state since the Centre has decided to distribute un-apportioned IGST (Integrated Goods and Services Tax) of Rs 1.76 lakh crore during 2017-18 to the state. The minister said there was a huge fall in revenue in other sectors also and in such a situation, any failure to release compensation will aggravate the economic crisis. “The state is able to pay only part of the salaries to employees due to lack of funds,” Harish explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-seeks-release-of-gst-compensation-of-rs-3975-crore/articleshow/76349126.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents, activists in Telangana seek ban on online classes||HYDERABAD: After the Karnataka government banned online classes for children from kindergarten to class 5, parents and activists in Telangana too are seeking a ban on online classes. Alleging that conducting online classes is illegal, they demanded the education department to initiate action against schools conducting online classes without prior permission. “My daughter is in KG. I don’t see a point in making her attend online classes. Even if I force her, the classes will be for me and not her,” said a parent, whose children study in a school in Banjara Hills. Parents said that few schools are conducting classes from 9 am to 4 pm and added that the managements should stop treating online classes on a par with physical ones. Seconding with parents, activists said the schools should stop conducting these classes as they are illegal. “As per RTE Act, schools cannot conduct online classes. If the classes don’t stop, we will lodge a police complaint,” said Vijay Gopal, president, Forum Against Corruption. Meanwhile, school managements said that as the Centre has directed all educational institutions to conduct online classes, they are not illegal. “The classes are not linked with fees. Parents and students are happy with them,” said V Amarnath, director, Slate-The School, adding that as the state has not banned these classes, they are legal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-activists-seek-ban-on-online-classes/articleshow/76348382.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 13, 2020||Madurai||1,000 cases in south dists in just 20 days||Madurai: While it took almost three months-from March 1 to May 21-for cases to touch the 1000-mark in the southern districts, it rose to 2,000 in just around 20 days. The total Covid cases in the southern region now stand at 2,134. Roughly half of the cases reported from May end onwards have been imported cases. Many cases have also been linked to those who arrived from other districts. “The problem is, with more people moving in and out of the district, the infection spreads very quickly. As per current protocol, priority is given to testing those with Covid-19 symptoms but for a patient to develop symptoms, it takes at least five days. So, in case a person has contracted the virus and has been travelling, by the time he gets tested the spread could have easily happened,” said Dr Sudharsan B, an assistant professor of community medicine at a private medical college. He added that contact tracing is difficult but very important. According to health officials, approximately 300-500 people, including people who arrived from outside, are currently being tested across southern districts. As per data from the state medical bulletin on June 7, the total tests per million in districts like Madurai and Dindigul which have a major share of the total cases in the region is well below the state average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1000-cases-in-south-dists-in-just-20-days/articleshow/76349128.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 13, 2020||Aurangabad||NGO urges CM to remove AMC’s proposed water management unit||Aurangabad: People’s Forum for Social Cause, an NGO, demanded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to strike off the proposed water management unit of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, before rolling out the new Rs 1,680 crore bid for water supply project in the city.Rajendra Datey Patil, the activist who heads the NGO, was among those who had approached the high court challenging the civic body’s controversial Rs 792 crore water scheme, which it later withdrew.Patil said, “ The same people are being engaged as a part of the AMC’ management unit involving a new water supply scheme”. He urged the chief minister not to allow the civic body officials to meddle in the project. “They have already made a mess of the Rs 792 crore project which never saw the light of the day,” he said He also demanded that the project is studied well and the technical glitches are removed, so there should be no hiccup in its implementation.While citing a communication from the chief minister’s office that the CM has forwarded his representation to the principal secretary urban development department for consideration, Patil said that work on the pending water scheme should be completed soon as the city continues to face dearth of water supply.He said, “The civic body had earlier reached an agreement with the then Aurangabad City Water Utility Company for which the residents had to pay much higher amount than usual for faulty and irregular water supply.” The project kept on lingering for over 15 years, he said. He also demanded that Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran should be allowed to work independently on the project as they have expertise in such works. The cost has now reached Rs 1680 crore from Rs 792 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-urges-cm-to-remove-amcs-proposed-water-management-unit/articleshow/76346309.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa gets second containment zone as villages continue lockdowns||PANAJI: The spike in Covid-19 cases continued as it spread across the state, forcing the government to declare Ghodemal in Sattari taluka’s Morlem village a containment zone—the second after Mangor Hill—after it reported 15 positive cases. While there were demands from other areas where there was a surge in cases, like Shiren in Chimbel, to make it a containment zone, the government said it has not taken a decision as it was only from one family. But fear and panic continued to grip villages as more panchayats declared self-imposed lockdowns after positive cases were detected, squarely blaming the Pramod Sawant-led government for compromising the safety and health of the people. Ghodemal was declared a containment zone after 15 persons tested positive, after a health worker from the village posted at the Vasco urban health centre has got the virus. Sawant said only a portion of the ward has been declared a containment zone, and the houses along its periphery have been earmarked as a “buffer”. He said the government was looking at other areas that have seen a spike in cases o turning them into a containment zones and “the decision about them will be taken in a phased manner”. After Ghodemal reported four cases on Friday, health minister Vishwajit Rane requested the district administration to declare it a containment zone. Rane also discussed the issue with health secretary Nila Mohanan. “We have taken necessary precautions to break the chain of transmission,” Rane said on social media. One of the Covid positives from the village is a security guard who was posted at the Goa Medical College (GMC). Dean Dr S M Bandekar said the guard was stationed at the hospital’s parking lot for the past three-four days. “Since he is asymptomatic, he has been transferred to the Covid care centre,” Bandekar said. “Those who travelled with him from Morlem to Bambolim have been tested on Friday.” Goa’s active Covid-19 tally neared the 400 mark on Friday, as 46 new positives pushed the total up to 396. However, it was the first day in more than a week that Mangor Hill reported no new cases. However, cases “linked” to the containment zone shot up to 117, up from Thursday by 39. Most of the new cases were from Baina and New Vaddem in Vasco, Chimbel and Morlem. Five travellers also tested positive. Meanwhile, after eight cases (three on Friday) were reported at Shiren in Chimbel, Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes and several other locals demanded that the area be sealed. However, Sawant said all the Chimbel cases are linked to Mangor Hill. North Goa collector R Menaka, too, said that no decision had been taken on sealing a portion of Chimbel, as the cases were limited to one family and its contacts. Two more villages — Cumbharjua and Sanvordem — have joined the ever-growing list of villages opting for self-imposed lockdowns to prevent the transmission of Covid-19. The two village panchayats took the call after some of their residents tested positive. Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s son Siddesh requested Sawant to take necessary measures to protect the villagers. Cumbharjua panchayat secretary Ramita Murgaonkar said the voluntary lockdown would include the closure of shops, alcohol stores, salons and construction activity. Of the four cases in the village, one person who tested positive was living with five other family members. Local sources said the family has been moving about the village, visiting others, over the past two days. The state health department has tested 10 persons who came in contact with the family, and reports are expected on Monday. The other three are individuals who returned from Mumbai. “We can’t understand how the government takes decisions,” said former Cumbharjua sarpanch and current panch Suresh Naik. “People are being allowed to come from Mumbai, stamped with ‘home quarantine’, and sent off. Some are not even tested. There is no support from the government. The chief minister makes one statement in the morning and another statement in the evening.” Thus, the panchayat has decided to block roads leading to the village, and to stop the ferry service except for emergencies. “Nobody will be allowed to enter Cumbarjua and nobody will be allowed to leave the village,” Naik said. “Our village boys will be there to close the bridge that leads to the village.” Meanwhile, the Morlem panchayat, which had already imposed a seven-day lockdown, extended it by another seven days, sarpanch Vidya Sawant said. On Friday, two patients were discharged from the Covid hospital, taking the total tally of cured patients to 67. Also, 3,501 samples were tested on Friday, of which 2,072 returned negative. 1,383 reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-gets-2nd-containment-zone-as-villages-continue-lockdowns/articleshow/76349558.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Suo motu petition hearing on June 16||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court placed the next date of hearing its suo motu petition on June 16 following a request from the government. Taking cognizance of a newspaper report that a private hospital in Nanded turned away a pregnant woman, the high court had raised concerns over the plight of the economically backward classes. The HC bench had issued notices to Union and state health ministries, as well as directed the state government to represent local bodies, returnable on June 12. The court had appointed Nitin Gaware as the amicus curiae. “When the matter came up for hearing, the government pleader requested time to file reply, following which the court placed the hearing of the suo-motu petition on June 16,’’ said Gaware. A pregnant woman, as per the newspaper report, was allegedly driven away from a private hospital even when her relatives were ready to deposit the advance feel. The bench had noted that the admission was denied on the grounds that the woman had not come to the hospital previously. The bench had observed, “This is not the only incident which took place.after declaring the first lockdown. Patients with diseases other than Covid-19 are also not getting admission and the treatment in private hospital.’’tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/suo-motu-petition-hearing-on-june-16/articleshow/76346324.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Fish stall sealed in Bowenpally||Secunderabad: A fish stall was sealed by SCB officials on Friday after a Covid-19 death was reported at Dhanalaxmi Colony in Bowenpally. The deceased has a shop near the fish stall. “We visited the colony and found that the deceased used to sell milk and vegetables to residents of the colony. Immediately, we shut the stall and sanitized the area,” SCB senior sanitary inspector A Mahender said. In a related development, SCB’s special team sealed an eatery on Rajiv Rahadari and imposed penalty on 10 commercial units for violating Covid-19 prevention norms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fish-stall-sealed-in-bowenpally/articleshow/76348377.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Indore||24-year-old vehicle lifter held with 5 stolen two-wheelers||Indore: Annapurna police on Friday arrested a vehicle lifter and seized five two-wheelers from his possession.  ASP Manish Khatri said that they had received information that the accused was trying to sell stolen vehicle to unsuspecting people in Annapurna area. Subsequently, a team was sent to the spot and the accused, 24-year-old Ravi Singh Thakur, a resident of Ghanshyam Das Nagar was arrested. Three scooters and two motorcycles were seized from the possession of the accused. During questioning, Ravi told police that he had stolen one of the vehicles from Central Kotwali area, whereas a bike from Barwani district. He did not reveal about the other three vehicles. Annapurna police station in charge Satish Dwivedi said that Ravi used one of the bikes to commit battery thefts in the area. He was being questioned on the crime. SP Mahesh Chandra Jain has announced a cash reward to the team. Officials said that the accused had been committing the crime for past many years and he is a habitual offender. He had been committing the crime to purchase drugs and also show off in the area while riding different vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/24-year-old-vehicle-lifter-held-with-5-stolen-two-wheelers/articleshow/76348392.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett Tiger Reserve to open from tomorrow, online booking starts today||DEHRADUN: The Corbett Tiger Reserve and the Nainital district administration has decided to open the park for tourism activities from Sunday and bookings will be open from Saturday. Those coming from other states, especially the 31 Covid-19 high-load cities, will have to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine after entering Nainital district. However, those visiting from within the state will be allowed to enter the reserve. CTR will open its Bijrani, Dhela, Jhirna and Pakhro zones for tourists. CTR director Rahul said that they are well prepared to handle tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-to-open-from-tomorrow-online-booking-starts-today/articleshow/76347437.cms||Shivani Azad
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No UG/PG exams till govt nod, says Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University||HYDERABAD: The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) instructed all its affiliated, constituent and autonomous colleges on Friday to not conduct undergraduate and post-graduate semester exams until Telangana government grants permissions. The JNTUH had notified final year UG and PG exams from June 20. However, after receiving flak from the students, the JNTUH issued a fresh notification on Friday instructing colleges not to conduct any exams. “The decision on the semester examinations of final year as well as other year students of UG and PG courses of all colleges of JNTUH, shall be taken by the state government. Till then, no institute should conduct any exam,” read the notification. Although the state government has decided not to detain first to third year students, it is keen on conducting exams for final year students. A review meeting is scheduled early next week to discuss the matter. “Final year exams will be held, but when and how will be decided in the meet,” said Papi Reddy, chairman, Telangana State Council of Higher Education. Following plaints from students, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has decided to discuss the matter with university registrars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-ug/pg-exams-till-govt-nod-jntuh/articleshow/76348386.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||More Qatar to Telangana flights sought||HYDERABAD: As many as 3,500 people from Telangana have registered themselves to return home from Qatar due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation there. However, with just one Vande Bharat flight being operated to Hyderabad, only 183 could return. There are an estimated 70,000 people from Telangana in Doha. Various Telangana organisations in Doha in a joint letter to vice-chairman of Telangana State Planning Board B Vinod Kumar have sought more flights under Vande Bharat mission to bring people of Telangana back home. They said the problems of Telangana people in Doha should be taken up with the government of India, adding that those seeking to return immediately had emergencies like severe medical ailments, pregnancy, death of immediate family members, expiry of short-term visa or on-arrival visa and loss of jobs and salaries for the last three months. The organisations said they were coordinating with the Indian embassy in Qatar and the repatriation committee formed for the mission. They said that at least those who have registered with the embassy should be evacuated immediately. Based on the representation he received, Vinod Kumar wrote a letter to Union minister for external affairs S Jaishankar to schedule more flights from Qatar to Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-qatar-to-t-flights-sought/articleshow/76348395.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 13, 2020||Nashik||Over 500 booked in Malegaon in three days for breaking lockdown rules||NASHIK: More than 500 people were booked in Malegaon in the past three days after lockdown measures were relaxed in the textile city. The violations are connected to breaking rules of vehicle use and not wearing masks. The Malegaon police have taken up a week-long drive to check violations of lockdown rules. Officials said the drive was necessary to spread awareness among people as the textile city returns to normalcy. Superintendent of police Arti Singh said, “Measures such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, not taking pillion rider or carrying more than two passengers in auto-rickshaws are necessary. For residents of Malegaon, it is more important given the population density. Additional SP of Malegaon Sandeep Ghuge said from Tuesday to Thursday, they booked 320 motorists for violating various traffic related norms but mainly regarding carrying a pillion rider on a two wheelers and ferrying more than two passengers in auto-rickshaw. Similarly, 270 people were booked for not wearing masks as well. He said that the week-long drive will serve the purpose of awareness, education and enforcement so that in the future people are in the know about what could lead to the infection and fine upon them. Singh said that they were not just taking action but also distributing masks to the needy people so that they get into the habit of wearing the protective gear. “Recently, we distributed 1,000 masks to the needy,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-500-booked-in-malegaon-in-3-days-for-breaking-lockdown-rules/articleshow/76346348.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Friday prayers held at mosques||Hyderabad: Several Muslims in the city offered the first Friday prayers in mosques after lockdown restrictions were eased on June 8. Devotees turned up in large numbers at local mosques for the Friday prayers even as the Mecca Masjid and Royal Mosque at Public Gardens remained closed. Scores of Muslims offered Friday prayers at several mosques across the city while maintaining social distance. Moreover, several imams delivered sermons urging Muslims to follow social distancing norms. “Urging people to follow social distancing norms and maintaining hygiene has been a priority of every imam,” said Hafiz Mohammed Sabir Pasha Quadri, imam, Haj House mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/friday-prayers-held-at-mosques/articleshow/76348397.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mysuru||BTR staff killed in accident||MYSURU: A 35-year-old man working in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve died after a truck hit his bike in Chamarajanagar district on Friday. The deceased is Rahmat, who was working in BTR for past 15 years as a temporary staffer. According to foresters, Rahmat had gone to release water from a borewell near BTR field director’s official residence in Bandipur. He was returning home when the driver of the speeding truck lost control of the vehicle and hit Rahmat’s bike on the main road. Rahmat came under the wheels of the vehicle and died on the spot with severe head injuries. Gundlupet police have seized the truck and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/btr-staff-killed-in-accident/articleshow/76346343.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Machines used in mining, U’khand HC issues notices to Center, state, Garhwal and Kumaon commissioner and DMs of four districts||Nainital: After a public interest litigation (PIL) alleged that heavy machines are excavating minerals from riverbeds and unscientific mining continues unabated across the state, Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday issued notices to the Center and state government as well as Uttarakhand forest development, additional director general geology and mining, Kumaon and Garhwal commissioners as well as district magistrates (DMs) of Dehradun, Nainital, US Nagar and Pauri Garhwal districts. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, in its written order which was made available on Friday, has directed all the respondents to file their counter affidavits within three weeks. The petitioner, a resident of Haldwani in Nainital district had informed the court that the state government, through a government order on May 13 had permitted ‘semi mechanised’ mining in place of manual mining – as permitted by the rules. The GO, therefore, goes against the state government’s own rules. The PIL alleged that the mechanised mining has devastated the riverbeds, the local ecology and environment. "After the permission was granted for using machines, deep and uncontrolled excavation has been going on instead of collection of minor minerals. The unrestrained mechanised mining has completely devastated the riverbeds… Gigantic machines are excavating rivers in the state in the garb of semi mechanised mining which is in violation of relevant rules and conditions of forest clearance," the petition argued. The state government, however, informed the court that it has now amended the Uttarakhand minor mineral concession rules through a notification on June 9 (after the petition was filed), the notification amended the rules retrospectively from May 7. Paresh Tripath, the chief standing counsel, informed the court that use of machines was permitted since engaging manual labour in times of pandemic would have led to violation of the social distancing norms. The government further added that mechanised mining has been permitted only till June 15. "Sri Paresh Tripathi, learned Chief Standing Counsel, would submit, on instructions, that, by Notification dated 09.06.2020, Rule 29(18) of the Uttarakhand Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 2001 was amended retrospectively with effect from 07.05.2020," read the court order. The court has now fixed the case for hearing after four weeks by when all the respondents have been directed to file their replies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/machines-used-in-mining-ukhand-hc-issues-notices-to-center-state-garhwal-and-kumaon-commissioner-and-dms-of-four-districts/articleshow/76347456.cms||Prashant Jha
June 13, 2020||Madurai||‘Fair criticism of govt is catalyst for better admin’||Madurai: Quoting one of Thiruvalluvar’s couplet in Thirukkural, “The careless king whom none reproves ruins himself sans harmful foes”, the Madras high court observed that in democracy a fair criticism of the government functioning is the catalyst for better administration and quashed defamation proceedings against Congress MLA, S Vijayadharani.The petitioner, who is a sitting member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly had expressed anguish regarding the opening of Tasmac shops by the government in a public meeting held at Karungal Santhai Ground at Nagercoil in Kanyakumari district on September 27, 2015.A criminal complaint was lodged against her alleging that she has defamed and harmed the reputation of then chief minister J Jayalalithaa. However, the petitioner contended that her speech is no way near the definition of defamation and it was only the expression of her view about the affairs of the government and as a MLA and as a political party representative, she has a right of expression guaranteed under the Constitution. The petitioner further contended that she never had an intention to harm the reputation of the chief minister.On perusal of the submissions, justice G Jayachandran observed that the reading of the speech does not carry any sentence of defamation whatsoever. Observing that the complaint which is mere extraction of the legal provision does not disclose the mens rea (criminal intention) to harm the reputation of the chief minister, the judge quashed the proceedings against Vijayadharani, pending before the principal district and sessions court in Kanyakumari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fair-criticism-of-govt-is-catalyst-for-better-admin/articleshow/76349143.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid-19 hospital has first delivery, a baby girl||PANAJI: The Covid hospital in Margao saw the first baby being born on its premises after a 33-year-old woman from Mangor Hill delivered a girl on Friday. The mother, who is Covid-positive, was however not permitted to hold the baby, who was quickly whisked away to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital’s paediatrics ward. The woman, who has three other children, was admitted in the hospital on Friday afternoon itself. A few hours later, at 6.45pm, the baby was born. “The baby will be tested after 48-72 hours,” said deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida. “If positive, she will be reunited with her mother, who is also positive.” The woman, however, is asymptomatic. The caesarian procedure was performed by a specialist team from GMC that wore full PPE — special sterile Tyvek suits — in the hospital’s operation theatre. The OT’s air-conditioning system was turned off, and special standing hepa filters used to filter the virus and decrease the room’s viral load were used. These precautions were taken to protect both the baby and the doctors. “Utmost care was taken to follow infection control measures and protocol for Covid caesarean procedures,” said Almeida. “Mock drills were conducted earlier, and everybody was prepared for a delivery. We have several pregnant women in the hospital, but she was the first who was a term pregnancy.” The youngest patient at the Covid hospital to date was a four-month-old child who was admitted with her mother (who tested negative). The hospital has a special paediatric ward and paediatric OT. When asked about Friday’s development, doctors said that they’re keeping their fingers crossed. “Yes, it’s positive news, but we hope she tests negative,” one doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hospital-has-1st-delivery-a-baby-girl/articleshow/76349578.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Crimes rise as lockdown curbs eased||Kolhapur: The crime rate in Kolhapur district has doubled after the lockdown norms have been eased as 203 major and minor crime cases were reported in April while May witnessed 414 crime cases. According to the statistics available with the district police, crimes like causing injury and murder have increased. Cases of house break-in, which had become a big problem for the police, has come down as most of the people have returned home. In April, stringent restrictions were in force due to the lockdown. Movements were restricted and heavy police security was there all over the district, officials said. Police officials attribute fall and rise of crime cases in April and May respectively to the nationwide lockdown. One murder was reported in April while May saw six murders. There were three attempted murder cases in April as against 15 in May.  Three thefts and 23 house break-ins took place in April and 13 house break-in cases in May. Officials said that majority of occupants, where house break-ins took place, were locked as they had shifted to some other places.  April and May witnessed five and eight cases of kidnapping respectively. Three dacoity cases were reposted in April while six cases took place in May, according to the data collected by Kolhapur police. As many as 12 cases of outraging modesty was witnessed in April as against 26 cases in May. Eight cases of domestic violence were registered in April while 26 cases were reported in May. Police recorded 58 cases of causing injuries in April while 114 such cases were recorded in May. 18 cases of crowding and assault took place in April while 51 cases were reported in May. Kolhapur district saw six road accident in April but the number increased in May when restrictions were partially lifted. As many as 42 accidents took place in May, leading to 13 casualties, officials said. As per the police record, 29 people were injured in the accidents in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/crimes-rise-as-lockdown-curbs-eased/articleshow/76346364.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam slams police for targeting Cong||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday alleged that some of the police officers were repeatedly violating the privileges of Congress MPs, MLAs and MLCs and warned that they would take up the issue with the presiding officer of parliament, legilslative council and assembly respectively. In a letter to DGP M Mahendar Reddy, Uttam expressed dissatisfaction over the behaviour of police towards Congress leaders. Stating that Covid-19 restrictions were being used to suppress the voice of his party, he said chief minister KCR, ministers and TRS members were going around violating social distancing norms. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-slams-police-for-targeting-cong/articleshow/76349144.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot lays foundation stone for water projects||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday laid the foundation stone for Bisalpur-Prithviraj Nagar Drinking Water Project stage-I and Bisalpur-Jaipur Drinking Water Project stage-II through video conferencing. Both the projects will cost around Rs 858 crore. Jaipur city with more than 35 lakh population is in need of 788 MLD of water every day. Through Bisalpur, 460 MLD is supplied, while the remaining demand is fulfilled by groundwater. Bisalpur-Jaipur stage-II pipeline is meant for new settlements like Kho Nagoriyan, Amber, Jagatpura. Total cost of the pipeline is Rs 1,104 crore and is awaiting Centre’s approval. However, Rs 288 crore was sanctioned by the state government last year. Ashok Gehlot on Friday said, “Our government is working towards development in education, drinking water facility and electricity. During pandemic, we haven’t stopped the development projects in the state so that people will benefit from it. For drinking water contingency plan, we have sanctioned Rs 65 crore and I would request MLAs to work towards fulfilment of the demand of drinking water in their constituency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-lays-foundation-stone-for-water-projects/articleshow/76349150.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: ‘Avoid shirdi temple this Guru Purnima’||NASHIK: In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Shirdi Sai Baba Sansthan has appealed people to not visit the temple on the occasion of Guru Purnima. The state government is yet to open religious places for common people and the temple authorities have asked people not to make any travel plans till further notice. “Since March 17, the temples have been closed by the government restricting the pilgrims to the temple. Only the daily rituals by the priests are being conducted on a regular basis. We urged the people to stay home and safe during the Gurupurnima Utsav this year,” a press release from the Sansthan said. Every year thousands of pilgrims travel to Shirdi to celebrate the Gurupurnima Ustav. “Since the temple is closed for public, they should refrain from undertaking any trek, palkhi, or anything to Shirdi,” the administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avoid-shirdi-temple-this-guru-purnima/articleshow/76346370.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Discharged after recovery, man tests positive again||Kolhapur: A 30-year-old man from Satara’s Jambhekarwadi village tested positive for coronavirus again after he was discharged from a hospital after recovering from the contagion. He has been readmitted to the same hospital. Earlier on Thursday, the man was discharged after his test result turned negative. He went home and spent time with his family who were relieved to have him back. However, their joy was short-lived when a team of health officials turned at his doorstep to take him back to the hospital. The officials told his family that one of his tests turned positive and that he has to be readmitted for further course of treatment. The health department of the district administration is conducting an inquiry into the matter. Officials said that the man was discharged after the report of his test that was conducted locally turned out negative. However, the report of the swab that was sent to a laboratory in Pune turned out positive. According to officials, the man, along with his family, had come to Jambhekarwadi a few days back. The whole family was quarantined in a local school. An elderly member of the family had earlier shown symptoms of Covid-19 and was admitted to the hospital. Seven swab samples were collected from the family, of which, four tested positive. All four, including a two-year-old boy, were admitted to the hospital. The 30-year-old man was among the four people who were admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/discharged-after-recovery-man-tests-positive-again/articleshow/76346381.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Requisition for 650 medical posts sent to GPSC||AHMEDABAD: This is likely to come as music to the ears of medicos at government-run hospitals and medical colleges. The state health department has decided to fill a record 650 posts, ranging from tutors to professors, through the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC). A requisition for this was sent to the GPSC, said top officials. Moreover, the health department has also hinted at completing the departmental promotion committee (DPCs) procedures, to promote cadres ‘at the earliest’, with the Covid-19 scenario and need for stronger medical infrastructure in mind. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), confirmed that the department had sent an unprecedented requisition to the GPSC, for the direct selection for 650 posts of tutors, assistant professors, associate professors and professors. “The move will boost the morale of medical teams across Gujarat, who are frontline Covid-19 warriors. The DPC process was initiated back in 2014 but had been stalled. The majority of associate professors or professors today have been on ad-hoc basis for nearly a decade now,” said a senior medical official, adding that even in 2014, there were 700 candidates for 400 posts. Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, said that the department has already sent the indent to the GPSC for these vacant posts. In the meantime, DPC procedures are also being conducted to promote eligible candidates. “As the GPSC recruitment process has begun and promotions are also under way, the government has come up with a policy to fill these posts through 11-month contracts for now. We are hopeful that the GPSC process will be completed much before the 11-month contract period is over,” Shivahare said. “Many of those who fulfil the criteria will get a chance for regular appointment through the GPSC,” he added. There are numerous vacancies at government hospitals in various districts due to the fact that during each inspection by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the health department issues orders for mass transfers, subsequent to which faculty members and doctors are shunted from places like Ahmedabad and Vadodara to government colleges and hospitals in other districts to show the proper numbers at the hospital concerned. Even the Comptroller General of India (CAG) took note of this. With the Covid-19 situation, the health department pooled human resources from districts with fewer positive cases, due to the vacancies at major hospitals. A senior doctor at Civil Hospital told TOI that critical branches in the current scenario such as medicine, pulmonology and critical care have 40%-50% vacancies at senior levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/requisition-for-650-medical-posts-sent-to-gpsc/articleshow/76348531.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth files case against ACP||Hyderabad: Congress MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday filed a contempt case in the high court seeking action against Madhapur ACP N Syam Prasad Rao and Narsingi station house officer M Gangadhar on the ground that they ignored the procedure under Section 41 A of CrPC while arresting him in the illegal drone use case. He was arrested on March 5. He said they acted against the mandate by the Supreme Court because they failed to give prior notice to him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-files-case-against-acp/articleshow/76349154.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC to launch app to list available Covid-19 beds||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmebabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and the Ahmedabad Medical Association with Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) have joined hands to launch an app to update details of beds available for Covid-19 patients at government and private hospitals. Chairman of the AMC standing committee, Amul Bhatt, told reporters on Friday after a committee meeting that the demand for the app had been pending for some time. “The AMC has finalized it and is currently waiting for the approval from the AMA and the AHNA,” said Bhatt. Meanwhile, the AHNA has begun posting the information on bed availability on its website http://www.ahna.org.in/ from Friday onwards. However, it only provides information on the AMC quota of beds and ventilators available. AHNA president Dr Bharat Gadhvi said that the website would be updated twice a day – at 10 am and at 6 pm – after collating data with the member hospitals. “The number of hospitals will gradually increase as we are putting a system in place,” he said. The app is likely to get ready in two days, according to Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-launch-app-to-list-available-covid-beds/articleshow/76348526.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Agro-processing units get a boost from UDH||JAIPUR: Urban development & housing department (UDH) has given a number of exemptions for the development of agro-processing industries under the Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agri Export Promotion Policy-2019. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal said the Rajasthan Agriculture Processing, Agribusiness and Agricultural Export Promotion Policy-2019 has been issued by the department of agriculture. Under this policy, for the development of agro-processing industry and structural facilities for urban development, land conversion or other exemptions and facilities have been provided by UDH. This includes all kinds of land in Rajasthan effective in draft of master plan in cities, excluding land in Rajasthan residential belt, ecological zone and eco-sensitive zone, recreation and G-2 zone shown in Udaipur Master Plan. Dhariwal further said, “Under Rule 37 of the Rajasthan Urban Areas (Permission and Allotment of Agricultural Land for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Rules, 2012, formed under the said policy, the lease rent on industrial units will be recovered at the rate of 2.5% of the housing price and 100% discount has been given in the lease rent for warehousing, warehouse and cold storage. There will also be 100% exemption in building map approval fee under the Integrated Building Regulations 2017.” He said while giving exemption under Rule 37 of the Rajasthan Urban Areas (Permission and Allotment of Agricultural Land for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Rules, 2012, it has been directed that Rajasthan Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agri Export Promotion Policy 2019, with the application of Section 90-A of Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956, for industries proposed under the 2019 policy, land should not be in possession. An affidavit has to be filed on the basis of oath in respect of non-pending litigation in the court, land title, land not in the restricted category and an order of 90-A can be issued on this basis. He said that land can be issued after registering the name of the concerned body and approving the layout / site plan. In case the facts mentioned in the affidavit submitted by the applicant after approval are found incorrect, the amount deposited by the applicant will be forfeited and the permission / approval will be automatically cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agro-processing-units-get-a-boost-from-udh/articleshow/76349155.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Over 100 hotels seek consent to resume operations||PANAJI: The tourism department has received 109 applications from hotels desiring to resume operations after a four-month hiatus due to the lockdown. The state government is in the process of framing standard operating procedures (SOPs) for hotels and permission will be issued only after examining their compliance. Tourism director Menino D’Souza confirmed to TOI that the department has received applications from 109 hotels giving varying dates on which they want to resume operations. He also said the hotels will be able to start operations only after the government gives them a go-ahead. However, doubts are being raised over whether the government will be able to check illegal operators, considering that it has, in the past, failed to crack down on unregistered hotels and guesthouses. President of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) Nilesh Shah, is optimistic that small hotels and others who evaded from registering in the past will fall in line once the process for registration is simplified. “It is being worked upon by the tourism department,” he said, adding, “Such operators must be given two to three months to register themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-100-hotels-seek-consent-to-resume-ops/articleshow/76349603.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 13, 2020||Madurai||Testing lowest in Madurai among southern districts||Madurai: Madurai has the lowest testing for Covid-19 among the southern districts according to data of the state government, raising concerns about the spread of the virus amid the growing number of cases every day. According to the media bulletin released by the government two days ago, the district had screened as many as 14,102 people up to June 8, making it 3,975 tests per million (TPM) population. The district has a population of over 30 lakh, including about 19 lakh in the city. However, districts which had a lesser population than Madurai, seen as the gateway to the southern districts, had more testing, statistics say. For example Tuticorin, with a population of just over 17.50 lakh people, conducted 13,227 tests, for the same period up to June 8. Also, compared to Madurai’s 3,975 TPM, Tuticorin had achieved 6,963 TPM. Theni, when compared to Madurai, is a much smaller district with a population of just over 12.45 lakh people, but the number of testings done was 16,945, at least 2,000 more than that of Madurai. Sivaganga, yet another smaller district with a population of 13.39 lakh, conducted 3,506 tests per million, almost the same as Madurai’s. Ramanathapuram has conducted 7,074 tests for its 13.53 lakh population, making it 4,676 tests per million, higher than that of Madurai. Apart from Madurai, Dindigul also had a low testing ratio with only 7,582 samples tested for a population of over 21 lakh, giving it a TPM of just 3,147. Madurai District Collector Dr T G Vinay said they had intensified screening at places like Sellur where more cases were reported and fever clinics had been set up. About 500 testings were being done in Madurai a day and everybody who was coming from other districts and Chennai were screened at the entry point. Checking had been intensified in all the borders of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/testing-lowest-in-madurai-among-southern-districts/articleshow/76349151.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Madurai||Govt urged to revoke ban on plastic items||Madurai: The Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) has appealed to the chief minister to reconsider and revoke the government order (GO) banning all single use plastic items. In their representation, the association stated that implementing the GO will force shut thousands of small scale industries manufacturing such items. “Small-scale industries are already struggling to revive from the lockdown,” president of the association B Muruganantham said. Scores of industries that use plastic items for packing will also be affected and result in lakhs of workers losing their jobs. He said that single use packing materials are unavoidable when it comes to pack a host of materials such as bread, biscuits, sweets, chips, soap, spices, pickle, papad, coffee and tea and rubber products. “Since there is no alternative for plastic the government has asked CIPET to come out with an alternative, for which there is no deadline. In the absence of an alternative, the ban will also affect consumers,” Muruganantham said. Plastic packing material manufacturers in Tamil Nadu also supply to neighbouring states and the GO has led to confusion in manufacturing and supplying them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-urged-to-revoke-ban-on-plastic-items/articleshow/76349158.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||Gym owners stage protests||Vadodara: With no relaxation provided by the central and state government for gyms even after unlock 1.0, owners and gym workers in the city held demonstrations at the district collectorate here on Friday. The gym owners have been arguing that they should be allowed to open up much like malls and other places. They have been running a campaign on social media too seeking permission to start operations. Many are seen holding placards that argue that unhealthy items like alcohol and tobacco were being allowed, but not gyms that keep people fit and healthy. Founder of Vadodara Gym Owners Association, Kailash Jadhav, said that there were 180 to 200 gyms in the city that employed 3,000 to 3,500 persons. “Most properties they operate from are on rent. The landlords want them to pay up. They also have to pay higher property tax,” he said. Jadhav said that at least in the next phase of relaxations, the gyms should be allowed to begin functioning. “Various precautionary measures can be taken by the gyms like other places. Guidelines can be formed for the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gym-owners-stage-protests/articleshow/76345837.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolhapur||No new patient in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district did not record a Covid-19 case till late Friday evening. Of the 159 samples the district administration had sent for Covid-19 analysis on Friday, all but one returned negative. The report of one throat swab sample is awaited. Menwhile, the number of active patients in Kolhapur has come down to 89. As many as 611 patients have been discharged after recovering from the viral infection. With industries and banks starting operations in full swing, the district administration has sought some relaxations in rules for people who commute from the neighbouring districts for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-new-patient-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76346401.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi doesn’t mask its indifference in faceoff with coronavirus||NEW DELHI: I was sweating and my mask slipped down; I just took it off to drink water; I can't breathe if I have it on for long periods. These were reasons given to TOI on Friday by people across the city who were wearing a face mask improperly or, in cases, not wearing one at all. The mask has been the subject of an unprecedented awareness campaign alongside hand hygiene, yet even in crowded environments, Delhiites appeared careless about a simple measure that could prevent possible infection by the novel coronavirus. Many, of course, wore their masks properly. But for others, it seemed like a token gesture to the gravity of the crisis, slung around their necks like a shabby neck ornament, but not used even when interacting in close quarters with others. There was too a set attentive enough to cover their mouths, but not their noses. And in a dismal indication of economic disparity, there were daily-wage earners who could only afford to buy a mask once and re-use it for two-three months. Most people were quick to pull up their masks when TOI pointed out the breach of norms. A man at M Block Market in Greater Kailash requested not to be named while explaining, “My handkerchief comes loose over time and starts slipping down. I am also sweating. That is why my face is uncovered.” A couple, similarly unmasked, reasoned the market was ‘relatively empty’ and so it wasn’t a risk. “We pulled down the masks for relief,” one of them said. Rajiv Sharma claimed to have pulled down his mask to be able to smoke. “I first checked to see one was close by,” said Sharma. In Connaught Place too, several shoppers were nonchalantly about masks. Avinash Kumar, a cloth shop owner at the GK-1 market, said he had noticed a number of unmasked people coming to the stores. “This is a big problem and is now rampant across Delhi,” Kumar said. “People are taking the masks casually though infection is rising every day.” Not all shopkeepers appeared to be concerned like him. At the busy Jangpura Market, Ashok Kumar, a tyre shop owner, was instructing his workers, his mask covering his mouth, but not his nose so as to “breathe’ freely”. While one of his workers donned a mask, the other had it dangling around his neck. The fatalistic tyre seller explained, “Jo hona hai, bhagwaan ke haath mein. Jiski jab likhi hai, tab aayegi (Those whom God wills to die will die even after taking precautions).” Guddan Lal, a rickshaw puller at Central Market in Lajpat Nagar, said the lockdown had left him without money to buy a new mask every week. “I wash this one daily and try to keep it on at all times, but it is discomfiting in this heat,” Lal said. A closer look revealed his mask to be a basic surgical one that should be discarded after use. At an electric repair shop there, all three staffers were bare-faced. “We know the risk, but we have to take it off at times to breathe freely,” pleaded Vinod, one of the three. Tea seller Ashish Bansal at GK-1 M Block said he hated a mask in this heat, but tried to “maintain a distance from workers’’ and pulled one on when a customer came.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-doesnt-mask-its-indifference-in-faceoff-with-corona/articleshow/76349172.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Couple from Agra found dead in Dausa hotel||JAIPUR: In a shocking incident, a couple from Agra was found hanging in their hotel room in Dausa early on Friday. The couple was identified as Monika Marwah (22) and Vikas Kumar (32). Preliminary investigation revealed that the man got married around six months back. He was having an extra-marital affair with Monika. Both checked into a hotel on June 9. Anil Chauhan, additional SP, Dausa, said, “the couple was found hanging in their room on Friday morning. They had checked in just three days back. No suicide note was found”. After postmortem, the bodies were handed over to the families who reached the town after receiving information. Sources said, “It appears the couple knew each other since long. However, they could not get married due to caste issues”. Cops said that although it appears to be a suicide, they cannot rule out other possibilities at such an early stage of investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-from-agra-found-dead-in-dausa-hotel/articleshow/76349159.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Business||Moody’s downgrades Hyderabad airport rating, changes outlook to negative||Hyderabad: In a setback for GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL), which operates the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at Hyderabad, Moody’s Investors Service has downgraded its corporate family rating to Ba2 from Ba1 and changed the outlook on the rating to negative from `rating under review’. Moody’s said the downgrade reflects the weak operating conditions associated with the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, while the negative outlook reflects the challenges GHIAL faces. The global credit rating agency said the decline in GHIAL's financial metrics is primarily driven by the tariff cut implemented in April 2020, the additional debt the company will need to incur to complete its airport expansion, as well as the reduction in airport traffic due to the coronavirus outbreak, which will lower the airport’s non-aeronautical revenue. Pointing out that GHIAL is taking up a major expansion costing Rs 55 billion that will take 2-3 years to complete, Moody’s said it expects the airport operator’s funds from operations (FFO) / debt to weaken to the mid-single digit percentage range over the next 2-3 years, which would position the airport at the Ba2 rating range. The rating agency said its financial projections factored in an increase in GHIAL's aeronautical tariff due to growth in its regulated asset base after incorporating its expansion-related capital expenditure and the deferral of capital spending as a result of delays in construction caused by the lockdown, but excluded any potential upside that could result from a favorable outcome from its on-going appeal. “Tariff decisions and implementations have frequently been delayed in the past, and if repeated, will likely keep GHIAL's FFO/debt metrics at a very weak level, with the potential to complicate its efforts to secure additional capital to complete its expansion. The extent of the tariff increase will also be affected by the regulator's decision over the final capital expenditure for the expansion and passenger traffic over the next control period,” it said. While GHIAL has sufficient liquidity to fund its operations and expansion at least through March 2021, including cash on hand of Rs 8 billion as at April 2020 and short-term investments of Rs 9 billion, over the longer term, the airport will likely require external financing to manage its expansion, Moody’s added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/moodys-downgrades-hyderabad-airport-rating-changes-outlook-to-negative/articleshow/76348448.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Liquor shops in Solapur district to open from today||Kolhapur: After being shut for nearly two-and-a-half months, liquor shops in Solapur district will open from Saturday from 10am to 5pm, collector Milind Shambharkar stated in an order issued late on Thursday. The order states that not more than five people will be allowed outside liquor shops at a time. In addition liquor will only be supplied on token basis, the tokens for which will be issued and maintained by the shop owner/operator. Moreover, a shop owner/operator can only sell liquor to 400 people in a day.Besides, the order states that both the seller and the buyer must wear face masks and maintain social distancing at all times. Liquor shops in containment zones will continue to be closed. Also, shops selling country liquor will not be given permission to operate, the order states. Solapur city reports 101 new casesSolapur city registered 101 new Covid-19 cases on Friday,, of which 66 are men and 25 women. The city also reported four deaths. In addition, Solapur rural registered seven new cases on Friday. According to officials, 54 swab samples were sent for testing, of which, 47 tested negative for the contagion. Out of recent cases, three belong to south Solapur tehsil while one each is from Malshiras, Akkalkot and Mohol tehsils. Solapur rural has 71 active patients while 33 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/liquor-shops-in-solapur-district-to-open-from-today/articleshow/76346422.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Minor gang-raped in Sawai Madhopur, case lodged||JAIPUR: A case of gangrape of a 14-year girl was registered at Malarna Dungar police station in Sawai Madhopur on Thursday. The incident occurred at Amroodu Ki Bagichi on May 31. Mother of the rape survivor Santo Devi filed a report saying, “My daughter was heading to our agricultural land from home on the fateful day in the afternoon. She was abducted by Deeraj Meena and Deepak Meena on a motorcycle. They put a piece of cloth in her mouth to prevent her from shouting and took her to a secluded place at Ajnoti Maud and repeatedly raped her.” The girl was dumped on the road at Hingoni and Shyampura area the next day in an inebriated condition. “They threatened my daughter of dire consequences if she reported the matter to the family or police. She took 10 days to narrate her ordeal to her elder sister. Thereafter, we decided to file a police complaint,” her mother said. Police took the girl for medical examination and filed a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-gangraped-in-sawai-madhopur-case-lodged/articleshow/76349163.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC adds more buses in rural areas||NASHIK: The Nashik division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has started plying more buses in the rural areas of the district in order to serve the people. According to a senior MSRTC official, the Nashik division has been running the intra-district buses ever since the state government allowed the same. “The demand for travel is slowly picking up for people who are now going to the markets for buying as well as selling products. In the absence of any private players, the MSRTC is serving the purpose and hence there is a rise in demand for our bus services,” a senior officer from the MSRTC said. According to the officers, the demand for the travel has gone up after lifting of sanctions was announced. “There are no weekly markets these days as the government has stopped it. But the people are now moving out of the house, slowly but surely to go to the market to buy goods for agriculture, for conducting business related to agriculture and many more,” the official said. “Besides, the industries in the rural areas are also running and so are in Nashik city. But the MSRTC is not allowed to operate the buses in the city at this point in time,” he added. The buses are being run on limited routes and on specific timings only. “We operate the buses only on 50% capacity thus ensuring one person sits on one seat and there is no crowd. There are only regular travellers, employed somewhere, who are using the bus service. The general public has only started to come out in this week and hence the rise in the numbers of buses,” the official said. The MSRTC has so far ferried 5,726 passengers and earned a revenue of Rs 1.16 lakh. “The revenue is not an issue for us, but the service to the people is. Hence, the number of services currently being operated will not be reduced,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-adds-more-buses-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76346412.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zydus Cadila to make remdesivir||AHMEDABAD: Indian drug-maker Zydus Cadila on Friday said it has signed an exclusive agreement with US’ Gilead Sciences Inc to manufacture and market remdesivir which has emerged as one of the most promising drug candidates in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The investigational drug has been issued an Emergency Use Authorization by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) department to treat patients suffering from severe symptoms of novel coronavirus. “We are happy to collaborate with Gilead Sciences and increase the access to this life saving drug for patients suffering from Covid-19. Over the last decade, we have been partnering with Gilead Sciences to address various public healthcare challenges and improve global access to affordable need-based therapies. At this critical juncture, we join hands once again to ensure that no efforts are spared in the fight against this pandemic,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman of Zydus group. Zydus has been supporting the fight against COVID 19 with therapeutics, vaccines and diagnostics. As part of the non-exclusive agreement, the Indian drug maker will receive the manufacturing know-how from Gilead Sciences Inc, to manufacture the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) for remdesivir and the finished product and market it in 127 countries, including India, the company said in a statement. Under the agreement, the license is royalty free until another pharmaceutical product or vaccine is approved for the treatment or prevention of Covid-19 by the USFDA or European Medicines Agency (EMA) or the WHO announcing the end of the public health emergency, it said. Zydus will leverage its ability to scale up production to reach patients across India and across the 127 countries in Gilead’s Global Patient Solution region, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-to-make-remdesivir/articleshow/76348522.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Agra||2 more ‘Anamikas’ found, one sends resignation on WhatsApp after drawing over 90k salary||Strap: UP Police Arrests A Fake Woman Teacher From Mainpuri, The Other Traced To Aligarh Agra: Police on Friday found two more women who had landed contractual jobs of teachers in Central government’s residential girls’ schools in UP by impersonating as Anamika Shukla. At least 25 women got science teacher’s appointment in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) by using the forged documents of Anamika in the last one year. On Friday afternoon, one of them was arrested by Ambedkar Nagar police from her hometown in Mainpuri’s Bewar area. The other woman, who hails from Kanpur Dehat, has also been identified by Aligarh police and they are in the process of tracing her. With this, the state police have found three fake teachers out of the alleged 25. The first one was arrested from Kasganj on June 6 and she was identified as Supriya. The woman arrested from Mainpuri’s Bewar area on Friday has been identified as Anita Singh, a widow. After the arrest, Anita revealed that the main accused in the alleged scam himself offered her the job. She said, “A local, Pushpender Singh Jatav, arranged this job for me without charging any money. I was being paid Rs 10,000 every month from the salary which was Rs 22,000.” Anita added, “I did not have money to even manage food for my child. So my family accepted Pushpender’s offer.” Considered one of the masterminds of the scam, Pushpender is on the run. His brother, Jaswant Singh Jatav has been arrested from Kasganj. The two brothers were involved in the scam for seven to eight years. Prior to Anamika, they had used one Deepti Singh’s identity and academic records to help scores of women get government teachers’ jobs fraudulently, police have said. Anita told the media that Pushpender had approached her while she was sitting at a bus stand. Confirming the arrest, superintendent of police (SP) Ambedkar Nagar, Alok Priyadarshi, said, “Anita was arrested in connection with an FIR. According to the FIR, Anamika Shukla was kept on ad-hoc basis as a science teacher at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya in Alapur on March 2, 2019. It is a case of fraud.” While Aligarh police found that another woman teacher was fraudulently appointed on the same name in Bijauli block’s school on October 21, 2019. In all, she has withdrawn Rs 95,350 as salary till date. Aligarh BSA Laxmikant Pandey told TOI, “The contract of an accountant, Harish Chandra, has been cancelled after approval from district magistrate as he was involved in issuing salary to her without verifying her credentials.” BSA Pandey said that the woman had resigned on WhatsApp on May 25 when the department called her for verifying documents. She had also sent the resignation through a registered post. “The salary recovery process will be initiated soon,” said Pandey. When contacted, Aligarh SSP Muniraj G said, “A team has been constituted to trace the woman and she will be arrested soon.” The real Anamika has surfaced in Gonda district and filed a case against unknown people for the fraud. She is still jobless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-more-anamikas-found-one-sends-resignation-on-whatsapp-after-drawing-over-90k-salary/articleshow/76347527.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Civic panel submits budget, keeps Rs 1.7cr for health infra||Kolhapur: Standing committee chief Sandip Kawale on Friday presented the revised budget of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) for the financial year 2020-21 to the general body. A total of Rs 1.70 crore has been set aside for upgrading city’s health infrastructure. In the last week of February the draft budget of around Rs 450 crore was presented by civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti. The standing committee has not revised the estimates by much due to the anticipation of low revenue due to the pandemic. The budget presentation was attended by a limited number of corporators while the remaining took part via video-conferencing. Kawale, while presenting the final budget, said, “We deliberated upon several issues and have given the top most priority to the health and traffic. For developing the facilities required for management of Covid-like diseases, we have set aside Rs 70 lakh through which modern machines and medicines will be procured and also more isolation wards will be set up. We will spend around Rs 1 crore to set up laminator air flow machine, operation theater and escalator at Savitribai Phule Hospital.” The standing panel chief said that a movable parking lot will be developed in the city to address the issue of congestion caused due to road side parking. “Emphasis will be given on to make the parking facilities through investment from private developers. We are going to develop a mall for selling of the products made by self help groups (SHG). There are around 800 such groups mostly run by women. ” Kawale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/civic-panel-submits-budget-keeps-rs-1-7cr-for-health-infra/articleshow/76346433.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Two siblings drown in Bhilwara village||AJMER: Two siblings, both minors, drowned in an anicut in Sarli Ghati Badiya village of Asind block of Bhilwara district. Their bodies were recovered on Thursday night. Police on Friday morning handed over the bodies to the family after the post-mortem. Gloom and despair shrouded the village when the girl and her brother were cremated. The entire village did not cook to mourn the deaths. The deceased were identified as Narender (12) and Anita (10), children of Teekam Singh Rawat, a small farmer in the village. Both the children were good at studies and Narender wanted to become an officer. On Thursday evening, the siblings went to graze their goats. Anita was crossing the wall of the anicut in the village when the wall broke down and she fell into the water. Narender saw her sister fall into the water and rushed to save her but both of them died. There were other children also grazing their cattle there, who saw them drowning and screamed for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/two-siblings-drown-in-bhilwara-village/articleshow/76349166.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolhapur||FB Live to camping on terraces, trekkers explore new trails||Kolhapur: The dense and diverse Sahyadri mountain range attracts not just the amateur trekker but the professionals too. This year though, trekkers are unable to enjoy their monsoon hikes and trails. Trekkers’ groups are not letting this dampen their adventure spirits. They are using technology to conduct live sessions, sharing videos and renting out equipment for “terrace camps”. Facebook Live has become a good platform for trekkers to share their experiences and knowledge. Abhijeet Lokhande, founder of Wild Vision eco-tours in Kolhapur, said that he would be conducting virtual tours of the trekking spots and natural outings, which will make the participant feel as if they are part of the trek. I will travel to Rangana fort, Bhudargad fort, Paargad and Kilcha plateau and keep sending the videos to the participants,” he told TOI. Anand Kenjale, founder of Explorers in Pune, they have been holding FB live sessions since the lockdown began. Achievers deliver lectures on different trekking and adventure activities with the idea of giving mental satisfaction and sharing valuable knowledge. “We are planning on starting online fort photography competition and virtual trekking through the photos and videos we have. Monsoon is the peak period for trekking. We organize treks to Sinhagad, Katalgad, Korigad, Raigad, Lohagad,Vasota, Matheran every year,” he said. Mangesh Koyande, founder of Giri Mitra Pratishthan of Dombiwali, who offers services in Thane and Mumbai, said they are conducting live sessions on social media to share information about equipments. “We usually conduct trekking and camping at spots such as Harishchandragad in Nashik, Rajmachi and Tikona forts in Lonavala, but now it seems difficult till October,” he said. Camping on terraces or courtyards is also on offer. Sagar Patil, founder of Kolhapur hikers group, said the summer vacations and monsoon season is the best time for trekking in Panhala-Pawankhind, Morjai plateau, Machal near Amba, Doodhsagar waterfalls. “To keep the trekkers from our group active, we are offering tents, karaoke players and barbecue grill set-ups on minimum rent. They can enjoy it in their terraces or courtyards.”  New guidelines for trekkers History researcher and renowned trekker Dr Amar Adake said a nine- member committee formed by the government has submitted its suggestions for guidelines for trekking groups post lockdown. Adake, who member of the panel, said they have suggested prior medical fitness test for every trekker, single occupancy in tents, no home stays, separate equipments for everyone, no exchange of sacks and water bottles. Sanitization must after every climb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fb-live-to-camping-on-terraces-trekkers-explore-new-trails/articleshow/76346451.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Woman ends life with kid in Barmer||Jaisalmer: A woman along with her 2-year-old child jumped into a water tank Barmer on Friday. The incident took place at Bhurtia village under Nagana police station area. On Thursday night, the woman’s husband had caught her chatting on the phone with some unknown number after which they had a fight. Early on Friday, the woman committed suicide by jumping into the tank along with her child. The man woke up on Friday morning and found his wife and child missing. Upon searching, he found their bodies floating in the tank. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-ends-life-with-kid-in-barmer/articleshow/76349175.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Agra||AMU prof asks AMUTA to intervene and stop varsity’s attempts to gag him||Agra: An Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) professor of Political Science, Aftab Alam, who was warned by the university for expressing his reservations over online open book examination, has approached the AMU Teachers Association (AMUTA) and urged its secretary to bring this matter before the executive committee for discussion. In his letter to the AMUTA secretary on Friday, Alam said an appropriate decision should be taken at the earliest, as the issue is serious and unprecedented, and “smacked of a larger conspiracy to stifle any voice of dissent”. He said, “I personally feel that this letter is a direct assault on my constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression which allows me to express my convictions and opinions freely. Freedom to air one’s view is the lifeline of any academic institution and any attempt to stifle, suffocate or gag this right would sound a death knell to the very idea of a university and would help usher in autocracy or dictatorship. Universities exist for the sake of free inquiry and uninhibited debate. I am an elected representative of teachers and I am duty-bound to let the teachers know my views on important policy issues through all means of communication.” Meanwhile, efforts to contact AMUTA secretary Prof Najmul Islam proved futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-prof-asks-amuta-to-intervene-and-stop-varsitys-attempts-to-gag-him/articleshow/76347539.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No decision on old VS as Covid hospital’||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has not yet taken any decision to start a Covid-19 hospital at the old VS Hospital. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the VS is a non-Covid hospital and the general outpatient department is functioning as routine. “The AMC has not yet decided to convert VS Hospital into a Covid hospital. The city needs VS Hospital as a non-Covid hospital for general treatment,” Bhatt said. He said that if officials from Gandhinagar and the health department direct AMC to convert the VS Hospital into a Covid hospital the AMC will immediately do so. He said that mayor Bijal Patel had already tweeted giving details of the OPD conducted in VS Hospital. According to Patel’s tweet there were 1,657 fresh patients who were treated at the outpatient department and 853 patients had come again for follow-up treatment. Even the Gujarat high court had in its order in May directed the AMC to explore the feasibility to revive the 700-bed VS Hospital at the earliest. The high court had noted in the order, “It has also been brought to our notice that the old VS Hospital, Ahmedabad, has approximately seven hundred beds. The AMC may explore the feasibility to revive the seven hundred beds at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-decision-on-old-vs-as-covid-hospital/articleshow/76348506.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Agra||AMU says wrong data behind downgraded NIRF ranking, to urge MHRD for review||AGRA: The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) administration has decided to file a representation with the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) and National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), after NIRF 2020 downgraded the varsity’s overall ranking to 31, from 18 in 2019. According to AMU officials, a serious discrepancy has emerged in terms of PhD output, which has adversely affected the varsity’s ranking. “The university has 2,911 full-time research scholars, while the NIRF survey mentioned just 33. This needs immediate rectification,” said Professor Salim Beg, chairman, ranking committee. He said, “Out of five parameters, we have scored well in four. However, we have gone down in the parameter of ‘Graduation Outcome’ as they (NIRF) have apparently fed wrong data related to the number of PhDs completed in AMU in the last session, adversely affecting our overall score.” AMU vice-chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor has written a letter to Dr Anil Kumar, member secretary of National Board of Accreditation, urging him that computation of points and subsequent ranking of the university be done on the basis of actual data provided by the university, and the actual rank notified accordingly. He stated in his letter “the gross discrepancy in the number of PhD candidates enrolled at AMU has resulted in a false steep decline in our ranking. The miscalculation, if not rectified, may result in a tremendous loss to the university in particular, as well as its various stakeholders and the country”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-says-wrong-data-behind-downgraded-nirf-ranking-to-urge-mhrd-for-review/articleshow/76347543.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Madurai||Students have plenty to worry about||Madurai: Despite the relief of not having to write their board exams amid pandemic this year, Class X students and teachers are now worried. Teachers said that so far there has been little clarity as to how students would determine their groups for Class XI and XII. “As students, we always prepare for the final board exams the best than quarterly and half-yearly exams. I was hoping to score better in the board exams. I’m scared I’ll be getting lower marks now even when I had prepared so much for the board exams,” said Anitha K, a Class X student from a private school. So far, as per instructions given, the final marks for the Class X board exams this year would be based on marks scored by students in quarterly, half-yearly exams and their attendance percentage. On Friday, school teachers and principals started submitting details of students’ attendance. For each percentage, accordingly marks have been allotted with the maximum marks for attendance being 20. “The problem with this kind of assessment is that students writing quarterly and half-yearly exams are largely different from board exams which is conducted uniformly across the state. Some students have even scored in single digits in these exams. How do we pass those students?” said a Class X science teacher, adding that there is a total lack of clarity in dealing with students who had failed in exams or absentees. Further, this year had new syllabus which made it difficult for students to perform well in the earlier terms. Teachers and principals also fear that this may lead to a dearth in quality of students opting for their choice of groups in Class XI and XII, which are usually decided based on Class X marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-have-plenty-to-worry-about/articleshow/76349180.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 13, 2020||Agra||AMU converts two of its hostels into quarantine facilities||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has converted two of its hostels - Moniuddin and UGC HRD Centre - into quarantine facilities, exclusively for its staff and students, in order to be ready for any Covid-19 cases. This decision was taken on the recommendations of a committee constituted by the vice-chancellor, Professor Tariq Mansoor. While Moniuddin hostel, an annexe of S N Hall has been declared a quarantine facility for female students, the hostel of UGC HRD Centre will be used for isolating male students. The registrar Abdul Hamid informed that Bibi Fatima Hall and Annexe of Dr B R Ambedkar Hall will also be converted into quarantine centres for girls and boys, respectively, when the University reopens. However, these facilities will only be used when there is no space left for patients in the Moniuddin hostel and UGC HRD Centre quarantine facilities. He further said that students residing in the Bibi Fatima Hall will be shifted to Begum Azeezun Nisa Hall, while residents of the Annexe of Dr B R Ambedkar Hall will be shifted to Dr B R Ambedkar Hall. Dean Students' Welfare will be responsible for taking necessary steps for shifting the students, he added. The committee has also recommended to immediately admit Covid-19 positive students residing in University hostels to JNMC and initiate the process of shifting the roommates of infected students to a quarantine centre. It has also been decided to declare the hostel wing as a containment zone, if any student is found Covid positive, as per the Government of India guidelines. Spokesperson of the varsity, Shafey Kidwai, said that at present 31 patients are admitted at JNMC’s Covid ward. Meanwhile, University employees, diagnosed with coronavirus have been asked to self-quarantine after undergoing treatment. They shall be quarantined at the University Health Service in case they show reluctance to self-isolate at their home for valid reasons. University Health Officer, director of Medical Attendance Scheme (MAS) and principal, A K Tibbiya College will conduct regular health checks of employees, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-converts-two-of-its-hostels-into-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/76347538.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao Hospital may become Covid-19 only||NEW DELHI: Hindu Rao Hospital, the biggest healthcare facility run by north corporation, may soon be turned into a Covid-19 designated unit. Plans are afoot to transfer patients out and make necessary infrastructure arrangements to cater to those infected by the novel coronavirus. A senior official said the corporation commissioner and Delhi chief secretary held a meeting to assess the resources in municipal hospitals to decide which ones could be turned into Covid-19 designated facilities. “They discussed the infrastructure availability and problems associated with Hindu Rao, Kasturba and Rajan Babu TB hospitals. With a steep increase in Covid-19 positive cases, the hospitals are being made ready for any contingency,” the official added. Though Kasturba Hospital has 450 beds, it is located in the thickly populated Walled City and has no ICU or ventilators. “In a meeting with the hospital administration, it was pointed out that Kasturba is close to Lok Nayak Hospital, which is already a Covid-19 designated facility. The delivery cases from Lok Nayak are currently being diverted to this maternity hospital, so turning it into a Covid-19 only facility will exacerbate the problems of other patients,” a senior doctor said. An average of 1,000 deliveries are conducted at Kasturba Hospital each month. An official said the transfer of patients already undergoing treatment was also a key consideration. “Rajan Babu TB Hospital has a large number of beds, but it provides specialised treatment to multi drug-resistant tuberculosis patients, who can’t be provided the same at a similar facility elsewhere. Moreover, it has no ICU,” he added. For the time being, Hindu Rao, which has around 1,000 beds, is likely to be made a Covid-only facility. “Unlike Kasturba and Rajan Babu hospitals, Hindu Rao has 18 ventilators, ICU and 400 beds with oxygen administering facility. It also has a bank of PPEs and is already running a fever clinic where samples of patients are being taken. It has a well-trained staff of 600 doctors and 300 nurses. These details are being submitted to the health ministry,” the official added. The head of the departments at Hindu Rao have already been asked to submit a plan to relocate patients, give a list of hospitals where they can be shifted to and the time frame required for completing the task. Employees at Hindu Rao, however, complained that they haven’t been paid salaries for the past three months. “How can they expect us to work while making it difficult for us to sustain our families? Even soap and basic medicines are not available in many departments. It will lead to a disaster unless the issues are sorted out before making it a Covid-designated facility,” a doctor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-hosp-may-become-covid-only/articleshow/76349182.cms||Paras Singh
June 13, 2020||Udaipur||Sewing machine, a tool of self-reliance amid pandemic||UDAIPUR: As the world battles a pandemic, the humble sewing machine is making a comeback. For years, the sewing machine has been a handy tool for homemakers to fix wear and tear in clothes. However, in times of crisis, the machine is giving hope to many and has emerged as a symbol of self-reliance. In Udaipur, the sewing machine is helping many young girls and women to use their skills, creativity and business sense towards becoming self-reliant and leading a life of dignity. Many students who did diploma courses in fashion merchandising and readymade garments or textile designing from the Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MLSU) here, have set up their own start-up ventures and are earning repute as well as good income. “The professional course aims at making the learners self-reliant so that they can start their own outlets of designer clothes that are much in demand these days. They are taught about the fabric dynamics, marketing strategies to sell their products as well as bringing transformation in old clothes. The students are doing fairly well,” says Dolly Gandhi, in-charge of the department of readymade garments at MLSU. “I have always been fond of stitching and my passion led me to take up the course. It has given wings to my dreams of becoming a fashion designer and even work from the convenience of my home to earn a good income. While many lost their jobs during the lockdown, I managed to grab bulk orders for masks and earned monetary rewards as well as mental satisfaction,” says Talab Parveen, an entrepreneur.  “I have learnt to handle fabrics, identify their quality. I also learned to make other fashion accessories and fabric products like cushion covers etc. I have quite a number of clients who really like my ideas and products and they want me to design their dresses on special occasions,” says Shaheen, a budding fashion designer who runs her boutique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sewing-machine-a-tool-of-self-reliance-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76349178.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Agra||Two more Covid-19 patients die in Agra||AGRA/BAREILLY: Two more deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported in west UP's Agra district on Friday, while at least 12 fresh positive cases surfaced in the district, taking the tally to 1,020. Also, there were seven new cases in Bareilly. In Agra, the deaths included a 54-year-old man of Kaushalpura suffering from SARI with acute respiratory distress syndrome and a 64-year-old woman of Shahganj suffering from acute kidney ailment, diabetes and hypertension. Both died due to comorbid conditions. So far, 58 deaths have been reported in Agra district. Nine patients were also discharged, with 113 active ones. CMO RC Pandey said, "So far, 849 people have recovered." Moreover, Bareilly district tally rose to 114 with 74 active cases, 38 discharged and two deaths. In Pilibhit, four new infected persons were found. Of these four cases, a 32-year-old woman had come from Noida and Haryana. Pilibhit's tally is now 80, with 34 active ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-agra/articleshow/76347558.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||225 get e-memos for not wearing masks||Ahmedabad: The next e-memo you get may not be for a traffic violation, it could also be for not wearing a mask while driving a vehicle. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Thursday has begun issuing e-memos for not wearing masks. In the last two days, the AMC has issued 225 such memos based on vehicle registration numbers. Deputy municipal commissioner in charge of solid waste, Mukesh Gadhvi, said that so far 225 memos have been issued for not wearing masks. At present, the AMC is only penalizing drivers of vehicles. Officials said the solid waste department has been handed the responsibility of ensuring that people wear masks. Apart from 149 teams which are checking shops and establishment for masks, the control room has been asked to issue e-memos to those not wearing masks. In April, when spitting on the roads was banned and masks were made compulsory, the AMC decided to issue e-memos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/225-get-e-memos-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76348502.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Clear dues of MSMEs in 15 days: Rajasthan finance department||JAIPUR: What will come as a big relief to the industry, the state finance department has ordered all corporations, boards and autonomous bodies to clear dues of MSMEs within 15 days. MSMEs routinely supply goods and services to various government agencies, but often payments are not made in time. The order also said that the MSMEs are undergoing difficult times because of lockdown and the subsequent demand decrease and the payments would help them in providing relief to some extent. MSMEs TOI spoke to said that the order is a timely decision and will provide relief to the industry which is facing huge cash flow issues as payments from other sources have also been stuck. The order also said that the performance security that has been deposited by the bidders who failed to qualify for the contract also needs to be released on priority. All bidders of contracts are required to deposit the performance money, but only one or a couple of bidders qualify. The performance money deposited by the bidders is generally not released quickly. This would also meet the cash flow requirements of the companies. Similarly, where the contactors or the suppliers have also fulfilled the obligations and provided goods and services as per the requirements, their performance money also don’t get released. The order mandates the government bodies to release the money immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clear-dues-of-msmes-in-15-days-fin-dept/articleshow/76349184.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nashik||Give homoeopathy medicines to patients at civil hospital: Maharashtra MLA||NASHIK: Devyani Pharande, MLA from Nashik Central and a microbiologist, has advocated prescribing homoeopathic medicines to Covid-19 and co-morbid patients admitted to the Nashik civil hospital. Pharande said that homoeopathy medicines were being administered to patients with acute respiratory problems and those suffering from various diseases besides Covid-19 infection at the Zakir Hussain hospital in the city, adding that the same was yielding results. “The doctors have been providing the medicines in the Zakir Hussain hospital in Nashik city and the results have been very good. This was also helping patients who were suffering from kidney as well as heart ailments. The health parameters of all of them were improving,” the MLA said. Pharande said that she will request district collector Suraj Mandhare to make provision for supply the medicines to patients at civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/give-homoeopathy-meds-to-patients-at-civil-hospital-mla/articleshow/76346459.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Agra||Number of Covid-19 cases rise in rural Agra in 2 weeks||AGRA: The number of coronavirus cases has gone up in rural areas of Agra district with at least 35 cases being reported over the past two weeks. One of the patients has died. At present, there are 23 active containment zones in 10 of the 15 blocks of the district. All these places have been sealed by police. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The number of Covid-19 patients has increased in rural parts of the district over the past few days. Presently, there are 23 active Covid-19 containment zones in rural areas. Besides strict enforcement of lockdown, sanitization is being carried out at these villages every day. Our teams are regularly screening people in the containment zone. Samples of people having problems in breathing are being sent for lab testing.” Around 8,000 people working in Delhi and other major cities of the country have so far returned to Agra. Out of these, three people in the city and 32 in the rural areas of the district tested positive. All of them were shifted to the isolation facility for treatment. The Etmadpur block is the worst affected, health officials said. Eight cases have surfaced in the block since June 1. Five villages have been declared containment zones. In May, 24 Covid-19 cases were detected in Fatehpur Sikri block. These were linked to a local tourist guide. After May 11, no new cases surfaced there. But on June 6, a new Covid-19 case surfaced. Following this, the containment zone was reopened. Over the past two weeks, Covid-19 cases have been reported in Khandoli, Fatehpur Sikri, Sainya, Baroli Ahir, Shamshabad, Bichpuri, Pinahat, Akola and Jagner blocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/number-of-covid-19-cases-rise-in-rural-agra-in-2-weeks/articleshow/76347555.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 13, 2020||Agra||Under home quarantine, son of deceased Covid-19 patient asked to report at SNMC||Agra: The son of an 83-year-old coronavirus infected patient, whose body was handed over by the SN Medical College (SNMC) staff to the family for cremation in violation of the norms, has been issued a notice to report at the emergency ward at 12 noon on Saturday. However, all the12 family members of the deceased are under home quarantine and alleged that the SNMC administration is trying to harass them for highlighting their gross negligence in the handling of a Covid-19 patient. The notice mentions that “if the recipient fails to report at the emergency ward by Saturday 12 noon than it would be considered that no action is required to be taken in the matter”. In violation of the standard protocol, the body of the Covid-19 positive patient was handed over to his family for funeral rites, instead of hospital authorities packing it in a leak-proof bag and taking it for cremation. The family was shocked when hours after the man’s cremation, which was attended by 40 people, they got a call from the hospital informing them that he had tested positive for coronavirus. Speaking to TOI, Rajesh, son the deceased retired sub-inspector Gajendra Pal Singh, said, “The SNMC administration is harassing me for highlighting the entire matter. Our home quarantine time has been increased from 14 to 21 days. In fact, I am asked to report to the emergency ward to provide details of the matter. So far, only screening has been done. Our samples have not been collected for Covid-19 testing.” Meanwhile, SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “A five-member committee has been constituted to probe the issue . The members of the committee have initiated a probe and called the complainant to record his statement. He can come after completing his home quarantine duration.” A resident of Vikas Nagar colony, Singh had complained of severe chest pain and difficulty in breathing on Sunday evening. He was admitted in the emergency ward of SNMC. “On Monday, my father’s health deteriorated and was put on a ventilator. A day later, the hospital, which has an in-house facility for Covid-19 testing, told us that he had tested negative,” Rajesh had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/under-home-quarantine-son-of-deceased-covid-19-patient-asked-to-report-at-snmc/articleshow/76347563.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||UGC ropes in univs to study Covid awareness in villages||Lucknow: After seeking participation of universities and higher education institutions in a study on AYUSH practices for treatment of Covid-19, the central government has now asked them to facilitate a study on Covid-19 awareness in villages and best strategies adopted by them in combating challenges. In a directive issued to all universities and other higher education institutions on Friday, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all universities and colleges to facilitate study of 5-6 villages adjoining their institutions or those adopted by them. The participating villages will provide information on awareness levels about Covid-19 and how they braved the challenges. Institutions have been asked to find out the best strategies adopted by villages. The circular issued by UGC secretary Rajnish Jain highlights the readiness of the government in fighting Covid-19 pandemic. “The government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure constant, consistent and credible communication to provide public health guidance to citizens,” the circular read. “The pivotal task is to protect village community which hosts millions of habitants in lakhs of villages. The study is required to effectively address the pressing need to sensitively analyze the impact of pandemic and the role played by communities in agrarian parts of the country,” the circular said. Welcoming the move, Lucknow University vice-chancellor Prof Alok Rai said, “This exercise will have two-fold impact. There will be an increased level of awareness in villages and it will be a major step towards constructive engagement of faculty and students for a social cause. UGC has also asked higher education institutions to facilitate a parallel study on the impact of H1N1 pandemic or Spanish Flu on India. All study reports will have to be submitted latest by June 30 on the University Activity Monitoring Portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ugc-ropes-in-univs-to-study-covid-awareness-in-villages/articleshow/76349200.cms||Isha Jain
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medical college dean tests positive||Ahmedabad: The dean of BJ Medical College, Dr Pranay Shah, and his wife tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. Over the past few days, he had felt as though he was losing the sense of taste and smell. However, it was only when his wife complained of breathing problems was it discovered that they had been infected with coronavirus. Dr Shah said that he and his wife have been home quarantined for ten days. As the dean of the college, he had been in touch with his staff and other officials. About 20-25 such persons have been identified as part of the contact-tracing exercise, said sources. They all have been quarantined, sources added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-college-dean-tests-positive/articleshow/76348579.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||One killed, two injured in Nepal police firing near Bihar border||PATNA: An Indian citizen was killed and two others injured in a firing incident inside Nepal territory allegedly by Nepalese Armed Police Force personnel near the border with Bihar in Sitamarhi district on Friday. Another civilian has been reportedly detained by the police there. The incident took place at Sarlahi around 8.40 am when some residents of Jankinagar in Sonbarsa had crossed the border to meet their relatives. Nepal APF personnel reportedly objected to their presence violating Covid-19 lockdown norms, which led to a heated argument between the two sides. The situation took an ugly turn when some APF personnel reportedly thrashed one Lagan Rai (45) and dragged him to the nearby border outpost in Nepal. The others tried to free him which led to a scuffle leading to firing by APF personnel. Sanjay Kumar, inspector general of Shashstra Seema Bal (SSB), Frontier headquarters, said the incident took place between Lalbandhi in Sitamarhi and Narayanpur in Nepal. “The site of occurrence is deep inside Nepal and not on the ‘no man’s land,” Kumar told TOI over phone. The incident took place at Sarlahi in Nepal. He added, “Efforts are on to get the Indian citizen released from the custody of the police in Nepal. We have intensified patrolling in the area to ward of any untoward incidents. Senior officers from the district administration as well as the SSB are at the site.” While Vikesh Kumar alias Vikas Rai (25) died at the spot, Udai Thakur (27) and Umesh Ram (20) suffered bullet injuries in their right hand and right thigh, respectively. The locals told police officials that Lagan’s daughter in-law is a resident of Nepal and those injured in the firing had gone to see her. “We are in touch with our counterparts in Nepal to get the captive released at the earliest,” said Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar, adding, that the incident was a fallout of local issues. Additional armed police forces have been deployed in the border areas as a precautionary measure. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said, “We are keeping a close watch on the developments along the international border in the district.” When contacted, Raj Aryal, DIG of Nepal police, termed the firing as “unfortunate” and said that the matter has already been reported to the government. When asked about the release of the Indian citizen, Aryan said, “We are awaiting directive from our seniors.” He, however, hastened to add, “APF personnel fired in self-defence when a mob of around 50 people attacked them and tried to snatch their weapons. Whatever happened today shouldn’t happen. On the other hand, JD(U) MP from Sitamarhi Sunil Kumar Pintu said such an incident has been reported for the first time on the India-Nepal border. “There have been reports of clashes between the Indian citizens and police in Nepal on earlier occasions. But firing by Nepal’s APF on people from Indian territory has been reported for the first time in recent history,” he told this newspaper over phone. Meanwhile, tension is brewing among residents of Chandraman village under Chhauradano police station in East Champaran district and Sanfulwa under Bara district in Nepal following assault on one Narad Yadav (indian citizen) by the APF three days ago. On Thursday, a mob of residents assembled on the border to protest the incident. However, the protestors dispersed after intervention of SSB officers posted at Sanfulwa camp. (With inputs from Shyam Kishore Singh in Sitamarhi and C B Pandey in Motihari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-killed-2-injured-in-nepal-police-firing-near-bihar-border/articleshow/76347592.cms||Ramashankar
June 13, 2020||Trichy||Concrete road in Trichy develops crack within six months||Trichy: Six months after the Trichy Corporation laid a concrete road in Lingam Nagar, a major crack has appeared on the surface, exposing the shoddy work carried out by the civic body. Situated on Kuzhumani road near Woraiyur, Lingam Nagar is a recently developed neighbourhood with 500 houses. The corporation completed the work for a 2km long stretch at a cost of Rs 50 lakh in December 2019. Meanwhile, a portion of the road developed a major crack for 30m length on Thursday. The gap is wide enough to allow rainwater to damage the basement. “Poor supervision is the main reason for the substandard road. Officials responsible for the faulty work should be held responsible,” M Sivakumar, president, Lingam Nagar Residents Welfare Association (RWA) said. With sporadic rains lashing Trichy in the past two weeks, residents fear that the road may cave-in any time soon. “The contractor, who carried out the roadwork has been ordered to refurbish the same, and an explanation was sought. Departmental action will be initiated against the engineering department officials involved in the road work,” city engineer, S Amudhavalli told TOI. Sources said the engineering department officials who were in-charge of Lingam Nagar when the road was laid were transferred to another zone a few months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/concrete-road-in-trichy-develops-crack-within-six-months/articleshow/76348477.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 13, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corpn not providing updates on Covid-19 in city||Trichy: Although Covid-19 cases in Trichy city has increased by 74% in the last three weeks, the reluctance of Trichy Corporation in disclosing city specific Covid-19 statistics is keep residents in dark. As neither the public relations office (PRO) nor the social media handles of Trichy Corporation shares the authentic Covid-19 updates such as source of infection and location of positive cases, misinformation is a cause of worry for city folks, especially family members of aged residents in Trichy. Since the city witnessed the first batch of Covid-19 positive cases in the first week of April, there is constant hesitation from the Corporation to provide updates. While other urban local bodies share Covid-19 statistics through social media platforms, Trichy Corporation’s social media handles have been in deep slumber for months now. With the total number of Covid-19 positive cases reported in Trichy city increased from 35 (on May 25) to 61 (on June 10) and more cases being reported on a daily basis, rumours are doing rounds in social media platforms as information is concealed by Trichy Corporation. “The local body should maintain a tracker of Covid-19 cases online and areas reported so that people will be cautious and aware of the places where not to venture,” said K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayath Iyakkam. Earlier, the formation of containment zones helped residents to identify vulnerable areas. As per new rules, containment zones will be established only if there are five or more positive cases. The information on new positive cases is also not being shared by the civic body. “Trichy Corporation can share a bulletin every evening mentioning the city-specific Covid-19 cases,” said M Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations. NRI family members of senior citizens staying alone in Trichy usually seek updates on social media handles of Trichy Corporation. The PRO for Trichy Corporation has been vacant for over four years now. “Daily state-wide Covid-19 bulletin being shared should suffice. Without the permission of district administration, we cannot share city-specific data,” a senior health official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-not-providing-updates-on-covid-19-in-city/articleshow/76348482.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi LG forms panel to help tackle spread of Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday formed a six-member expert committee to advise Delhi Disaster Management Authority on tackling the spread of Covid-19 in the capital and medical facilities required for people getting infected by the virus. The committee includes National Disaster Management Authority members Krishna Vatsa and Kamal Kishore, Indian Council of Medical Research’s director-general Balram Bhargava, AIIMS’ director Dr Randeep Guleria, DGHS’ additional deputy director general Dr Ravindran and National Centre for Disease Control director Dr Surjit Kumar Singh. In a separate meeting attended by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and senior bureaucrats, the LG also reviewed the strategies for containment zones management including proper delineation, strict perimeter control and active surveillance. The LG office in a statement said the decision form an expert panel was taken in view of rapidly increasing corona-positive cases. “The expert committee will give its suggestions on measures required to ramp up medical infrastructure and adopt best global and national practices,” the statement said and quoted LG as saying that the efforts being made by DDMA were needed to be bolstered by concerted planning, use of latest technology, efficient monitoring and seamless coordination amongst various agencies to overcome the challenge. Talking to the health minister and top Delhi bureaucrats through video conferencing, LG said that the government’s biggest challenge was to break the chain of transmission and reduce the Covid-19 mortalities. “Ramping up bed capacity and medical resources should be our topmost priority,” LG said in the meeting. He also advised the officials to actively engage resident and market welfare associations to manage containment zones and enforcing preventive measures and directed district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to focus on proper delineation, strict perimeter control, intensified information, education and communication, and active house to house surveillance. Baijal also urged the field functionaries to ensure mobility restrictions, social distancing measures, quarantine of contacts, risk communication and awareness among public on preventive and public health measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-forms-panel-to-help-tackle-spread-of-covid/articleshow/76349616.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Trichy||Face mask rule thrown to wind in suburbs, rural areas of Trichy||Trichy: The peripheral areas of Trichy city, which share borders with neighbouring panchayats and municipalities, bear the brunt of lack of enforcement of preventive measures in rural areas of Trichy. Meanwhile, the Trichy Corporation has collected over Rs 1.42 lakh as penalty from residents and shopkeepers in a week for flouting social distancing norms and for not wearing face masks. As on Friday, K Abishekapuram zone and Ariyamangalam zone in the corporation collected Rs 66,000 and Rs 32,000 respectively as penalties. The commercial establishments in the city were also inspected for social distancing measures. However, in panchayats and municipalities outside the city, such drives are totally absent. Number one tollgate bordering Srirangam zone and Thuvakudi and adjoining village panchayats bordering Ariyamangalam zone are not adhering to it. “We have been sensitizing the locals to wear facemasks. But, several of them flout the advice. But penalizing them is impossible considering the staffs’ strength of our panchayat,” an official with panchayats department added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/face-mask-rule-thrown-to-wind-in-suburbs-rural-areas-of-trichy/articleshow/76348504.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||City gets 20mm of rain||Ahmedabad: It began with pit-a-pats that turned into a heavy downpour. Finally, Amdavadis breathed a sigh of relief from the scorching heat they were reeling under. In a short span of two hours — from 8 pm to 10 pm on Friday, the city was pounded by 20 mm of rains. Several areas including Paldi, Usmanpura, Bodakdev and Sarkhej were drenched in a heavy downpour. Areas like Helmet crossroads and AEC crossroads experienced water logging on Friday night. The city has received 121.72 mm of rain in June so far. The officials said that till 10.30 in the night there were no complaints of tree uprooting from any part of the city. Amul Bhatt, standing committee chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, said that there were over 20 big spots in the city where water logging usually occurred. “These have become perennial water logging spots due to their geographical conditions,” he said. Bhatt said that in Helmet area there was a flow of water from all sides as a result of which water logging would take place. “However, we have cleaned the storm water drainage. The water logging takes place only if the area gets more than one inch of rain in one hour,” he said. Bhatt said that the AMC had also decided to get more jet patcher machines to clear the drainage lines and manholes so that the water logging would not take place. “About the old dilapidated houses, the AMC has already issued notices and asked the owners to vacate them, said Bhatt, adding that Mithakhali wall collapse occurred as it was an old wall. Meanwhile, the weather officials have forecast moderate rains with maximum surface wind speed of less than 40 kmph at isolated places in the districts of Gujarat region and Saurashtra in the next three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-gets-20mm-of-rain/articleshow/76349216.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||City’s west records 106 new cases||Ahmedabad: The western part of Ahmedabad city reported 106 fresh cases, of the 302 cases reported in the city on Thursday evening. Of these 38 cases were discovered by active surveillance. Of these 106 cases, 48 were from the AMC’s West Zone which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna. There were 29 cases reported from the North West Zone, which includes the Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota areas. Twenty-nine cases were also reported from the South West Zone which includes the Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Mamatpura and Sarkhej areas. Of the 29 cases in the North West Zone, eight were from Bodakdev ward and cases from Cosmo Villa, Hetvi Tower, Asheela Apartments, Vrundanvas, Green Park Bungalows in Ambli and Prakash Society. Five cases were reported from Gota and one from Thaltej.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-west-records-106-new-cases/articleshow/76348513.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||Lallu’s bail plea hearing on June 16||Lucknow: The high court on Friday asked the state counsel to seek instructions from the state government on bail plea of jailed UP Congress chief Ajai Kumar Lallu and anticipatory bail plea of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s aide Sandeep Singh. While Justice A R Masoodi heard Lallu’s bail plea and fixed June 16 as the next date of hearing, Justice Rajesh Singh Chauhan directed the state lawyer to obtain detailed instructions by June 17 on Sandeep Singh’s anticipatory bail plea. In case of Lallu, SC advocate Abhisekh Manu Singhvi assisted by Satyendra Singh addressed the court through video conferencing, while advocate J N Mathur assisted by Nadeem Murtaza argued for Sandeep in open court hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lallus-bail-plea-hearing-on-june-16/articleshow/76349210.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||Seven of a family among 63 new coronavirus positive cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: With 63 new cases reported in Bhopal on Friday, the tally of positive cases in the state capital reached 2,145. A total of 1,964 samples were tested on Friday and of those 63 were found positive. Among those tested positive includes seven of a family from Jehangirabad. Among the patients, is an employee who worked with an ambulance. Similarly, five of a family from Shahjahanabad area of the city tested positive. Other areas from where these people were tested positive includes Barekhedi, Bairagarh and other areas of the city. It is noteworthy that from June 1 to June 12 a whopping 634 people have tested positive so far in the city. On the brighter side, 22 people recovered from the infection in the city on Friday, according to the bulletin released by chief medical and health officer Bhopal. With these new people recovering, total number of 1454 people out of the 2145 positive cases reported so far, have already recovered from the disease. Alarmingly on an average around 53 people are testing positive everyday in the city since June 1. This is more than that of Indore where maximum cases have been reported so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seven-of-a-family-among-63-new-positive-cases-in-bhopal/articleshow/76347599.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mumbai||96 days on, Maharashtra crosses 1 lakh Covid-19 cases, 2nd 50,000 in just 19 days||MUMBAI: Ninety-six days after the coronavirus arrived in the state with a Pune couple returning from a Dubai holiday, Maharashtra surpassed one lakh Covid-19 cases when it added 3,493 fresh cases on Friday. With 40,698 cases reported till Friday, Tamil Nadu is a distant second. If Maharashtra were a country, a total of 1,01,141 cases would have placed it on the 17th position on the global Covid meter, ahead of nations like Canada and China. It took the state 77 days to reach its first 50,000 cases since the first case was reported on March 9. The second 50,000 cases, however, have come at a worrying pace—just 19 days. Covid-19: Latest updatesIn 12 days of June alone, the state has added 30,000 cases to its tally. With 127 deaths added on Friday, the state’s overall toll stood at 3,717, placing its death count, too, above that of several countries. While Maharashtra accounts for more than a third of the country’s coronavirus case burden, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region itself accounts for 75% of the disease burden in the state. Mumbai, which remains India’s worst-hit city with 55,451 cases (it added 1,366 cases on Friday), is responsible for 55% of the state’s incidence. Thane and Pune, with a caseload of 16,443 and 11,281 respectively, are also major contributors to the state tally. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news On Friday, Mumbai reached another grim milestone by crossing 2,000 deaths. For the third day in a row, the city added at least 90 deaths to its tally; while the toll was exactly 90 on Friday, it was 97 on each of the preceding two days. The city’s toll now stands at 2,044, accounting for 55% of deaths in Maharashtra. When the Maharashtra government imposed a lockdown on March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed by the Centre, the state had 97 Covid-19 cases. State health minister Rajesh Tope claimed that the lockdown has helped the state to contain the virus spread and given it time to set up additional healthcare facilities. “If we see cases from countries like the USA and other European countries, we are not that bad. Also, we have only 49,000-odd active cases in the state. The recovery rate in many districts is as high as 70%,” Tope told TOI. State government officials insisted that the state has used the lockdown to control the spread of the virus and also to add to capacity. Dr Anupkumar Yadav, commissioner of National Health Mission, said the state has created nearly 3 lakh isolation beds during the lockdown. Outside of the big-city limits, hotspots like Solapur, Jalgaon, Akola, Dhule and Amravati are now emerging as pockets of concern due to their high death ratio. In places like Jalgaon, officials and deans have been suspended for dereliction of duty while the state task force has been asked to focus on these districts. Tope added that shortage of ICU and ventilators in Mumbai and nearby regions was a cause for concern and that there was still a ‘hand-to-mouth’ situation. “There is no shortage of beds of any kind in the rest of the state except Mumbai and its neighbouring region. That too is being sorted out,” Tope said. Within Mumbai, there have been some silver linings. Even though Dharavi has crossed 2,000 cases, there has been a steady decline there in cases and deaths. Meanwhile, the health department of Bhiwandi-Nizampura Municipal Corporation has sent 45 people into quarantine after its officials came to know that they had attended the funeral of a 53-year-old Covid-19 positive man in Bhiwandi, during which some of the people hugged the deceased’s body and even bathed the body. The incident came to light in Kamatghar area in Bhiwandi, where recently a 45-year-old man died due to Covid-19 in a Kalwa-based hospital during treatment. The Kalyan-Dombivli civic corporation areas on Friday reported 185 new Covid-19 patients, taking the total numbers of patients to 1,911 in the region, including 55 deaths so far. This was the first time the number of patients reached three digits in the city in a 24-hour duration. Thane saw eight new Covid deaths, taking the virus toll there to 145 till date, while 170 fresh cases have been added to its tally which has now breached the 4,500 mark. Watch Maharashtra: Covid-19 cases cross 1 lakh mark in 96 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/96-days-on-maha-crosses-1l-cases-2nd-50k-in-just-19-days/articleshow/76349621.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Property tax rebate: AMC waiting for clarity||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is waiting for clarity from the state government over giving 20% rebate for commercial establishments and 10% rebate to residential properties in case of property tax. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the state government has announced the rebate, and once the AMC gets clarity from the government the same will be implemented in the city. Bhatt said the AMC is waiting for the final notification from the state government. AMC officials said that if anyone eligible for rebate had already paid the tax the difference will be adjusted in the next year’s property tax bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/property-tax-rebate-amc-waiting-for-clarity/articleshow/76349228.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Clear salary dues of resident doctors: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Friday directed North Delhi Municipal Corporation to pay the March salary to the resident doctors in its six hospitals, including Kasturba and Hindu Rao, by June 19. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also asked Delhi government to release funds to North Corporation so that it can pay the April salary of the resident doctors of its hospitals by June 24. The bench also issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, North Corporation and several doctors’ association, seeking their stand on the PIL initiated by the high court on its own. The detailed order is awaited in the matter, which is listed for further hearing on July 8. Delhi government was represented by additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Satyakam, while the Centre was represented by its standing counsel Anil Soni. Satyakam and Soni said Rs 8 crore is the total amount paid each month to the resident doctors of the six North Corporation hospitals. The high court on Thursday initiated the PIL based on news reports that doctors of Kasturba Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year. The news reports also stated that recently doctors of north corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over non-payment of their salaries for the last three months. The court took suo motu notice of the news reports and initiated the PIL, issuing notices to the Centre, Delhi government and the municipal corporations and listed the matter for hearing on Friday, June 12. Earlier this week, resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital had threatened to mass resign if their salary arrears for the past three months are not credited to them. The Resident Doctor’s Association of the Kasturba Hospital wrote to the additional medical superintendent, stating that they have not been paid since March. “All the residents are working during the Covid-19 pandemic, putting their own and their families’ lives at risk. Over that, we are not getting our salaries,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clear-salary-dues-of-resident-docs-hc/articleshow/76349623.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||Good response to ‘Rozgar Setu’, 302 get jobs: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Friday that "Rozgar Setu" website launched by the state government to provide jobs to skilled migrants workers, who have returned to the state during the lockdown, is getting good response. A total of 302 such workers have got jobs through the website within 3 days of its launch, he said. He said 10,000 prospective employers have registered themselves with the site. They include MSMEs, factories, builders, contractors, commercial establishments, shopkeepers and placement agencies. On the other hand, 13.10 lakh migrant workers are registered on the site. They include 3.24 lakh workers registered under Sambal scheme and 15271 construction workers from construction industry. The chief minister further said that a total of 13.10 lakh migrant workers are being provided free ration under "Atmanirbhar Bharat" scheme. Chouhan will address members of women self-help groups (SHGs) through video conferencing on Saturday 3.00pm. It will be telecast live on Facebook. A press communique issued by the state government said that financial independence of women is the prime target of the state government. During the Coronavirus crisis, women SHGs have contributed significantly by manufacturing over 1 crore masks, 90,000 litre of sanitisers, 17,000 litre of handwash and 97,000 PPEs. The state government has made provision for disbursrment of soft loans to SHGs through online application, added the communique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/good-response-to-rozgar-setu-302-get-jobs-cm/articleshow/76347613.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Trichy||53-year-old dies in Thanjavur, south TN records 103 new cases||Madurai/Trichy: A Covid-19 patient who returned from Dubai died in Thanjavur on Friday as the central region of Tamil Nadu witnessed 40 more new cases with all the eight districts contributing to take the tally to 1,172. Meanwhile, the southern districts continued to record high number of Covid-19 cases by registering 103 more, including four imported ones, taking the total to 2,134 in the region. A 53-year-old man of Ammapettai who tested positive upon his arrival at Trichy from Dubai died at Thanjavur medical college hospital. Dean Dr Kumudha Lingaraj said the patient had cardiac problems and he had returned to his native place for treatment but had tested positive. Thanjavur district recorded seven more new cases on Friday. The highest number of cases was in Madurai district, 31, taking the district tally to 394. Only Tirunelveli (425) has more than 400 cases while Tuticorin has 397 with the addition of 18 new cases on Friday. However, Madurai tops the list in terms of local cases in the south with 306 cases, while the local cases are only 227 in Tuticorin and 156 in Tirunelveli districts. As many as 10 out of Madurai’s 31 cases were those who returned from Chennai. They included a 39-year-old man who had returned from Chennai to Madurai by flight whereas others had come by road. The remaining 21 cases include those with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms from areas including Simmakkal and Vilangudi, and contacts of Covid-19 patients. Sivaganga for the first time recorded more than 10 cases in a day with 12 new local cases on Friday and a total of 62 so far, the least in the region. At least one new case was recorded in all ten southern districts — Virudhunagar (7), Kanyakumari (6), Ramanathapuram (5), Tenkasi (4), Theni (3) and Dindigul (2). In the central ragion, Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur recorded eight and six cases respectively though the districts kept information on the history of the new patients under wraps. Trichy had 10 more new cases to take the total to 148. They included four from Ponmalai, one each from Ariyamangalam, Thillai Nagar in the city and Kallakurichi area in rural Trichy. MGMGH is treating 37 patients from Trichy, three of Perambalur and one each from Ariyalur and Tiruppur. The hospital has discharged 104 patients. Four people tested positive in Ariyalur district while one pregnant woman tested positive in Perambalur on Friday. With the recent cases, the total cases in Ariyalur district has surged to 391 and that in Perambalur to 143. A 21-year-old man tested positive in Karur district. Pudukottai district recorded six more new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/53-year-old-dies-in-thanjavur-south-tn-records-103-new-cases/articleshow/76348517.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||CM launches plan to curb child labour||Lucknow: To crack down on child labour and ensure that children get proper education, the state government on Friday announced financial assistance to those children in the age group of 8-18 years who were unable to go to school as they have to work to support their families. On the occasion of International Child Labour Prohibition Day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday inducted 2,000 children from 57 districts under the Bal Shramik Vidya Yojana. Every year, the government will bring at least 2,000 children under the purview of this scheme. “The blood and sweat of our workers forms the very foundation of our development. Circumstances often force children to work to support their families at an age when they should be studying. Bal Shramik Vidya Yojana has been launched for such children. From the next academic session, Atal residential schools will also be ready to provide quality education to children of workers,” the CM said. According to officials, the scheme was first launched in 2008 but the conditions laid down for beneficiaries were so stringent that not many children could be covered. Under the previous version, two instalments of Rs 4,000 each were given to children in a year and a target of 260 children was set in 10 districts. “Under the amended scheme, a boy will get Rs 1,000 and a girl Rs 1,200 per month from the time they are 8 year old till they turn 18 or complete class 10. When children clear classes 8-10, they will be given an additional Rs 6,000 for each class. A child will be eligible for the scheme if one or both parents are deceased, if one or both parents are disabled and if one or both parents suffer from a serious illness because of which the child is forced to work. A child from a family which either owns no land or where a woman is heading the family will also qualify. School management committees and local body representatives can make recommendations for inclusion on behalf of a child. The families of such children will also get benefits of other social welfare schemes. The project will be implemented through an online tracking software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-launches-plan-to-curb-child-labour/articleshow/76349220.cms||---
June 13, 2020||India||Doubling time of cases slows down to 17.4 days||NEW DELHI: Even as India recorded over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases taking the total tally to 2,97,535 confirmed cases, the doubling time of cases has slowed down to 17.4 days now from 15.4 days on May 30, according to the health ministry. This indicates that the incidence of the disease is not rising fast and remains on an even curve with three-four states contributing a bulk of the cases. The ministry recorded the single-day spike of 10,956 in Covid-19 cases and 396 deaths in the last 24 hours. Of the total 2.97 lakh confirmed cases, over 1.41 lakh were active cases, whereas around 1.47 lakh people have been cured so far. Total deaths stood at 8,498 till Friday morning. “The improvement in doubling time indicates that though sizeable fresh cases are getting detected on an everyday basis, the growth in daily rise is not so significant. This is an epidemiological parameter to assess the spread of an infectious disease,” a health ministry official said. The official admitted that a rising positivity rate is a concern but the fact that more cases are getting detected will help in clinical management and containment activities as non-detection of cases and spread of the infection will swiftly overwhelm the medical system. The doubling time at the beginning of the lockdown was 3.4 days. However, the number of Covid-19 cases was also significantly low at that point in time. Amid a spurt in cases, the cabinet secretary held a video conference with chief secretaries and health and urban development secretaries of all states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doubling-time-of-cases-slows-down-to-17-4-days/articleshow/76350262.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 13, 2020||Mysuru||Degree colleges will open after June 30, says deputy CM||MANDYA: Degree colleges will begin classes after the lockdown is lifted and dates for examinations will be announced later, said deputy chief minister CR Ashwath Narayan on Friday. Speaking at College of Agriculture, Mandya (VC Farm) on Friday, Ashwath Narayan said the lockdown will be completely phased out on June 30 and degree colleges will begin classes after that. “We will speak with all stakeholders to chalk out measures as to how to reopen degree colleges amidst coronavirus scare. All students must continue their studies and be prepared for exams,” he said. Narayan said the cabinet has approved to upgrade VC Farm as a university and an ordinance will soon be promulgated in this regard. “There is a need to change the present curriculum to meet present day requirements. VC Farm will be made into a world class agriculture university and a vice chancellor will be appointed,” he said. “Apart from traditional education, we must concentrate on skill-based education as it should create more job opportunities. We are committed to establish more skill-based educational institutes in Mandya district,” Narayan said. Later Narayan visited Shivaragudda near Maddur and inspected 48 acres of government land which could be used for establishing skill-based education institutions. “This land was earlier used for imparting skill-based education in a collaboration with Denmark. Sir M Visvesvaraya had established skill-based institutions here in 1923 and now they have become defunct. The then prime minister of Denmark had inaugurated this century old institution. We will revive it and this will help local youths,” he said. ‘Ticket promised only to R Shankar’ When asked, Narayan said R Shankar, who quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition and joined BJP will be given a party ticket to contest the legislative council election. “Except Shankar, the high command did not promise council tickets to those who quit congress and JD(S) and joined our party. It is true that there is hectic lobbying in BJP to get tickets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/degree-colleges-will-open-after-june-30-says-deputy-cm/articleshow/76346915.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Government plan to auction premium BDA corner sites hits hurdles||BENGALURU: The government’s ambitious plan to mop up Rs 10,000 crore by auctioning 12,500 corner sites developed by Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) is facing roadblocks with the civic agency going slow on identifying premium plots and clearing procedural glitches. The unexpected change of guard in BDA has also added to the delay. The agency had decided to start auctioning sites in the first week of June but many are sceptical about the initiative taking off any time soon, considering that it is struggling to locate the 12,500 sites. “It looks like the government has made a superfluous estimation since there aren’t that many vacant plots in old BDA layouts. At the most, there could be around 3,000 corner sites,” said RTI activist BM Shivakumar. Another dampener, he says is that BDA is not sure of getting a good response to the auction under the current circumstances and is therefore delaying the process till the Covid-19 cloud clears up. Sources in the BDA said the sudden transfer of commissioner GC Prakash last week too has hampered the process. “The previous commissioner had made all plans and even set a deadline to launch the first round of auction in the first week of June. But his abrupt transfer has forced the BDA to start the process all over again since the new commissioner is still taking time to get acquainted to the new office,” said official sources. HR Mahadev, who replaced Prakash as BDA commissioner, however, said they have been expediting the process and it will be taken up soon. There are also procedural hurdles that need to be resolved. Official sources said auctioning can happen only after the government makes certain amendments to existing rules. This is because the Anti-Corruption Bureau is still probing alleged irregularities related to auctioning of corner sites in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-plan-to-auction-premium-bda-corner-sites-hits-hurdles/articleshow/76348383.cms||BV Shivashankar
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Dakshina Kannada school to remain shut this academic year||MANGALURU: Taking into account the uncertainty that abounds the functioning of schools amid the Covid-19 crisis, not to mention the concerns about children’s safety among parents, a residential school in Belthangdy taluk in Dakshina Kannada has decided against reopening for the 2020-21 academic year. Shree Brahmananda Saraswati Swami, seer of Shree Rama Kshetra in Devaragudde, who is also an administrator of the Atmananda Saraswathi English Medium School in Kanyadi, Belthangdy, which provides free education to as many as 350 students, from LKG to SSLC, said that the decision had been taken since there could be no compromise as far as the safety of children was concerned. The school, situated 74km from Mangaluru, offers free education to children from across the state and from varying religious background. “Parents and the government are at odds about reopening schools in the state considering the crisis. We have decided to support the government’s decision and keep the school closed this academic year,” Brahmananda Saraswati Swami told TOI. The seer said that around 270 of the 350 children receiving education at the Belthangdy school were from North Karnataka, while the remaining were mostly locals. “If we choose to open the school, we will be putting their lives in risk. Health is given utmost importance at our school,” he said. In addition to providing education free of cost, the school gives uniforms, food and accommodation without taking anything from the students. The management has intimated its decision to remain shut this academic year to the department of public instruction. The seer said that the school would open its doors to students only after the situation returned to normalcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residential-school-in-dk-to-stay-closed-this-academic-year/articleshow/76346506.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||50 duped in land racket; 1 detained||BENGALURU: Bangalore Development Authority officials have unearthed a scam, where conmen allegedly cheated at least 50 people after promising to get them BDA sites at Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout near Kengeri. Seshadripuram police with help from BDA officials detained the prime suspect, Vijayananda Swamy. Cops recovered fake stamps, seals and documents bearing the insignia of BDA from his office on Vth Main, Chamarajpet. Police said Swamy claims to be the state president of North Karnataka Farmers’ Association. Along with a miscreant identified as Ramesh, Swamy allegedly approached members of his own association, promising them plots at Kempegowda Layout at a lower price. “The association has more than 1,000 members and around 50 agreed to buy sites and gave Swamy between Rs 50,000 and Rs 3 lakh towards registration of land. Swamy prepared documents resembling BDA land papers. He not only used fake seals and stamps, but also forged the signature of the commissioner,” said a BDA press release on Friday. The fraud came to light when a person, who had invested Rs 6 lakh with Swamy, approached BDA office with the documents issued to him (by Swamy). “This man had paid Rs 6 lakh as advance for six sites. With an intention to verify the documents, he approached BDA earlier this week. Our officials grew suspicious on seeing the fake documents. The matter was brought to the notice of commissioner HR Mahadev and an investigation was carried out,” BDA officials said. Police said the accused collected money from 50 people. “We have to take Swamy into custody for questioning. Only then will we ascertain the exact amount he swindled,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50-duped-in-land-racket-1-detained/articleshow/76348325.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mysuru||60-year-old man in Hassan succumbs to Covid-19||Hassan : A 60-year-old man, who had a paralytic stroke and later tested positive for Covid-19, died in Hassan Friday. He was admitted to the designated Covid hospital on June 10 following complaints of breathlessness. The patient was a diabetic and had suffered brain stroke a few days ago. On Thursday his swab test was conducted and he died on Friday, hours after it was confirmed that he was infected with coronavirus, said deputy commissioner R Girish. The deceased had no travel history. His son is a canter driver who drives often to Tamil Nadu. Though he does not have any symptoms his throat swab has been collcected and result is awaited, said DHO Dr Sathish. Nine fresh cases were reported on Friday — two from Arkalgudu and seven from from Beluru. All of them had returned from Mumbai in the last few days. Total positive cases in the district till date are 226 including 170 people who have been discharged and one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/60-year-old-man-in-hassan-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/76346115.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Gurupur Bridge opened 8 months ahead of schedule||Mangaluru: The bridge constructed across the Phalguni River at Gurupur along NH-169, at a cost of Rs 31.4 crore, that was scheduled to be completed on February 20, 2021, as per the 24-month tender agreement, was opened on Friday, eight months ahead of schedule, which will help to ease traffic on the Mangaluru-Moodbidri route. Executed by Mugrody Construction, Kavoor, the ahead-of-schedule completion of this bridge has come as a relief for the authorities, as the adjacent British-era bridge constructed in early 1920s, is at the end of its lifespan. In fact, authorities of NH division, Mangaluru, had warned that the old bridge is not suitable for vehicles weighing above 6 tonnes, which is the weight of a mini-truck. Experts from the ministry of road transport and highways had even inspected this bridge for its road worthiness, some time last year. D Sudhakar Shetty of Mugrody Construction said that meticulous planning, that included optimal use of the last monsoon period for pre-casting work, and launch of girders, helped the work to get completed ahead of the deadline. The 175-metre-long bridge has a 500m approach road on both ends. “We left the asphalting and approach road formation work for after the monsoon, and all other bridge-related works were completed in the interim,” Shetty said. But for a few local issues and the lockdown, we had planned to complete the work in February itself, he said. “I am proud of my workforce of around 100 skilled migrant labourers, most of whom are from Jharkhand, who stood by me and helped to complete this work,” he said. The company, around a week back, sent around 40 labourers to their hometowns. The rest have stayed back on my personal assurance that the company will facilitate their return, he said. Built as per the latest NHAI specifications, the bridge has a 11m carriageway, and 2.5m footpath on both sides. Built on a pile foundation, it has seven spans of 25m each. Hailing the company for its resoluteness, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, who inaugurated the new bridge, said transparency and timely construction is worthy of appreciation at times when most infrastructure projects become objects of trolls and subjects for memes. The dedication of the bridge saw locals ignore social distancing norms despite appeals by BJP functionaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gurupur-bridge-opened-8-months-ahead-of-schedule/articleshow/76345937.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Lane off Rajpur road may cave any time: Residents||Dehradun: A lane off Rajpur road near Sai temple is ripe for disaster, as a portion of it started to deteriorate after pre-monsoon showers lashed the state. Residents say that the approximately 5 feet-wide unpaved road is good only for two-wheelers and four-wheelers need to be manually pushed to pass the stretch. If a portion of the road caves and falls into the adjoining gorge, it would take a four-wheeler down with it. A part of the lane first caved in during the 2013 floods in Uttarakhand, creating a nearly 40-feet deep chasm. Unable to get the administration to fix it, local residents pooled in resources to do it themselves. The solution was temporary and lasted two years, before the construction material gave in and local residents used their own money to fix it again. Five years on, after it rained heavily in the state, locals are apprehensive about the precarious condition of the unpaved road. They say their pleas to the administration to get it fixed have been largely ignored. GS Gill, a resident, said, “It was difficult to even walk on the broken portion of the road, forget riding a vehicle. Despite approaching multiple civic bodies, including the MDDA, PWD and Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC), the road was not repaired. The five households closest to the broken road pooled funds to repair it. However, it was only a temporary fix and we fear a disaster every monsoon.” Now that rains have started, corners of the repaired road have started wearing off. “While the administration is busy beautifying main roads under the smart city projects, we are struggling to get a basic motorable road,” said Gopal Kumaria, another resident. “After pursuing civic bodies and filing several written complaints, a budget was allocated for repairing the road. However, the work hasn’t yet started. All we hope is that no one gets hurt in an accident if the stretch happens to cave in again,” added Gill. Speaking on the issue, councilor of Rajpur ward Urmila Thapa said, “I understand the plight of residents and will make sure that the road is repaired. Meanwhile, the residents can also approach Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority with the problem, as we have a budget constraint for developmental works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lane-off-rajpur-road-may-cave-any-time-residents/articleshow/76347616.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||Flatted factory model to boost UP industry||LUCKNOW: UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) has adopted a policy to allow flatted factories – multi-storeyed buildings in which multiple non-polluting units can operate – to ensure easy availability of land for industries. The new policy will allow the owner of an industrial land of at least 5 acres to develop one-fourth of it as flatted factory. Principal secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar said all industrial development authorities were on board with the uniform policy. A high-level committee, headed by Kumar with members from Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development authorities, has set a minimum land requirement of 5 acres for the owner of an industrial plot to develop flatted factories. It will, however, not be allowed in a residential or mixed land use area. “Under the policy, we will allow industries with surplus land to subdivide and sell it, or convert to flatted factories. Out of the 50% of land, which will be a minimum of 2.5 acres, UPSIDA will buy back half while the remaining will be developed as flatted factory,” Kumar said. The model can be adopted only for non-polluting manufacturing unit permitted by industrial development authority like manufacturing of readymade garments, handicrafts etc. A minimum structure of four storeys, including ground floor, will be permitted. The proposal for conversion of a unit into flatted factory will be approved by the development authority concerned. The policy also provides for a declared sick unit to be able to propose a joint venture with an interested company. Sub-division of industrial plots will be permitted provided that the units have been functional and under production for at least 5 years before the application for sub-division and have a minimum constructed area according to the prevailing building by-laws of the authority. The minimum size of sub-divided plot cannot be less than 1000 sq m. UPSIDA will buy back this area at the rate permissible as per its prevailing policy while other authorities will get their buy back rate approved by their boards. Industrial development minister Satish Mahana said the state was striving to be self-reliant to minimize imports and sectors like IT, electronics, garment manufacturing could easily adopt the flatted factory model so that land for other space requiring industries like defence and automobiles could be provided easily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flatted-factory-model-to-boost-up-industry/articleshow/76349249.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Dahod scrap dealer arrested for Rs 22 crore GST evasion||VADODARA: A Dahod-based scrap dealer was arrested by the central goods and services tax (CGST), Vadodara-II officials for evading taxes worth Rs 22.73 crore. The scrap dealer Badri Prasad Dubey was arrested on Thursday. According to the GST officials, Dubey is proprietor of Siddhi Vinayak Trading company and also associated with five other firms. “All these firms purchase scrap from the railways and are engaged in trading and manufacturing of scrap,” GST officials said. The accused didn’t pay GST on the outward supply and also passed on input tax credit (ITC) that wasn’t paid to the government. Of the Rs 22.73 crore GST that Dubey evaded, GST officials have recovered Rs 6.73 crore during investigation. This is the second businessman to be arrested by the GST in last three days. On Tuesday, Bharuch-based Dilip Jain, who operated multi-level marketing schemes, was arrested for evading GST worth Rs 70 crore. He didn’t have GST registration and never paid taxes for his business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scrap-dealer-arrested-for-rs-22cr-gst-evasion/articleshow/76345867.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Rendered jobless due to lockdown, many now take to selling veggies||BHOPAL: Suresh Vishavkarma ran a loading auto in the pre-lockdown times. He had an understanding with three-four traders of M P Nagar, who gave him work of loading and unloading goods for their customers. But, today he is selling vegetables using the same loading auto to keep stocks of fresh vegetables. “For sometime after the lockdown, I could not decide what to do. Initially, we had thought it would be a matter of a few days, but it went on and on. We are ‘hand to mouth’ people. Some other people in our colony started selling vegetables, the only thing we could have done during the lockdown period and I followed suit,” said Vishvakarma, who stands with his loading auto ahead of Manisha Market. Vishvakarma said that markets have now opened, but shops are opening only for a couple of days in a week and that is why he has decided to continue with sale of vegetables for now. Vishvakarma is not the only loading auto driver, who is selling vegetables. Many others were doing the same thing during the lockdown period. And, not only loading auotos, even passenger autos and mini trucks were used by their owners/drivers to sell vegetables/fruits during the crisis period and continue to do it as things are still not ‘normal’, as one of them, Dinesh Gurjar, said. “People are seemingly avoiding hiring an auto. But, vegetables and fruits are things which everyone buys and you at least know you will get back home with some money. I sat in my auto the whole day for two days after autos were allowed on the roads, but did not get a single passenger. Then I thought I should continue selling vegetables for now.” “You don’t know how many people became jobless during the lockdown and still continue to be largely jobless, let alone roadside vendors and autowallas. A plumber, who sat at a hardware shop, an electrician, who sat at the electricity shop, a domestic help, who is not acceptable to her ‘didi’ anymore, workers at various shops, those occupying shops/stalls in hawkers’ corners, barbers, paan shop owners. Here I am only referring to those who earn daily to make ends meet. Many of them took to vegetable/ fruit selling to sustain their families during the lockdown,” said an official at Mantralaya, who said the domestic help, who worked at his home, is herself selling vegetables nowadays. The sight of a kiosk with the quality of its chowmein written all over it or talking about tasty chaat or cool ice cream standing by the roadside stuffed with variety of vegetables or fruits is no rare sight even as Unlock.1 is underway and the market is opening up. Santosh used to sell kulfi, branded ‘Ma Santosi Kulfi’ on the Kolar main road. For over two months, he has been selling vegetables/fruits on the same thela. “I am new in Bhopal. I had come from Rajasthan and started selling kulfi. I was doing well, but then the lockdown ruined it all. Then I saw that people are earning reasonably good money selling vegetables or fruits, so I converted my kulfi thela into a vegetable/fruit shop. The margin may be less, but if you are able to exhaust the entire stock during the day, you have made enough to largely compensate your pre-lockdown regular income,” he said. During this season, farmers coming in their tractor trolleys to sell bags of onions on reasobaly cheap rates is not a new phenomenon. But, there are too many people selling bags of 20-kg onion for Rs 200 to Rs 400. They are everywhere, occupying the footpath and the roadside. Anyone can make out that not all of them are farmers. When asked whether he was a farmer, Sanjay, who was selling onions near 1100 quarters, said, “No. I have bought five such bags. I worked in a tea stall. If I am able to sell them all today, I would be able to make Rs 500, which I didn’t earn from the tea stall daily.” Thelas full of garlic is another sight you will not miss while going around the city. Sighting a thela full of only lime should not surprise you either because a good, juicy lime is costing Rs 5 to Rs 10.per piece. In the last fortnight, people selling tamarind, dry red chillies, coriander and other spices by the roadside have also joined the crowd of vegetable/fruit sellers and are attracting good customers too. When asked where are they from, a couple selling spices in Bittan Market said, “We are from Gujarat. In fact, most of us are from Gujarat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/many-jobless-take-to-selling-veggies-fruits-to-eke-out-a-living/articleshow/76347631.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Neighbour molests woman||AHMEDABAD: A woman from the Anandnagar area of city filed an FIR against her neighbour, alleging that he forcibly held her and molested her when she was putting clothes on a line to dry. In her FIR with Anandnagar police, the woman, who has a four-year-old son, states that she was drying clothes at around 6am on Friday. She noticed that door of her neighbour’s house was slightly ajar and someone was looking at her from behind the door. As she saw the accused, Yogesh Jogi, her neighbour, he came out of his house and grabbed her hands. He then dragged her inside the house and molested her. He kept telling her he wanted to talk to her and insisted that she stay at his house for some time. She tried to scream but the accused clasped her mouth so she couldn’t make a sound, states the FIR. She somehow freed herself and ran to her house. She told her husband and mother-in-law about the incident. They accompanied her to Anandnagar police station and filed a complaint of molestation against Jogi. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neighbour-molests-woman/articleshow/76349244.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Number of modified buses to be increased||Pune: More than 200 buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be modified into goods carriers, officials said. "Old buses are being converted into goods carriers and they have done a good job. So far, 72 of them have been modified. They have made around 400 trips across the state and carried 3,000 tonnes of essential commodities. The MSRTC will increase the number so that more goods can be transported," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/number-of-modified-buses-to-be-increased/articleshow/76348558.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||As rumours fly, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and health minister deny plans to reimpose lockdown||MUMBAI/PUNE: CM Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday there was no plan to re-impose a hard lockdown and withdraw the relaxations given under ‘Mission Begin Again’. But he urged people to maintain social distancing. Earlier, the CMO tweeted an appeal against believing rumours after social media saw a flurry of messages about a total lockdown following increasing Covid cases. “News such as these create confusion in society, forwarding and posting these kinds of false reports on social media is a crime,” the CM said. Health minister Rajesh Tope, too, said he was against clamping down again. “The state is easing the lockdown restrictions in a phase-wise manner to restart the economy. It does not mean there is a need for unnecessary crowding and violating the social distance norms and hygiene rules. Wearing a mask, washing hands with soap or using sanitisers should be made a part of life and each one has to adopt it as self-discipline,” said Thackeray. On May 31, the Maharashtra government had extended the lockdown till June 30 but announced significant relaxations like lifting of some curbs on the movement of people and allowing shops to remain open with conditions as part of Mission Begin Again. Making it clear he was against a hard lockdown again, Tope said it is time people learnt to live with Covid-19 by abiding by government instructions. With the state touching 1 lakh cases on Thursday, the health minister told TOI that almost half of that number represents patients who have been cured and discharged and that needs to be highlighted too. In Mumbai, 500 more ICU beds will be added soon and every private hospital will have a help desk to deal with refusal of admission or increased charges. District administrations and the health department have been asked to address the issues. The minister, who held a three-hour meeting with Union health ministry officials, said the Centre had given a verbal approval to reduce containment period to 14 days instead of 28 days and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will issue guidelines soon. “Once these rules are in place, it will reduce the burden on the police force,” he told TOI. The Centre has asked the state to carry out vulnerability mapping of densely populated areas as part of an effective containment strategy. An eye should be kept on the case fatality rate and tests done per million population. The main challenge was to bring down the mortality rate, and death audit reports across the state have indicated that comorbidity is a major hurdle. “As of now, our death rate is 3%; less than 1% mortality is of people who are dying of Covid-19 and the remaining are cases of comorbidity,” said the minister. (With inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-rumours-fly-cm-health-min-deny-plans-to-reimpose-lockdown/articleshow/76350824.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||Monsoon to hit Madhya Pradesh in 48 hours||BHOPAL: Southwest monsoon is expected to reach Madhya Pradesh in next 48 hours. The met officials said that the monsoon would hit the state’s southern part by June 14. Monsoon would first cover Betul, Chhindwara, Seoni and Balaghat region and gradually reach the entire state. Meantime, pre-monsoon activity is likely to soak parts of the state. Met officials said multiple systems are impacting the state, including upper air cycers over Gujarat, Andhra coast and south MP. Besides, a trough is passing through Haryana to Andhra coast. Bhopal, however, is yet to witness strong spell of pre-monsoon showers. It has led to hot and humid conditions in the day. Day temperature in Bhopal on Friday was recorded at 38.1 degrees Celsius, which was at the normal mark, while night temperature in city was recorded at 26.6 degrees Celsius, that too was at normal mark. Wind direction in city changed between south westerly and north westerly while average wind speed was 15 kilometres per hour. Places that recorded showers between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm were — Chhindwara 6 mm, Ratlam 6 mm, Umaria 3 mm, Malanjkhand and Sagar recorded 1 mm each while Indore recorded 0.6mm showers. In the forecast for Bhopal on Saturday, met officials said there would be clear sky in the day, but evening will be cloudy. There is also a possibility of strong winds, thunderstorm and showers in parts of the city. Day and night temperature would beat 38 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively, while average wind speed will be 20 kmph. In the forecast for state, the met departments has issued warning of strong winds, thunder and lightning for Shahdol, Jabalpur, Rewa, Sagar, Hoshangabad, Indore, Ujjain, Bhopal, Gwalior and Chambal divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/monsoon-to-hit-mp-in-48-hrs/articleshow/76347642.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mumbai||As rumours fly, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and health minister deny plans to reimpose lockdown||MUMBAI/PUNE: CM Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday there was no plan to re-impose a hard lockdown and withdraw the relaxations given under ‘Mission Begin Again’. But he urged people to maintain social distancing. Earlier, the CMO tweeted an appeal against believing rumours after social media saw a flurry of messages about a total lockdown following increasing Covid cases. “News such as these create confusion in society, forwarding and posting these kinds of false reports on social media is a crime,” the CM said. Health minister Rajesh Tope, too, said he was against clamping down again. “The state is easing the lockdown restrictions in a phase-wise manner to restart the economy. It does not mean there is a need for unnecessary crowding and violating the social distance norms and hygiene rules. Wearing a mask, washing hands with soap or using sanitisers should be made a part of life and each one has to adopt it as self-discipline,” said Thackeray. On May 31, the Maharashtra government had extended the lockdown till June 30 but announced significant relaxations like lifting of some curbs on the movement of people and allowing shops to remain open with conditions as part of Mission Begin Again. Making it clear he was against a hard lockdown again, Tope said it is time people learnt to live with Covid-19 by abiding by government instructions. With the state touching 1 lakh cases on Thursday, the health minister told TOI that almost half of that number represents patients who have been cured and discharged and that needs to be highlighted too. In Mumbai, 500 more ICU beds will be added soon and every private hospital will have a help desk to deal with refusal of admission or increased charges. District administrations and the health department have been asked to address the issues. The minister, who held a three-hour meeting with Union health ministry officials, said the Centre had given a verbal approval to reduce containment period to 14 days instead of 28 days and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will issue guidelines soon. “Once these rules are in place, it will reduce the burden on the police force,” he told TOI. The Centre has asked the state to carry out vulnerability mapping of densely populated areas as part of an effective containment strategy. An eye should be kept on the case fatality rate and tests done per million population. The main challenge was to bring down the mortality rate, and death audit reports across the state have indicated that comorbidity is a major hurdle. “As of now, our death rate is 3%; less than 1% mortality is of people who are dying of Covid-19 and the remaining are cases of comorbidity,” said the minister. (With inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-rumours-fly-cm-health-min-deny-plans-to-reimpose-lockdown/articleshow/76349628.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Five deaths of Covid +ve patients reported in a day||Dehradun: Deaths of five Covid-19 patients were reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, taking the toll of novel coronavirus patients to 21 in the Himalayan state. On the same day, the state reported 69 new cases and with this the tally has now reached 1,724. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that a 56-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman, both Covid positives, died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, on Friday. “While, the cause of the 56-year-old’s death was refectory septic shock, ARDS, coronary artery disease, the 25-year-old died of refectory septic shock, ARDS,” Pant said, adding that a 70-year-old man, also a Covid positive, died at Doon Hospital and his cause of death was cardiac arrest. According to the health department, the other two deaths took place earlier this week but their samples tested positive on Friday. “A 58-year-old woman had died at Mahant Indiresh Hospital whose sample tested positive on Friday. In another case, a 76-year-old woman died at US Nagar district hospital and she too tested positive on Friday,” Pant said. Even though the state’s Covid toll reached 21 on Friday, the state government is yet to acknowledge that any of the deaths were due to the infection. Instead, they have attributed the deaths to co-morbid illnesses. Meanwhile, of the 69 fresh Covid cases reported on Friday, 30 are from Haridwar district. Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid war room at the health directorate, said, “All 30 cases from Haridwar are returnees from different red zones. Dehradun reported 17 new cases, followed by nine in Udham Singh Nagar, seven in Rudraprayag and three each in Tehri and Chamoli,” he said. Besides, 61 patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals on Friday and with this, the total recoveries in the state are now 947. So far, samples of 43,000 people have been collected in the state, of which results of 4,417 are pending till 3 pm on Friday. Of the total samples tested, 4.53% have turned out to be positive, which is around 2% less than the national average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-deaths-of-covid-ve-patients-reported-in-a-day/articleshow/76347636.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||PUBG friend makes indecent demands from Ahmedabad woman||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman from Ognaj on Thursday filed a complaint with Sola police alleging that a man, whom she met through PUBG, had made demanded that she make nude video calls to him. The man had also allegedly got her password Gmail and Facebook passwords and and reset them, and later demanded Rs 50,000 to tell her the new passwords. In her FIR, the woman, a Class X graduate, states that she has been playing PUBG for a long time and earlier used to play with a female friend. Later, Jitendra Kumar, who was a friend of her female friend, began playing PUBG with her and got her cellphone number from her. They began talking and he soon proposed a relationship, to which she accepted. However, as he started making obscene demands, she stopped answering his calls. Last month, when she tried to log in to her Gmail and Facebook accounts, she learned that someone had changed her passwords. She later found out that Kumar had done it, because he linked her Facebook ID to his cellphone number. She told her cousin about this, and he spoke to Kumar. Kumar then demanded Rs 50,000 to tell her the passwords. On June 2, he called the woman and told her to make a nude video call to him. The woman then called the police control room and filed a complaint. Later, Sola police registered a complaint against Kumar under the relevant sections of the IPC and the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pubg-friend-makes-indecent-demands-from-city-woman/articleshow/76349250.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||BJP, Congress race to take credit for Gwalior-Chambal expressway||BHOPAL: Chambal Express way- a mega development project for the Gwalior-Chambal region which also impacts majority of assembly seats where by-elections are to be held soon is an emotive issue that BJP and Congress is racing to take credit. Union minister, Nitin Gadkari while addressing the BJP's 'Jan Samvad virtual rally' in Bhopal from Nagpur on June 10 had said that if MP government completes 80% land acquisition in three months for the project, he will invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of the project. The 300 km project is expected to change the economic landscape of the once dacoit-infested area. Government plans industrial units and food clusters on both the sides of highway to boost the micro, small and medium enterprises. The dates for the by-elections have not been announced yet, but Gadkari’s statement is seen as start of BJP election campaign. While BJP leaders said it is not just a highway project, but a major development push for the region, the Congress claimed that land acquisition process for the project was started by the Kamal Nath government. Chambal expressway project was initiated during the previous Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, but the project was hit as government changed in MP before the land acquisition process could begin. Last year in February, the then chief secretary SR Mohanty convened a meet to hand over land to central government for the project. Officials were directed to bring a proposal for the purpose in cabinet. The cabinet had to decide the land acquisition model for the project. But before the proposal could come in cabinet, the Kamal Nath government fell and BJP again came to power in state. Around 1150 hectare land was required for the project. Of this, around 550 hectare was government land and rest farmers. The total cost of project is around Rs 850 crore. For the expressway ravines in Morena and Sheopur districts were to be used. The project aims to link 115 villages and of the 283 km project around 195 kms would pass MP and link to Rajasthan and UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-cong-race-to-take-credit-for-gwalior-chambal-expressway/articleshow/76347660.cms||Ankur Sirothia
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Mosques open gates for prayer with restrictions in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Mosques in Kolkata have started allowing people to enter and offer namaz, but with several restrictions. No big congregations will be allowed including the Friday prayers while people will have to carry their own prayer mats and sanitise hands before entering the premises, said members of the managing committees of the mosques. Mosques along with other religious places were shut in March when lockdown was enforced to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Namaz was held inside without the presence of public. Though the government allowed religious places to reopen from June 1, almost all mosques remained shut for safety till they worked out a plan of action. The iconic Nakhoda Mosque on Zakaria Street reopened for prayers earlier this week but only with “limited number” of people being allowed inside. The water tanks have been emptied so namazis needed to do ablutions at home before coming for prayers. The main gate of the mosque will remain shut and a side entrance will be used by the devotees. “We are only allowing a limited number of people inside as a precautionary measure. The mosque has a lot of space inside, so social distancing with a limited number of people will not be a problem. People will need to carry their own prayer mats and sanitise their hands before entering the mosque,” said Nasser Ebrahim, a trustee of Nakhoda Mosque. At the historic Tipu Sultan Mosque in Esplanade too, a side entrance is being used with the main gate facing Lenin Sarani remaining shut. At Abu Bakar Mosque on Marquis Street, only 25 people are allowed five times a day to offer prayers. “We shut the door as soon as 25 people enter. We have requested the locals to offer namaz at home as far as possible. The mosque is also being disinfected regularly,” said a member of the mosque’s managing committee. Before the festival of Eid last month, religious figures and members of the civil society had urged people to offer special prayers at home. Many people are preferring prayer at home instead of going to the mosques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mosques-open-gates-for-prayer-with-restrictions/articleshow/76348572.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi constable returns to home state as a DSP||NEW DELHI: At 24, when Kekdam Lingo left home for a Delhi Police recruitment drive, his father wasn’t happy. But Lingo, from Pokto village of Arunachal Pradesh’s West Siang district, did get a job as a constable in 2015. However, his dream was to lead police teams as an officer. So along with his job, Lingo, now 28 years old, kept preparing for Arunachal Pradesh Public Service Combined Competitive Examination and took the exam in 2018-end. Now, he is going to be a deputy superintendent of police in his home state. Speaking to TOI from his hometown, Lingo, son of the caretaker of the village church, said he did a postgraduation in geography from Rajiv Gandhi University in Itanagar before appearing for the Delhi Police examination. “It has always been my dream to join the police force and when I got a chance, I took it up,” he said. To him, the job was more important than the rank, Lingo said. He used to send a major potion of his salary back home to look after his parents and fund the studies of his younger siblings, two brothers and a sister. Another portion was used to buy books. “For one year, I stopped spending on even small luxuries so that I could spend for the examination,” he added. During his days at the police training college in Delhi, he also successfully finished a commando course. “My first posting was with a battalion that mainly had security duties. Though this gave me little time to study, I used to go through the material I had downloaded on my phone during spare time.” According to Lingo, the stint with Delhi Police had been a learning experience — be it following the strict training regime or providing security at big events. In the last one year of his service, Lingo was posted with the Geeta Colony police station. “I stayed at the barracks with 25 other policemen. No matter how much you try, it is difficult to concentrate. But my colleagues supported me a lot,” he said. The results were declared earlier this month after a delay due to the pandemic. “I couldn’t believe my ears when I heard my score. My dream has come true,” he said. Watch Delhi cop returns to his home state Arunachal Pradesh as a DSP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-constable-returns-to-home-state-as-a-dsp/articleshow/76349642.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘People should learn to live with Covid, must be careful’||MUMBAI/PUNE: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Friday dismissed talk of re-imposing a hard lockdown. “The state is easing the lockdown restrictions in phases to restart the economy. It does not mean there is a need for unnecessary crowding and violating the social distance norms and hygiene rules. Wearing a mask, washing hands with soap or using sanitisers should be made a part of life and each one has to adopt it as self-discipline,” he said. On May 31, the state government had extended the lockdown till June 30 but announced significant relaxations like lifting of some curbs on the movement of people and allowing shops to open with conditions as part of Mission Begin Again. Making it clear he was against a hard lockdown again, Tope said it is time people learnt to live with Covid-19 by abiding by government instructions. With the state touching 1 lakh cases on Thursday, the health minister told TOI that almost half of that number represents patients who have been cured and discharged and that needs to be highlighted too. In Mumbai, 500 more ICU beds will be added soon and every private hospital will have a help desk to deal with refusal of admission or high charges. The minister, who held a three-hour meeting with Union health ministry officials, said the Centre had given a verbal approval to reduce containment period to 14 days instead of 28 days and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will issue guidelines soon. “Once these rules are in place, it will reduce the burden on the police force,” he told TOI. The Centre has asked the state to carry out vulnerability mapping of densely populated areas as part of an effective containment strategy. An eye should be kept on the case fatality rate and tests done per million population. The main challenge was to bring down the mortality rate, and death audit reports across the state have indicated that comorbidity is a major hurdle. “As of now, our death rate is 3%; less than 1% mortality is of people who are dying of Covid-19 and the remaining are cases of comorbidity,” said the minister. ( With inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-should-learn-to-live-with-covid-must-be-careful/articleshow/76348574.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||A day after, Balrampur cops get lessons in ‘sensitivity’||Lucknow: A day after a video showing the body of a man being ferried to the mortuary in a garbage disposal van in the presence of policemen in Balrampur went viral on social media, cops were given lessons in ‘sensitivity’ on Friday. Superintendent of police, Balrampur, Dev Ranjan Verma, conducted an hour-long session for policemen informing them about the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in such cases. Verma is also monitoring the probe into the incident which is being carried out by circle officer Manoj Kumar Yadav and sub-divisional magistrate of Utraula AK Gaud. Cops visited the spot on Friday and spoke to eye-witnesses. “The superintendent of plice informed cops about the SOPs to be followed in such cases,” a senior police official said. The UP 112 police response vehicles (PRVs) were also checked and cops deployed at the spot were asked about the procedure of ferrying a body to mortuary. Verma also issued a circular stating that such cases would be reviewed and surprise inspections of those police station areas would be conducted from where such incidents were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-day-after-balrampur-cops-get-lessons-in-sensitivity/articleshow/76349259.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Trichy||Govt colleges fail to secure top positions in NIRF rankings||Trichy: Even though it has been five years since annual national institutional ranking framework (NIRF) was introduced, most government arts colleges fail to make their presence felt in these rankings.It is often the self-financing institutions that are secure good positions in the rankings. This year too, many self-financing colleges have improved their performances unlike few government colleges, which are better in terms of infrastructure and quality faculty members.Except for Presidency College, Chennai, Government Arts College, Coimbatore and Queen’s Mary College, Chennai, none of the government colleges from across the state could make it to the top 50 ranks in the category of arts and science colleges.While none of the government arts colleges in central region could make it in the top 50, three colleges namely, Periyar EVR College, Trichy, Rajah Serfoji Government Arts College, Thanjavur and Government Arts College, Kumbakonam could find a place between ranks 100 and 200.T Arivudai Nambi, regional joint director of collegiate education (RJDCE), Trichy, said that off late autonomous government arts colleges have started participating in the process and added that the state government has been urging college to take part in NIRF rankings.A former vice-chancellor (VC) from a state university said that it is the lack of commitment among teachers that has been affecting the performance of these colleges. For NIRF preparation, team work and leadership is very crucial apart from infrastructure. Since senior most teachers are appointed as principals, they often don’t show interest in such activities as they will be preparing for retirement, the former VC added.While regular teachers in these government colleges need to show more commitment, placements for students and peer perception are some of the areas where these colleges need to improve upon their performance, said the former VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-colleges-fail-to-secure-top-positions-in-nirf-rankings/articleshow/76348583.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Court allows abortion on 15-year-old rape survivor||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court on Friday directed the Civil Hospital authorities to carry out an abortion on a 15-year-old Mumbai girl, who is an alleged rape survivor. Additional sessions judge Divyesh Shah permitted medical termination of the pregnancy “considering the interest of the victim and her trauma, mental agony and possibility of social ostracism”. The court ordered so after obtaining the opinion of the doctors at the obstetrics gynaecology department at Civil Hospital, that abortion in this case is medically feasible and it can be performed up to 20 weeks according to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act. In this case, the rape survivor is 14-weeks pregnant. The rape survivor and her father approached the court after doctors at Civil Hospital refused to terminate the pregnancy because it was a medico-legal case and the court’s consent was required. The court has ordered the hospital authorities to carry out the termination of pregnancy at the earliest with medical facilities available to the victim and on ensuring proper care during the pre-termination and post-termination periods. The doctors have been directed to take tissue samples from the foetus and hand them over to the investigating officer for DNA analysis. On May 23, the rape survivor, who is from Bhayandar in Mumbai, lodged a complaint of rape against one Prithviraj Thakor before the Mahila police station (East). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-allows-abortion-on-15-year-old-rape-survivor/articleshow/76349255.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||6 die, 366 more positive as Haryana races past 6,000||Chandigarh: Haryana breached the 6,000 mark on Friday with 366 new cases and six deaths, even as 215 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. The total number of Covid-19 patients in the state has now gone up to 6,334, while 70 succumbed to the infection. Four deaths were reported in Faridabad district while Sonipat and Palwal reported one each. In NCR districts, Gurugram continues to have the highest number of new patients. With as many as 2,475 patients recovering in the state, the recovery rate stands at 39.07%. Of the 46 patients stated to be critical, 30 are on oxygen support. All critical patients are admitted in dedicated Covid centres of the state. Alarmed by the continuous rise in Covid cases, chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora has directed the health officials and district magistrtates to make elaborate arrangements and ensure availability of at least five times of the required oxygen stock in Covid centres and hospitals across the state. With 185 new cases, Gurugram has 2,922 Covid case, of which 1,927 are active. Faridabad reported the next highest count of 57 new cases in the state, reaching a total count of 986. Sonipat recorded 31 cases, Amabala and Palwal 28 each, Kaithal 11, Nuh and Yamunangar five, Hisar four, Jhajjar and Kurukshtetra three each, Panipat and Fatehabad two each and Jind and Charkhi Dadri one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-die-366-more-positive-as-haryana-races-past-6000/articleshow/76348590.cms||Manvir Saini
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||People transiting through AP left in the lurch at the borders||VIJAYAWADA: With the rules for commuting within or outside the state fast-changing across the country, commuters transiting more than two states are left in a limbo due to different guidelines and lack procedures in place for them. Andhra Pradesh is one among the few states that still issues passes for inter-state travel and commuters transiting its jurisdiction are left with a dilemma. According to the Spandana portal, e-passes are being issued for vehicles that either come in or head out of the state. Hence, in both cases, the applicant is mandated to enter an address within Andhra Pradesh which is not possible for several transiting commuters. Police officials said that they are allowing transiting commuters if they show a pass from either the originating state or the destination state. This had put travellers from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to Hyderabad in fix as neither of the three states are issuing a pass for travelers exiting the state as per the latest MHA guidelines that was issued for lockdown 5.0. “I was stopped at Tada checkpost and I explained my situation that I don’t have a pass to show. Even officials are clueless of the fact that there isn’t a procedure to issue a transit pass and said that am willing to apply for one. But, I was left in the lurch and had to head back where I came from,” Sivaramakrishna, an IT employee in Hyderabad from Chennai explained. On May 31, 2020, the Telangana government had issued a government order (GO MS No 721) announcing that there are no restrictions on inter-state travel and hence no passes would be issued in this regard. Similarly, the Tamil Nadu government too relaxed travel to other states and the central government website stopped including the state for issuing e-pass for inter-state travel. According to police officials, commuters heading to Hyderabad from Karnataka, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have been left in the lurch as none of the states issue an inter-state pass as per the new MHA guidelines. Even Andhra Pradesh’s Spandana portal does not have a procedure to issue transit passes. Meanwhile, official sources said that they would take stock of the situation in other state in terms of new travel guidelines and then might take a call in revising the current application process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/people-transiting-through-ap-left-in-the-lurch-at-the-borders/articleshow/76347702.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 13, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Two mock Pudukottai police station in video to help pal, arrested||TRICHY: When M Vetrivel and M Mahendran of Nerunjipatti village in Pudukottai district visited Sempatti Viduthi police station last week to help a friend whose bike was confiscated, little did they know that they would be behind bars in the same station in the next few days. They had come to sign an undertaking for their friend Balaiah who ran into trouble for riding a twowheeler without wearing mask. However, they put themselves in trouble by making a sarcastic TikTok video on their police station visit. On finding that the video portrayed the station in a bad light, the police arrested them on Friday. Mahendran had shot the video of Vetrivel coming out of the station. “Vetrivel was glorified in the video as a person who often goes to jail to get ‘Seimurai’ (rituals performed at the in-law’s place for the son-in-law’s welfare). The voice-over says every time he returns, he looks like a freedom fighter jailed for participating in the Independence movement,” said a senior police official. The official said the arrests were made for shooting the video outside the police station and for referring to it as in-law’s place which was in bad taste. They were booked by Sempatti Viduthi police station under section 67 of the IT act and 269 IPC r/w 51 (b) of disaster management act 2005 for negligent act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-making-mock-video-on-police-station/articleshow/76348603.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Trichy||‘Number of kids being pushed into child labour continue to be high’||Trichy: The Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (Cheers) in Trichy has vowed to eradicate child labour in commercial establishments. Observing World Day Against Child Labour on Friday, members of Cheers expressed concern over several children still being subjected to child labour in Trichy district. According to data accessed by TOI from Cheers, Trichy district had a total of 28,054 children in the age group of 8 to 14 years who were rescued between 1995 and 2020. Out of them, 11,125 children were shifted to mainstream education from special training centres (STC) after two years of their enrolment.“Children of single parents struck with poverty are worst affected. Children with both parents are also pushed to work by the parents due to ignorance towards education,” project director of Cheers, Trichy, Pearline Sathyanathan told TOI.Pearline said that their team along with labour department have rescued children from goat grazing and brick kilns where their families were subjected to bonded labour.From April 2019, till date, Cheers has rescued 623 children and enrolled them in the STCs. Most of them were pushed into child labour due to poverty or broken families.The project has also changed the life of the rescued children in a positive manner. After being trained at STCs for a maximum two years, they are shifted to mainstream education. Such children have been excelling in board exams.The theme to mark this year’s World Day Against Child Labour was – ‘Covid-19: Protect Children from Child Labour, Now More Than Ever’. Officials along with district revenue office (DRO), T Palanikumar took an oath to protect the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/number-of-kids-being-pushed-into-child-labour-continue-to-be-high/articleshow/76348591.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 13, 2020||Pune||Online lessons in emotional intelligence for police force||Pune: The Pune police have introduced an online course on emotional intelligence for its personnel to ensure sensitive approach to handling situations arising out of the coronavirus outbreak.The course aims to boost the morale of policemen as they are often criticised for their inability to handle unruly situations and individuals with proper emotional understanding though their actions may often be legally correct. The course, introduced a fortnight ago, is an initiative of city police commissioner K Venkatesham."We have taken a series of measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among policemen and boost their morale. The course is one such initiative to encourage our staff to carry out social policing by maintaining social distancing, making good use of modern technology while discharging duties, changing their mindset and making them physically and mentally fit to handle any situation," said additional commissioner of police (administration) Ashok Morale.Deputy commissioner of police (zone v) Suhas Bawache told TOI, "The course aims to make policemen emotionally stronger. We started the online course for policemen because we can’t call them in person. We have also shared 25 videos to sensitise them on emotional intelligence," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-lessons-in-emotional-intelligence-for-police-force/articleshow/76348595.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Dozen members of group charged with nine murders||NEW DELHI: The chargesheets filed in the northeast Delhi riots have put the spotlight on a dozen accused, of whom nine have been arrested. The arrested men were allegedly behind nine murders committed between February 25 afternoon and the midnight of February 26. The nine people were killed around the same spot, Jal Board puliya between Bhagirathi Vihar and Ganga Vihar, the police report said. Angry with the large-scale violence in the district a day before, the men came together on a WhatsApp group whose administrator’s name was Ritik. The members of this group included Lokesh Solanki and others, who allegedly camped at a spot for around 36 hours and killed people passing by after checking their identities. Investigation has revealed that the group was created at 12.49pm on February 25. Initially, there were 125 members in the group, but 47 exited it. The analysis of this group led police to establish the link between the murders. The first murder occurred around 4.30pm on February 25 when a man was waylaid by the group members, killed and his scooter set on fire. Around 7pm, the men caught a pedestrian and killed him, police said. An hour later, the group members allegedly disconnected the electricity of the area and raided the house of Musharraf taking advantage of the darkness. The victim was dragged out of his house, beaten to death and his body dumped in a drain. The fourth murder occurred around 9pm. A man named Amin, who was walking from Brijpuri pulia side, was killed and his body thrown in a drain near C-Block. Around 10.30am on February 26, a man named Bhure was waylaid, killed and his body was thrown in the drain. Around 9.15pm the same day, Hamza, who was coming from Mustafabad and heading towards Bhagirathi Vihar, was killed in a similar manner. Half an hour later, another victim, Akil, became the seventh casualty. His body was also retrieved from the drain. The last of the murders were of two brothers named Hashim Ali and Aamir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dozen-members-of-group-charged-with-9-murders-during-riots/articleshow/76349647.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||85 Telangana farmers ended lives this year: Rythu Swarjya Vedika||HYDERABAD: At least 85 farmers have ended their lives in Telangana this year, according to data released by the Rythu Swarjya Vedika (RSV), which is an umbrella association of farmers and NGOs. A survey conducted by B Kondal Reddy of RSV has showed that most of the suicides were recorded in Medak and Nalgonda, followed by Adilabad and Bhupalapally districts. A majority of the farmers chose to take the extreme step due to debts and crop loss. Mounting debts had led to N Komaraiah of Kialpur Sivar Shantibagar in Bhupalapally ending his life by consuming poison on May 5. His family alleged that he had borrowed money to cultivate 5 acres. With to returns in sight, he went into depression and killed himself. Ashaboyi, a woman farmer from Dongli in Kamareddy district, hanged herself to death when she didn’t get any returns from the cultivated paddy and came under debt. In another instance, V Hemla and his wife Tulasi in Lachiram Tanda of Khammam district ended their lives on May 17. “They sold three acres out of six acres for marriage expenses of their child and cultivated crop in the remaining land. However they did not receive proper yield due to which they killed themselves,” said Kondal Reddy. “There is an urgent need for a detailed study on farmer suicides. Tenant farmers are worst hit. Since the formation of Telangana, around 4,600 farmer suicides were recorded by us but the state has reported only 1,600 suicides. Most of the suicides are of cotton farmers,” he added. State Crime Records Bureau is yet to release any figures on farmer suicides. Police officials have also not responded on RSV’s data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/85-t-farmers-ended-lives-this-year-rsv/articleshow/76348598.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 13, 2020||Nashik||Standing panel members alleges of financial irregularities in TDR scam||Nashik: Members of the standing committee of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday alleged financial irregularities in the Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) during land acquisition. They alleged that the TDR had been given by the civic body for acquisition of 50,000 sq m land for various railway proposals though the authority for land acquisition was the railway department. Shiv Sena’s Sudhakar Badgujar raised the issue during the meeting. Standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite directed the civic administration to submit details about the issue in the next meeting. In 2011, the NMC had given TDR to land owners for acquisition of land for Railway projects. “Now, the civic administration has tabled the proposals to cancel the land acquisition. What about the TDR already given by the civic body? There have been financial irregularities and an enquiry should be made into the matter,” said Badgujar. The panel member Kalpana Pande also urged the standing committee chairperson Ganesh Gite to probe into the issue before giving approval to the proposals of cancellation of proposals of land acquisitions. The allegations come at a time when district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has urged state urban develop minister Eknath Shinde to probe another TDR allotment for land in Deolali that was expected to be given free of cost to NMC as per the directive of the state urban development department in 2014. BOX: Panel nod to Rs 27 cr development works The standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation on Friday gave approval to various development works worth Rs 27 crore, including construction of stadium, road works, advanced study hall, extension to existing security guards, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/standing-panel-members-alleges-of-financial-irregularities-in-tdr-scam/articleshow/76346644.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||KMC to snip off ‘dead’ cables, broadband wires||KOLKATA: Defunct cable TV and broadband wires will be snapped by Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Saturday. At a meeting with cable operators on Friday, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim said all dead wires would be removed by the civic authorities who had set June 15 as the deadline for pulling them down. Last week, a section of operators started removing dead cables in some parts of south Kolkata. Though multi-system operators, cable operators and internet service providers will be taking part in the operation to remove the dead wires, they fear that it may lead to temporary disruption of services. “In some parts of the city, transmission could be affected since some live cables are bound to be pulled down along with the dead wires. We welcome the move and have already started removing defunct wires in our area,” said Tapash Das of Ideal Cable Operators’ Association, which provides service in Bhawanipore. Last year, dead wires were snipped by KMC at Bhawanipore. While cable operators had refused to act then, saying it was difficult for them to identify the defunct wires, a section of MSOs and operators welcomed the civic body’s move now. “Operators should have desisted from putting up new wires without pulling down the old and dead ones. For years, they refused to replace the dead wires which resulted in the cable mesh,”said Mrinal Chatterjee of MSO Bengal Broadband. Some cable operators claimed they were being wrongly held responsible for the wire mess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-snip-off-dead-cables-broadband-wires/articleshow/76348589.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: 189 to fly in from Dubai||PUNE: A chartered flight of Dubai-based low-cost carrier Fly is supposed to land in the city around 12.40pm on Sunday with 189 passengers from the UAE who had been stranded there since lockdown, Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said. Rahul Tulpule, a businessman based in Dubai, has arranged for the flight. Tulpule said the chartered flight would mainly have elderly people, pregnant women and those who had lost their jobs and were stranded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/189-to-fly-in-from-dubai/articleshow/76348610.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Pregnant woman crosses rivulet to reach ambulance||HYDERABAD: A pregnant women in Rollagadda village of Gundala mandal had to walk through a rivulet on Friday to get into an ambulance as the approach to her village was damaged. . The woman, Sandhya Rani, was helped by her husband Yugandhar while crossing the rivulet. The ambulance could not enter into the village as the the rivulet was in spate on account of heavy rains. A bridge was planned to be constructed over the rivulet so that locals could use it during the monsoon. However, it has not been completed yet. Bhadradri-Kothagudem district collector M V Reddy, who took a serious view of the fact that an ambulance could not reach the woman, has called for a report from officials of the health department as to why, despite her condition being known, she was not admitted to the government hospital in time. The collector has directed the Kothagudem revenue divisional officer (RDO) to submit a comprehensive report on the matter and the roads and buildings officials to submit a report on the delay in completion of the bridge. He also directed them to repair the damaged road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-woman-crosses-rivulet-to-reach-ambulance/articleshow/76348621.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Inked and not loving it: Stamped returnees make skin rash plaint||Bhubaneswar: The normally safe indelible ink that makes its presence felt in every election, is leaving behind more than a mark when being applied on the arms of passengers arriving at the airport and at state borders. Many have been complaining of burning sensation and rashes, while some even had to consult doctors after the area where they had been inked developed blisters and skin infection. The government had introduced a system where returnees are stamped (with the date of return) on their arms with the indelible ink so that they are easily identifiable once they go for 14-day quarantine, either at home or in government institutions. In districts, the administrations engaged their officers to register people arriving from outside the state and ink them. In the capital city, it is the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) which deployed its personnel at the airport to stamp returnees. Ashis Hota, who came to Bhubaneswar from Jharsuguda in an Air India flight on Monday, was stamped at the Biju Patnaik International Airport. Moments later, the area where he was inked turned red and started swelling. “I started feeling itchy and then the area where I had been stamped turned red,” Hota said. Sristi Ray was stamped at Bhubaneswar airport. “Upon return at Biju Patnaik International Airport morning, I was stamped for quarantine. I have an infection. The ink is of extremely bad quality,” she tweeted. People arriving at state borders by buses and other vehicles have also complained of skin diseases triggered by the ink. Kumar Abhisekh, a dermatologist at AMRI Hospital here, said the indelible ink seems to have got irritant properties and is the reason why it is causing rashes. “It gets compounded in people who have skin allergies. While in some cases it heals within a week, others may need treatment,” Kumar said. He felt the ink should be examined to check its properties so that the problem doesn’t persist. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said it has come to his notice that the ink has been causing skin problem. “We will ensure treatment of the ones who have developed rashes due to the ink,” Chaudhury said. Ironically, those travelling within the state by air are also getting stamped, contrary to norms. As many as 11 passengers who arrived at Bhubaneswar airport from Jharsuguda complained of being stamped. “The stamp is meant only for those who are coming from outside the state,” clarified special relief commissioner P K Jena, saying they would look into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/inked-and-not-loving-it-stamped-returnees-make-skin-rash-plaint/articleshow/76347728.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Monsoon hits Kolkata riding on low-pressure over Bay of Bengal||KOLKATA: Monsoon arrived in Kolkata and major parts of south and north Bengal on Friday even as repeated drizzles drenched the city. Clouds had started moving into the region on Thursday, riding on a low-pressure over Bay of Bengal. On Friday, the monsoon currents covered most parts of Gangetic Bengal, Sikkim and north Bengal. Conditions are favourable for further advancement of the monsoon currents that are likely to cover the entire state over the next 48 hours, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Alipore. The city woke up to a cloudy sky and was soon lashed by showers. As the day progressed, the rain turned into repeated drizzles. “This monsoon weather will continue as clouds cover the rest of the state over the next two days. Showers will be moderate and intermittent,” said deputy director-general of meteorology Sanjib Bandopadhyay. Monsoon arrived in the state a day after the official date of its onset that was revised to June 11. On Friday, monsoon currents moved into the districts of North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hoogly, Nadia, East Midnapore, West Midnapore and Murshidabad in south Bengal. It also covered north Bengal, including Darjeeling, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, Kalimpong and some parts of Malda and South Dinajpur. Maximum temperature slid to 31.3°C in Kolkata, three notches below normal. It will persist at that level, said weathermen. Humidity, however, remained high at 94%. A few spells of heavy rain and thundershowers have been predicted in some parts of Gangetic Bengal. In 2019, June turned out to be the driest in Kolkata and Gangetic Bengal in at least a decade-and-half with a wide rain deficit that persisted also in July. While Kolkata clocked a 69% shortfall, Gangetic Bengal ended the month with an arrear of 59%. This year monsoon has arrived on schedule and with the currents moving steadily, rains could be sufficient, felt experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monsoon-hits-kolkata-riding-on-low-pressure-over-bay-of-bengal/articleshow/76349273.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||GMR offered low revenue share, model unviable: MIL tells HC||NAGPUR: In reply to allegations that the Nagpur airport modernization tender was cancelled arbitrarily without any notice, the Mihan India Ltd (MIL) informed the high court here that the Civil Aviation ministry wasn’t satisfied over the revenue sharing model proposed and had questioned the financial viability of the deal. A division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar on Friday adjourned the hearing for four weeks after petitioners’ counsel Charuhas Dharmadhikari sought time to file reply on MIL’s contentions. The petitioners — GMR Airports Ltd and GMR Nagpur International Airport Ltd — prayed for quashing MIL’s letter issued to them on March 19, annulling the airport bidding process without awarding the contract. In an affidavit, MIL senior airport director Abid Ruhi stated that even the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) had raised an audit inquiry on the financial viability of GMR’s bid. “The petitioners’ offer at 14.49% of the gross revenue is extremely low and financially unviable. It would have caused tremendous loss to the exchequer. The airport upgradation must lead to increase in revenue for the government. Therefore, the tender process was annulled within its right,” the affidavit said Adding that the MIL was contemplating floating a fresh tender, Ruhi said the financial model would be different from the one proposed in earlier process. “The government must earn better revenue and there should be minimum loss to the public exchequer. The petitioners’ can’t question the cancellation but can participate in fresh tender process,” he said. Stressing that the petitioners had no legal or vested right to question the tender process, Ruhi’s affidavit filed through counsel RM Bhangde also denied petitioners’ allegation that decision to cancel was “politically motivated”. “It was factually incorrect, as the decision for retendering was taken in the Project Monitoring and Implementation Committee’s (PMIC) meeting on October 14 last year while change of the government in Maharashtra took place on November 28,” Ruhi said. MIL had received two bids on September 28, 2018, when those were opened. GVK Airport Developers had agreed to share 3.06% of gross revenue with MIL, while GMR quoted 5.76%. “After negotiations, GMR agreed to increase the revenue share to 14.49% of gross and retain 85.51% but still it was unviable. It was clearly stated in the tender conditions that it would be subject to approval of Government of India’s for alienation of land owned by Airport Authority of India (AAI) in GMR’s favour,” Ruhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmr-offered-low-revenue-share-model-unviable-mil-tells-hc/articleshow/76349277.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 13, 2020||Nashik||Pre-monsoon rain lashes parts of Nashik||Nashik: Several parts of Nashik received pre-monsoon showers on Friday and as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), monsoon is expected to arrive in the city within the next 48 hours. “The monsoon has already reached Solapur district and will reach Nashik and other districts of North Maharashtra within the next 48 hours,” an IMD official said. “Currently, the rain lashing Nashik city is pre-monsoon showers,” he added. The city recorded 50.8mm of rainfall in two hours in the city on Friday. Following the rain, the nullahs across the city had started overflowing. The weather department has forecast heavy rains in Nashik city for Saturday and Sunday. According to IMD sources, heavy rainfall is likely to occur in isolated places in the districts of Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar on Saturday. On Sunday, heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Dhule and Nashik. Three incidents of tree felling were reported in the city due to heavy rains. A large container was damaged due to tree felling in Shivaji Nagar area of the city. The other two incidents of tree felling were reported in Akashwani Tower area on Gangapur Road. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also appealed to the city residents to ensure that mosquito breeding spots are not created around their homes due to accumulated water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pre-monsoon-rain-lashes-parts-of-nashik/articleshow/76346668.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: With mask off, thief’s face caught on CCTV||KOLKATA: A young thief was arrested within six hours of a heist at a hearing aids machine store on Friday as he was not covering his face with a mask in violation of the government’s instruction. While going through the CCTV grab, cops could identify the thief Subrata Roy, alias Bublai, walking in the store without wearing a mask. Roy, who had decamped with a laptop and a charger from the store in the wee hours of Friday, had not switched on the lights of the store in order to avoid drawing the attention of locals. But his face was clearly visible in the CCTV grab showing that the youth had lit a cigarette lighter to look around the store. Though the store had hearing aids machines worth several lakhs, Roy did not steal any one of them. Cops said he was not aware of the value of the machines. However, another easy identification mark was Roy’s amputated left hand, which was also clearly visible in the CCTV grab. “We were alerted about the robbery by the landlady of the building around 10.30am when she found the door to the store ajar. The store owners rushed in and lodged a complaint, based on which we started the investigation. The face of the accused was visible on the camera, apart from his amputated hand. We circulated his photo to neighbouring police stations. We traced him to a house off Moore Avenue in Bansdroni around 4.30pm. We found the laptop and charger under his bed,” said an officer of Netaji Nagar police station. Before escorting him to the police station, cops ensured that he had a mask on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-mask-off-thiefs-face-caught-on-cctv/articleshow/76348617.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Underpass planned on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway for smooth pass to IGI||NEW DELHI: A Rs 300-crore underpass is being planned near Shiv Murti on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway to improve connectivity with the airport. The tariff determination paper for Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) has detailed the planned infra augmentation, which includes the fourth runway, an elevated taxiway, a bigger Terminal 1 and 123 body scanners. “Bureau of Civil Aviation Security has directed all civil airports in India to install body scanners. As per this directive, DIAL has estimated 123 body scanners to be installed at the airport,” Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) has said in a consultation paper released on Tuesday. The capital expenditure (capex) for this exercise will be Rs 154 crore. Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has also asked DIAL to get aircraft recovery kit to meet exigencies at IGIA. Its expected cost is Rs 19 crore, AERA has said in the paper determining tariff of IGIA till March 31, 2024. The underpass at NH-8 has been proposed by National Highways Authority of India, it added. The aviation ministry has advised DIAL to contribute 50% of the total cost of the Rs 300-crore project. DIAL estimates a total capex of about Rs 9,783 crore for the currently planned phase, unless derailed by the corona-induced overall economic slowdown. “Before coronavirus, the number of aircraft movement and passengers was very large in Delhi. The cost of financing and direct funding through higher charges would have been spread over a larger base,” said an airline official. With air travel crashing due to the pandemic, airlines and passengers shouldn’t be burdened to fund the capex, he added. “Certain things can be postponed till better times return.” The traffic projections are 5.9 crore, 6.3 crore, 6.7 crore and 7.1 crore passengers for the current and next three fiscals. However, the paper added it was difficult to assess the traffic volume for this year due to corona-related restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/underpass-planned-on-ggn-e-way-for-smooth-pass-to-igi/articleshow/76349286.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Maoists shoot man dead, call him police informer||NAGPUR: A 28-year-old man was murdered in cold-blood by Maoists who shot at him from point blank range at Kiradtola village near Jambia Gatta in Etapalli taluka of south Gadchiroli. The victim, identified as Ravi Pungati, was whisked away from his residence on Thursday. His body was found on Koti-Gatta road on Friday early morning. There was a bullet injury on the head. A pamphlet was also found on the body in which Bhamragarh area committee stated that it takes responsibility for the murder while labelling Pungati as a police informer. Police have claimed that Pungati was not associated with them. Through a press statement, police have stated Pungati was a farmer with four children, including a three-month-old son. The murder is the second incident of Maoist violence in Gatta-Jambia locality after two forest guards were assaulted and a bike set on fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maoists-shoot-man-dead-call-him-police-informer/articleshow/76349283.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri native robbed of belongings on landing in city after 3 months||Bhubaneswar: After being stranded in Bangalore for three months during the lockdown, Lipak Mallick, who teaches Sanskrit in a college in the southern city, felt that his ordeal had finally ended when he landed at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here on Wednesday evening. Little did he know then that his woes were far from over. He was robbed of the fleeting moment of his happiness by a group of thieves before he could reach his home in Puri district. Mallick said after arriving at the airport around 8pm, he hired an auto-rickshaw and reached Baramunda bus stand to board a bus to his village at Gabakunda in Puri. But he could neither find a single bus or any other means of transport to reach home. “It was already 9pm and I was worried. An auto-rickshaw driver approached me and asked me about my destination. He demanded Rs 1,000 to drop me at my village that is around 50km from Bhubaneswar. I had no other option, but to accept his offer,” Mallick said. In his complaint, Mallick alleged that the driver called someone over phone midway and stopped the vehicle in an isolated place. “It was pitch dark. There were no street lights. He stopped the auto-rickshaw nearly six or seven kilometre from the Baramunda bus stand. Suddenly, two men came on a bike and asked me to hand over all my belongings. When I resisted, the two miscreants along with the auto-rickshaw driver attacked me. They snatched Rs 1,500 that I had in cash, my phone and bag before abandoning me in the isolated place,” Mallick said. Mallick, who is not well-conversant with the routes in the city, reached Khandagiri police station with great difficulty. Before boarding the auto-rickshaw at Baramunda bus stand, Mallick had made a mental note of the vehicle’s registration number and gave away the clue to the police. Cmmissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi asked the zonal assistant commissioner of police and the local police station to inquire into the matter and take immediate action. Additional commissioner police Anup Kumar Sahoo said the auto driver has been identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-native-robbed-of-belongings-on-landing-in-city-after-3-months/articleshow/76347759.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 13, 2020||Nashik||New Bytco Hospital will be NMC’s biggest Covid-19 hospital||Nashik: With 300 beds dedicated for catering to coronavirus patients, the new Bytco Hospital is set to be the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) biggest Covid-9 facility in the city. The new facility is an extension of the old building and will be operational soon. The city already has Zakir Hussain hospital with 100 beds. The health department is also in the process of increasing the capacity of the facility by 160 beds. Moreover, the municipal corporation is also treating Covid-19 patients in the fire brigade quarters located at Nashik Road having bed capacity of 100. However, as the cases continue to surge, the NMC is setting up another Covid-19 hospital with capacity of 300 beds. “The civil works, electrification as well as lift works have already been completed. We have just received permission from the standing committee of the NMC to buy 300 beds and other equipment for the New Bytco hospital to treat Covid-19 patients,” said a senior health official from the NMC. “We will make this 300-bed Covid hospital operational within the next eight days considering the rise in number of patients in the city,” the official added. 6 succumb to Covid-19 infection in Nashik district Nashik registered 39 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of patients in the city to 571. In addition, six people succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Nashik district, taking the total count of fatalities to 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/new-bytco-hospital-will-be-nmcs-biggest-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/76346685.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||First Covid patient given plasma at PGI recovers in 3 days||Chandigarh: First Covid-19 patient to be given convalescent plasma therapy at PGIMER, Chandigarh, was discharged on Friday after recovering within thee days of the transfusion, making it first such case in the northern region. The patient, 60-year-old Ashok Goyal from Kurukshetra in Haryana, had no comorbidity. PGI is one of the centres of ICMR’s national trial on convalescent plasma therapy for coronavirus-positive patients, who require oxygen therapy. “The patient had come in a serious condition with pneumonia requiring oxygen therapy. After plasma therapy and supportive care, he was taken off oxygen therapy in three days as his condition improved,” said Prof Pankaj Malhotra, principal investigator of the study at PGI. He said, “There are around 400 such patients in other centres for trial and almost half of them have undergone it. By this month, trials will be over and the results will be out in another 2-3 months. Currently, ICMR is doing an interim analysis of the trial. There is a ray of hope now and donors can come forward as there is no adverse effect.” Six patients enrolled at PGI, who had suffered moderate Covid-19 infection, have been given this therapy. As it is an open label (where the patients and investigators know they are getting which medication/ treatment) randomised control study, half the patients are under standard medication, while three have been transfused with plasma. Those given plasma were transfused 2 units, along with standard medication. PGI was chosen as one of the ICMR sites in the last week of April. On May 9, first cured Covid-19 patient donated plasma and the first corona patient eligible to get the therapy got enrolled on June 1. “I was breathless, but soon after the transfusion, I could feel the effect. As I was in PGI, I had no fears in asking to be enrolled for the study,” said Goyal, who runs a chemist shop. BOX What the therapy is all about Convalescent plasma is taken from patients, who recover from Covid-19. There are many reports showing this therapy useful in early stages of the disease. The therapy works through the antibodies present in plasma. The patients, who have recovered from the virus infection, are eligible to donate plasma, which is then stored in blood bank to be given later to patients with severe infection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-covid-patient-given-plasma-at-pgi-recovers-in-3-days/articleshow/76348638.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 13, 2020||Bhopal||202 cases take state corona count to 10443||Bhopal: With 202 positive cases were reported on Friday, taking the state’s corona count to 10,443. In addition, nine casualties were reported on Friday — three in Indore, two in Bhopal and one each in Burhanpur, Rajgarh and Dhar. With this, the Covid-19 toll in Madhya Pradesh reached 440. The fresh cases were reported from 24 of the 51 corona-affected districts of the state. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures includes Bhopal (70), Indore (50), Gwalior (16), Jabalpur (15), and Ujjain (10). Meanwhile, 159 people were discharged from across the state. Now, the number of recovered patients in the state are 7,201. Thus, 68.9% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is double than the number of active patients in the state as on June 12. There are only 2802 active patients in the state, while 7201 people have so far recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/202-cases-take-state-corona-count-to-10443/articleshow/76347754.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Restriction on night traffic in Unlock 1.0||Hyderabad: Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Friday clarified to all states that movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited between 9 pm and 5 am throughout the country, except for essential activities. The restriction do not apply to activities like loading, unloading of goods, buses carrying persons and trucks and goods carriers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/restriction-on-night-traffic-in-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76348657.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC may issue fresh order on resumption||KOLKATA: With the Covid-19 scare keeping many Calcutta High Court lawyers away on Day II of resumption of in-person hearings, the HC registrar-general is likely to issue another notification on functioning of the court on Saturday. The court had issued a notification, stating that normal hearings would resume on June 11. But different lawyers’ bodies like the High Court Bar Association, Bar Library Club and Incorporated Law Society cited the Covid scare and declared that their members would not appear in person for hearings of cases in different courtrooms. A meeting was convened on Thursday by Calcutta High Court Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan and Justice Sanjib Banerjee with representatives of all three lawyers' bodies. During the meeting the representatives gave suggestions on the functioning of the court. A fresh notification is likely to be issued in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-may-issue-fresh-order-on-resumption/articleshow/76348631.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur, Akola march towards 1,000 cases, Vidarbha nearing 3,000||NAGPUR: With Akola’s 59 and Nagpur’s 18, Vidarbha reported 101 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday. It was the third day in a row that 100-plus cases came from the region. With this, Vidarbha’s total cases surged to 2,765 — including Akola’s 963 and Nagpur’s 939. An elderly patient admitted in Akola also died during treatment, which took the death toll of Vidarbha to 88. Akola alone accounts for 44 of these deaths. With Akola (29), Nagpur (18), Yavatmal (17) — total 75 patients recovered and were discharged on June 12, taking their total to 1,801. The recovery rate remained above 65% against Maharashtra’s 50.91% and India’s 49.47%. Akola reported 59 new cases — including a 2-month old baby girl, Vidarbha’s youngest Covid-19 patient so far. The others are 28 men and 30 women from 24 different localities. A 78-yr-old man from Balapur, who was admitted to GMCH Akola on June 7, died during treatment on June 11 midnight. This was the 44th death in Akola. On the other hand, 29 patients were discharged from hospital. Out of them 13 were asked to stay at Covid Care Center as they do not home isolation facility at their residence. Others went into home isolation for seven days. After recording above-50 surge over three days, only 18 patients were reported from Nagpur on June 12. Patients are now coming not only from hot spots but different parts of the district and rural areas. In Amravati, three cases each from Akoli and Badnera towns, and one each from Chandur Bazaar and Karanja Lad (in Washim district) tested positive to take the district’s Covid count to 312 on Friday. On the other hand, six patients got discharge to take the number of recovered persons to 235. This has left 60 active cases, including four taking treatment in Nagpur. The district has seen 17 Covid deaths so far. Campasspura or Malipura locality in Old City of Badnera saw three male friends aged 21, 21 and 20, of an 18-year-old June 11 positive youth testing positive to take Badnera’s count to 17, and Campasspura’s to five in just two days. Akoli village saw a positive couple’s 3 and 12-year-old daughters and a 45-year-old female family member testing positive, taking the count to five. The novel coronavirus, which had gripped Shirala and Virulpurna villages in Chandur Bazaar tehsil earlier, claiming one life at Shirala, today made its presence felt in Chandur Bazaar town itself with a 55-year-old male testing positive. A Karanja Lad woman, who is taking treatment at a private hospital here, today saw her 65-year-old husband testing positive. The hospital had taken swabs of four contacts. Wardha: A 65-year-old man from Gurgaon (Haryana) who came for technical work at the Leprosy Institute (Manohardham) at Dattapur was diagnosed with coronavirus on Friday. The man arrived on June 5 from Gurgaon in a car with his wife. He was home quarantined at a rest house, where he complained of cough, following which his swab samples were taken. He was admitted to Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram, after his health deteriorated. His test report came positive on Friday. His contacts are being traced. Yavatmal: Yavatmal recorded five new Covid-19 patients on Friday. Total 17 patients recovered from the district and were discharged. Now, Yavatmal has 24 active cases. Buldhana: Buldhana recorded eight new cases — all from Sangrampur tehsil. Seven of them were from Paturda village. Total cases in Buldhana are now 110. As 77 of them have been discharged, and four deaths — total active cases are now 29. As Buldhana doesn’t have a medical college, the civil hospital is treating Covid-19 patients. Tata Trust, Mumbai, has taken over the Buldhana civil hospital to convert it into a full-fledged Covid Hospital. Gondia: Just a day after becoming corona-free, new positive patient was found in Gondia district on June 12. The patient is a youth from Tirora tehsil. Reports of 29 samples are awaited. Gondia now has 70 total cases, out of which 69 have been discharged and one active patient is being treated. Gadchiroli: A Delhi-returned 19-yr-old girl from Dhanora tehsil in Gadchiroli tested positive for Covid-19 on June 12. She was already in institutional quarantine. Now, Gadchiroli has 48 cases, 10 of them active. All others have been discharged. Chandrapur, Bhandara, and Washim recorded no new cases on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-akola-march-towards-1000-cases-vid-nearing-3000/articleshow/76349293.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 13, 2020||India||Covid crisis throws up new legal challenges||NEW DELHI: Did the Supreme Court slip up in its handling of the Covid-19 crisis? Late last month, 20 senior advocates had suggested precisely that, saying the SC was exhibiting symptoms of its Emergency-era mindset. Former Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi strongly disagreed with the view, but former attorney general Mukul Rohtagi felt the court had not reacted when it should have. Both were speaking at a webinar on ‘Covid 19: Constitutional and legal challenges’ organised by the School of Law, Bennett University, on Friday. Justice Gogoi, now a member of the Rajya Sabha, said attributing “ill will to the institution as a whole or individual judges only serves to adversely weaken the institution”. “Its (SC’s) silence or failure to act has been compared to the role of the institution during the Emergency. In my view the two situations are incomparable. What happened during the Emergency are constitutional perversions conceived by the human mind. Though legal options were clearly available to undo the wrong, we humans faltered. The current situation is beyond human comprehension. Never before have we experienced anything even remotely similar. The scenario offers only hindsight views,” he added. But Rohtagi chose to differ. “Covid has affected the entire world. Dreadful scenes of migrants walking for thousands of kilometres. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court didn’t react when it should have,” he said. Constitutional expert and senior advocate Harish Salve said the lockdown imposed by the government to check the Covid-19 pandemic could lead to many complex legal disputes arising out of non-performance of contractual and statutory obligations by people, companies and authorities. The Centre, he said, should bring a law to deal with the issue. The scenario triggered by the pandemic is very complex and the government should take the initiative to bring a legislation instead of leaving it to the judiciary to decide as the courts are already overburdened with cases, Salve added. A strong federal structure is extremely important in dealing with a pandemic successfully, and cooperation between Centre and the states is key to mitigating the crisis, former Chief Justice of India P Sathasivam said. Noted lawyer and former solicitor general Gopal Subramanium stressed on the need for reforms. “Reform processes are absolutely required and it needs government initiative like adequate investment in infrastructure, institutions, governance, education and health. There should be public spending and public-private partnership in these sectors,” he said. Watch Did the Supreme Court slip up in its handling of the Covid-19 crisis?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gogoi-rohtagi-differ-on-how-sc-handled-covid-crisis/articleshow/76350268.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Wrap unclaimed bodies, cremate after sunset: KMC||KOLKATA: Following the uproar over the way in which unclaimed bodies were handled in broad daylight at the Garia crematorium on Wednesday afternoon, Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Friday said all unclaimed bodies would henceforth be wrapped before being transported from morgues for cremation. Also, the KMC has decided to cremate the bodies at multiple centres on rotational basis to avoid a pile-up and logjam at any one crematorium like Wednesday’s incident, when 14 bodies were brought to the facility in Garia. The health department also asked officials of various KMC-run crematoria to accept unclaimed bodies when they are transported there. The problem of disposing of unclaimed corpses had cropped up after the Dhapa crematorium, that was earlier used for cremating unclaimed bodies, was designated for Covid deaths. It has also been decided that the bodies will be cremated after sunset to prevent hurting people’s sensibilities. A section of civic health officials said dragging unclaimed bodies in full public glare was unacceptable and the disposal needed to be carried out in a more humane manner. Atin Ghosh, a member in the board of administrators (BOA) that governs KMC, said on Fridaay the a contractor appointed to cremate unclaimed bodies had not followed the norms laid down in the contract agreement. “We have showcaused the contractor. If we are not satisfied with the explanation, we will terminate the contract,” he added. BOA chairman Firhad Hakim also discussed the issue with senior civic officials and asked them to chart out an SOP for proper disposal of unclaimed bodies. Later, speaking to reporters, he ruled out a meeting Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on the issue. Dhankhar had on Friday tweeted that he had sought an urgent briefing from him and municipal commissioner on the matter. It was a politically motivated move, said Hakim. Though KMC has asked for use of multiple creamtoria, Garia residents who live close to the crematorium there said they would resist any attempts to offload unclaimed bodies at the site and cremate them. “This is a densely populated residential area. The foul smell from unclaimed bodies in advanced stage of decomposition is unbearable,” said Tapas Chatterjee, a businessman who stays behind the crematorium. Arup De, another local resident, alleged the chimneys at the facility was defunct and filled the air with ash particles. “The anti-pollution devices are non-functional. We cannot allow such a facility to be used for cremation of unclaimed bodies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unclaimed-bodies-to-be-wrapped-before-transport-to-crematorium-kmc/articleshow/76349300.cms||Saikat Ray
June 13, 2020||Nashik||HAL adds taxi service at Ozar airport||Nashik: Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) has roped in a private agency to provide taxi services at Ozar airport to facilitate air passengers. The private agency is expected to start operations from Monday. “Initially, we will deploy five taxis at the airport and will increase the numbers after seeing the response,” said Ganesh Kumawat, director of the agency. The move was taken after the number of flight operations from Nashik increased. “With the Alliance Air restarting operations from Friday (June 06), we are expecting a good passenger load. Now, there will be four flights those will land and take off daily from here,” said an official from the taxi agency. An official from another agency, which is already providing taxi services, said that the response was good before the lockdown. “The passenger load was over 50 percent before the lockdown. Although some flights have started from here, the passenger load was less so far,” said an official. Meanwhile, Air India’s subsidiary Alliance Air restarted its operations on three sectors Nashik-Hyderabad, Nashik-Ahmedabad and Nashik Pune from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hal-adds-taxi-service-at-ozar-airport/articleshow/76346701.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||WhatsApp message threatens to blow up UP CM Yogi Adityanath residence||LUCKNOW: The entire police machinery in the state capital was set on alert after the WhatsApp group of police control UP 112 received a message from an unidentified number on Friday evening, threatening to blow up the residence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Minutes after receiving the message, senior officials beefed up the security around the CM residence at 5, Kalidas Marg. An FIR was also lodged by the Lucknow police. About three weeks ago, one Kamran Ameen (25) of Mumbai and a private security guard had also sent a WhatsApp message at UP 112 on May 22, threatening to attack the UP chief minister with a bomb. He was later arrested from Mumbai, while another youth Faisal Wahab (20) was also arrested for asking police to release Ameen. SHO Gautampalli, Satya Prakash Singh said that taking cognisance of the message which stated, “I will blow up the entire residence of UP CM Yogi Adityanath”, police outpost in-charge, 5-KD, Awadesh Tiwari got an FIR lodged. The FIR was registered against an unidentified person under the charges of promoting enmity between different groups, statements conducting public mischief, criminal intimidation. Additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar said that security has been beefed up of the CM residence and all the senior police officers including Lucknow police commissioner are monitoring the case. “We have tasked the Cyber Cell and the Crime Branch to zero in on the number and nail the culprit,” said joint commissioner of police, Lucknow, Nilabja Chaudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/whatsapp-msg-threatens-to-blow-up-cm-residence/articleshow/76349294.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||In 2 days, 374 throat swabs of cops collected, 1 tests +ve||Ludhiana: The police have started collecting throat swabs of constables, head constables, assistant sub-inspectors and sub-inspectors, who are more exposed and, therefore, more vulnerable to Covid-19. In the last two days, Ludhiana police have tested 374 police personnel of zone-1 of Ludhiana commissionarate. Due to this random checking, the police managed to identify one asymptomatic Covid-19 positive constable of Division number 2 police station. Prior to this, all senior officials on the ranks of commissioner of police, deputy commissioner, additional deputy commissioner (ADCP), assistant commissioner and inspectors have got their tests done. Including these senior staff, till now 543 police personnel have been tested in Ludhiana. ADCP Sachin Gupta, PBI, said, “Earlier, senior officials had gotten themselves tested. Now, we are focusing on those who are more exposed. For example, those who are deputed at check posts. In two case, on Wednesday and Thursday, we have got 374 police men and women tested in zone-1 of Ludhiana commissionrate. We also found one constable positive, but he was asymptomatic.” According to him, a team of doctors from civil hospital are testing the police personnel. “They come to police line for taking samples. We make batches of 20 each, who one by one get themselves tested. After their turn, next batch is called for testing. Gradually, we will cover all, as they have to be fit to serve the duty. Besides, the Ludhiana police have already provided its staff medicines for boosting immunity,” added ADCP Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-2-days-374-throat-swabs-of-cops-collected-1-tests-ve/articleshow/76348645.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Power, water supply disconnected from Central Market||MANGALURU: Even as the wholesale and retail merchants of Central Market in the city decided to recommence business at the same premises, Civic authorities disconnected power and water supply to Central Market on Thursday. This has irked Central Market Merchants’ Association (CMMA), which has been fighting legally in the high court to get their premises back. In fact, Dakshina Kannada district administration had banned all activities at the Central market in the wake of Covid-19 and merchants had to shift their business to the APMC yard in Bykampady after the lockdown. The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) also had issued a public notice announcing the closure of Central Market. . CMMA legal adviser Manamohana Jois said that disconnecting power and water connections were violations of the High court direction. “The MCC has no right over Central Market. We will continue our legal battle against the MCC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/power-water-supply-disconnected-from-central-market/articleshow/76346727.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Amaravati||Corona go! 16 big temples across Andhra Pradesh told to hold special poojas||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to ward off Covid-19, the state endowments department has directed executive officers of all major temples in the state to perform rituals on June 16. According to officials, special poojas and homas on Monday is part of the step to keep the pandemic in check. P Arjun Rao, commissioner, endowments department, has issued a circular directing all the executive officers of the 16 famous temples to seek blessings for the people of the country. These temples include – Kanaka Durga Temple atop of Indrakeeladri Hill, Lord Malleswara, the presiding deity in Srisailam and Lord Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam, to seek the divine blessings to the people of the nation in general and for those living in Andhra Pradesh in particular. The performing of the religious activity includes chanting of Vedic mantras, performing homams, japamas, prana yamamas and abhishekas to the presiding deities. “There is a mention in the Vedas that performing special rituals to the almighty will help protect mankind from various deadly diseases. Amid novel coronavirus outbreak fears, the endowments department thus, has decided to conduct these special poojas to ward off the threat,” Arjun Rao said. “We are in darkness about the virus. There is no cure and people are full of fear. The only thing that can bring solace is prayers,” he added. The initiative has come from a member of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board, Krishnamoorthy Vaidyanathan, to perform the rituals on the auspicious Bhoumashvina Day that falls on June 16. The TTD Trust Board member wrote to the Special Commissioner (Endowment) quoting Bhagavatha Purana Asthama Skandha in which Dhanvantri, an Amshavathara of Lord Vishnu, revealed the science of medicine to the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/corona-go-16-big-temples-across-state-told-to-hold-special-poojas/articleshow/76354058.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Tax professionals, bizmen hail move to file nil GST return via SMS||Ludhiana: Taking into consideration the problems being faced by the assesses to file the nil monthly returns of GST, particularly in the wake of not being able to generate any business in the last few months, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has allowed the assesses to file the nil return by SMS. Till now, the only way to file GST return is through the GST portal. Tax professionals, meanwhile, are appreciating the move and some of them are of the view that government should consider starting the SMS service or mobile app for filing normal returns as well in addition to the nil return. N K Thamman, a tax professional of the city, said, “Earlier, all GST registered assessees were required to file their monthly GSTR-3B return by logging on to GST portal. Sometimes, due to some technical issues or last minute rush on portal, the assessees had to wait for hours to file nil return. But now, to ease the compliance of filing nil GSTR-3B return, with effect from June 8, the government has allowed filling of nil return by SMS, from the registered mobile number. According to government estimates, this will benefit 22 lakh registered GST assessees across India. Now, these assessees who are not having any transaction (either inward or outward) during a month need not log on GST portal and may file their nil returns through a SMS.” Guiding about the procedure to file the NIL return, Thamman said, “The assessee has to send a SMS to ‘14409’ in the format ‘NIL3BGSTINtax period’. The sender will receive a OTP of six digits on his registered mobile number. The assessee has to send this OTP from his registered mobile number to ‘14409’ in the format ‘CNF3Bcode’ to confirm the filing of nil return. After successful filling, the assessee will receive acknowledgement [ARN] of filing of monthly GSTR-3B on their registered mobile number. After that, the assessee [if wishes] can check the status of returns so filed on GST portal by logging into his GSTIN account and navigating to ‘services>returns>track return status’.” Vishal Garg, a chartered accountant, said, “This is a welcome move by the Centre and it will help the assesees who are desirous of filing NIL return a lot by cutting the hassle of logging on to the website of GSTIN and filing return by completing all the required formalities. I think its high time that a mobile app too is introduced to provide options to the assesees and tax professionals to file the returns via app as well.” According to Nitin Sharma,a member of Auto Parts Manufacturers’ Association, “The facility to file nil GST return via SMS was our long-pending demand and we are happy that government has finally accepted it. It is going to benefit huge number of businessmen as in the recent months thousands of businessmen could not even do even single transaction either sale or purchase so we will be able to file such nil returns by SMS”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tax-professionals-bizmen-hail-move-to-file-nil-gst-return-via-sms/articleshow/76348671.cms||Mohit Behl
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE X & XII board results likely by Aug 15, says HRD minister||Nagpur: Results of both Class X and XII of CBSE are expected by August 15, according to Union minister for human resource development (HRD) Ramesh Pokhriyal. The delay is due to the board’s exams and evaluation schedule getting disrupted because of Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. A double whammy for the board was some of its Std X papers also getting postponed due to riots in North East Delhi. CBSE will resume exams for all leftover subjects from July 1. Pokhriyal told TOI conduct of the remaining exams and evaluation work will be coordinated for timely declaration of results. “The exams will go on, while evaluation work too will continue. We will try our best to ensure CBSE board exam results are declared by August 15,” he said. He added CBSE had been working to complete evaluation work despite the challenges. “We had taken special permission from home ministry to deliver 1.5 crore answer sheets to evaluators’ doorstep from 3,000 centres,” said Pokhriyal. Calling the year ahead ‘a challenging one’, Pokhriyal said his ministry was still confident of focusing on its priorities. “One of the priorities is propagating online teaching, another is to encourage research in universities and improve quality in every field. And ‘study-in-India’ is also our focus, so that more and more students come here and study in our institutes,” said Pokhriyal. Without naming any company Pokhriyal said, “You will realize CEOs of many top companies in the US is someone who has studied in India. This proves we have a quality setup that needs to be talked about. There are about a thousand students from ASEAN countries doing research in our IITs. Our faculty will go abroad to learn while their counterparts come here through various programmes.” The HRD minister said multiple online portals and apps had been developed with lots of content that can be used free of cost to learn. Even for those without a net connection or smartphone, learning won’t be stopped, said Pokhriyal. “Through Swayam-Prabha scheme, we have 32 DTH channels through which education will be provided to every student. As of today, I think we have the largest knowledge repository in various languages with almost 1 lakh e-content registered,” said Pokhriyal. For reduction in syllabus, Pokhriyal said he was currently accepting suggestions from experts. “Suggestions should be tangible and subject related. A final decision will be taken after consulting all stakeholders,” he said. He reiterated there was no fixed date for schools reopening and every decision will be taken mutually. “We will be speaking with states, union home and health ministries before taking any step. Safety of children is our utmost priority,” said Pokhriyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-x-xii-board-results-likely-by-aug-15-says-hrd-minister/articleshow/76349313.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Corona go! 16 big temples across Andhra Pradesh told to hold special poojas||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to ward off Covid-19, the state endowments department has directed executive officers of all major temples in the state to perform rituals on June 16. According to officials, special poojas and homas on Monday is part of the step to keep the pandemic in check. P Arjun Rao, commissioner, endowments department, has issued a circular directing all the executive officers of the 16 famous temples to seek blessings for the people of the country. These temples include – Kanaka Durga Temple atop of Indrakeeladri Hill, Lord Malleswara, the presiding deity in Srisailam and Lord Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam, to seek the divine blessings to the people of the nation in general and for those living in Andhra Pradesh in particular. The performing of the religious activity includes chanting of Vedic mantras, performing homams, japamas, prana yamamas and abhishekas to the presiding deities. “There is a mention in the Vedas that performing special rituals to the almighty will help protect mankind from various deadly diseases. Amid novel coronavirus outbreak fears, the endowments department thus, has decided to conduct these special poojas to ward off the threat,” Arjun Rao said. “We are in darkness about the virus. There is no cure and people are full of fear. The only thing that can bring solace is prayers,” he added. The initiative has come from a member of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board, Krishnamoorthy Vaidyanathan, to perform the rituals on the auspicious Bhoumashvina Day that falls on June 16. The TTD Trust Board member wrote to the Special Commissioner (Endowment) quoting Bhagavatha Purana Asthama Skandha in which Dhanvantri, an Amshavathara of Lord Vishnu, revealed the science of medicine to the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/corona-go-16-big-temples-across-state-told-to-hold-special-poojas/articleshow/76347805.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||High court stays construction of village sectt at primary school||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court has directed the state government not to undertake any constructions in the premises of government schools or the schools under the control of local bodies. After hearing a petition challenging the construction of village secretariat at the premises of the primary school at Thiruvolu village under Cheedikada mandal in Visakhapatnam district, the high court took suo moto cognizance of the issue and passed an interim order. The counsel for the petitioners PB Vijaya Kumar argued that the construction of the village secretariat will spoil the atmosphere at the primary school where tender aged children pursue their education. He also contended the action of the officials to cut down age-old trees for the purpose of constructing the village secretariat in the school premises. Vijaya Kumar argued that utilising the school premises which is having very limited space is arbitrary and illegal under National Policy on Education, Andhra Pradesh Education Act and the provisions of Right to Education Act. He said it is the duty of the government to provide all facilities as prescribed in the laws which also includes congenial atmosphere for children to learn and pursue education. Considering the arguments of the petitioners, Justice Battu Devanand took up the matter suo moto cognizance and issued notices to the principal secretary of education, commissioner of education, principal secretaries of panchayatraj and municipal administration departments. Justice Devanand observed that the issue raised in the petition is having larger implications which affects the interests of students studying in government schools or the schools under the control of local bodies across the state. While directing the authorities concerned not to undertake any construction in the premises of the primary school at Thiruvolu, the high court also directed the government to ensure not to take up any construction or other activities which are unconnected to the school. The high court asked the respondents to file affidavits and posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-stays-construction-of-village-sectt-at-primary-school/articleshow/76347781.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: More donation camps needed as banks run out of blood||VISAKHAPATNAM: With World Blood Donation Day being observed on June 14 and the constantly rising demand for blood, city doctors point to the need for allowing blood donation camps and a list of guidelines for donors and organisers that should be followed in the pandemic situation to avoid the spread of coronavirus. The government restrictions in conducting blood donation camps during the lockdown has also intensified the shortage of blood and need for camps to restart in the unlock phase. With the monsoon setting in, demand for blood transfusion and blood products (blood, platelets and plasma) would go up, as the number of cases of dengue fever and other vector-borne diseases will increase. Dr RV Ravi Kanna, consultant, internal medicine at Kims Icon Hospital said, “During the ongoing pandemic, many are afraid to donate blood. Blood donation camps are also hardly being held. However, there is nothing dangerous in donating blood provided one takes certain precautions.” Speaking to TOI, Dr A Sugandhi, pathologist from AS Raja Blood Bank and vice-president of Indian Society of Blood Transfusion and Immuno Haematology, AP chapter, said, “Camps of a smaller scale with upper limit of about 50 donors need to be held. With dengue, malaria cases coming in, and elective surgeries and procedures commencing, need for blood is badly felt. Blood banks have exhausted all the blood they have. Therefore, following social distancing and other safety norms such as sanitizing and avoiding large crowds, blood donation camps should be allowed by the government.” Listing various precautionary measures, Dr Ravi said, “Donors and staff should wear face masks at all blood donation drives or centres. Temperature or fever checks are required for staff and donors and anyone found to be have a higher body temperature than normal, should be deterred from blood donation. Hand sanitizer should be used as and when required. Beds, furniture and other equipment should be all well spaced-out. Staff should disinfect all surfaces touched by staff and donors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-donation-camps-needed-as-banks-run-out-of-blood/articleshow/76347859.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 13, 2020||Nashik||6 killed in separate road accidents||Nashik: As many as six people were killed in separate road accidents in rural parts of the district in the last 48 hours. Out of the deceased was also a 56-year-old police officer Rajendra Sansane from Amalner in Jalgaon district. Sansane was knocked down by an unidentified car near Wadali bhoi on Mumbai-Agra highway on Thursday. The driver escaped without informing anyone. Another 55-year-old woman was knocked down on the Mumbai-Agra highway near Igatpuri on Wednesday night. She was crossing the highway near Rathi petrol pump when she met with the accident, said APSI SK Shinde of Igatpuri police station. A 21-year-old man identified as Rahul Dagle from Ambe Bahule died after his car turned turtle due on the Mumbai Agra highway in Vilholi on Wednesday night. Meanwhile, two motorcyclists Ganesh Shirsath (21) of Dindori and Sampat Thakre (30) were killed at Vilholi and Chandwad respectively. In the last incident,Sagar Patil (27) of Talwade, Dhule died after his car rammed into a divider at Lonwade village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/76346742.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||MC ponders selling prime lands to tide over cash crunch||Ludhiana: The civic body of Ludhiana is facing such an acute financial crisis that it is considering selling some of its prime lands to generate income to pay salaries and fund developmental projects. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has suggested that the civic body sell prime lands. He has also instructed the officials to come out with a list of properties that can be sold. The extended lockdown has affected the recovery of property tax and water supply and sewerage dues. The property tax branch was supposed to have recovered Rs 100 crore in taxes but they could get only Rs 85 crore. The officials claimed if lockdown has not been announced in March, then it would have become easier to achieve the target because maximum recovery takes place in the last week of March. Similarly, the department entrusted with the task could collect only Rs 45 crore in water supply and sewerage dues, much less than the estimated amount. Requesting anonymity, one of the civic officials claimed that they have been given a target of Rs 130 crore from property tax for this financial year, but it is not possible realistically to achieve the target. Meanwhile, mayor Sandhu met with MC commissioner KP Brar to discuss revenue generation. He told her that a private firm is interested in the prime land of civic body near Salem Tabri, from where the vegetable market was shifted to Bahadur K Road. He asked the civic body officials to do due diligence of the offer. “If everything went well, we will be able to generate good amount. There are other prime properties that can also be sold for good profit,” he said, adding that for the development of a large city like Ludhiana funds are also important. A few months ago, the municipal corporation had proposed selling its prime lands for generating revenue and the resolution was sent to local bodies department for approval. Sources said due to Covid-19, the decision on the proposals were put on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-ponders-selling-prime-lands-to-tide-over-cash-crunch/articleshow/76348681.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Vendors not allowed to create hindrance to traffic: Mayor||Ludhiana: Even as Ludhiana police have announced to start an anti encroachment drive against the roadside vendors after June 25, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu warned them not to obstruct traffic by selling on the roadsides. He suggested they should move into localities. Mayor claimed that they do not want to disturb the livelihood of any vendor at this time, but they cannot let encroachments return to city roads. Before lockdown, many intensive drives against roadside vendors were held jointly by the police and the municipal corporation (MC) to get rid of the problem and after lockdown things had again started turning grim. The police on its official social media page made an announcement that they will carry out awareness drive up to June 25 and then action will begin. However, mayor Sandhu said, “I am not in favour of troubling anybody, especially the poor people. But when vendors stand at roadside people start gathering around for purchasing things. We are not supposed to let the public gather anywhere then how can we let vendors do such things.” He said he has also talked to the police commissioner over this issue and cleared that violators should not be spared. He said the vendors can visit the localities and sell things to the public, as they were doing at the time of lockdown so that social distancing could be followed and traffic should also not get disturbed. However, the roadside vendors have been raising hue and cry against this anti encroachment drive that was started in the beginning of this year. Several protests were going on against the MC and police for carrying out drive before lockdown period. A vendor at Hambran Road, Ram Kumar, said, “It is not possible for us to visit door-to-door for selling things. During lockdown people were not supposed to come out so we were going there but now public is moving freely. Moreover, the civic body wasted even these three months of lockdown and vending zones were not developed and again vendors will be their target.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vendors-not-allowed-to-create-hindrance-to-traffic-mayor/articleshow/76348694.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Now, 8 areas in district have 10 or more Covid-19 cases||Nagpur: The number of containment zones with 10 or more Covid-19 positive cases in district has increased to eight with rise in cases. Latest ones are Lashkaribagh slum in North Nagpur and Narayanpeth in Prem Nagar near Shanti Nagar in East Nagpur. Lashkaribagh has registered 14 cases as of now. The latest cases are family members and contacts of a 63-year-old woman who was admitted at IGGMCH on June 6 and her samples tested positive on June 7. She had no travel history. NMC official told TOI, “Son of the woman works in a private company engaged in drinking water supply. He was among 13 who tested positive a day ago. We had quarantined 46 persons of whom 13 came positive. Another 40 persons have been quarantined a day ago. It will be a next hotspot if more people from this area test positive,” he said. Similarly, ten persons from Narayanpeth tested positive on Thursday and Friday. They were close contacts of a person who was admitted at IGGMCH and tested positive on June 3. As per norms of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in case 10 or more contacts of a positive person test positive, s/he is termed a superspreader . Initially, Satranjipura in East Nagpur was the only containment zone to witness high number of cases after a 68-year-old man died at IGGMCH and his samples tested positive on April 6. The tally of this zone is 137 as on date. It was followed by Mominpura containment zone in Central Nagpur which is having highest number of cases at 333. Gaddigodam containment zone in West Nagpur was city’s third hotspot and registered 23 cases. Naik Talao-Bangladesh emerged as another major hotspot with cases at 218. The team of NMC Satranjipura zone on Friday quarantined 223 more persons from here on Thursday. Their reports are likely to come on Saturday. Two areas in Nagpur Rural—14 Mile Area at Gondkhairi and Digdoh at Hingna— had registered 12 and 10 cases respectively. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday reportedly closed down its slaughterhouse at Mominpura containment zone. BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari had questioned continuation of slaughterhouse despite the area being a containment zone since April 4. Tiwari said, “NMC claimed selling of meat and other essential products are permissible in containment zone. But slaughterhouse is not allowed. At was closed in Gaddigodam. NMC realized its mistake and closed this one too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-8-areas-in-district-have-10-or-more-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76348705.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Inter results declared, girls outdo boys in all categories||Vijayawada: State education minister Adimulapu Suresh on Friday declared the results of first and second-year Intermediate examinations held in March 2020. Overall, 59 per cent of students cleared the first-year examinations and 63 per cent of students passed the second-year exams. The results also showed that girls fared better than boys. A total of 5,07,230 students appeared for the first-year examinations, out of which 3,00,560 students passed. While 64 per cent of girls passed the first-year examinations, only 55 per cent of boys were able to clear the exam. Out of 39,135 students who appeared for the first-year vocational exams, only 41 per cent (16,195) were able to pass the test. Altogether, 4,35,655 candidates appeared for the second-year examination but only 2,76,389 students were able to pass them. Here too, girls fared better than boys. Sixty-seven per cent of girls appearing for the examination passed it, while the pass percentage of boys stood at 60 per cent. Out of 26,713 students who appeared for the second-year vocational exams, only 52 per cent (13,762) managed to pass. District-wise, Krishna topped with a pass percentage of 75 per cent for both first and second-year examinations, while Kadapa and Anantapur districts stood last for first-year examinations, with a 47 per cent pass percentage. Srikakulam district ranked lowest for second-year examinations (52 per cent). The pass percentage of Intermediate second-year students fell from 72 per cent in 2019 to 63 per cent in 2020. Education minister Adimulapu Suresh said, “Inter Board carried out a huge exercise to declare results. Around 10.2 lakh students appeared for examinations and 60 lakh answer sheets were evaluated despite lockdown. The evaluation process continued for one month following guidelines on social distancing. Usually, spot valuation will be held at 13 centres across the state and we increased the centres to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Hand sanitizers, masks and gloves were given to the lecturers who participated in spot valuation. We will conduct SSC and other examinations similarly.” The minister said the schedule for advanced supplementary exams will be declared shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/inter-results-declared-girls-outdo-boys-in-all-categories/articleshow/76347836.cms||Venu Lanka
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Use Rs 900 crore on forest blocks: CS||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday stressed the need for more plantation during monsoon and directed the officials to prepare an action plan for development of urban forest blocks utilising Rs Rs 900 crore funds available under the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA). “Proposals for works worth Rs 900 crore should be prepared for submission to the central government and steps should be taken to constitute a project monitoring unit for urban forest blocks,” he said. Reviewing the works of urban forestry, rejuvenation of forests and protecting them from encroachments, he said works on development of 188 forest blocks in 129 locations were in progress. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/use-rs-900-crore-on-forest-blocks-cs/articleshow/76348689.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Amritsar||In Amritsar, cases with no history rise||AMRITSAR: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has been maintaining that India has not entered the community transmission stage of Covid-19, but the number of patients without travel or contact history has been on the rise in Amritsar, Punjab’s worst-hit district, after the lifting of most lockdown restrictions on June 8. Now, to control the situation, the state government has once again started implementing lockdown on selective days to delay the pandemic’s peak. Going by data, from June 8 to 12, there have been 52 cases in which people with influenza-like infection (ILI) have been found infected in the district. None of these people had past travel or contact history. In this fiv-day period, another 35 persons acquired the infection from contacts of Covid-19 patients. Also, there were six deaths during thistime. Between June 3 and 7, there were 39 patients with no contact or travel history, and 34 cases of contacts of Covid-19 patients. The rise in the number of Covid-19 patients with no contact or travel history is being attributed to opening up of communities, market places, and lifting of travel restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-amritsar-cases-with-no-history-rise/articleshow/76348691.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||4 of Hamirpur family among HP’s 16 new Covid-19 patients||Shimla: Sixteen persons, including five from Hamripur, four from Una and three from Sirmaur, two from Kangra and one each from Solan and Chamba tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Four of those tested positive in Hamirpur are from one family. In the state, 17 more patients have also recovered. The state has now total 486 positive cases, of which 176 cases are active, 293 have recovered, six have died, while 11 have migrated out of state. Hamirpur chief medical officer Dr Archana Soni said those who tested positive in Hamirpur include a 34-year-old woman and her 10-year-old son from Chhaner area of Sujanpur sub-division. The woman’s husband had tested positive on June 9. They had returned from Jhansi in Madhya Pradesh on May 29, and had been in home quarantine. The man’s 59-year-old man and 57-year-old wife have also tested positive, along with a nine-year-old girl, who is their relative, as they were his primary contacts. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 56-year-old man from Lagru area of Khundian tehsil had tested positive. He had returned from Delhi on June 2 and was in home quarantine. In another case, a 71-year-old man from Majhetli village, who returned from Amritsar two days back, have also tested positive. Prajapati said both are being shifted to Zonal Hospital in Dharamshala. In Solan district, a youth from Darlaghat who had returned from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and was in home quarantine has been tested positive. In Chamba district, a 22-year-old male from Galu village of Bharmaur sub division has also got the infection. He had returned from Kapurthala in Punjab some days back and was in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-of-hamirpur-family-among-hps-16-new-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76348743.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Virus fails to deter festive crowd||Bhubaneswar: Markets in the city witnessed heavy crowd on Friday as people came out for Raja shopping. When people violated social distancing norms, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) sealed several shops and market places. Almost all shopping places and garment stores in the city received heavy footfall on the eve of the Raja festival. People were behaving like there is no Covid-19 fear and social distancing went for a toss. “Tomorrow we will observe Raja festival. As we will wear new dresses and prepare sweat cakes and dishes during the three-day festival, we have come here for purchasing new dresses from Market Building,” said Mrunmayee Senapati of Unit-9. Though the state government extended the curfew hours from 7pm to 10pm on Friday, keeping the Raja shopping in mind, the people did not wait for night and crowded different market places like Unit-II Market Building, Unit-1 market and other hubs in the city. Even people also crowded vegetable markets and ration shops as the weekend shutdown will start from 10pm on Friday. “I knew that people will come in large numbers to the markets and social distancing norms cannot be maintained, but I have to come for shopping for my daughters,” said a government employee. Though some shops controlled and manages the crowd, several others found it difficult to manage. Keeping this situation in mind, the BMC conducted surprise checks at different market places and shops in the city. Besides, the BMC squads created awareness among people at other market places to maintain social distance and use masks while coming to shops or markets. The corporation has already sealed 35 shops for violating social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/virus-fails-to-deter-festive-crowd/articleshow/76347873.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 13, 2020||Nashik||2.14L elderly citizens surveyed for co-morbidity||Nashik: Over 2.14 lakh elderly citizens across the district have been surveyed for any kind of illness, health officials of the district administration said, adding that they have found 57,607 people with co-morbid conditions. Senior officials confirmed that the work of identifying such people is still underway and that 3,067 teams are working across the district to check the health of elderly people aged 60 and above. According to officials, there a surge in Covid-19 cases across the district and that the chances of elderly people contracting the infection are more as they could be suffering from other ailments like heart disease, diabetes, cancer, etc. On this backdrop, it was essential to get the survey of all the senior citizens done, they said. The elderly citizens are also checked for cough, cold, oxygen saturation, fever, etc., especially those in the containment zones. Until June 11, 1,758 people have contracted the infection. Of them, 1,168 have recovered, 109 have succumbed while 481 are hospitalised in different Covid care centres across the district. Health officials said that the district administration is taking all possible measures to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread and that the fatality rate goes down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-14l-elderly-citizens-surveyed-for-co-morbidity/articleshow/76346773.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Private lab in Vijayawada gets ICMR nod to hold Covid-19 tests||VIJAYAWADA: In a major development, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given permission to a private diagnostic centre in Vijayawada to perform the Covid-19 test. Apollo Diagnostics situated at Tikkle road was granted permission to collect samples from suspected Covid-19 patients and perform the diagnostic test. The number of Covid-19 suspects approaching the government hospitals and testing centres has been increasing every day and it has been an uphill task for Krishna district administration to test all suspect cases. The government’s testing centres are taking two to three days to revert with the result. Testing has also become a huge financial burden for the state government. Apollo Diagnostics will begin performing tests from Saturday. However, Andhra Pradesh state government has directed the diagnostic centre to charge only Rs 2,900 per test, though many laboratories in other states are charging Rs 4,500 for a test. The diagnostic centre said that they are making arrangements to collect the samples at the doorstep of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pvt-lab-in-vij-gets-icmr-nod-to-hold-covid-tests/articleshow/76347883.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Migrant fishermen want toilets on board||Visakhapatnam: In an attempt to maintain hygiene on board, the fisheries association in Andhra Pradesh carried out a survey of migrant fishermen who travel to Gujarat every year, about their problems and the manner in which they can protect themselves from Covid-19. Following the survey, a set of five demands has been drafted and sent to the Union minister of fisheries and the state governments of Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. All five demands are aimed at maintaining hygiene in vessels, harbours and landing centres of Veraval and other ports in Gujarat. Arjili Dasu, an activist working for the welfare of fishermen said, “Although migrant fishermen make more money in Gujarat compared to their counterparts, their basic needs are not taken care of. Conditions on vessels and harbours are miserable. Such things should not be allowed in the wake of a pandemic.” “We think vessel owners and others concerned should take care of the health and hygiene of these fishermen,” added Dasu. One of the key demands of the fishermen is to set up bio-toilets in every vessel. These fishermen have to stay mid-sea for as long as 29 days at a stretch and then come back to landing centres. “We hardly get any sleep in those 29 days as most boats only have one dingy cabin with no less than eight members on board. There are no toilets on board. Many fishermen have fallen off boats to their death as they sit at the edge of boats to relieve themselves,” said Kviri Mahesh, a fisherman. He further said: “We are able to bathe for only four of the 29 days as there isn’t enough fresh water on board.” Moreover, fishermen’s associations had demanded that the number of voyage days be reduced from 29 to 15 and that fishermen are allowed five days rest after every voyage. The further demanded that boat owners should not force fishermen to go near the Pakistan border and that there should be mandatory life and medical insurance for these fishermen and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrant-fishermen-want-toilets-on-board/articleshow/76347914.cms||Arpit Basu
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Jaklair-Makthal line completed||Hyderabad: The broad gauge non-electrified main line between Jaklair–Makthal stations in Telangana has been completed and is ready to run passenger services with immediate effect, railway officials have said. The line covers a distance of distance of 11.477 kms. It is a part of the Mahbubnagar-Munirabad section which is the border belt of Telangana and Karnataka. The South Central Railway is also constructing a new BG line from Devarkada to Krishna, which will cover a distance of 65.852 kms. The project was santioned in 2011-12 with an estimated cost of Rs 372.09 crore. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jaklair-makthal-line-completed/articleshow/76348748.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||GMR signs MoU with AP govt to develop Bhogapuram airport||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has asked the administration to lay a road between Bhogapuram airport and Visakhapatnam city at the earliest. The chief minister was addressing officials and representatives of the GMR group at his Tadepalli camp office in Guntur district on Friday after signing an MoU for the development of Bhogapuram airport. AP industries special chief secretary Karikala Vallavan and GMR chairman GBS Raju signed the MoU in the presence of the chief minister. The cabinet had approved the project at its meeting on Thursday and had directed GMR to sign the MoU at the earliest. The cabinet also took back 500 acres from the GMR group for Bhogapuram airport, leaving 2,200 acres for the airport development project. The government has decided to develop these 500 acres along commercial lines by the time the airport is ready. The previous TDP government had allocated 2,700 acres to GMR for the project. The project is expected to contribute towards the overall development of the less-developed north Andhra region. The GMR representatives told the chief minister that they plan to use the services of expert organisations across the world for the airport project. The chief minister also directed the officials to plan metro rail connectivity from Bhogapuram airport to Visakhapatnam city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gmr-signs-mou-with-govt-to-develop-bhogapuram-airport/articleshow/76347896.cms||Gopi Dara
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Staff crunch, poor research output the bane of govt univs’||Bhubaneswar: Private universities fared better than the state-run-universities in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) published by the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) on Thursday. Not a single state university from Odisha could make it to the top 100 institutions listed in NIRF’s overall ranking category. In the university category, private institutions like SOA secured a rank of 20 followed by KIIT (24). But no state university secured a place in the top-50 rank. Only Utkal University managed to settle at 96 rank in this category. For the first time, a state-run university from Odisha secured a rank in the top 100 institutions listed by NIRF. The Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla and Sambalpur University found their place in the rank band of 101-150, while Berhampur University secured a place in the rank band of 151-200 in the category of university. Other state varsities like the Fakir Mohan University, Balasore, Ravenshaw University in Cuttack and others did not find a place among the top-200 universities of the country. Experts blame teacher shortage and poor research output as the major reasons behind the poor show of the state public universities in the ranking framework. There are five parameters in NIRF to give rating to an institution. These are teaching, learning and resources (TLR), research and professional practice (RP), graduation outcomes (GO), outreach and inclusivity (OI) and peer perception. All these parameters have 100 marks each. Utkal University secured 42.89 out of 100 in TLR, 11.5 in RP, 77.12 in GO, 44.13 in OI and 39 in peer perception. It secured only 11.5 out of 100 in RP because of poor research output. “The university should improve the quantity and quality of publications. It should file more patents and work consistently on intellectual property rights,” said a senior professor. “It is important to get more research funding and earn consultancy amount from different government and non-government organisations or companies for research works. Usually, major institutions get many offers from different companies and government organisations to conduct certain studies and research works. In this way, the institutions earn good money. Our universities should also keep this in mind,” said the professor, who has helped the universities in documentation work before taking part in the ranking process. Another important criteria is the teacher-student ratio. “Most of the state universities in Odisha are facing a shortage of teachers. Some universities have completed recruitment and others are yet to complete it. We should try to keep the ratio below 1:9 (one teacher for nine students). But some of the universities have to manage with 1:20 ratio. It will obviously decrease the marks in the TLR section,” said a senior professor of a university. The state universities receive few students from outside the state and country. Under the outreach and inclusivity category, these universities should think out-of-the-box to attract students from outside. For inclusivity, the universities should deploy around 20% women faculty and admit 50% women students. Besides, it should provide facilities to physically challenged along with socially and economically-deprived students. Govind J Chakrapani, the vice-chancellor of Berhampur University, said, “We could not complete the faculty recruitment process owing to the pandemic. But we will complete this process and appoint teachers after the situation gets better. Next time we can do well in the teacher-student ratio. We are also trying to improve other parameters to secure a good rank.” Asoka Kumar Das, vice chairman of the Odisha State Higher Education Council, said it is just the beginning. “One of our universities secured a place in the top 100 universities of the country. The other two universities also secured a place in the top 200. We will work on all the five parameters and improve our ranks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/staff-crunch-poor-research-output-the-bane-of-govt-univs/articleshow/76347921.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Local railway officials asked to ensure no one leaves station without screening||Ludhiana: A day after several migrant labourers left the Ludhiana railway station without undergoing any medical screening, railway authorities have given directions to local railway security forces, including railway police force, to coordinate with district health department team and ensure proper medical screening of passengers. The railway has also given direction to the district health department team to make the use of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to keep a check on the movement of the passengers, so that they do not leave station premises without undergoing medical screening and verification process. The local ticket checking staff are also ordered to ensure implementation of safety standard norms like social distancing and masks among the passengers. Sources in the railway department said “The action has been taken by high authorities of Firozepur division after witnessing the utter chaos prevailing at station premises in afternoon hours when hundreds of migrant workers left the station without following safety standard norms of social distancing and medical screening process.” According to the sources, the railway authorities have appealed to the district health authorities to increase the number of health officials deputed at the station for conducting screening as a heavy rush of migrants labourers is expected at the station in the next few days. They said farmer associations are helping them come back to the city for the paddy season. Meanwhile, the ticket checking staff have asked for pesrsonal protective equipment (PPE) suits as they are dealing with thousands of passengers some of whose body temperatures were found to be abnormally high in the medical screening process. Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “Railway authorities have taken every possible step to ensure the proper implementation of social distancing norms across the station premises. We have issued specific directions to local railway security forces to coordinate with health department team for supporting further in their work.” “Moreover, the railway has made all CCTV cameras functional across the station premises to check the movement of passengers and ensure proper medical screening,” said the station director. Anil Kumar, in charge of railway protection force, said, “As directed, we are coordinating with district health department team to ensure that no passenger leaves the station premises without undergoing medical screening. We have deployed adequate number of security personnel at the exit and entrance points.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/local-railway-officials-asked-to-ensure-no-one-leaves-station-without-screening/articleshow/76348741.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||SOG will investigate BJP bid to topple Rajasthan government: Ashok Gehlot||Jaipur: Accusing the BJP of hatching a conspiracy to topple his government with lucrative offers to MLAs ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the allegations are now being investigated by the SOG. Gehlot, however, refused to disclose names of those behind the toppling game, allegedly involving transfer of money for horse trading. “Democracy is being destroyed by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah duo at a time when the country is fighting coronavirus," alleged Gehlot at a press conference attended by deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and other senior leaders of the party at a hotel here. “What happened in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh is known to all, and now it is being tried here in Rajasthan,” he said “If the BJP leaders are making calls to the Congress and independent MLAs, what should we call this,” he asked. He repeated the charge that the Rajya Sabha election was earlier postponed to facilitate horse trading by the ruling dispensation at the Centre. “Rajya Sabha elections could have been held two months earlier. Even though preparations had been made, the election was suddenly postponed at the last minute without any reason. I had then said that it was done to facilitate horse trading. I have been proven right,” he said. Gehlot said the charge of poaching Congress MLAs was now being probed by the SOG, following a complaint by party chief whip Mahesh Joshi. Pledging to defeat the designs of BJP, he said the party was also seeking the support of two CPM MLAs and BTP MLAs to ensure maximum gains for party candidates in the June 19 biennial election. The Congress MLAs are continuing to huddle at a city resort. Asked about Pilot's statement that he received no complaint regarding horse trading, Gehlot asserted that he was the chief minister and if something had come to his notice, it must have come from a reliable source. "How can I disclose the source," he asked On Wednesday, Gehlot had stated that a huge amount of cash had been transferred to Jaipur and attempts were being made to poach MLAs akin to what happened in Madhya Pradesh. The chief minister on Wednesday called all MLAs of the Congress and independents supporting his government to his residence after getting a tip-off that the MLAs were offered huge sums for cross voting and destabilising his government. The MLAs were then shifted to a resort on the outskirts of Jaipur. It was decided that they would stay there till the elections are over. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had also filed a complaint with the ACB seeking an investigation into the charges of corrupt practices of some people to lure MLAs. This is now being investigated by the SOG. Elections are being held to three Rajya Sabha seats from the state. The Congress has nominated AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while the BJP has announced Rajendra Gehlot as its candidate. According to their strength in the assembly, the Congress could win two seats and the BJP one as each candidate requires 51 votes for a victory. But in a surprise move, the BJP fielded a second candidate, Omkar Singh Lekhawat, forcing an election and triggering fears of horse trading. The Congress alone has 107 MLAs in a house of 200. It enjoys the support of 13 Independents and two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and a lone member of Bharatiya Lok Dal (BLD). If the party manages to get the support of two CPM MLAs, the total support for the party in Rajya Sabha elections will go up to 125. The BJP, on the other hand, has only the support of 75 MLAs, including 73 of its own and three MLAs from Bharatiya Loktantrik Party (BLP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-will-investigate-bjp-bid-to-topple-state-govt-gehlot/articleshow/76349349.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Reverse quarantine in Alappuzha to cover 40,000 families||ALAPPUZHA: A local body in Alappuzha is planning to start a reverse quarantine project to protect those who are over 70 years and those with underlying medical conditions in about 40,000 families. The ‘Ardramee Aryad’ project would cover the vulnerable sections in 80 wards of Aryad, Mannancherry, Mararikulam South and Muhamma grama panchayats, under the Aryad block panchayat. The project, which is the brainchild of finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, involves delivering essential services, including tele-medicine consultations, to elderly people, pregnant women, children under the age of five and people suffering from cancer and kidney diseases. A training programme for an army of doctors and health volunteers has been progressing under a 25-member team led by the vice-principal of Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, Dr Sairu Philip, which will end on June 13. The project would be inaugurated by Thomas Isaac next week. Sheena Sanalkumar, president of Aryad block panchayat, said over 160 health volunteers would be deployed for the project which would be executed under the supervision of community and primary health centres in the block panchayat. “The health volunteers would be provided with smart phones and android tablets. They would have details of the vulnerable sections and as they are discouraged to come out of their homes, all services they need will be delivered at their door steps,” she said. “People in the reverse quarantine can call them if they need any help. Tele-medicine consultations would be offered to them. They can make video calls to doctors and once they prescribe the medicines, the health volunteers will bring medicines for them. If they do not have money for buying the medicines, they would be provided free of cost. The health volunteers will also make arrangements for taking them to hospitals if the situation demands. Food and other essential items will also be provided at the door steps of the people if they don’t have any members in their families to buy them for them,” said C B Shajikumar, a people’s representative. The health volunteers would also create awareness among the family members for taking safety measures like wearing masks, washing of hands and keeping social distancing when they go outside. The block panchayat has also decided to make it mandatory for all households in the block panchayat to place hand sanitizers or soaps and a bucket of water in front of the houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/reverse-quarantine-in-alp-to-cover-40k-families/articleshow/76346837.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Shops, malls closed on Sundays, open on Sat till 5pm||Ludhiana: The state government has released the list of restrictions for Saturday, Sunday and other gazetted holidays as part of Lockdown 5.0. Shops and shopping malls will be closed on Sunday, but will be allowed on Saturday till 5pm. The shops dealing with essential commodities and services are exempted from this, they will continue to be allowed to open till 7pm everyday. Restaurants (take home / home delivery only) and liquor shops will continue to be open till 8pm on all days too. The order said on Saturday, Sunday and other gazetted holidays, inter-district movement is allowed against e-pass, which will be issued only for essential work. In case of medical emergency, no pass is required. Marriage functions up to 50 persons will be permitted against e-pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shops-malls-closed-on-sundays-open-on-sat-till-5pm/articleshow/76348761.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Covid-free till May-mid, case count hits 100-mark at Janata Vasahat||Pune: The number of coronavirus cases at Janata Vasahat has hit the 100-mark, prompting the civic authorities to seal all its entry-exit points, barring one where a police check-post has been set up to keep an eye on the entrants. The slum pocket was almost infection-free till mid of May. Located along the Parvati hill and stretching towards Sinhagad Road, Janata Vasahat is considered among the city’s large slum pockets. After an initial spike in cases, detection of new patients has come down since last few days, but still has not reached zero, the civic authorities said. With the sealing of entry-exit points, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has identified two schools within the locality for the stay of suspects patients of Covid-19 whose swabs test reports are awaited. Besides, the residents have been told to stay at home and step out only in case of emergencies. “Soon after the first few cases were detected, the entire area was sealed. Even internal lanes were blocked, while the entry-exit points from the two approach roads — Neelayam bridge and Sinhagad Road — were monitored. For the initial two weeks, the cases went up significantly. However, since the last week, there has been a drop in new cases. An average of four to five cases are being detected in the area now,” a civic official said, adding that the authorities had also sealed the approach roads from the hill side. Janata Vasahat has a population of around 60,000 and has the Mutha canal on one side. The locality was not in the list of micro containment zones till May 15. However, after the sudden rise in the number of cases, the civic authorities decided to declare it as a micro containment zone. Local corporator Shankar Pawar said the entire area along the Sinhagad Road was vulnerable as there were three more slum pockets, including Dandekar bridge, Panmala and Rajiv Gandhinagar, near Janata Vasahat. The united efforts by the citizens, authorities and police have so far kept the spread of virus under control. The masks and ration kits have been distributed in Janata Vasahat and people have been told not to ignore the symptoms, Pawar added. ## Janata vasahat pocket status (up to June 12) # total positives: 100 # death : 10 # active cases: 40 # discharge : 50 # estimated population : around 60,000 # location : near Parvati hillock||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-free-till-may-mid-case-count-hits-100-mark-at-janata-vasahat/articleshow/76348774.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kinjarapu Atchannaidu’s arrest ‘act of vengeance’: TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu||VISAKHAPATNAM: TDP chief and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu has termed the early morning arrest of Kinjarapu Atchannaidu as a “vengeance act” as the Tekkali MLA had raised his voice against illegal mining, land grabbing and corrupt practices of the YSRC government. “The government is behaving like a psycho. This is a revenge act. Was there any mention of Atchannaidu’s name in the vigilance report? Was his role mentioned in the purchase manual? Illegal and false cases have been framed against him. There is no limit to Jagan government’s atrocities,” Naidu said in Hyderabad. The TDP chief further alleged that every step of the government was against the Constitution. “Attacks on BCs and SCs are on the rise. They are making statements that they will smash the TDP. We will oppose them at every step and fight till the last,” he warned. TDP functionaries also staged protests against the arrest of the former labour minister in Naidu’s cabinet. Former Gajuwaka MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao was detained by police when he staged protest at the old Gajuwaka junction. Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu, son of Atchannaidu’s elder brother Yerrannaidu Kinjarapu, said the YSRC government is trying to create fear among TDP cadre. “All 151 MLAs of YSRC are afraid of my uncle who has been raising his voice against the government’s corrupt and dictatorial practices. He has already clarified that he had no role to play in the scam,” the TDP MP alleged. Former TDP minister Ch Ayyannapatrudu too slammed the BC leader’s arrest as a revenge act. “ESI works under the central government, the state government only plays the role of a local monitoring agency. Ministers have no role to play in ESI’s transactions. The director of ESI should be responsible as per the GO issued in 2012,” he said. He added that a similar scam happened in Telangana in which ESI officers were found responsible. “Even the statement of the government mentioned the directors as responsible. There was no mention of Atchannaidu. This is nothing but a vengeance act of the Jagan government,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/atchannaidus-arrest-act-of-vengeance-naidu/articleshow/76347932.cms||Siva G
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab app to check community spread||CHANDIGARH: In what is being touted as a first-of-its-kind initiative aimed at checking the community spread of Covid-19, Punjab on Friday launched mobile app ‘Ghar Ghar Nigrani’, to undertake house-to-house surveillance in the state as an ongoing process, till the elimination of the pandemic. Launching the app through videoconference in the presence of health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, chief minister Amarinder Singh said ASHA workers and community volunteers can be a tool in preventing its community spread. Additional chief secretary for health Anurag Agarwal said the entire rural and urban population of Punjab above 30 years of age would be surveyed as part of the drive, which would also cover persons below the age of 30 having co-morbidity or influenza like illness or acute respiratory illness. It would not be a one-time activity but an ongoing process till the containment of thje pandemic, said Agarwal. The survey would capture full medical conditions of a person for the previous one week and complete details of his co-morbidity. It would help the state develop an extremely important database to further plan its strategy and make targeted interventions for the community. The survey will give better direction to all state health programmes by providing input for MIS-based monitoring. The app had been developed and designed in-house by the health department, and had been field tested in Patiala and Mansa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-app-to-check-community-spread/articleshow/76348784.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Step on these coir mats to disinfect your feet||ALAPPUZHA: Aiming to prevent the spread of Covid-19 through legs, Kerala State Coir Corporation Limited has introduced custom-made mat that will disinfect the feet of the person rubbing on it. The corporation has developed the mats with the National Coir Research Institute and Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology developing a disinfectant liquid. In this disinfection system, a specially-designed coir mat is first placed on a rubberized tray. The tray is then filled with a disinfectant liquid, said corporation managing director G Sreekumar. A dry mat is placed beside the tray. “The trays can be placed in front of offices and houses. People coming to home or office can rub their feet on the mat placed in the tray and their feet will be disinfected. After that, they can rub their feet in the dry mat placed near the tray to wipe the wetness,” Sreekumar said. “Cleaning our feet through this way will help us in preventing the spread of Covid-19.” The Covid-19-prevention mats and tray will be sold as packets. “We have developed 20 customised mats for this,” said the managing director. The price of the mats ranges from Rs 200 to Rs 800. The mats will be sold through the distribution wings of Coir Corporation and Kudumbashree. The official inauguration of the project will be held in Kochi on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/step-on-these-coir-mats-to-disinfect-your-feet/articleshow/76346881.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Vadodara||SSG Hospital doctors seek better hostel accommodation||Vadodara: Resident doctors, who are frontline warriors in the battle against Covid-19, are facing problems at the state-run SSG Hospital. On Friday, resident doctors of the government-run hospital made representation before the medical superintendent demanding that those working in the isolation ward of Covid-19 and especially those who test positive should be provided proper hotel accommodation.Resident doctors of SSG Hospital are sent on deputation to Ahmedabad civil hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital for Covid-19 duties. A dozen-odd resident doctors and consultants who were sent on deputation to Ahmedabad from SSG have tested positive.“Proper quarantine should be provided to resident doctors after Covid-19 ward duties. Also, deputation to Ahmedabad and Gotri hospital should be stopped as SSG itself is overburdened,” said a resident doctor, adding that non-Covid patients are also suffering because of shortage of manpower at SSG hospital.“On third and fourth floor, one resident doctor is taking care of 100 patients. Due to non-availability of ventilator and lack of manpower, patients are not getting enough attention,” he said.“Post-covid duties, residents cannot stay in hostel as they can infect others. Also, those from outside Vadodara cannot return to their home for the quarantine period. Ahmedabad civil hospital has made arrangements with two hotels for residents. Such arrangement should be done here as well,” said another resident doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssg-hospital-doctors-seek-better-hostel-accommodation/articleshow/76345881.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||CCB sleuths dig up Ravi Pujari’s past in Naushad Kashimji murder case||Mangaluru: A little more than 11 years after lawyer Naushad Kashimji was gunned down at the basement of his apartment in Falnir on April 9, 2009, underworld gangster Ravi Pujari, who allegedly ordered the hit on human rights lawyer, is now facing the heat for this crime. A team from Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru City Police is in this coastal city in connection with the ongoing investigation into a series of crimes attributed to Pujari. CCB sleuths, who obtained Pujari’s police custody in connection with this case, are tying up the loose ends pertaining to the murder of Kashimji who was representing D-Company hitman Abdul Rashid Hassan Malbari aka Malbari. Pujari, who had remained elusive from the Indian lawmakers for more than 15 years, was said to be unhappy over Kashimji representing Malbari. Pujari had also allegedly issued life threats, directing him to desist from doing so. A retired senior police officer said Pujari was also not happy with Kashimji venturing to defend Indian Mujahideen members that then district police had arrested. He had received more than 10 international threat calls from March 30 to April 9 (the day he was murdered), the officer said, adding that the advocate has not informed the police or his then senior Purushottam Poojary about receiving the threat calls. “This came to light when police went through his call records later,” the officer explained. “CCB team is primarily focusing on Pujari’s role in the advocate’s sensational murder,” a senior CCB officer handling the investigating told TOI. “We have also lined up other cases in which Pujari is allegedly involved, but had filed the chargesheet against him in absentia as he was then a fugitive,” the officer added. The team is now picking up threads of Pujari’s involvement cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chikkamagaluru districts. Pujari, currently in police custody in Bengaluru, is accused in more than 30 cases reported in Mangaluru from 2007 to 2018. Majority of the cases against Pujari pertain to extortion and extending death threats, one relating to murder, three to shootings/ abduction and one where he supplied money to his henchmen in prison. Police have filed ‘C’ report in 17 out of 28 threat call cases and ‘B’ report in one case. Rest are in different stages of trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ccb-sleuths-dig-up-ravi-pujaris-past-in-naushad-kashimji-murder-case/articleshow/76345988.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||HC allows Barwala dental college students to sit for exams||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday gave conditional permission to the students of BRS Dental College and Hospital in Barwala of Panchkula district to appear at examinations to be held in the month of June itself. The students had approached the court complaining that due to a tussle between the management and the teaching staff over non-payment of salaries, classes are not being held since July last year and feared that they could lose one academic year. Mentioning that the permission is being granted to save the academic year of students, the high court said the results of the exams should not be declared and the same should be submitted to the court in a sealed cover. The matter has been adjourned till August 28. In response to the students’ request to order for their shifting to other colleges, the court directed the Dental Council of India to conduct an inspection in this regard, which was withheld due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Among other instructions, the HC ordered the respondent college to forward a list of all the students who are to take examinations within two days. It also asked the students to deposit the examination fee at the university directly. The order reads, “Mere fact that the students are being allowed to take examination would not hold them automatically eligible for promotion to the next session or being eligible for a degree.” As for their eligibility to undertake the examinations without completing required number of lecturers or without depositing their tuition fee, as claimed by the respondent college, the court said the same would considered at the time of final disposal of the writ petition. Representing the students, advocate Parduman Garg said the Barwala dental college had taken advance fee from the students for the session 2019-2020 and no receipt was given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-allows-barwala-dental-college-students-to-sit-for-exams/articleshow/76346848.cms||Neha Sharma
June 13, 2020||Pune||PMR tally surges past 11,000, 11 succumb to contagion||Pune: The Covid-19 case count in Pune municipal limits breached the 9,000-mark on Friday, with the addition of 273 patients in the PMC areas in the last 24 hours. Overall, 390 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, taking the case burden in the region to 11,202. Besides, 11 patients succumbed to the infection at various hospitals in PMR, pushing the death toll up to 471. With the addition of new cases, total case load in PMC limits now stands at 9,166. “A total of 198 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours in PMR after they were declared cured. Besides, 260 critical patients were being treatment at various hospitals,” a district health official said. Among the deceased, four patients died at the Sassoon hospital. These included a 52-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 73-year-man from the Parvati area, a 62-year-old woman from Kondhwa and a 55-year-old man from Katraj. The patients who died at private hospitals included a 69-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 56-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 61-year-old man from the Gultekdi area, a 74-year-old woman from Kasba Peth, a 46-year-old woman from Bibvewadi, a 50-year-old woman from the Parvati area and a 65-year-old woman from the Pune Camp area. PMC officials said 2,249 swab samples were collected on Friday and sent for the testing. A total of 3,621 active patients were admitted at various hospitals and Covid centres in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-surges-past-11000-11-succumb-to-contagion/articleshow/76348786.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Chartered flight with 175 passengers, nine infants to land in Mangaluru on Saturday||Mangaluru: The second chartered flight carrying 175 expats and nine infants from in and around Uttara Kannada district from Ras al Khaimah airport is expected to land at MIA in the wee hours of Saturday. The flight is chartered by NRI businessman Muniri Atiqurrehman, proprietor and chairman of Nuha General Trading Company, Dubai. The SpiceJet 9085 RKT-IXE flight is expected to depart at Friday 10.35pm (UAE time) and reach Mangaluru International Airport around 3.55am. Muniri, who also heads Bhatkal-based NGO Majlis-e-Islah wa Tanzeem, told over the phone that he was moved by the plight of several stranded people from Bhatkal and surrounding areas of Uttara Kannada district in Dubai. “After seeing their sufferings, I decided to arrange the chartered flight where passengers will only pay AED 1,050 (Rs 21,000) towards the journey. Rest of the arrangements like transport to RAK airport from various parts of UAE, food, transport to Uttara Kannada and as well quarantine facilities are taken care free of cost. We just hope to send helpless people here return home safe,” he told TOI. All the passengers will board the flight at RAK airport after Covid-19 testing, he added. Dr Arathi Krishna, former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka, who also played a vital role in getting necessary approval for the flight, said the state government had cancelled approval for the flight landing at the last minute and scheduled the same after 10 days. “After my intervention, DGCA, Consulate General of India, Dubai gave a green signal for the flight to depart on June 12. The sponsors would have been distressed if it was delayed for another 10 days,” she added Chartered flight with 172 passengers lands The Gulf Air GF-7272, flight from King Fahd International Airport, Dammam, Saudi Arabia to Mangaluru International Airport with 172 passengers landed late on Thursday. The flight was chartered by KS Sheikh Karnire, director of Expertise-Contracting Co Limited, Saudi Arabia. After the initial screening, all passengers were sent to quarantine centre arranged by the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/chartered-flight-with-175-passengers-nine-infants-to-land-in-mangaluru-on-saturday/articleshow/76346333.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Exodus continues as thousands scramble to get back to Assam||BENGALURU: Ruksana Begum and her four-year-old son Ismail arrived at Bangalore Palace grounds in Vasanthnagar at 4am on Friday in the hope of returning home to their village in Darrang district, Assam. After more than two months of struggle in Bengaluru, during which she lost her job as a domestic help, Begum had had enough. The mother and son were among about 4,000 migrant workers, mostly Assamese, who flocked to the grounds on Friday, hoping to land a berth on a Shramik train leaving for Guwahati. But they had to wait for hours due to official apathy. The only silver lining was that the fare was free. The state government had announced a train to Guwahati for migrants on Friday after a gap of five days. The last Shramik train to Assam left Bengaluru on June 6. “We missed the earlier train and desperately waited for the next one,” said Uday Bahadur Gurung from Udalguri district. “On Thursday evening, a friend told me a train was leaving for Guwahati on Friday evening and we had to assemble outside Palace Grounds. So we came running early in the morning.” Gurung worked as a service staff at a hotel on Residency Road, where he had been holding on with no pay but limited food supply. While thousands of migrants, including people from Tripura and West Bengal, waited for hours, there was no government official in sight. City police personnel and local volunteers scrambled to control the surging crowds. “Some migrant workers who we have been coordinating with called us to inform that no official was there and hundreds, including women and children, were waiting since early morning without food and water. So we rushed over at around 10am and attempted to reach out to officials,” a volunteer, who did not want unnamed, said. The crowd has to make do with just two mobile toilets installed at the grounds. With volunteers and social activists repeatedly reaching out to officials, a BBMP team including senior officials finally arrived around 12.30pm to take charge. “There was some confusion as many of us were stationed at the Palace Grounds and managing those heading to Uttar Pradesh,” a BBMP official said without revealing his identity. Around 2pm, much to the relief of the potential passengers, BBMP officials began serving food and distributing water bottles. More mobile toilets were set up and registrations began for those who had registered on Seva Sindhu portal. For the ones who hadn’t, there was a spot registration facility. South Western Railway (SWR) sources said Friday’s train to Guwahati could seat 1,600 to 1,700 passengers, but since the demand for seats was huge and many senior citizens, women and children had arrived with bag and baggage, state officials requested for one more train to Assam on Friday. SWR obliged and a second train was commissioned. Those who could not get a seat, had no choice but to return to their homes in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/exodus-continues-as-thousands-scramble-to-get-back-to-assam/articleshow/76347381.cms||Petlee Peter
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||GMR offered low revenue, model unviable: MIL to HC||NAGPUR: In reply to allegations that the Nagpur airport modernization tender was cancelled arbitrarily without any notice, the Mihan India Ltd (MIL) informed the high court here that the Civil Aviation ministry wasn’t satisfied over the revenue sharing model proposed and had questioned the financial viability of the deal. A division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar on Friday adjourned the hearing for four weeks after petitioners’ counsel Charuhas Dharmadhikari sought time to file reply on MIL’s contentions. The petitioners — GMR Airports Ltd and GMR Nagpur International Airport Ltd — prayed for quashing MIL’s letter issued to them on March 19, annulling the airport bidding process without awarding the contract. In an affidavit, MIL senior airport director Abid Ruhi stated that even the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) had raised an audit inquiry on the financial viability of GMR’s bid. “The petitioners’ offer at 14.49% of the gross revenue is extremely low and financially unviable. It would have caused tremendous loss to the exchequer. The airport upgradation must lead to increase in revenue for the government. Therefore, the tender process was annulled within its right,” the affidavit said Adding that the MIL was contemplating floating a fresh tender, Ruhi said the financial model would be different from the one proposed in earlier process. “The government must earn better revenue and there should be minimum loss to the public exchequer. The petitioners’ can’t question the cancellation but can participate in fresh tender process,” he said. Ruhi’s affidavit filed through counsel RM Bhangde also denied petitioners’ allegation that decision to cancel was “politically motivated”. “It was factually incorrect, as the decision for retendering was taken in the Project Monitoring and Implementation Committee’s (PMIC) meeting on October 14 last year while change of the government in Maharashtra took place on November 28,” Ruhi said. MIL had received two bids on September 28, 2018. GVK Airport Developers had agreed to share 3.06% of gross revenue with MIL, while GMR quoted 5.76%. “After negotiations, GMR agreed to increase the revenue share to 14.49% but still it was unviable. It was clearly stated in the tender conditions that it would be subject to approval of Government of India’s for alienation of land owned by Airport Authority of India (AAI) in GMR’s favour,” Ruhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmr-offered-low-revenue-model-unviable-mil-to-hc/articleshow/76349364.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Bail to 9 Tablighi Jamaat members who ‘violated’ visa & lockdown conditions||Nagpur: Nine Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members from Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan (earlier parts of the erstwhile Soviet Union) secured bail from Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday. All of them had arrived in Delhi on tourist visa, but allegedly violated visa and lockdown conditions by arriving in Gadchiroli and took part in “Tablighi activities”. Allowing their applications, Justice Manish Pitale directed them to stay at Darool Uloom Shahi Urdu Arabic School at Kosara, Padoli, in Chandrapur and report to the city police station on every Monday. While directing them to furnish a PR bond of Rs20,000 each with like surety amount, the court told police to keep their passports till the completion of investigations. According to the petitioners, after their arrival on March 11 from Delhi they stayed at a mosque in Gadchiroli. They immediately intimated the Gadchiroli superintendent office and informed the authorities about entire schedule of their stay and departure in writing. They were arrested on April 29 under Section 14(b) of the Foreigners (Amendment) Act, 2004, and Sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC along with Section 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, by the Gadchiroli police. Subsequently, their bail plea was rejected by the sessions court there for attending religious event in Delhi mosque and also for violating visa and lockdown conditions imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioners applied for bail through counsels Firdos Mirza and Mir Nagman Ali contending that their client never anticipated lockdown which lasted for over two months. “The petitioners’ entry and stay in Gadchiroli is valid as per rules as the backward district has many tourist places. They never participated in Tablighi work and, thus, there is no violation of visa conditions. The police had also verified their passports carefully and had found them valid and in order,” they pointed out. Opposing their contentions, assistant government pleader Amit Madiwale claimed that the Tablighis came in contact with several persons visiting the mosque and put them at risk of contracting coronavirus infection. While apprehending that the petitioners may flee the country, he pointed out that they also participated in religious activities which amounts to violation of visa condition. Countering him, Mirza and Ali argued that after their arrest the petitioners were examined before being produced in the court and all of them were found to be asymptotic with no trace of Covid-19 symptoms. They said the petitioners agreed to stay at Darool Uloom Shahi Urdu Arabic School in Chandrapur and ready to cooperate with the prosecution. “The petitioners had absolutely no intention nor any idea that they would be made accused for spreading the deadly virus, as they themselves were not carrying any symptoms. Therefore, it’s clear that they haven’t committed any offences alleged in IPC sections 188,269 and 270.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bail-to-9-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-violated-visa-lockdown-conditions/articleshow/76348779.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||70 cops in quarantine after havildar tests +ve||Koraput: Seventy police personnel, including the inspector-in-charge, of Motu police station were sent on quarantine and the police station was declared a containment zone after a havildar of the police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. “We have a camp on the police station premises and all 70 staff have been asked to stay in quarantine inside the camp for seven days,” said SP (Malkangiri) Hrishikesh Khilari. According to the SP, till Thursday at least 52,500 people have entered inside the district through the inter-state border check-post (BCP) at Motu and the police personnel posted both at the BCP and the police station had been working tirelessly by taking all precautions against the coronavirus. Now swab test of all staff of Motu police station will be sent for laboratory tests for Covid-19,” the SP said. Additional staff from MV-79 police station have been sent to Motu to ensure that police activities are not hampered either in the BCP or in the police station, the SP added. Apart from the havildar, a Tamil Nadu returnee and an attendant of Korkunda temporary medical centre tested positive for coronavirus taking the affected tally in the district to 25. At present, the district has only four active cases and 21 patients have recovered. Intensive contact tracing of the newly detected three patients have been launched, said collector (Malkangiri) Manish Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/70-cops-in-quarantine-after-havildar-tests-ve/articleshow/76347942.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||With 581 Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike||LUCKNOW: UP’s Covid-19 chart recorded its highest single day spike with 538 cases on Friday, pushing the overall score to beyond 12,700-mark. Of the new cases, Gautam Budh Nagar accounted for a maximum of 76 entries which is also maximum in a single day for the district, taking the total to 864, including 379 active cases. The neighbouring Ghaziabad recorded 27 cases taking the total to 581. GB Nagar was followed by Kanpur Nagar and Bulandshahr where 32 and 31 fresh cases were reported in 24 hours. Six districts in the state have more than 500 cases. These districts are: Agra, Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. The tally for Agra crossed 1,000 mark with 10 new cases to reach 1,009 of which 823 have been cured. Besides, 12 districts in the state have 200 plus cases, while 22 districts have more than 100 cases. Of the new cases reported in 24 hours, Mathura bagged the fourth position with 30 patients followed by Bijnore where 24 cases were reported, taking the total for the two districts to 154 and 199 respectively. Other districts with double digit entries included Jaunpur (23), Firozabad (22), Bareilly (19), Barabanki (19), Hamirpur (18), Mainpuri (13) and Chitrakoot (10). UP also recorded 20 deaths, taking the list of Covid-19 casualties to 365. Three deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while two each were reported in Agra, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Prayagraj and one death each in Baghpat, Maharajganj, Mathura, Hapur, Basti, Varanasi, Moradabad, Firozabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 317 persons defeated the infection in 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 7,609. “Currently, the number of active infections is 4,642, while 7,609 patients have completely recovered. The recovery rate in the state is 60.31%,”he said. Prasad said the testing capacity in UP has increased 60 times since March. “So far, 4.35 lakh samples have been tested in the state,” he said and added that surveillance activities were also going in full swing in the state. “A population of 4.54 crore has been surveyed by 1.17 lakh surveillance teams so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-581-cases-up-records-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76349365.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 13, 2020||Hubballi||Discharge of seven patients leaves Haveri free of active Covid-19 cases||HAVERI: On Friday, seven patients who recovered from Covid-19 were discharged from the designated hospital in Haveri, thereby making the district free of the pandemic. The active cases in Haveri has now dropped to zero and what is more, the district has reported no fatalities from Covid-19. Haveri is only the second district in Karnataka – the first being Mysuru – to have managed to rid itself of the novel coronavirus. The district, which had not reported a single Covid-19 till May 4, but in the ensuring month, Haveri became home to 21 patients, as migrants returned home from neighbouring Maharashtra and other states. Although no fresh case has been reported in Haveri in the past week, as many as 130 people who entered the district from other states are housed in government quarantine facilities, while 477 others have recently returned, the condition of whom is being closely monitored by the health department. Haveri deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai lauded the efforts of all personnel in the district administration for their role in helping combat the pandemic. He singled out the efforts of the staff of the department and health family welfare and cops in the district. “Going forward, we will have to be more cautious since we cannot predict what might happen. But we are ready to face any and all challenges,” Bajpai said. Observation of all the prescribed safety measures, closely monitoring the condition of those who had returned from other states, regular screening and enforcement of social distancing were among the reasons Bajpai attributed to the district’s successful fight against the pandemic. The DC also expressed his gratitude to the people of the district for their cooperation throughout the challenging phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/discharge-of-seven-patients-leaves-haveri-free-of-active-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76346194.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: MR Bangur Hospital starts updating patients’ kin over phone||KOLKATA: Relatives of Covid patients admitted to MR Bangur Hospital, the state’s biggest corona treatment facility, won’t have to visit the hospital anymore to get updates on the patient’s health. Alarmed by multiple controversies over patient’s health conditions with families claiming lack of transparency from doctors, the hospital authorities have engaged a team of three medical officers who have been calling up the relatives of patients every evening with information of the patient and answering their queries. Hospital authorities said this was necessary since the family members of every Covid patient were either in isolation or were stuck in micro-containment zones and were not in a position to visit the hospital or meet doctors in person. “There were complaints from patients’ relatives that they were not being briefed properly about the health status of their patients. This was happening as it was not possible to hold a patient party-doctor meet. Hence, now we preparing an excel sheet of all patients about their daily health status. We have engaged doctors who are calling up patients’ relatives during the visiting hour,” said Sisir Naskar, medical superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital. The authorities have also formed a quick response team of 22 medical professionals, including senior doctors, physicians, anesthetics, house staff, post-graduate trainees and CCU-trained nurses to look after critically ill patients. “These 22 professionals are being divided into three shifts. Their task is to co-ordinate with the visiting doctors and experts from SSKM and other hospitals and jot down a list of very critical patients. Once the visiting doctors leave, this team take over the critically ill patients and solely focus on their recovery,” said Naskar. Patients’ relatives, too, said the new communication system was helping them a lot to drive out the air of ambiguousness. “My brother had been hospitalized and we were asked to stay in home quarantine. Initially, we were worried about the kind of facilities at the hospital and feared if my brother’s condition would worsen. But the daily pep talk with the doctors and the video calls with my brother is indeed a relief,” said the brother of a Park Circus resident who had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mr-bangur-starts-updating-patients-kin-over-phone/articleshow/76347975.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Infection does not transfer from woman to her newborn||Patiala: A boy born to a Covid-19 infected 23-year-old woman from Salempur village in Mohali district has tested negative and has been kept in the neonatal intensive care unit separately from his mother, who is undergoing treatment at the Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur. The child was born on June 8, after an emergency caesarean section was done. The baby was healthy at birth. His nasal swab for Covid-19 was sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh, the same day. Medical superintendent Dr S P S Goraya said the newborn would be kept with his mother once she tested negative. Dr Goraya said the woman was nearly 37 weeks pregnant when she was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection in a test carried out at PGIMER on June 1. She was asymptomatic. She was shifted to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital on June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/infection-does-not-transfer-from-woman-to-her-newborn/articleshow/76348806.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Brass wary as 200 cops quarantined||Bengaluru: With over 200 policemen quarantined for coming in contact with their Covid-positive colleagues, accused and others and eight stations shut for two or more days for sanitisation, senior officers are worried about the situation’s impact on policing. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao said he’s asked his personnel to go slow on non-essential arrests and investigations, given the Covid-19 crisis. He, however, said the nature of police work is such that one can’t avoid coming in contact with the public. “Along with other senior officers, I myself had to recently enter Padarayanapura, a containment zone. We’ll be doing so often and can’t stop working. We have directed all police personnel in the city to be at their cautious best and and follow hygiene rules. I have asked DCPs to provide hot water and soap at their police stations so that staffers can wash their hands frequently,” he explained. The violence reported in Padarayanapura in April this year had resulted in at least 60 police personnel being quarantined. “By mid- July, the number may cross 300,” said a senior officer. However, none of the quarantined cops has turned positive for Covid-19 so far, he added. On Thursday night, Central Crime Branch (CCB), a major arm of city police, downed shutters after an accused arrested in a cybercrime case tested positive. This is the first time since September 16, 1971 — when CCB began operations — that the office has been closed, cops say. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said, “We may reopen CCB after three or four days.” Earlier on Thursday, a sub-inspector attached to Shankarapuram police station in south division tested positive. “His wedding was scheduled for next week. It has been postponed and the SI has been quarantined,” a senior officer said. DCP (south) Rohini Sepat Katoch said 11 staffers from Jayanagar police station have been quarantined after they caught a thief, who was elusive since mid-2018 and tested positive after arrest. “The suspect was accused of stealing cash in a petrol bunk,” she said. A sub-inspector recalled the chaos when a Hoysala driver tested positive in north Bengaluru recently. “Three drivers were driving the same vehicle in different shifts. After one was hospitalised for Covid-19, the other two refused to drive the vehicle. As a result, the Hoysala was parked outside the station for four days,” he said. Pulakeshinagar traffic constable Guruswamy was Bengaluru’s first cop to test positive for Covid-19 on May 19. He was discharged on May 30. Since then, five more city policemen have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/brass-wary-as-200-cops-quarantined/articleshow/76347417.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Sector 66-82 residents move court for water tariff parity||Times News Network Mohali: Residents of Sector 66 to 82 moved court seeking water tariff parity. Deprived of low water tariff, residents filed a petition in the permanent Lok Adalat. The court has served notice to MC commissioner, director, local bodies and chief administrator (CA), GMADA. They are to reply by August 28. Apart from pleading for issuance of directions to GMADA to hand over water tariff to the MC, residents have also sought refund for excess water tariff paid from 2017 onwards. Recently, MC tried to take over functioning of sectors governed by GMADA to bring about water tariff parity but the agenda point is yet to be approved by the local bodies department, Punjab. Councillors Shinderpal Singh and Satvir Singh Dhanoa as well as area residents Jagdev Singh and Jatinder Sandhu said, “We have been fighting to get water tariff parity for the past two years. We have been paying drinking water tariff at five times the rate others do but MC and GMADA have not given us any relief till date. The agencies have been making excuses. We have been demanding for parity with other sectors but drinking water remains costliest here.” Residents said even land price in their sectors has fallen because buyers do not want to take land in areas where water tariff is so high. Recently, MC conducted a survey on sewerage and water and discovered that 30% to 35% of road gullies are missing in these sectors. Also, Punjab government is formulating a new water policy for issuance of new water metres. Shifting of water tariff from GMADA to MC has been deferred till then. Sector 70 resident Kulwant Singh said, “For the past three years, people are discouraged to rent out accommodations in such sectors. There are many residents who are dependent on rent income. Due to drinking water tariff hike, they are suffering.” Residents living in sectors governed by GMADA have been hit harder with sharp increase in current tariff. As per the current per kilolitre water rates, Mohali residents pay Rs 1.8 per kilolitre whereas residents of Sector 66 to 82 pay Rs 5.25 per kilolitre charged for the first 20 kilolitres. Above 20 kilolitres, charges will be Rs 10.25 per kilolitre for the domestic user.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-66-82-residents-move-court-for-water-tariff-parity/articleshow/76346860.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Contagion count beyond 500 in PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: Active coronavirus cases have crossed the 500-mark in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, closely followed by the number of discharged patients. As per the latest figures from the civic health department, the active number of cases rose to 555 by Friday evening and 544 patients were discharged after being found Covid-free after treatment. Civic officials said most of the cases were being reported from the slum areas in the twin city, including Anandnagar where residents had clashed with the police earlier this week over continuing restrictions. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/contagion-count-beyond-500-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/76348790.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Two Nagpur doctors plug rare hole in aorta of new mom||NAGPUR: Mugdha (name changed), a 23-year-old from Bhandara, started feeling unusually weak after delivering her first baby in May. In the next two weeks, her condition deteriorated so much she couldn’t even breathe properly. Her family decided to bring her to Nagpur where several hospitals diagnosed her as a case of heart failure. Her heart functioning was reduced to about 20% of capacity. Mugdha’s vital organs like liver and kidneys also started getting affected after month-long complications.  After three weeks spent in different hospitals, cardiologist Dr Rhishikesh Umalkar and Dr Mahesh Fulwani at Shrikrushna Hrudayalaya concluded that the woman was having rare clinical incident called Ruptured Sinus of Valsalva aneurysm (RSOV) in her heart. “This is a known but a rare clinical entity. It is a kind of birth defect in heart. It gets aggravated if an individual’s heart faces some major stress. In case of Mugdha, her delivery aggravated the condition,” said Dr Umalkar. As per the doctors, her aorta – the main artery that carries blood from heart to the rest of body— was ruptured and blood was getting deposited into right chamber of heart. As the other body parts were not getting enough blood, she was on verge of facing multi organ failure. “Open heart surgery is the standard therapy of RSOV. But the patient was critically sick with risk of multi-organ failure. So, we decided to go for interventional technique,” Dr Umalkar said. They plugged the hole using advanced equipment and non-invasive surgical technique. A wire was introduced via a small incision and was advanced through the vascular system to the aneurysm. A closure device was advanced along with the wire, and same was expanded to straddle the site of rupture. “Within a week of plugging the hole, all vital parameters of the patient became normal. She was discharged in the first week of June. We are not only happy for the patient, but also for her one month old baby, who will not be deprived of motherly love and care,” said Dr Mahesh Fulwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-city-doctors-plug-rare-hole-in-aorta-of-new-mom/articleshow/76348805.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Continue efforts to curb Covid spread in Amravati: HC||NAGPUR: Expecting that Amravati district authorities would abide by the statements in affidavits that they would take steps to prevent Covid-19 spread, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday disposed of the public interest litigation (PIL). Filed through counsel Pankaj Navlani, petitioner Shivaray Kulkarni had prayed for stringent measures to control the exponential growth of the deadly virus spread in the district that led to loss of 17 lives. “In the light of June 2 order, it has been noted that by and large the prayers made in the proceedings have worked themselves out. The collection of swab samples is governed by the guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), an expert body. In view of various affidavits filed on record, we don’t find any reason to keep the present proceedings pending,” a division bench comprising Justice Atul Chandurkar and Justice Amit Borkar said. Claiming non-compliance of ICMR guidelines by Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC), the petitioner had contended that the district witnessed manifold rise in cases with the highest mortality rate and the pattern is unique. In the last hearing, the HC had expressed concern over high mortality rate due to novel coronavirus in Amravati and directed the AMC to file an affidavit giving details of all 17 deaths categorized as Covid casualties. Earlier, the judges expressed satisfaction over collector’s affidavit stating that the ICMR guidelines were being implemented in true spirit. The AMC’s medical officer in his affidavit had enumerated steps like thermal screening of all passengers travelling by rail or road to trace asymptomatic patients apart from door-to-door survey for detecting symptomatic patients. In his affidavit, civil surgeon referred to various steps taken to curb coronavirus spread, including issuance of guidelines to hospital staff for collecting swab samples of suspected patients. Regarding collection of samples in home death cases, he said there were no guidelines issued by the ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/continue-efforts-to-curb-covid-spread-in-amravati-hc/articleshow/76348789.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Pulivendula to be Andhra Pradesh’s model town||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has asked officials to prepare a long-term plan for Pulivendula, the constituency he represents in the assembly. The CM, who held a review meeting with Pulivendula Area Development Authority (PADA) officials on Friday, told them to speed up infrastructure works and prepare clear goals to develop Pulivendula as a model town. “The master plan for Pulivendula town should focus on four sectors — development of schools and hospitals under Naadu-Nedu programme, provision of drinking water and drainage system, establishment of skill development centre, and proper town planning with new architecture. The town’s development plan should be long-term, targeting 2053,” Jagan said. Officials told the chief minister the existing market in the town would be developed with added facilities. Jagan told them to plan dedicated vendor streets. “There should be 3-4 dedicated vendor streets to accommodate existing vendors in the town. Upgrade Ulimela summer storage tank to meet drinking water requirements of the town,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pulivendula-to-be-states-model-town/articleshow/76347970.cms||Gopi Dara
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Two more donate plasma as trials enter new phase in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials stepped into the next phase in Bengal on Friday with two critically ill Covid patients being administered blood plasma donated by cured Covid patients. CSIR scientists and senior state doctors supervised the trials in the Covid ward of Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital. Unlike other clinical trials on convalescent plasma therapy elsewhere in the country, where it is conducted on mildly affected patients, the trial here is on adult patients with severe infection. Both patients here had mild to moderate acute respiratory disease syndrome. But no further details were available. “The clinical trial has begun,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, principal scientist and associate professor at the Translational Research Unit of Excellence of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata. TOI had earlier reported that four persons have donated plasma, including two doctors — Sayantan Chakraborty and Arijit Bhattacharya, a blood bank intern of MCH and the hospital’s electrician. Donor screening, plasma collection, processing and storage is being done at the immunohaematology and blood transfusion department of MCH. On Friday, two more healthcare workers, a cardiologist from AMRI Salt Lake and a nurse, Sayree Pyne, donated plasma for the trials. According to sources, several policemen who have been cured of Covid have also agreed to donate their plasma for the trials. The head of immunohaematology and blood transfusion Prasun Bhattacharya said, “Six persons have donated plasma so far, most from the healthcare sector. We are looking forward to people from other professions also donating.” On May 29, 23-year-old management student Monami Biswas became the first Covid survivor in Bengal to donate plasma for the trials. Patients who have been cured can be donors after three to four weeks of testing negative. This is the first clinical trial on the therapy under CSIR and will have 40 recipients. “Each patient will get 200ml of plasma once daily for two days. Their blood will be analyzed after a few days to check the immune response. We will be able to assess the result partially in four to six weeks after we use the therapy on 20 patients,” said an investigator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-more-donate-plasma-as-trials-enter-new-phase/articleshow/76347999.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 13, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Puri temple starts preparing for Rath Yatra with caution||BHUBANESWAR: With the Rath Yatra a little over a week away, the Shree Jagannath Temple Aministration (SJTA) on Friday started the preparations for the state’s biggest festival amid the pandemic. The 12th century shrine body, which is planning to observe the festival without the participation of devotees and impose some more restrictions this time, held a meeting with a group of servitors. The servitors sounded optimistic about the Rath Yatra despite the threat of Covid-19. “Our discussions revolved around the Rath Yatra preparations. We assured the temple administration of the timely completion of rituals inside the temple and on the chariots outside the shrine. While the government will take a final decision on how to celebrate Rath Yatra this time, we assume that devotees will be barred from taking part in the festival owing to the pandemic,” Madhab Pujapanda, a servitor and a member of the temple managing committee, said after the meeting. Harekrushna Pujapanda, another servitor, who attended the meeting, said the chariot-pulling exercise was also taken up for discussion. “We can understand that social distancing may be compromised during the Pahandi procession of the deities and the pulling of chariots. But the chariots can be pulled by servitors and police personnel after subjecting them to Covid-19 test. Since we have very little time left now, the government should finalize the modalities,” he added. In the evening, the SJTA’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar, district collector (Puri) Balwant Singh and superintendent of police Uma Shankar Dash, among other district officials, held a meeting in the shrine office in Puri and drew an initial road map for the festival. However, servitors were not present in the high-level meeting. “We may not allow devotees this time. Around 7 to 8 lakh devotees participate in the festival every year. This involves month-long preparation for their accommodation, food, drinking water and sanitation. Since such mammoth preparations have not yet started, this indicates a possible ban on the participation of devotees in the festival this year,” a senior official said. The officials refused to comment whether the state government’s guidelines on the ban on religious congregations till June 30 can be adhered to during the Rath Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/puri-temple-starts-preparing-for-rath-yatra-with-caution/articleshow/76354464.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Winners of design contest announced||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) on Friday announced the winners of an open concept design competition conducted for the proposed planetarium on Kailasagiri. Studio Emergence, Mumbai bagged the first spot—a Rs 2 lakh cash prize—while JR Project, Mumbai stood second and won a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh. The VMRDA had invited entries from interested architects/architectural firms from across the country in March this year. Sixty-six firms registered for the competition, of which 13 architectural firms/architects submitted concept designs. The VMRDA proposes to develop a hybrid planetarium over an extent of seven acres on Kailasagiri Hilltop Park, with a seating capacity of about 200 and a dome size of 18 meters. A science museum will also be developed as part of the first planetarium in the state. A gallery space will be created for science exhibits.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/winners-of-design-contest-announced/articleshow/76347990.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Hotspots for poor internet areas||Panaji: As many schools are facing internet connectivity issues, the directorate of education has said the government is considering setting up hotspots. The directorate has asked school heads to provide information of the panchayat areas connected to the school and students where the connectivity is not available by 1pm on June 13. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hotspots-for-poor-internet-areas/articleshow/76349375.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||Dispose all unclaimed bodies with dignity: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Taking strong exception to the incident where a man’s body was disrespectfully dumped in a garbage van to be carried for post-mortem examination in Balrampur district, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to ensure that every unclaimed body is disposed of with dignity. After the video went viral on Thursday, the government suspended three policemen and four municipal workers. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has taken a very strict view of the incident and has said that dignity should be ensured in death and every unclaimed body should be disposed of with sensitivity.” Meanwhile, as Covid-19 cases continued to rise in the state, the CM has deputed a two-member team each in 10 sensitive districts of Agra, Meerut, Firozabad, Moradabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Jhansi and Basti. An officer of the level of secretary or principal secretary, and a senior health official of the rank of additional director or joint director, will be sent to review the situation in these districts and assess health facilities and sanitation. These officials will camp in the respective districts for as long as it is necessary to bring the situation under control. “A senior specialist, of the level of professor, will also be sent to these districts to provide assistance and advice to local medical teams in handling Covid-19 cases. The government had earlier appointed a similar team to review the status of sensitive districts but these committees have been asked to review the situation afresh,” Awasthi said. Meanwhile, additional and joint directors of health department have been asked to carry out regular inspection of hospitals and ascertain whether patients are being given food and medicine properly and that cleanliness is being maintained at hospitals. They have also been asked to continuously monitor the working of private testing labs to ensure patients are being extended quality service at reasonable rates. To control the spread of virus through people suspected of being carriers, especially those who have returned to UP from other states during lockdown, urban monitoring committees or ‘nigrani samitis’ have been asked to strengthen their monitoring system and ensure that people sent to quarantine follow the protocol. The CM has reiterated that an intensive drive should be started against people not wearing masks and spitting in public places. He said if someone is found spitting, people around him should stop him from doing so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dispose-all-unclaimed-bodies-with-dignity-cm/articleshow/76349369.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Salaries of cops, health workers won’t be affected: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the salaries of police personnel and health workers would not be affected despite the state’s revenue collection being hit because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The deputy chief minister said since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, the state’s income from taxes reduced. “Moreover, the Centre did not give the state its share of GST. We have to cut the salaries of the state government employees, but it would not affect the police personnel and the health workers.” Visiting the Pune police commissionerate, Pawar reviewed the work of the city police during the lockdown. He also attended a blood donation camp organised by the 2012 batch of the policemen. Appreciating the police force for tireless effort, Pawar said they had been working hard for the past three months. “We salute your efforts. The state government has given an insurance cover of Rs50 lakh to the policemen. Being the finance minister of the state, the police can contact me for any help. The government is trying to provide good houses to the police personnel,” he said. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “The deputy CM inaugurated the ‘Feel the Beat’ booklet, based on the good work of the police during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salaries-of-cops-health-workers-wont-be-affected-ajit-pawar/articleshow/76348799.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Besides Covid, Dakshina Kannada finds a dengue cluster too||MANGALURU: Spurt in dengue cases at a time when Dakshina Kannada district is fighting Covid-19 has left the health department on its toes. Besides the many cases of Covid-19, the district also has reported 84 patients testing positive for dengue between January 1 and June 7. Moreover, the department is also puzzled after a dengue cluster with 21 cases was discovered in one area of Puttur taluk within a month. It has deputed more health workers to prevent the spread of disease in the area. In the district, 96 cases of dengue were reported between January 1 and June 19 in 2019. Only seven cases were reported in Puttur then. Though the number of cases is less compared to the corresponding period in previous year, finding more cases in one cluster is a cause of concern, said district surveillance officer Dr Naveen Chandra Kulal. “We have found 21 cases in Bettampady and Balnadu villages of Puttur taluk recently. We have sent more health workers, including ASHA and ANMs, to carry out special drives to prevent the spread of dengue. They are paying door-to-door visits and giving mosquito nets to people. A team of experts has also visited hospitals in the taluk and directed doctors to offer treatment and take measures to prevent the spread of dengue. We have also directed doctors to be cautious about Covid-19, but not refuse treatment to dengue cases,” Dr Kulal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/besides-covid-dk-finds-a-dengue-cluster-too/articleshow/76346871.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||KPC Hospital to release 43 cured cops on Saturday||KOLKATA : A total of 43 cops admitted to KPC Hospital after testing positive for Covid will be discharged on Saturday. The cops belong to CRPF, Jadavpur police station and Bantra police station in Howrah. They were all admitted on June 2 and are now cured. KPC Hospital in Jadavpur was the fifth private hospital in the city to be inducted by the state for private treatment on May 20 and training for doctors had been arranged. The first patient was sent in by the state on May 23. Since then, it has been accepting and treating patients. One part of the hospital has been converted into a Covid block with 200 beds and the hospital has treated 128 Covid patients so far. On Saturday, the hospital will release 50 patients, including the 43 cops, all of whom were symptomatic. “The cops had come with fever and sore throat. Except for one, however, no one had complained of breathing issues. We have been able to successfully treat them,” said Ehsan Ahmed, a critical care specialist at the hospital. “We are fortunate there has been no death so far and no incidence of a health worker being infected,” Ahmed added. The hospital has not shut its services to non-Covid patients and treatment is going on as usual in three other blocks. Authorities said it was a challenge to create a separate entry and exit for non-Covid patients and ensure no cross infection happens. On Saturday, a send-off programme has been arranged for the cops at the hospital premises where the officers will share their experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kpc-hospital-to-release-43-cured-cops-on-saturday/articleshow/76347991.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Puri temple starts preparing for Rath Yatra with caution||BHUBANESWAR: With the Rath Yatra a little over a week away, the Shree Jagannath Temple Aministration (SJTA) on Friday started the preparations for the state’s biggest festival amid the pandemic. The 12th century shrine body, which is planning to observe the festival without the participation of devotees and impose some more restrictions this time, held a meeting with a group of servitors. The servitors sounded optimistic about the Rath Yatra despite the threat of Covid-19. “Our discussions revolved around the Rath Yatra preparations. We assured the temple administration of the timely completion of rituals inside the temple and on the chariots outside the shrine. While the government will take a final decision on how to celebrate Rath Yatra this time, we assume that devotees will be barred from taking part in the festival owing to the pandemic,” Madhab Pujapanda, a servitor and a member of the temple managing committee, said after the meeting. Harekrushna Pujapanda, another servitor, who attended the meeting, said the chariot-pulling exercise was also taken up for discussion. “We can understand that social distancing may be compromised during the Pahandi procession of the deities and the pulling of chariots. But the chariots can be pulled by servitors and police personnel after subjecting them to Covid-19 test. Since we have very little time left now, the government should finalize the modalities,” he added. In the evening, the SJTA’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar, district collector (Puri) Balwant Singh and superintendent of police Uma Shankar Dash, among other district officials, held a meeting in the shrine office in Puri and drew an initial road map for the festival. However, servitors were not present in the high-level meeting. “We may not allow devotees this time. Around 7 to 8 lakh devotees participate in the festival every year. This involves month-long preparation for their accommodation, food, drinking water and sanitation. Since such mammoth preparations have not yet started, this indicates a possible ban on the participation of devotees in the festival this year,” a senior official said. The officials refused to comment whether the state government’s guidelines on the ban on religious congregations till June 30 can be adhered to during the Rath Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-temple-starts-preparing-for-rath-yatra-with-caution/articleshow/76347993.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 13, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Parties, leaders make net gains in Covid-19 season||BHUBANESWAR: YouTube Live, Webinar, Google Meet, Zoom… these were once the purview of software professionals and the tech smart. But thanks to Covid-19, they are now common parlance. With most professionals working from home, meetings are now held on many such web platforms and our politicians aren’t immune to them either. Whether it is to connect with the masses, or hold discussions with office-bearers, our leaders have jumped onto the bandwagon. Academic-turned-politician Sasmit Patra said things have changed rapidly in the past three months following the Covid-19 crisis. Patra, a BJD Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson, used to move from one news channel to another to represent his party on prime time shows. But these days he uses Skype, WhatsApp video or other platforms to connect with the TV anchors to present his and the BJD’s views. “Instead of addressing press conferences on a regular basis, we record our views and send it to the media via WhatsApp or use our individual social media handles to convey our messages. Even when we address press conferences, we request that our workers watch it on YouTube Live or Facebook Live,” said the 40-year-old Patra. Not just young politicians like Patra, veterans like state food supplies minister Ranendra Pratap Swain (67) also uses various social media platforms to connect with the people. Swain not only engages with his constituents but also takes help of social media for official work, while talking to party MLAs, civil society members and journalists. He also attends meetings virtually. “The fight against Covid-19 will continue for a long time. We cannot ask people to gather for political meetings or rallies because of the social distancing norms. So, we have to take the help of social media and other web platforms to stay in touch with the people,” Swain said. Leaders of principal opposition party BJP are way ahead when it comes to using technology to carry out different activities. Union home minister Amit Shah recently addressed a virtual rally on YouTube Live, which the party leaders claimed was a huge success in Odisha. “Social media and web platforms are being used not only to reach out to party workers during the lockdown, but to also monitor the various activities of the party like feeding the needy and helping the poor. When Shah addressed the virtual rally, it reached around one crore people,” said state BJP president Samir Mohanty. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan held a series of meetings with party leaders from New Delhi through video-conference to monitor various activities. State Congress president Niranjan Patnaik also endorsed the web platforms as the best medium to reach out to the people. “When the AICC organized the Speak Up India programme, we had set a target of connecting to at least 10,000 people from each parliamentary constituency. It was amazing to note that around 10 lakh people had joined the campaign,” said Patnaik, highlighting the reach of the internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/leaders-make-net-gains-in-covid-season/articleshow/76354435.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Baby slays virus, gains 1.3kg||CHIKKABALLAPUR: A one-year-old girl, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 25, has recovered and was discharged from the designated hospital in Chikkaballapur on Thursday. Doctors said treating the underweight baby with multiple problems was a huge challenge but it is to their credit that the child recovered and gained 1.3kg by the time she was discharged. District surgeon Dr PV Ramesh said the baby suffered from multiple health problems, including dehydration, malnutrition and anaemia. She weighed around 7.4kg at the time of admission as against the normal requirement of around 10kg. The child and her parents had tested positive after returning from Mumbai. Given the baby’s health issues, a team of doctors, including pediatricians Dr Prashanth and Dr Gayathri, held a series of meetings with specialists and began treating her. Dr Manjula, dietician, attended to the baby’s general condition, providing her with iron and vitamin supplements. R Latha, deputy commissioner, Chikkaballapur said the child was provided with various supplements, including nutrients to last for two months at the time of her discharge. The team of doctors would be in constant contact with the parents to oversee the health of the baby, she added. The child’s parents too have recovered and were discharged along with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/baby-slays-virus-gains-1-3kg/articleshow/76347455.cms||K RANGANATH
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||MC commissioner, mayor honour 40 volunteers||Chandigarh: Municipal corporation mayor Rajbala Malik and municipal commissioner K K Yadav have honoured and felicitated 40 volunteers and distributed certificates of appreciation to them. The authority with the collaboration of the volunteers reached out to 8,000 people, handing them dry ration, juices, sanitary pads, stationery items, juices, baby food and other items. The exercise to distribute the material was conducted under the supervision of Vivek Trivedi, social development officer, MC. Prominent NGOs and organisations were Association of Professional Social workers and Development Practitioners, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries, Swarmani Youth Welfare Association, Shaping Careers Education Society and others. “These groups, NGOs and companies extended their support to combat humanitarian crisis triggered by the outbreak of Covid-19,” said Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-commissioner-mayor-honour-40-volunteers/articleshow/76346922.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: CCP’s market staff give swab samples||PANAJI: Swab samples of forty staff of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) were taken for testing on Friday, a day after a person running a tavern tested positive at the Panaji market on Wednesday. CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar also got himself tested. Around 70 of CCP’s staff at Chimbel will be tested at Chimbel on Saturday, Madkaikar said. The vegetable seller at Panaji market from Chimbel who was a suspected case has tested negative, he said. The staff are being tested after several positive cases from Chimbel emerged on Thursday and Friday. Around 50% of the vendors at Panaji market are from Chimbel, he said. Three staff from CCP’s office also come from Chimbel. CCP has shut its office till Monday and the office is being sanitised, he said. “We have told all Chimbel staff and workers not to report to work. We told them to get themselves tested and produce a negative certificate to join work,” he told TOI. The Chimbel workers are engaged in garbage collection, road work and other works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccps-mkt-staff-give-swab-samples/articleshow/76349378.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Parties, leaders make net gains in Covid-19 season||BHUBANESWAR: YouTube Live, Webinar, Google Meet, Zoom… these were once the purview of software professionals and the tech smart. But thanks to Covid-19, they are now common parlance. With most professionals working from home, meetings are now held on many such web platforms and our politicians aren’t immune to them either. Whether it is to connect with the masses, or hold discussions with office-bearers, our leaders have jumped onto the bandwagon. Academic-turned-politician Sasmit Patra said things have changed rapidly in the past three months following the Covid-19 crisis. Patra, a BJD Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson, used to move from one news channel to another to represent his party on prime time shows. But these days he uses Skype, WhatsApp video or other platforms to connect with the TV anchors to present his and the BJD’s views. “Instead of addressing press conferences on a regular basis, we record our views and send it to the media via WhatsApp or use our individual social media handles to convey our messages. Even when we address press conferences, we request that our workers watch it on YouTube Live or Facebook Live,” said the 40-year-old Patra. Not just young politicians like Patra, veterans like state food supplies minister Ranendra Pratap Swain (67) also uses various social media platforms to connect with the people. Swain not only engages with his constituents but also takes help of social media for official work, while talking to party MLAs, civil society members and journalists. He also attends meetings virtually. “The fight against Covid-19 will continue for a long time. We cannot ask people to gather for political meetings or rallies because of the social distancing norms. So, we have to take the help of social media and other web platforms to stay in touch with the people,” Swain said. Leaders of principal opposition party BJP are way ahead when it comes to using technology to carry out different activities. Union home minister Amit Shah recently addressed a virtual rally on YouTube Live, which the party leaders claimed was a huge success in Odisha. “Social media and web platforms are being used not only to reach out to party workers during the lockdown, but to also monitor the various activities of the party like feeding the needy and helping the poor. When Shah addressed the virtual rally, it reached around one crore people,” said state BJP president Samir Mohanty. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan held a series of meetings with party leaders from New Delhi through video-conference to monitor various activities. State Congress president Niranjan Patnaik also endorsed the web platforms as the best medium to reach out to the people. “When the AICC organized the Speak Up India programme, we had set a target of connecting to at least 10,000 people from each parliamentary constituency. It was amazing to note that around 10 lakh people had joined the campaign,” said Patnaik, highlighting the reach of the internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/leaders-make-net-gains-in-covid-season/articleshow/76348005.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tree debris along Quepem road poses threat to traffic||QUEPEM: Residents of Quepem town have raised concern over the safety of commuters plying on the Margao-Curchorem highway, as trees cut around nine months back for road widening are still lying uncleared. Hundreds of trees along the Margao-Curchorem highway were cut between Karalli and Tilamoll and huge branches of mango, tamarind and coconut trees are lying on the road side since September 2019. Local physician Dr Deepak Lotlikar said, “Several accidents involving two-wheelers and four-wheelers have occurred during the past few months at the junction which is around 100m from the Quepem town.” Criticising the negligence by the authorities concerned, Victor Diniz, a lawyer, said, “Huge logs are lying in front of my house for the last nine months. The Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) cut the trees and left them on the road causing obstruction to the public travelling on the Margao-Tilamoll road.” QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik said trees had been cut after obtaining permission from the disaster management authority. “We had issued a letter to the contractor for the disposal of the cut wood lying dangerously close to the road. The forest department had told the contractor to cut the logs in smaller sizes and then apply for permission for the disposal,” Naik said. Assistant engineer of PWD (roads) in Quepem, Swapnil Dessai, said it is QMC’s responsibility to clear the logs lying on the road since they have done the cutting. “I will write to the municipality to clear the logs immediately,” Dessai said. Diniz said the QMC has not paid any compensation to the owners of the trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tree-debris-along-quepem-rd-poses-threat-to-traffic/articleshow/76349379.cms||Johnny M
June 13, 2020||Pune||14 booked for conducting test for Std XI students||Pune: As many as 14 office-bearers of an educational trust in Talegaon Dabhade were booked on Friday by the police on the charge of conducting examination for their college’s Standard XI commerce students in violation of the state orders. A team of the Talegaon Dabhade police have booked 14 people, including the president, directors, principal and supervisors of the trust, after they raided the college premises around 9.30am on Friday. Assistant inspector of Talegaon Dabhade police Digambar Atigre told TOI that the senior inspector Amarnath Waghmode had received a tip-off that one of the colleges in the area was planning to conduct examination of its Std XI students. “Our team raided the trust-run junior college and found 27 students writing papers for Information and Technology subject in three of its classrooms. We stopped them and told them to return home,” Atigre said. He said the students had maintained social distancing and were wearing face masks. “But, the government has not permitted the opening of school and colleges in wake of Covid-19 outbreak We have booked 14 persons for their negligent act,” Atigre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-booked-for-conducting-test-for-std-xi-students/articleshow/76348828.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 13, 2020||Pune||One held for assaulting, robbing trio||Pune: The Sangvi police on Friday arrested a criminal on the run and looking for his two accomplices for assaulting and robbing three men from the Northeast at Old Sangvi around 4.15am on Thursday. George Naga (24), currently residing at Mamatanagar in Old Sangvi, has lodged an FIR with the Sangvi police. Naga’s two roommates Pauki Newmne and Wungwar Horam sustained injuries in the attack. Assistant inspector Dattatreya Gulig of the Sangvi police said, “The friends had gone out for a walk when three men, following them on a motorcycle, stopped them at Mamatanagar. One suspect assaulted Newmne on his hand with a sharp weapon and Horam on his back. One of them snatched Horam’s phone, worth Rs8,000,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-assaulting-robbing-trio/articleshow/76348821.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Turned away by hospitals, woman dies after losing premature twins||DEHRADUN: In one of the most tragic deaths so far, a result of hospitals turning away patients, a 7 months pregnant 24 year old woman, died allegedly after four hospitals refused to admit her. Secretary (health), Chief Medical officer (AMCO) and the DM have ordered three separate inquiries in the case. According to the family, her condition deteriorated after she gave birth to two twins in at home on June 09, both of whom died soon after in the absence of institutional care. The kin alleged that she attempted to get admission in hospital for delivery but was turned away by doctors who said that delivery will happen in 9th month. She died on Thursday, three days after her babies died. Kamlesh Saini, husband of deceased Sudha Saini who cremated his wife on Friday wasn’t able to control his tears. A daily wager from Bihar who is living in Dehradun from past 6 years already, Kamlesh now looks at bleak future of his two toddlers, one 4 another 1, who will now be living without their mother. Talking to TOI, Kamlesh, who hasn’t eaten anything since June 09, the day her wife delivered twins at home and he had to bury the babies with his own hand immediately after their birth. “My only fault is that I am poor. They can turn away poor people,” said Saini who alleged that his wife was turned away by Doon hospital, Gandhi hospital, Coronation hospital and also by two private hospitals who refused to admit her citing the reason that she had temperature and she maybe a Covid 19 carrier. Husband of the victim also confirmed that he brought back Sudha from Gandhi hospital as doctors said that it was just 7 months of her pregnancy and she should come in 9th month. “She went to hospital with stomach pain and weakness. Had the doctors been a little sympathetic to my wife, she would have survived,” alleged Saini who has now moved to his brother’s home in Dispensary Road area of the city. As victim’s family managed to contact MLA Harbans Kapoor, he asked chief medical officer Dr BC Ramola to get her admitted in the hospital on priority basis. “I had asked Doon hospital to take her immediately but the question is that how three government hospitals can turn her away when she was so critical. We are seeking locations of 108 ambulance that has taken her to hospitals and an departmental inquiry has been ordered in the matter,” said the CMO. Dr NS Khatri, Covid 19 nodal officer at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) told TOI that woman’s body was handed over to the family but her swab sample has been collected to ascertain if she was covid positive. “The woman was severely anaemic and she died in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Thursday evening,” said Dr Khatri. Secretary health, Amit Negi has also confirmed that Director General (DG) Health Dr Amita Upreti has been directed to submitted a detailed report after inquiry in the matter to him. District Magistrate Ashish Srivastava has also ordered a magisterial inquiry in the matter which will be conducted by sub-divisional magistrate, Arvind Kumar Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-died-after-4-hospitals-turned-her-away/articleshow/76348001.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 13, 2020||Goa||51 swabs from Tembewada test negative||Poinguinim: Dr Vandana Desai, health officer, Canacona community health centre (CMC) said the results of all 51 throat swabs taken from the family members of the Tembewada driver are negative. She said this proves that there has been no transmission of the virus from the Covid positive KTC driver from Tembewada, which is part of the Canacona municipal area. On Friday, a team from the CMC visited the Karvem ward in Gaondongorim and collected 57 throat swabs of the family members and neighbours of the KTC driver who had tested positive for the virus. In all, four residents from Canacona taluka have tested positive. Meanwhile, shopkeepers who are observing a shutdown in Canacona town have urged the public to extend their cooperation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/51-swabs-from-tembewada-test-negative/articleshow/76349387.cms||Albert Fernandes
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sanguem town shuts down for 3 days till Sunday||QUEPEM: Ninety percent of shops and business establishments in Sanguem town remained shut after the local merchants association announced a self-imposed lockdown for three days from Friday. All areas around the town wore a deserted look from morning till night. President of merchants’ association, Raju Desai said that most shopkeepers were present during the meeting called on Thursday evening to decide on the lockdown. Desai justified the self-imposed lockdown in Sanguem, stating that the areas of Uguem where three Covid-19 positive cases have been detected are located on the borders Sanguem Municipal Council’s (SMC) jurisdiction. He also said that two patients from Ponsamoll in Uguem had visited Sanguem town several times before testing positive. The Uguem panchayat has already imposed an eight-day lockdown in three of its wards villages . “Our main aim is to keep our people safe. We are not bothered of our monetary loss by closing down our shops, as people’s health is our priority,” Uday Poraskar, a saloon owner, said. However, SMC’s chairperson Queiroz Cruz told TOI that the decision for a lockdown was not taken by the council. “If the locals and shopkeepers want to shut down, we will not oppose them. It is an individual’s right to take the decision whether to keep their shops open or closed,” said Cruz. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar was of the opinion that the shopowners should have avoided a lockdown as people will be inconvenienced. He appealed to the people not to roam around unnecessary in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanguem-town-shuts-down/articleshow/76349391.cms||Johnny M
June 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, corporation seeks Kerala govt’s help in protecting data||KOCHI: After the failure of the e-governance project of Kochi corporation, the local body authorities have approached the state government requesting help for protecting data.  In the backdrop of TCS, the implementing agency of the local body’s e-governance project, repeatedly informing the corporation that the firm has already wound up the project, the civic body authorities have requested the state government to give instructions on how to go ahead with the project. Corporation’s online services, which were limited to a few modules, have almost been stopped for the past three months. Rahul R, who assumed position as the new secretary of Kochi corporation a few days ago, sent a letter to TCS seeking a way out. In the reply to his letter, TCS authorities repeated that they have already wound up the project and handed over the server, database etc. to the local body on February 15, 2019. But, the corporation authorities did nothing to protect the data. The private firms also informed the local body that it wouldn’t be responsible for any outage work related to e-governance.  Then, Rahul sent a letter to the state government briefing the situation and seeking immediate assistance from agencies like IT Mission or Information Kerala Mission (IKM) for providing back up for the data of the local body. The annual maintenance contract with TCS had expired a couple of years ago. There is a possibility of loss of data, including details of birth and death registration recorded in the past, due to malware attack, power failure, mechanical damage etc. On Friday, mayor Soumini Jain convened an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. Majority of those who attended the meeting demanded that IKM, a government of Kerala undertaking, should be roped in immediately.  “But, the mayor wants the issue to be brought to the attention of the local self-government minister. The corporation authorities still want to negotiate with TCS and delay the project,” a CPM councillor said. “It is IKM which implements e-governance projects in all local bodies except Kochi corporation. Moreover, the government is planning to increase the number of online services provided by local bodies from July 1 and IKM will spearhead the project,” the councillor said. “Of the 22 modules, TCS completed only four. Still, Kochi corporation authorities handed over around Rs 5 crore out of the total outlay of Rs 9 crore to the private firm,” the councillor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-corp-seeks-state-govts-help-in-protecting-data/articleshow/76346976.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cops receive CM pat for lockdown work||Bhubaneswar: Continuing his pep talk with frontline Covid warriors, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday appreciated the lockdown enforcement by the state police. In a video-conference with the range deputy inspector generals (DIGs) and superintendents of police (SPs), Naveen said the police showed its humane face during the lockdown and helped many poor migrants. The chief minister praised the police force for coming to the rescue of thousands of poor migrant workers, who were spotted walking on the roads to reach their homes in the state and outside, during the lockdown. “My appeal for zero walking inside Odisha for interstate migrants was implemented in letter and spirit. Police worked with so much restraint and showed a dignified conduct during the lockdown. People saw a humane face of the police,” Naveen said in a statement. Adding that the Covid battle is not yet over, Naveen said he expects the same degree of commitment from the cops in the future. Naveen’s appreciation came against the backdrop of a few stray incidents of police high-handedness at some places that led to subsequent disciplinary action against the uncouth cops. The chief minister asked the director general of police Abhay to prepare an action plan in 15 days to deploy more manpower in police stations and improve the services to the complainants. Abhay, who was present during the video-conference, informed the chief minister that at least 24,587 migrant workers, who were found walking on the roads, were sent to their states in vehicles. Abhay said steps were taken to prevent domestic violence during the lockdown. The DGP also said at least Rs 1.25 crore fine has so far been collected from people caught without face masks across the state. Police have so far collected nearly Rs 11.74 lakh fine for violation of social distancing norm, Rs 3,000 fine for violation of weekly shutdown norm and Rs 1.03 lakh for flouting the night curfew across the state. Naveen also extended his appreciation to the personnel of Odisha fire services and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) for their post-Amphan restoration work in West Bengal. “I would like to mention that despite the threat of Covid-19 virus, our fire services and ODRAF personnel faced the situation boldly and helped the people in distress in Kolkata. Your service will be an inspiration for others,” Naveen’s statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-receive-cm-pat-for-lockdown-work/articleshow/76348014.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 13, 2020||Pune||Woman from hotspot & her newborn beat Covid-19 in Pune||PUNE: A 28-year-old woman and her infant who had tested positive for Covid-19 have recovered after 12 days of treatment at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) in Pimpri. The woman, a resident of a containment zone in Pimpri, was suspected to be infected before she was admitted for delivery at DY Patil Hospital on May 31. She was asymptomatic and hence no test was carried out. “She delivered a baby boy on June 1 and the same day she started facing breathing problems and had a fever and a cough. The woman and the infant were sent to our hospital. On June 2, we collected their swab samples and the reports were positive the following day. The infant was infected by the mother as they were in close contact for at least 48 hours,” Deepali Ambike, head of paediatric department of YCMH, said. The baby was admitted in the NICU while the mother was kept in the women’s ward. A dedicated team of junior doctors and a nurse took care of the baby who had breathing trouble. “We gave oxygen and anti-viral treatment which stabilised him after 48 hours. The mother’s condition was not good. She was suffering from respiratory problems and fever. The condition of both patients improved on the third and fourth day.” The doctor said the baby was on power milk till then before being breastfed. Thereafter, the mother and baby were in the same ward where they recovered fully. They were discharged on Friday. Meanwhile, six doctors involved in the woman’s delivery procedure at the D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital have been quarantined. A senior paediatrician at the hospital said, “The woman and her relatives hid the fact that she is the resident of a containment zone. We have quarantined our gynaecologist, anaesthetist, and four other resident doctors after she tested positive for Covid-19.” Despite repeated attempts, the hospital’s dean J S Bhawalkar could not be reached for his comment. The woman and her husband are labourers and could not travel to their native place in Uttar Pradesh, an official from Pimpri Chinchwad civic health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-from-hotspot-her-newborn-beat-ncov/articleshow/76348824.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Toronto flyers fear double quarantine||BENGALURU: Lack of connecting flights to Bengaluru and Chennai from international destinations like Toronto and Helsinki has put passengers heading home in a spot. They fear they may have to undergo institutional quarantine twice — for 14 days at their port of arrival, Delhi, and for another few days at their final destination, as per norms of the respective state. Those travelling to Bengaluru and Chennai are particularly affected by this, said Sudhakara Reddy, president, Air Passengers Association of India. APAI claimed to have received complaints from several passengers regarding this issue. “Passengers travelling onward to Bengaluru and Chennai have been badly hit. Lack of connecting flights is forcing many to undergo 14 day-institutional quarantine in Delhi when, in fact, their home destination is different. It doesn’t seem logical. They should be treated as transit passengers. No hub-and-spoke model is being followed, so passengers from Toronto, Vancouver and Chicago will land in Delhi despite the fact that they are travelling onward to Bengaluru, Chennai or Hyderabad,” said Reddy. Several passengers have complained of lack of clarity on the issue. A marketing professional from Bengaluru, who recently got laid off in Toronto and is travelling to Delhi on Friday, said he may have to be under quarantine for nearly a month in two different cities due to lack of connecting flights under Phase 3 of the Vande Bharat mission. “Quarantine is mandatory in Delhi although my home destination is Bengaluru. There is no clarity as the rules keep changing. Double quarantine is unreasonable. Direct flights or connecting flights from Delhi to Bengaluru are needed. How does the government expect people to cover the cost in such a situation? The ticket itself costs around 2,500 CAD (Canadian Dollar), nearly triple the normal fare,” he rued. Ritika Giridhar, a student in Finland who’s from Bengaluru, tweeted: “Ever since the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) had started, I have been requesting the officials to send a flight to Finland, as the cost of living here is very high and since we cannot work, we cannot sustain ourselves. Finally, after almost a month of requesting the government officials, we got a flight (only because we are “small in number”) (sic).” Ritika is paying 680 euros (Rs 58,000) for an economy-class ticket on Friday’s Helsinki-New Delhi flight. “We are willing to pay the price. However, they are forcing us to undergo compulsory 14-day paid quarantine in Delhi/NCR (cheapest option is about Rs 2,000 plus tax for 14 days, apart from Delhi-Bengaluru air fare of about Rs 5,000),” she said. Thirty-two international flights will land at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) from June 13 to July 1 under Phase 3 of Vande Bharat Mission. On Friday, an Air India flight (AI 1944) from Dammam (Saudi Arabia) touched down in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/flyers-from-toronto-helsinki-fear-double-quarantine/articleshow/76347474.cms||Swathyr Iyer
June 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Education institutes keen to hold exams with govt go-ahead||PUNE: Four of the state’s oldest educational institutions have expressed willingness to conduct exams for final-year students if the government permits. At a joint press conference, office-bearers of the Maharashtra Education Society, Shikshan Prasarak Mandali, Deccan Education Society and Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Sanstha said they do not want their students to lose out compared to students in other states so they were ready to conduct the final year exams, if allowed. On May 31, CM Uddhav Thackeray had said final year students will be awarded an average of their marks in previous semesters with an option to improve their grades by attempting the exams when the situation improves. However, governor BS Koshyari has said the decision on final year exams will be taken as per the Maharashtra Public Universities (MPU) Act. The state is yet to issue an ordinance regarding the move. SK Jain, chairman of Shikshan Prasarak Mandali, said, “We are prepared to conduct exams, following social distancing and safety norms, but if the government issues an ordinance cancelling the exam we will have to abide by it. Whether such an ordinance would be legal will have to be seen. As per MPU Act, the chancellor has the authority to take decisions on exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-institutes-keen-to-hold-exams-with-govt-go-ahead/articleshow/76348834.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 13, 2020||Goa||After sanitisation, gutka eaters paint Mapusa market||Saligao: The area around the shops selling chicken and mutton in the Mapusa municipal market, which was cleaned and sanitised during the lockdown, has turned filthy again with those chewing paan and gutka spitting all over the place. Almost every corner near the meat shops, above the fish market, is literally painted red with spit marks on the floor and walls as well. Angry shoppers and locals, on Friday, said that the municipal authorities should take strict action against offenders as spitting in the open poses a health risk and could lead to the spread of coronavirus. Speaking to TOI, a resident of Mapusa, Shekar Naik, said that the Mapusa municipality had done a commendable job of sanitising the market during the lockdown but it has now become dirty again. The chairperson of Mapusa Municipal Council Ryan Braganza said, "We will keep a track on those involved in the illegal sale of paan or gutka in the market. We will also take necessary measures to curb spitting in the market."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-sanitisation-gutka-eaters-paint-mapusa-market/articleshow/76349402.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: God, save us! These temples are open illegally — and crowded||CHENNAI: The lockdown rules mandate temples to be shut, but several remain open. TOI found at least five places of worship in residential areas attracting huge numbers of devotees, none of them following distancing norms or wearing masks. At Gangai Amman Koil in Vadapalani, on a street that was a containment zone until a couple of weeks ago, the Sunday puja draws hundreds of devotees who block the road. Balavinayagar temple on Vellalar Street, Vadapalani, is open, as is the Vembuliamman temple in CIT Nagar, near the T Nagar bus stand, where a marriage was held and the bride, groom and their families allowed in. The chief priest told TOI it was opened based on people’s requests. “Not just here, in every district temples are open.” Members of trusts running temples in inner areas said they were open for an hour every morning. “We do basic rituals and pujas. Sometimes, when there is a huge demand, we allow devotees,” said the member of a trust. Asked if they would conduct a puja on demand, he said they would. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash said they were taking action whenever they received complaints. A corporation conservancy inspector said a temple on Thiru Nagar Street in Kodambakkam attracted huge crowds last Sunday. “We warned them and told them to close it. We will ensure all temples are closed,” he said. Since the lockdown began, all big temples are closed. “Weddings usually take place out on the street but we ensure they follow social distancing and wear masks. On Friday, two weddings took place outside Vadapalani Murugan temple. But the doors were shut,” said a corporation revenue official. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department runs hundreds of temples and an equal number of temples are run by private trusts and political parties. “We have instructed all temples and religious mutts under the department not to open for public since March 25,” HR&CE commissioner Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The state government has clearly said no temple or any religious association can open during the lockdown and perform rituals or pujas. “With regard to temples not under our department, it is for the regulatory authorities to take action,” he said. Since the lockdown began, daily pujas and annual festivals in all big and small temples under the HR&CE department are being held without devotees. “For the sake of devotees, we livestream pujas from inside the temple. We share the YouTube link with devotees,” said a Chennai-based temple official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/god-save-us-these-temples-are-open-illegally-and-crowded/articleshow/76348842.cms||Komal Gautham
June 13, 2020||Patna||Covid tally crosses 6,000-mark in Bihar||PATNA: A 27-year-old man from Jehanabad died and 148 more people were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Friday, taking the number of total cases to 6,096. The virus has so far claimed lives of 35 people in the state. Among the 6,096 Covid-19 patients, 3,316 have recovered. The number of active cases in the state stood at 2,744 on Friday. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the deceased, a resident of Madanganj block in Jehanabad district, had returned from Delhi on June 8. Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar said the victim was suffering from cough and had difficulty in breathing. “The man was kept at a quarantine centre and his sample was tested positive for coronavirus on June 11. He died at the Anugraha Narayan Medical College and Hospital on Friday,” the DM added. Meanwhile, four new cases were recorded in Patna district on Friday. An eight-year girl and a 13-year-old boy from Digha, a 29-year-old man from Maner and a 35-year-old woman from Daud Digha were tested positive for Covid-19. According to the health department, samples of 1,16,671 people have so far been tested in the state. “Altogether 3,446 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Among the Covid-19 positive cases in the state, 4,250 are migrants,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-crosses-6000-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/76347637.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 13, 2020||Goa||Six-day lockdown in Quepem town||Quepem: The Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) on Friday held a meeting and decided to impose a six-day lockdown in Quepem town from Tuesday till next Sunday. Councillor Amol Kanekar suggested that a lockdown be imposed in the town since two Covid positive cases have been reported in Assolda and Pirla, in Quepem taluka. Dr Lorna Fernandes from the Quepem primary health centre said on Friday that the preliminary test of a lady from Ambaulim has come negative. Fernandes, said the woman, will remain at the isolation ward of the TB hospital in Margao till her second test report is received. Ambaulim is in QMC’s jurisdiction. Kanekar said that the council was unanimous in its decision for a lockdown, keeping in mind the safety of the people. The QMC has urged the public to stock essential commodities on Sunday and Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-day-lockdown-in-quepem-town/articleshow/76349395.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Colleges can’t survive without fees, seek financial help from government||Pune: Representatives of Maharashtra Education Society, Shikshan Prasarak Mandali, Deccan Education Society and Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Sanstha on Friday said they were facing a financial crunch and cannot survive if students don’t pay the fees. Rajeev Sahasrabudhe, chairman of Maharashtra Education Society, said that schools under the four managements would increase the fee by 15% this year as they had not done so in the previous year, but due to the lockdown and general financial crisis across the country, all managements have decided not to increase the fee this year. — Ardhra Nair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-cant-survive-without-fees-seek-financial-help-from-government/articleshow/76348839.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Spiti locals who stopped minister in Kaza face FIR||Manali: Over 200 residents of Spiti, mostly women, who had blocked the Shimla-Kaza highway to bar the entry of agriculture and tribal welfare minister Dr Ram Lal Markada into Kaza, will be booked. Official said the agitators are being identified and will be booked under relevant sections of law for obstruction of the national highway, not maintaining social distancing and other offences. Kaza additional district magistrate Gian Singh Negi said, “Some government employees are also said to have taken part in the protest. They are also being identified.” Kaza DSP Sushant Sharma said the agitators will be booked soon. "We are investigating the matter.” The residents had stopped the minister’s convoy on Tuesday at the Kaza entry point and raised ‘go back’ slogans. They had demanded that the minister, who had come from Shimla, quarantine himself despite the officials telling them that there was no such norm for intrastate movement in Himachal. The minister who was going to meet labourers who had been on indefinite hunger strike. Meanwhile, in a press release on Friday late evening, Spiti block BJP said the protest was a result of political rivalry and the residents should apologise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spiti-locals-who-stopped-minister-in-kaza-face-fir/articleshow/76348846.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur frowns at power-surplus claims||Mohali: Exasperated with unscheduled power cuts, Zirakpur residents voiced scepticism about the claims of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) of being power surplus. As unscheduled power cuts make life miserable in the height of summer, residents of Zirakpur are at the end of their tether. Anu Chaudhary, a resident of VIP road said, “Why can’t PSPCL upgrade system in winters? Its a sizzling 42 degrees Celsius outside. Why are people harassed like this every year?” Manoj Das, a social activist said, “If PSPCL is power surplus, why could it not plan ahead ? They lack vision. Governmental agencies are meant to plan and perform, not harass residents. There is no one to question them.” Residents said they have been experiencing unscheduled power cuts for the past two weeks. Overhead cables from a transformer in their area were burnt due to short-circuit during the rains, causing power outage, they said. “The Zirakpur power department is incompetent as they cannot foresee the annual problem and solve it before emergency strikes,” residents said. PSPCL executive engineer (Xen) Khushinder Singh said, “People install ACs but do not apprise powercom department for upgrade of load. This causes snapping of grids and burning of transformers. Our teams are working on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/zirakpur-frowns-at-power-surplus-claims/articleshow/76346952.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government seeks help of private hospitals to ensure quarantine care||KOCHI: With the number of persons in quarantine increasing, government reached out private hospitals seeking their help in the management of persons in quarantine (HQ & IQ) along with their close contacts. As on June 11, 2,17,027 persons are in quarantine of which 1,87,359 are in home quarantine and 24,157 are in IQ. Many returnees and their contacts need medical care for non-Covid ailments that is mostly managed at the PHC-level. But now, with government being taxed due to increase in patient load at its hospitals amid fear of communicable diseases during monsoon, health department sought the help of private hospitals. Recently, the health minister discussed the same with private hospital managements. Government hospitals will continue to take care of Covid patients. The minister sought help of private hospitals to offer specialist doctor/nursing care from hospitals for those in HQ and observation. Also, private hospitals will have to give telemedicine and counselling services to patients in HQ. Also, if they have other illness (not Covid) then private hospital doctor would check on them and collect blood samples if needed. However, swab for Covid tests will only be collected by a trained government staff. Private hospitals have also been asked to start mobile clinics. Confirming the development, Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal said, “We have been asked to provide home care, medical treatment to those in quarantine and will soon be submitting a proposal to the government on what kind of assistance private sector can give to persons under surveillance.” Government’s medical advisory panel on Covid management had recently discussed the issue of how private hospitals can help. There was consensus that people, who now have an option of free and paid IQ, should also be given the option of treatment in government or private hospitals. Therefore, along with government hospitals, a few private hospitals should be declared as Covid treatment centres. The general view of the committee was that in eventuality of more cases, government health system will be overburdened. Therefore, if private hospitals are roped in now, then when a crisis comes, then it can absorb many cases. CM, in his press briefing, suggested the same on Thursday. However, private hospitals are unwilling to become Covid treatment centres. “We are not encouraging admission of Covid patients as government still has capacity. If there is major community breakout, then private hospitals will also have to be declared as Covid hospitals,” said KIMS healthcare group chairman Dr MI Sahadulla. At present, only in special cases, a Covid patient is treated by some private hospitals with government permission. Hospital managements admit that there is stigma attached to Covid and admitting Covid patients would affect the inflow of other patients. “Private hospitals have no role in Covid treatment now. Covid infection risk is high among healthcare workers at a Covid care centre. But if the situation worsens, we have 30% beds ready to admit Covid patients,” said medical superintendent, Rajagiri Hospital, Dr Sunny P Orathel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-seeks-help-of-pvt-hosps-to-ensure-quarantine-care/articleshow/76346973.cms||Preetu Nair
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand jawan falls into gorge during patrol along LOC, dies||NAINITAL: A 28-year-old Army jawan from Haldwani, died after falling into a deep gorge while patrolling along the line of control (LOC) in Kupwara district of Kashmir valley on Thursday. The jawan, identified as Subedar Yamuna Prasad Paneru, was stationed in Kashmir as part of a platoon of the 6th Kumaon Regiment. He was also a trained mountaineer and had scaled Mount Everest, the world’s highest peak last year. According to officials, the soldier’s body has been taken to Delhi for postmortem, following which it will be handed over to the bereaved family for last rites. The body is expected to reach Uttarakhand by Saturday. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and cabinet minister Arvind Pandey expressed their condolences over Paneru’s death. “We express our gratitude to soldier Yamuna Prasad Paneru. The nation is indebted to him for his service and the government stands by the family in this hour of grief,” CM Rawat said in a tweet. Chandra Prakash Paneru, the jawan’s elder brother, said, “On Thursday, we were informed that my brother slipped and fell into a gorge while patrolling in Kupwara’s Gurez sector. His fellow soldiers rescued him and he was taken to the hospital in Srinagar but he was declared dead after some time.” Yamuna Prasad Paneru had joined the Army in 2002. He is survived by his mother, wife, three year-old-daughter, and a seven-year-old son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-jawan-from-ukhand-who-had-scaled-everest-falls-into-gorge-while-patrolling-along-loc-in-kashmir-dies/articleshow/76346963.cms||Prashant Jha
June 13, 2020||Goa||Morlem’s Ghodemal sees spike in cases||Keri: With five more persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, and all 14 cases concentrated in a single ward of Morlem village in Sattari taluka, health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane decided to declare the Ghodemal ward as a containment zone, with the neighbouring wards of Kasarwada and Deulwada as buffer zones. It may be recalled that after coronavirus cases were detected in the area, villagers decided to observe a of self-imposed 14-day lockdown from June 6, with the help of the police. Morlem, which is situated between Keri and Poriem on the Chorla Ghat road leading to Belagavi in Karnataka, Jbecame a victim of Covid-19 cases after a health worker who was working in Vasco got infected by the virus. Uttam Dessai, the health officer of the Sakhali primary health centre, said, “We are alarmed as with five fresh cases the count has shot up to 14. Till Thursday, there were nine cases recorded in Ghodemal. We have already undertaken an awareness drive as well as the necessary precautions measures for curtailing transmission of the virus. Our staff has been continuously collecting swabs. So far, the situation is under control.” Morlem sarpanch Vidya Sawant said that the villagers had on Friday completed seven days of the lockdown. “Now, for another seven days we will strictly observe the lockdown. Our panchayat is making all efforts to provide essential commodities to the people.” Meanwhile, no new cases have been reported at Shiroli in Keri panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/morlems-ghodemal-sees-spike-in-cases/articleshow/76349399.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Education minister under fire for ‘shift to govt schools’ remark||Dehradun: State education minister Arvind Pandey’s remark over payment of school fees has now courted controversy with parents of those studying in private schools taking strong objection. The minister had suggested the parents — unable to pay private school fees during lockdown — to shift their ward(s) to government ones. However, the minister’s office later issued a clarification saying, “The education minister suggested that government schools can be considered by parents as the facilities have improved and they are at par with the private schools of the state. He never meant to suggest that children should be sent to government schools if parents don’t have the money to pay fees during the lockdown. His remarks were misinterpreted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-minister-under-fire-for-shift-to-govt-schools-remark/articleshow/76348021.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 13, 2020||Pune||16-year-old falls from balcony, dies||Pune: A 16-year-old youth died after he lost his balance and fell from the balcony of his seventh-floor flat in a housing society in the Kondhwa area around 7.45pm on Friday. The Kondhwa police have registered a complaint of accidental death. “Further investigation is under way,” an officer of the Kondhwa police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/16-year-old-falls-from-balcony-dies/articleshow/76348845.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Stranded UK Indians to get tickets: Centre||KOCHI: The Kerala High Court on Friday disposed of the petitions seeking repatriation of stranded Keralites in the UK after the central government informed that tickets will be arranged in flights being operated as part of Vande Bharat Mission. Justice Anu Sivaraman disposed of three petitions after centre government counsel Girish Kumar informed that tickets will be arranged for the sons of Suresh Subramanian for one of the three flights arriving this month. The other two petitions were disposed of as they could book tickets on the flights being operated as part of Vande Bharat Mission. During Friday’s hearing, the central government counsel (CGC) submitted that the sons of Suresh Subramanian are included in the list of persons requiring repatriation as part of the mission. They will be accommodated in one of the three flights to Kerala on 18th, 24th, and 30th this month. In the other two cases, their tickets have been booked and confirmed, the CGC submitted. Advocate P Chandrasekhar, who represented Suresh, submitted that the sons of the petitioner have not been able to make the payment for the tickets online. The court directed the nodal officer of Vande Bharat Mission in the UK to provide assistance to them to make the payments and asked the CGC to convey it to the mission and provide assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/stranded-uk-indians-to-get-tickets-centre/articleshow/76347037.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Extortionists held on ex-bootlegger’s plaint||NAGPUR: A 53-year-old woman, who earlier used to sell illicit liquor, was threatened at knifepoint by two miscreants who asked her to pay Rs2,000 per month as ‘protection money’ on Thursday at Arun Kapale Layout. Kalamna police on Friday arrested both the accused. The accused have been identified as Akshay alias Chambda Ranjeet and Farooq. They have been booked for extortion and criminal intimidation. According to police, the complainant, Kantabai Shende, used to sell illicit liquor but had quit the business a few months back. On Thursday, the drunk accused barged into her house and asked her to pay Rs2,000 per month if she wants to continue her business. Kantabai told them she had stopped selling liquor so she will not pay them any money. They then pulled out a knife from their pocket and threatened Kantabai of dire consequences if she did not pay up. Kantabai then approached Kalamna police and filed a complaint. Kalamna police, under supervision of senior PI Vishwanath Chavhan, arrested the accused. Sources said that both the accused have several old offences registered against them and they are trying to create their clout in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/extortionists-held-on-ex-bootleggers-plaint/articleshow/76348849.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Three more test Covid-19 positive in Vasco||VASCO: Three persons from the port town, including a priest, tested Covid positive on Friday. The priest resides in the same premises along with the priest who had tested positive on Thursday, while the other two patients are members of a church body. While eight people who were in contact with the priest had been tested on Thursday at the sub district hospital at Chicalim, swabs of 14 others were sent for testing on Friday. So far, four people have tested negative. The test results of two councillors who had been in contact with the priest were also negative. The results of 30 samples belonging to 68 staffers of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) were reported negative on Friday. Thirty samples had earlier also tested negative. The MMC staffers had undergone testing after a woman who serves them tea had been found positive. Meanwhile, the vegetable and fruit markets in Vasco will reopen from Saturday. However, the MMC chairperson has warned that if a rush is witnessed in market then he will take help from the police to regulate the crowd. The vendors had extended support to the call given by MMC chief Nandadeep Raut for a voluntary lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-more-test-positive-in-vasco/articleshow/76349407.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Locals of Pithoragarh village take it on themselves to level, broaden trek route||Dehradun: Nestled in picturesque lap of the Himalayas, the remote Tunda Chauri village in Pithoragarh district is connected to the nearest main road at Bharadi by a treacherous 3km-long trek route. The unpaved, uneven path was hardly fit for walking, until a group of some five villagers decided to join hands and build a road in order to make it easier for those returning to the village from other states. Pithoragarh district administration even decided to extend help for the initiative after a video of the villagers’ efforts reached the CM’s media advisor Ramesh Bhatt. On May 28, five local residents took on the task of leveling and broadening the trek route. In the last 15 days, the number of workers grew to 100 as more people joined in, including villagers who returned from cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru and have completed their quarantine period. A kilometer stretch of the route from Bharadi was leveled and its width broadened from 2 to 3 feet to 11 feet. The trek route has six villages on either side, with approximately 2,000 residents. Villagers aim to make the entire road, which has never been able to support a motorbike, fit for four-wheelers. The villagers started to post a video of their progress on social media every day, one of which caught the attention of Bhatt, who alerted Pithoragarh’s district magistrate Vijay Jogdande. “I have requested him (Jogdande) to provide required assistance to the villages involved in the task. In a day or two, they will receive a JCB machine,” Bhatt said. “After a call from the DM’s office, a letter has been moved to the SDM concerned. We have received assurance from authorities that a JCB machine, along with the required assistance, will be provided for the road-widening project,” said local resident Govind Singh. Gram pradhan of Tunda Chauri, Manisha Devi, told TOI, “Carving a road in the hills is not easy, it took a lot of work. The route passes through agricultural fields owned by locals, who gave up their land to support the initiative.” Devi said that the villagers start work early in the morning and after an hour of lunch break, continue till late evening. “There is such a sense of positivity in the entire belt. Even residents of nearby Itana and Kheti villages have joined the campaign,” Devi added. “We are confident of completing the project by the end of June,” said Jairaj Singh, who works at a call centre in Noida and recently returned to Tunda Chauri. During the British rule, a trek route from Dharchula to Almora passed through Munsyari and Tunda Chauri. The route was developed into a proper road in time, but the path connecting it from Bharadi to Tunda Chauri remained unpaved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-of-pithoragarh-village-take-it-on-themselves-to-level-broaden-trek-route/articleshow/76348044.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||To cut use of Nepalese SIM cards, border villages in Uttarakhand get satellite phones||PITHORAGARH: In areas having poor phone connectivity along the China and Nepal border adjoining Pithoragarh, the district administration has decided to provide satellite phones to around 49 gram pradhans in the area. These phones have been given by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) to the district administration for the use of villagers, many of whom had to depend on Nepalese SIM cards for communication. Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate of Pithoragarh, told TOI that of the 49 villages, 34 are from Dharchula tehsil while the rest are from Munsyari. “On Friday, we gave 19 satellite phones to the gram pradhans of Byas and Darma areas of Dharcula. The rest will also be distributed shortly. On Sunday, 15 village heads in Munsyari will be provided the satellite phones,” the DM said. He added that call charges would be Rs 12 per minute and a SMS would also cost the same amount. International calls and SMS rates will be Rs 260 per minute and Rs 260 per SMS respectively, the DM further said. The villages where the satellite phones are being provided are located in the Byas, Chaudas and Darma valley of Dharchula and Malla Johar valley of Munsyari. These areas have very poor phone connectivity as no telecom company, including state-owned BSNL, has set up mobile towers here due to the tough terrain. Salu Datal, a resident of Datu village, told TOI that villagers were looking forward to using the satellite phones to solve their communication difficulties. “Many persons in Dharchula have been using Nepalese SIM cards but it is very costly and we would prefer to use our own country’s communication network,” he said. However, the high satellite phone call rates is a cause of concern for many. On Friday, 14 gram pradhans of Byas, Darma and Chaudas areas sent a memorandum to chief minister Trivendra Rawat to consider reducing the call rates. “Not only is the cost of outgoing call Rs 12, even the cost of incoming call has been kept at Rs 12 per minute which is very high for poor villagers. We have urged the CM to keep teh cost at Rs 2 for outgoing while incoming should be free,” said Hayat Singh, a gram pradhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-cut-dependence-on-nepalese-sim-cards-border-villages-in-pithoragarh-dist-of-ukhand-get-satellite-phones/articleshow/76347011.cms||Prem Punetha
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Fighting Covid-19: What Chennai can learn from Bengaluru||CHENNAI: With the Tamil Nadu government replacing Beela Rajesh with J Radhakrishnan as health secretary and planning to bring in Pankaj Kumar Bansal as Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, the Covid pandemic management in Chennai is all set for course correction. Two new people at the helm means the city will re-draft its Covid management plan and hopefully look at its neighbours to draw inspiration. Bengaluru, for instance, has recorded just 617 Covid positive cases (until Friday) and 27 deaths. Here are six things Chennai could do better. Covid-19: Latest updatesTestingTesting remains a critical exercise in the interest of larger public health. While 1.22 lakh samples have been tested in Chennai until June 7, in Bengaluru, it is around 50,000. Chennai, which tested 16,903 people per million till June 7, should persist with testing as per ICMR’s Intelligent Testing Strategy and ramp up the numbers from the current nearly 6,000 samples a day in the city instead of bringing it down to quell panic. In mid-May, the government reduced the testing numbers, worried by the surge of cases, drawing flak from health experts. With lockdown in process then, epidemiologist felt that a golden opportunity had been frittered away when testing and optimal early containment could have checked the virus spread to such alarming levels. Contact TracingWith Chennai’s geographical spread comprising areas of packed colonies and slums, containing the Covid spread has proved challenging. Initially, contact tracing was meticulous. Teams found that there were roughly five close contacts for a primary infected person and 10 to 15 ‘other’ contacts. But as the number of cases soared, the contacts multiplied and the search too lagged. With Bansal being roped in to head surveillance and containment, a woman health worker traced 120 contacts of an index patient, a record of sorts. In contrast, Bengaluru has kept up a search for contacts, identifying them and putting them under quarantine. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Containment Zones Containing a positive zone has been tough. There are 200-odd containment zones in Chennai; Bengaluru just 40. There is little discipline within these areas in Chennai with asymptomatic positive contacts moving around. Three to five policemen are posted at the entrance of a street that marks the beginning of a zone. But few zones in the city follow the rules, social distancing and masks being scarce. Ensuring social responsibility and self-discipline has been the one challenge for health teams. BBMP took to containment zone mapping and predictive modelling, sealing the locality and regulating movement. Isolation/Quarantine With Covid numbers reaching alarming levels in Chennai, isolation and quarantine is a growing concern. With clusters expanding and the number of travellers coming into the city on the rise, Covid teams are grappling with insufficient institutional facilities for quarantine. The situation is worse in the 1,900 slums in the city, including the 1,200 notified ones, where Covid numbers are in thousands and social distancing near impossible. While the state opened up the option of home isolation/care to reduce the pressure on its health care system, the queue of the less privileged at hospitals and Covid Care Centres is growing. Whereas in Bengaluru, authorities are providing institutional isolation even for secondary contacts. On Monday, the Karnataka government tweaked its quarantine rules for travellers entering the state, to make them tighter Coordinated strategy It is difficult to ask for a happy working relationship between twelve committees/task forces and umpteen departments. In such a pandemic situation, however, there is little option but to coordinate smoothly. But officials are caught up with summarizing ground operations in offices instead of monitoring and guiding ground level teams. Egos have come in the way of coordinated strategizing. The shunting of officers was an unfortunate fallout. In Bengaluru, team heads cracked the whip to make sure the various agencies worked harmoniously. Officials put aside differences to ensure coordination between the civic agency, health department and the home department was effective. Transparency There have been allegations of fudging of records and juggling numbers to present a not-so-alarming picture of the Covid-19 onslaught in Chennai. The attempt to suppress the true mortality figures is not just a poor reflection of the government’s credibility but also its inefficient management of the pandemic. Epidemiologists have been crying hoarse about the possibility of community spread. They reason that the government should stop feeling guilty about the rising numbers from more testing and focus on intervention strategies to check the spread and provide good health care. While fighting a pandemic such as the Covid-19, being upfront with the people can pay off in the long run. Watch What Chennai can learn from Bengaluru in fight against Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-chennai-can-learn-from-bluru/articleshow/76348851.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||With cases rising, HSRP for Vasco vehicles suspended||Panaji: Installation of the high security registration plates (HSRP) for Vasco-based vehicles will have to wait for a while. The bookings counter at the Vasco regional transport office (RTO) has been shut since last Tuesday after reports of Covid-19 infection emerged from the port town. “In this situation, everyone in Vasco is worried,” said director of transport Rajan Satardekar. Officially transport authorities have left it to the head of the RTO – the assistant director of transport – to discontinue the services, he said. Currently, appointments are only being given to vehicles in other jurisdictions. Dates for vehicles from the port town are being pushed to a further date. “We are in the process of sending out messages to Vasco-based vehicle owners that they will be informed of new fitting dates when operations resume,” said Kate Kayani, in-charge of HSRP installations all over Goa. Since most of the transport services have been given an extension till the end of July, other services at the Vasco RTO are also not likely to be affected, transport officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-cases-rising-hsrp-for-vasco-vehicles-suspended/articleshow/76349410.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government divided over intense lockdown in Chennai||CHENNAI: Some in the government, including top bureaucrats, want a lockdown within a lockdown enforced strictly in Chennai and its suburbs in view of the Covid surge. Others want the curbs eased. The chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will meet the government’s panel of medical experts on Monday to discuss the way forward. The government is studying the ground realities and garnering the views of all sections. Traders have offered support for a 15-day lockdown. The CM would take a call after meeting the health experts, said a source in government. Palaniswami, who is in Salem and expected in Chennai on Sunday night, on Friday told reporters the government had no plans as of now for a complete lockdown. His last meeting with the government’s panel of health experts was on May 30 ahead of the fifth extension, where it was decided not to open up Chennai and three neighbouring districts. Now, with the city’s case tally nearing 30,000 a section of top bureaucrats is pushing for an intense lockdown. The city recorded 13,720 cases in May, and 13,154 cases in the first 12 days of June. "Despite stringent measures to contain the spread, the lack of support from the people is costing us very dearly. Lots of free movement to districts as resulted in new cases emerging from Vellore, Ranipet, Villupuram, Trichy, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur districts. The spread is due to Chennai’s porous borders," said another official. Officials rue that even home quarantined persons, especially in the core areas, step out ignoring the danger of the virus spreading. They say local AIADMK partymen too have requested the administration to go in for complete lockdown to bring down the cases. However, health experts differ. "Lockdown is a failure in Chennai. All along the health expert team only suggested a phased exit, with strong containment strategies and enhanced testing and screening. Maintaining social distancing norms, personal hygiene and wearing masks alone will prevent the spread," said an epidemiologist, who is part of the government’s panel of medical experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-divided-over-intense-lockdown-in-chennai/articleshow/76348859.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||5,000 sign plea to back Mundhe as netas unite against him||NAGPUR: A day after Congress MLA and Maharashtra assembly speaker Nana Patole demanded transfer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, residents of Orange City have launched an online petition — People’s Confidence Motion — to show their support to the civic chief. Nearly 5,000 residents have signed the petition, launched on Thursday, on social media platforms appealing to other Nagpurians to sign it to support Mundhe. Since Mundhe joined the NMC as municipal commissioner in January this year, like in his past postings, the civic chief has not had a good rapport with elected representatives in the civic body. All-party corporators had united against Mundhe after a police complaint was filed against Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane at Lakadganj police station for obstructing civic body’s containment drive and demanded that the complaint be withdrawn. Congress MLA Vikas Thakre had met divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar urging him to order Mundhe to withdraw the police complaint filed against Sathawane. But in vain. Later, Congress corporators and leaders met Patole and urged him to raise the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for transferring Mundhe from Nagpur. Patole met the CM and apprised him how Mundhe is “ignoring” elected representatives while taking policy decisions. TOI also contacted Patole but he parried this question. Following all these developments, an online campaign to support Mundhe was launched. Nearly 5,000 people have signed the petition to show support for Mundhe. In a letter to the chief minister, an anonymous online petitioner urged him not to shift Mundhe as citizens in Nagpur have complete confidence in the municipal commissioner. “Mundhe has proved his mettle amid the deadly pandemic by handling the situation very efficiently with appropriate use of iron fist and feather touch as per situation. Thanks to his strict, prompt, result-oriented and focused method of good governance; Nagpur city has phenomenally controlled the community spread of Covid-19, with recovery rate of 80%,” the letter to the CM stated. Appreciating Mundhe’s efforts, the petitioner also shared some of the steps taken by NMC under his leadership like mass quarantine facilities created at very affordable cost and without corruption, shelter homes for migrant labourers and beggars, skill development activities for beggars, strict implementation of lockdown in various stages, door-to-door survey for identification of patients, tracing, isolation, testing, treatment and effective public awareness programmes. “As a result of these initiatives, Nagpur could save many lives. But unfortunately, some politicians with vested interest are introducing a no-confidence motion against an honest and hardworking officer like Tukaram Mundhe. It is a pity that they are demanding his transfer from city at this crucial time, when the city needs him. This kind of conspiracy against an honest IAS officer is not only shameful, but also is a blot on the image of Nagpur city,” the letter stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5k-sign-plea-to-back-mundhe-as-netas-unite-against-him/articleshow/76348883.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||19-yr-old commits suicide at quarantine centre||Dehradun: A 19-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at a quarantine centre in city’s Balawala area on Friday. Police said that the deceased had come to Dehradun from Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur on June 6 and was under quarantine at Sardar Bhagwan Singh Medical College in Balawala along with 70 others. Amarjeet Singh, SHO of Raipur, said, “He was a resident of Haridwar and his family has been informed. No suicide note was recovered from the spot and we are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/19-yr-old-commits-suicide-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76348058.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||18.5 lakh lacked access to abortion during lockdown||HYDERABAD: Around 18.5 lakh women across the country did not have access to gynaecological consultation for abortion because of the lockdown norms and hospitals focusing more on Covid-19 patients and putting on hold elective surgeries. A study conducted by Ipas Development Foundation (IDF), which works among women for legal and safe abortions, had focussed on the medical access to women in India in the first three months of lockdown. The study revealed that access to abortion was highly compromised during lockdown 1 and 2 (March 25 to May 3) in which around 59% of women seeking abortion could not access hospital for the services. With the unlock phase starting on June 1, the situation is improving with only 33% abortions being compromised. “Abortion access for 18.5 lakh women was compromised at all points of care, including public and private sector facilities and chemist outlets,” said Vinoj Manning of IDF. He said as Covid-19 turned into a pandemic, everyone’s attention and effort went to the containment of the virus, which pushed a lot of health conditions and their management, including safe abortion, to the back seat. Also, closures of private health facilities have compromised the access to safe abortions, which is a time-sensitive procedure. He said the model of the study strived to quantify the reduced access to abortions across three different points of care, public health facilities, private health facilities, and chemist outlets. Dr Sushanta Kumar Banerjee, who was part of research, said telephonic surveys and consultations were held with several experts from the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) and social marketing organizations like PSI India Private Limited to arrive at the estimation that 18.5 lakh women could not have access during the lockdown. “After careful analysis of the data received from the gynaecologists, we have concluded that of the 3.9 million abortions that would have taken place in three months, access to around 1.85 million was compromised due to Covid-19 restrictions,” he said. Researchers highlighted the need to assess facilities’ preparedness for second-trimester abortions, improving referral linkage, and streamlining the supply chain for medical abortion drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/18-5-lakh-lacked-access-to-abortion-during-lockdown/articleshow/76348863.cms||Syed Akbar
June 13, 2020||Goa||‘Strong leadership missing, need President’s rule’||Panaji: The absence of “strong leadership” in Goa has scared locals which is why villages and municipal bodies are locking down villages and shutting down markets, said independent MLA Rohan Khaunte on Friday. Reflecting a stance taken by Goa Forward Party (GFP) a few days ago, Khaunte said that if chief minister Pramod Sawant cannot provide “active political leadership”, Goa would be better off if the Goa governor Satya Pal Malik took over the reigns by bringing in President’s rule. “Standard operating protocols (SOPs) are scaring people instead of helping them, people have already taken laws into their own hands by shutting down individual villages and market complexes,” said Khaunte. “The way Corona is spreading in thickly populated areas like Mangor, Chimbel and Ramnagar, we need active political leadership and not someone who is always studying matters and playing with definitions.” A few days ago, Khaunte wrote to the prime minister’s office seeking the closure of Goa’s borders with Maharashtra. In the letter, Khaunte had raised questions over Sawant’s ability to administer Goa. “The need of the hour is to provide a strong leadership to the state or impose governor’s rule in the state,” said Khaunte. On earlier occasions, GFP president Vijai Sardesai had called for Sawant to be dropped as chief minister and for President’s rule to be brought in. Sardesai has been extremely vocal in his criticism of Sawant, especially the chief minister’s role in opening the state borders and the policy for returning seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/strong-leadership-missing-need-presidents-rule/articleshow/76349421.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||‘Do not reopen schools in haste, children at risk’||Panaji: Schools in the state should not be reopened in haste as children in Goa in the 6-18 age group are not exposed to any of the seven strains of coronaviruses and have no immunity against them, stated Nandkumar Kamat in a letter to the director of education on Wednesday. Monsoon season with lower temperatures and higher wind speeds makes for favourable conditions for the virus to spread and assuming that all children are healthy would be a strategic error, stated Kamat, who has a PhD in microbiology and has taught virology at the postgraduate-level for nearly three decades. “Reopening of the schools needs to be tied to availability of anti-Covid-19 vaccine. The only way to prevent infection is mass vaccination and therefore no hasty decision to reopen the schools can be taken without ensuring availability of vaccine in Goa. And till such a time students should be allowed to study from home,” he has written to the director. He stated that due to the circumstances, the curriculum for all classes in the academic year 2020-21 should be trimmed by one third to half. “A dedicated department of education YouTube channel can host model lessons. The department could prepare a learning kit comprising books, ebooks, CDs, etc to be delivered to all the students at their doorsteps. Alternatively these kits could be collected by the parents from respective schools,” Kamat has stated. Cable TV channels can be roped in to telecast model lectures sponsored by the education department, reads the letter. He stated that online teaching is not feasible in Goa as network is poor in many parts of the state. “Students can be tested orally by telephone on basis of pre-timed quizzes in any subject. Students can be easily evaluated on basis of short projects in every subject. Projects could be sent online as reports/assignments,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/do-not-reopen-schools-in-haste-children-at-risk/articleshow/76349418.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Spiti rejects Unlock 1.0||Manali: While the businesses, transportation system, hotels and free public movement are coming back to life in the country, the residents of Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh have refused to welcome government’s unlock 1.0 and decided to keep the valley cut off from rest of the state. The residents, who are themselves guarding the entry points of Spiti, say the Centre and Himachal government should not enforce their decisions on Spiti regarding Covid-19 as they are in no mood to take the disease lightly. They have asked the government not to run bus service to the valley and decided that non-local movement including tourists and residents from other parts of Himachal will also not be allowed. Local residents will not go outside the valley till it’s urgent and will undergo 14-day quarantine. They want government and local administration to help them in implementing this rule on government officials and politicians without discrimination. After mahila mandals and yuvak mandals of Spiti denied entry to agriculture and tribal welfare minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda and his team to his home district for not opting to quarantine after coming from Shimla, the residents have made it clear that the minister will also have to obey the locally-imposed lockdown norms. They said they will continue to take hard decisions to keep the valley Covid-19 free. The residents, yuvak mandals, mahila mandals, panchayat representatives, social action groups and lamas from five major monasteries on March 17 had formed a committee for preventive measures and sustainable development (CPMSD), Spiti, to take all required decisions to fight Covid-19. Spiti was the first in Himachal to impose complete lockdown in March and the lockdown is still imposed in valley by residents. Takpa Tanzin, a member of CPMSD, said the committee has nothing to do with Congress, BJP or any political party and decisions are independently taken by the members. “We are not supported by any political party. We are concerned for our remote valley with poor healthcare and limited resources. Over 50% of the population is elderly and children and over 40% are suffering from hepatitis. The altitude is high with low oxygen. We have to go over 250km only for ultrasound examination. Once Covid-19 enters the valley, it will wreak havoc. That is why everybody decided unanimously to keep the valley isolated for some more time. This is result of our strictness that our district is the only coronavirus-free district in Himachal,” he said. Himachal government has decided that quarantine is not necessary for intrastate movement, but Spiti residents want the government to let people decide on it based on the geography, local infrastructure and other problems. They said government should cooperate with them in “self-government and security” as tribal areas have been given a special status in the constitution of India in order to safeguard the rights and interests of the communities. The hotels, guesthouses and other tourism establishments will also remain closed in the valley. Sonam Targe, another member of the committee, said residents in all the villages of Spiti have sacrificed a lot in the past three months. “Our livelihood is dependent on farming and tourism. Not allowing labourers into the valley was a decision taken by CPMSD and we were cooperated by administration. The farmers here did not cultivate cash crops this year and have taken up traditional farming. We want the government to support us in our cause. We want to inform everyone in advance so that they are not harassed if not allowed to let into valley from Sumdho. Some tourists were also sent back from Sumdho,” he said. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spiti-rejects-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76348878.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 13, 2020||Goa||Farmers endure bleak mango season as adverse weather plays spoilsport||Panaji: The mango production in the state has been affected by climatic conditions resulting in a poor yield this season. “This year, flowering of the mango crop was 20-25%, which left about 80% of the crop without yield,” said E B Chakurkar, director of Old Goa-based ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute. He attributed the reason for the same to weather parameters. The crop requires a cold spell to reach its stage of fruition from flowering, but humidity due to the sudden rain can play spoilsport. Last year, the state witnessed spells of rain up to October-November. Winter season’s cold temperature is very essential for mango flowering. Humidity caused due to unseasonal rain during this time can lead to black spots or even fungal growth on the flowers, which then has a severe impact on the fruition of the crop. “As a result, there has been only 20% of yield this year,” Chakurkar said. Jagganath Lawande, a farmer from Ponda said this year his mango orchard has managed to give out less than 30% of the total mango production that he annually accumulates. “The season has therefore not been very promising for mango farmers in the state,” he said. The king of fruits made its entry into the markets by February-March this year with the Alphonso variety. As the month of May progressed under lockdown, local varieties like the Mancurad made an entry. Now, however, only select variants are being sold. In the Panaji market, the Mangilar variety is going at Rs 500 per dozen, Xavier is being sold at Rs 280 for half a dozen, Kesar is priced at Rs 85 per kg, while the cost of Mallika is Rs 85 per kg. Butter mango or totapuri is tagged at Rs 45 per kg. “The initial season was tough since the prices were exorbitant. Now, the rates have fallen so more people are coming out to purchase mangoes,” a fruit vendor from Panaji said on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-endure-bleak-mango-season-as-adverse-weather-plays-spoilsport/articleshow/76349415.cms||Nida Sayed
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: How a sugarcane farmer ensured a sweet time during lockdown||CHENNAI: When lockdown restricted some, it gave wings to others. A sugarcane farmer has made use of the days by installing a jaggery-making unit at his house in Perambalur as a step towards self-sufficiency. Like many small-scale farmers, T Ramraj was clueless about what to do with the sugarcane on his one one-acre farm when the lockdown was declared in March. Since the crop was nearing harvest, he couldn’t find workers to cut and transport them to a jaggery-making unit. Being a follower of green crusader and organic guru G Nammalvar, Ramraj didn’t want to look back. He wanted to find a solution to the crisis. It was around the same time that he heard about a jaggery-making unit up for sale near his village. He bought a sugarcane crusher and other materials from the unit. It took a week for installation and soon the production started. However, finding money for buying the used machinery was a challenge indeed. "I didn’t have money to buy the items. It cost Rs 40,000. At the same time, I knew I should never miss the opportunity. My brother helped. I managed some money from my friends and that’s how it all began," said Ramraj, who lives in Silakudi, a village in Perambalur. Being a sugarcane farmer, Ramraj was selling his crops to the nearby sugar factory through middlemen. "I used to sell sugarcane to the factory in Perambalur. We were being exploited in the market. The middlemen made huge money. I was thinking of being self-sufficient for long. Even though lockdown restricts our movements, it showed me how to become self-sufficient," said the 28-year-old. Ramraj’s unit got the support from his seven-member family, which included his wife’s father and mother. The unit has produced more than 1,500kg of jaggery (nattu sakkarai) so far. "I sell the product directly to the wholesale market. There are no middlemen. I can also save money when it comes to labour cost and transportation," he said. "A week ago, we finished our work. We have packed and kept the jaggery safely. It will be taken to the market in a couple of days," he said. Does he follow safety measures against Covid-19? "We follow safety measures against Covid-19 by wearing masks and keeping social distance in the unit. We don’t take chances," he said. "Lockdown may be depressing, but it literally opened my eyes. It showed me the path to success."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-a-sugarcane-farmer-ensured-a-sweet-time-during-lockdown/articleshow/76348869.cms||M T Saju
June 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Retired cop hangs himself after allegedly killing wife||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An alleged quarrel between an aged couple has ended in violence in which the husband allegedly murdered the wife and then committed suicide. The shocking incident took place at Thozhuvancode under Vattiyoorkavu police station limits. Ponnan and wife Leela of ’Anjali Bhavan’, TERA – 140, Edapparambu near Thozhuvancode are the deceased. Both were retired police officers. According to Vattiyoorkavu station house officer Santhakumar, the incident happened sometime between 7am and 8am. When they arrived at the house after being alerted by neighbours, Leela was lying in the veranda of the house with a deep lacerated wound on her throat, profusely bleeding, apparently after being hacked using a sharp weapon. She was still alive when found. Ponnan was found hanging in a noose from a tree on their neighbour’s land behind their house. Though Leela was rushed to hospital, the doctors could not save her life. She died around an hour after reaching hospital. Ponnan was a retired additional sub-inspector and Leela, a retired head constable. The couple has two daughters, Ponnambili and Ponnanjili. The couple have been living separately for the past few months. While Leela lived in one residence, Ponnan lived with the daughters in a house that is located nearby. Inspector Santhakumar said that according to daughters and neighbours the quarrels were regular between the husband and wife. ‘’The husband might have hacked the wife in a sudden fit of rage and committed suicide after realising the seriousness of his mistake,” the inspector said. He added that Ponnan is suspected to have thrashed Leela with a wooden plank and then stabbed her using a piece of metal pipe, the kind of which is used in the construction of metal roof. Both weapons were recovered from the scene of crime. The police have not been able to find out the actual provocation for the crime. Ponnan’s funeral was held on Friday itself after conducting inquest and postmortem examination. Since Leela died at the hospital, the hospital authorities have taken swabs from her body for Covid test. Her inquest and postmortem will be done only after the arrival of the test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/retired-cop-hangs-himself-after-allegedly-killing-wife/articleshow/76347045.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Business||How Chinese companies responded to Covid-19||The past four months have provided an opportunity to study a once-in-a-lifetime moment — how companies function during an unprecedented global pandemic while also navigating an accelerated shift to digital operations. China was weeks ahead of the rest of the world in dealing with the pandemic and its fallout, so their experience is of interest. We conducted a series of 20 in-depth, in-person interviews, as well as a large-scale survey of more than 350 senior executives, to ascertain how the Chinese corporate world has adapted, innovated, survived — and even thrived — through this uncertain time. The companies we looked at, which ranged from state-owned enterprises to multinational corporations to local private companies, were forced to quickly:  Leverage digital technologies so that they could adapt and innovate Try out novel business models Stitch together solutions to address emerging and previously unrecognized customer needs Develop new business processes and practices Redefine models for collaboration and teamwork. As China emerges from its Covid-19 lockdown, it is becoming clear that many of the challenges they faced are here to stay – and that some of the changes they introduced should be, as well. We identified 11 lessons to help inform business leaders throughout the rest of the world. 1. Be transparent about your challenges.Leaders in our survey who reported their firms had successfully managed the crisis told us they regularly kept their teams up to date on the state of their organizations, as well as the priorities and principles that would guide decisions at all levels. These leaders said they plan to sustain this higher level of transparency and information sharing going forward with more frequent, direct, frank, and personal communication.  For example, when asked during a meeting with employees why his company decided to shut down one of its global R&D centers, which symbolized the future of the business, the CEO of a major engineering and technology company replied: “If we cannot survive the next three months, we will have no future at all.” The increased transparency wasn’t always easy. Multiple leaders told us that they felt their actions were under a microscope, with employees watching to see whether their behavior aligned with stated corporate values. They truly had to “walk the walk and talk the talk.” They also had to accept that not all employees would be pleased with their decisions. But ultimately these leaders reported that the majority of employees adopted a feeling of “we are all in this battle together and fighting the same enemy” that seemed to exceed localized employee dissatisfaction. 2. Adopt new modes of communication.Leaders we spoke with reported that communication during the pandemic, although less “in-person,” tended to be more personal. Many avoided email and used audio apps such as Dingtalk or WeChat instead, or internal apps developed to facilitate information sharing and employee interaction. Interestingly, a number of leaders of multinational companies said that they felt handicapped by the incompatibility of their global communication channels with some of the popular local communication technologies used by Chinese companies. We were surprised to hear that virtual video meetings have continued to be the norm since the return of employees to the workplace — sometimes even when all attendees are physically present in the same office. Many of the leaders we interviewed expect to convene fewer large, in-person gatherings and are planning more virtual events, believing them to be more efficient, direct, goal-oriented, and brief than in-person meetings. Most acknowledged, however, that video meetings are more intense and reduce opportunities for personal conversations and small talk, which have traditionally served to strengthen relationship bonds among colleagues. 3. Accelerate digital transformation.The sudden, unforeseen economy-wide lockdown forced firms to switch literally overnight to completely digital models. Speed was of the essence: they needed to find creative solutions for emerging customer needs, overcome process barriers imposed by the lockdown, and find cost savings. Industries that would otherwise have taken years to realize their digital transformation agendas accelerated their efforts dramatically. The crisis had the unexpected benefit of converting customers who had previously resisted innovations aimed at migrating them to digital platforms.  For example, New Oriental Group, a leading education company, had struggled for two years to convince parents, students, and educators to move to a live-streaming platform capable of supporting one million students simultaneously. The pandemic led to a rapid, widespread adoption of the platform — even in cities not previously served by the firm. 4. Re-organize to enhance decision makingTraditionally, decision making in Chinese companies has tended to be top-down with numerous reviews and approvals at many levels. During the Covid crisis, many of our respondents reported a diminished role for mid-level managers. Speeding up digital transformation led to automation of some routine activities across a broad set of business sectors.  Ping An Bank, for example, has taken its “data-oriented operation” to the next level, transforming its organization from the traditional hierarchical pyramid to a dumbbell-shaped organization by increasing the number of senior executives focused on digital transformation and IT; keeping the number of middle-level managers flat despite rapid growth; and expanding the scale of front line market-facing teams. The firm has encouraged senior leaders to directly manage larger front line teams using digital tools and data, changing their primary mode of working from “managing with experience” to “managing with data.” The firm’s business performance reached record high levels in April 2020 despite the crisis. With leaders able to directly engage the entire organization through digital channels, mid-level managers were no longer vital communication conduits between leadership and the front line. Senior managers were forced to become more deeply involved in strategy and policy decisions to ensure a speedy response to rapidly shifting business conditions. A high degree of variation in local conditions, moreover, drove more real-time execution decisions by empowered front line teams closer to customers and more familiar with the local laws and conditions.  Yili Group, a leading dairy company, faced unprecedented logistics and transportation challenges during the shutdown. It had to reach out to farmers, milk factories, transportation companies, and local governments, as well as other partners in locations across the country, to keep the supply chain moving. Regional front line employees were authorized to take action to resolve unexpected problems such as road blocks, health checks for drivers, and community shutdowns. This ensured that they were able to continue to deliver to even the most remote locations across China. Leaders we interviewed believe that this reduction in organizational bureaucracy will facilitate increased collaboration and execution, crucial enablers of innovation at speed and scale. 5. Find new ways to collaborate.Achieving desired changes in a timely manner often required collaborating in new ways with external partners, including customers, suppliers, regulators, and even competitors.  Movie studio Huanxi Media Group stood to lose millions on “Lost in Russia,” a film timed to release in theaters during the peak Chinese New Year holiday season. With movie theaters closed, the company struck a deal within 24 hours with Bytedance (owner of TikTok and other video streaming apps in China) to livestream this movie and other content across its platforms, earning Huanxi $91 million and netting the film more than 600 million views within two days. Our respondents also noted the need for swift internal reorganizations with leaders and employees cutting across traditional silos to set up agile project teams to solve problems as they cropped up.  Trip.com Group, a leading travel agency, felt the impact of Covid-19 early, with millions of travelers cancelling their travel plans during the country’s peak travel season. Stepping up to the challenge, each department —IT, customer service, commercial, legal affairs, finance, and communications — played an important role in responding to the evolving situation. IT streamlined cancellation requests by developing a new “one-click” application, while the commercial team reached out to partners across the world to standardize cancellation policies for users. The communications department worked closely with IT to ensure the latest information and policies were made available to users in a timely fashion, while finance coordinated refunds to users. Throughout this, the facilities team worked to ensure the safety of employees who had to come into the office to access certain systems. This cross-departmental collaboration was critical in helping the firm respond, with its reputation intact. We heard from many firms that leadership and HR are striving to sustain their newfound agility by redefining job responsibilities and work processes to encourage collaboration across functions. 6. Formalize and enable remote work.Remote working was rarely practiced or supported in China prior to the pandemic. Given that the 9-to-5 work day was unlikely to transfer from office to home environments, managers needed to accommodate, within reason, varying work schedules based on personal circumstances and constraints. More self-motivated and outcome-focused individuals were able to make the transition seamlessly, but others who were more comfortable operating in a traditional command-and-control mode needed training to be effective.  The Chinese division of Bosch, a global technology and services supplier, had to instill a new understanding of trust”, training its managers to work and manage remotely, and emphasizing a results-driven approach over the outmoded presence-driven model. 7. Support lifelong learning at scale.Most of the leaders we interviewed believe that lifelong learning and a growth mindset will be crucial for employees of the future, especially as work continues to move on-line. Because of reduced travel and better communication tools, many of the C-suite leaders in our study reported greater involvement as teachers and change managers within their organizations. They reported being actively engaged in developing talent and ensuring organizational alignment.  New Oriental, a private education provider, moved all of its training online, allowing the CEO and other executives to share their experiences directly with trainees across the country. The change worked out well. Previously, it was challenging to schedule in-person visits to employee training groups in local settings across the country. Conducting training online from their homes or office removed this hurdle and enabled rapid scaling of this effort. 8. Rethink how you evaluate employee performance.According to most of the leaders in our study, the pandemic presented a unique opportunity to observe how senior and mid-level managers responded to new challenges and allowed them to form preliminary judgments about managers’ future leadership potential. The demands of crisis leadership forced leaders to delegate routine work to teams in order to refocus their own efforts on big-picture thinking. Top management was able to see which leaders busied themselves with routine work and failed to develop broader leadership competencies. Moving down the chain, managers reported a shift to objective metrics, such as number of sales calls made, customer service calls attended, hours logged on, or tickets closed. They used online dashboards and digital data to assess staff workload and performance. However, the quest for daily objective measures risks overemphasizing short-term results. Daily dashboards should ideally be balanced with medium- to long-term, albeit perhaps less task-oriented, metrics. High levels of uncertainty and change, moreover, dictate that managers operate against agile, flexible goals rather than fixed targets. 9. Identify volunteer opportunities.We heard repeatedly from leaders about the power of employing a “volunteering” approach to identify, motivate, and engage front line employees. Especially when confronting new business initiatives with social impact, they found that individuals assigned to a task did not operate with the same degree of willingness, ownership, and motivation as individuals who volunteered.  Yum China, a fast food chain that closed most of its outlets in Wuhan, decided to keep a few open to serve medical staff. Aware that some employees and their families would be concerned about the high risk of working at these outlets, the company decided to ask for volunteers, unsure whether they would get the requisite numbers. To their surprise, within two hours of putting the word out they had 900 volunteers, far exceeding requirements. Several firms reported that their younger, digitally savvy employees subsequently shared touching videos of their volunteer efforts with friends and colleagues on platforms like TikTok, helping to boost team morale and allay the oppressive mood during difficult periods. Multiple leaders reported plans to deploy future volunteer-led initiatives to identify and execute complex business model changes, enhance staff engagement, and support a more ambitious social impact agenda. 10. Help your employees build resilience.Many of the leaders we surveyed reported that employees were experiencing high levels of anxiety and lack of motivation. This was particularly true of millennials whose careers had been fueled by the tailwinds of China’s meteoric and consistent growth over the past three decades; they are fearful that the future will be less bright, with growth opportunities significantly reduced relative to their parents’ generation. 11. Foster a more connected organization.The leaders we spoke with expressed a near-universal agreement that the shared experience of coping with the pandemic had engendered higher levels of tolerance, patience, and empathy within their organizations. Seeing colleagues on video calls in their homes, dressed casually, with family members and pets making appearances, for example, made interactions more personal. Most organizations in our study anticipate greater cohesiveness and camaraderie among teams that worked together through the crisis. Planning for the Post-Covid World We identified two additional findings from our research. First, the market-leading firms in our study — which had strong reserves to weather the storm — actively invested in the short term with the sole focus of extending their long-term advantage over less endowed competitors. The leaders of these firms responded to tough times not by preserving resources, but by investing their reserves in strengthening their firms’ competitive position in the market. Our second finding is that these firms were aggressively speeding up and expanding their digitization strategies, and implementing systems to ensure that new skills, practices, and behaviors are integrated into their organization’s muscle memory. They further recognized that considerable discipline will be required to ensure that employees not revert back to pre-crisis habits. (Das Narayandas is the Edsel Bryant Ford Professor of Business Administration, Senior Associate Dean, HBS Publishing and External Relations, Harvard Business School. Vinay Hebbar is the Senior Vice President (International Markets) at Harvard Business Publishing. Liangliang Li is the CEO, HUBS Education & Technology Company, China).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/lessons-from-chinese-companies-response-to-covid-19/articleshow/76350282.cms||Das Narayandas
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||West UP and NCR districts falter on MNREGS job front||LUCKNOW: The otherwise economically rich west UP and national capital region (NCR) are the worst-performing regions in terms of engagement of labourers under the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), according to the latest ranking by rural development department. Out of 10 worst-performing districts under MNREGS, nine are from west UP or NCR. Districts from west UP which fare poorly include Kasganj, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Hapur and Baghpat, while those from NCR are Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. In fact, not a single labourer has been engaged under MNREGS in Ghaziabad. These nine districts have engaged only 63,000 labourers, including migrants. Mahoba in Bundelkhand is the only region outside west UP which has performed poorly by engaging around 20,000 labourers. Notably, all these districts come under a red zone where construction activities are being carried out with restrictions. Sitapur, Kheri Hardoi best in executing schemeSocially and economically backward east UP region is the best performer. Out of 58,906 gram panchayats in the state, MNREGS works are being conducted in 52,934 gram panchayats which is 90% of the target. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked officials to enhance the number of mandays from existing 42 lakh to 1 crore by June 15. Data compiled by rural development department show that out of top 10 districts, seven are from east UP. These include Basti, Azamgarh, Siddharthnagar, Bahraich, Mirzapur, Maharajganj and Prayagraj. Sitapur, Kheri and Hardoi are other districts which are among the best in terms of execution of the scheme. These 10 districts, all falling under green zone, together engage nearly 12 lakh labourers. Data (updated till June 11) show that just over 42 lakh mandays of work was conducted under MNREGS in 20 green zone, 36 orange zone and 19 red zone districts. In the green zone, work is being carried out in 14,256 out of total 15,619 gram panchayats. In 36 districts under orange zone, out of 29738 gram panchayats, MNREGS work is being conducted under 27,178 while in 19 red zones, 11,500 out of 13,549 gram panchayats are covered under MNREGS. Rural development department officials said the number of mandays can be increased only when other departments raise demand for labourers for executing construction activities in their jurisdiction. “We need to focus on convergence of departments to increase work,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/west-up-ncr-districts-falter-on-mnregs-job-front/articleshow/76349428.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 13, 2020||Chennai||40 booked for violating home quarantine norms in Chennai||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Friday said FIR (First Information Report) has been filed against 40 people in the city for violating home quarantine norms. Chennai corporation commissioner G Prakash warned that strict action will be taken against those violating quarantine norms. “A police complaint will be filed and the person and extended contacts will be shifted to Covid-care centres,” said an official release, adding that the violators run the risk of infecting others. “Apart from initiatives taken by the authorities, it is important that the public co-operate. The action was taken after several warnings,” said an official. Violators were booked from across 14 zones in the city, except Alandur (zone 12). Tondiarpet (zone 4) and Royapuram (zone 5) topped the list with seven violators each. While most asymptomatic positive patients are sent to Covid-care centres, those whose houses are equipped for home quarantine are allowed to isolate themselves within their quarters. As on date, about 3,000 people are under home quarantine in city limits, including those who returned from foreign countries and other states. According to the latest data provided by the civic body, there are 360 areas under containment in its limits — a number much lower when compared to the exponential growth of cases in the city — due to the revised containment norms. Now, the civic body does not bring an entire street under containment unless there is a spurt in cases and only the building or apartment complex is barricaded if occupants test positive. “This method has worked out to an extent as when you bring a street under containment, there were instances where people still mingle within the street and there were chances of the infection spreading,” an IAS officer part of the field support team told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/40-booked-for-violating-home-quarantine-norms-in-city/articleshow/76348887.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Rumours of new lockdown make bizmen anxious||CHENNAI: Rumours about another lockdown ranging from two to three weeks in Chennai and neighbouring districts have made industries in the region anxious. "We have just started and are trying to streamline the production process. Shutting again and restarting after a few weeks will be a huge blow. Convincing workers to come back is tough. They will think that there is something really serious in Chennai," Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) president A N Sujeesh told TOI. Recently, a section of traders and shopkeepers had said they were ready for a 15-day lockdown. "The government should have come down hard on such people and taken some of them into custody. Instead they were allowed a free run," an entrepreneur in Guindy industrial estate said. The issue was not just limited to the manufacturing segment. Logistics firms had to convince anxious customers. "For our clients in Coimbatore and other regions, we move imports through Chennai Port and send the containers by road to their factories. As rumours spread about a complete lockdown for Chennai, they wanted us to see if the containers could be moved through Tuticorin port. We had to assure them that from March 23 onwards, when lockdown was in force, Chennai Port and Customers were operating and there would not be any problem," said V Vamsi Reddy, CEO, Fynsea Lines & Logistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rumours-of-new-lockdown-make-bizmen-anxious/articleshow/76348875.cms||D Govardan
June 13, 2020||Goa||First vessel at Goa port to bring 1,500 seafarers||Panaji: The first stranded seafarers to be disembarked directly at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) will arrive in Goa on June 17. A total of 1,500 Goan seafarers from two vessels will arrive on Celebrity Infinity’s cruise vessel next week. “The seafarers from Mumbai have already signed off. We convinced the company to bring the vessel directly to the port in Goa rather than disembarking them in Mumbai and bringing them by road to Goa,” ports secretary P S Reddy said, adding that MPT is readying itself for the operation. “The seafarers will be tested and then sent back on board for around two days till they receive the results. Once they test negative, according to the new protocol, they will be sent on home quarantine,” Reddy said. The Goan crew are from two vessels, Celebrity Infinity and Anthem of the Seas, he added. The state has been convincing companies to sign off Goan crew directly in Goa. This will be the first vessel to arrive with seafarers at MPT after the lockdown. While several Goan seafarers have been sent on charter flights directly to Goa, others were signed off in Mumbai and sent on buses back to Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-vessel-at-goa-port-to-bring-1500-seafarers/articleshow/76349432.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Pune||Meet ‘Captain Arjun’, Pune railway station’s frontline Covid fighter||PUNE: ‘Captain Arjun’ has nothing to avenge like the popular Captain America, but it has a stellar role to play in the battle against coronavirus. This artificial intelligence-based robot stationed at the Pune railway station conducts thermal scanning of passengers, educates them on preventing the Covid-19 spread and displays utmost sensitivity to suspicious and abnormal activity. The robot, which costs around Rs70,000, is an important member of the railway protection force (RPF) and was deployed at the station by senior officials of the Central Railway, including general manager Sanjeev Mittal. “Captain Arjun is equipped with a motion sensor, a ‘Pan, Tilt, Zoom’ (PTZ) camera and a dome camera. The cameras use artificial intelligence algorithms to track suspicious activities and also have an inbuilt siren system. Covid warrior for the railwaysThere is also an inbuilt internal storage for recording, in case of network failure. The robot can conduct thermal screening and recording temperature in a digital display panel with a response time of 0.5 seconds. If any person’s temperature is more than the reference range, an ‘abnormal’ automatic alarm will go off,” an RPF official said.. The robot has a two-way communication mode — voice as well as video — and also speaks the local language. It has speakers to play awareness messages on Covid-19. It also has a sensor-based sanitiser and mask dispenser. “The robot has a floor sanitisation facility with battery backup. It has rugged wheels that support all surfaces,” the official said. An RPF official said the robot cannot move on its own and has to be remote controlled. “Our staff will operate the robot with the help of a tablet. However, the camera can tilt, zoom and move in all directions by itself. If the robot sees a crowd, the alarm starts immediately to alert the staff,” the official said. The robot will soon also be able to answer passengers’ queries about arriving trains with the help of a person operating it. “The high infection rate of the contagion across the world has hampered the efforts to tackle Covid-19, which made us consider robotic screening. The robot can be deployed for multiple uses and is an effective element in station access control. It will augment the station’s security plan,” said Bohra, deputy inspector general (RPF) of the Central Railway, who has developed the robot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/meet-captain-arjun-pune-railway-stations-frontline-covid-fighter/articleshow/76348880.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 13, 2020||Goa||Shramik halts at Sanvordem station to take in 35 migrants||Margao: The Shramik Special train that departed from Margao railway station on Friday for Orissa and West Bengal made an unscheduled halt at the Sanvordem railway station. While the halt stretched on for more than an hour, none of the 1,279 passengers on board complained. Instead, overwhelmed by the gesture of kindness and magnanimity shown by the South Goa district administration towards their compatriots, the passengers clapped and cheered as the 35 migrants who had missed the train at Margao, boarded the train at Sanvordem. It so happened that minutes after the Shramik Special train to Howrah (West Bengal) had departed from the Margao railway station, district administration officers received a call that 35 migrants from West Bengal wanting to return to their native state had arrived at the shelter home at Fatorda. After ascertaining that there was enough room in the train that had just left Margao to accommodate the 35 Bengali migrants, South Goa collector Ajit Roy walked the extra mile and promptly issued orders for the train to stop at the immediate next station. The 35 passengers were then ferried to the Sanvordem railway station, 25 km from Margao, by a specially arranged Kadamba bus, and ensured they were all home-bound. The move earned the South Goa administration admiration and accolades from all quarters. “This is an incredible show of humanity by the district collector,” said a citizen volunteer coordinating movement of migrants with the state administration. In the second Shramik Special train that left from Margao on Friday for Patna and Jharkhand, 1,600 migrants set off for their native states. Meanwhile, at the shelter home at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium at Fatorda, migrants wanting to return to their native states continued to pour in throughout the day.  “All of them have been accommodated and they are well taken care of here,” an official at the shelter home said. Nearly 500 migrants were accommodated in the shelter home by late Friday evening, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shramik-halts-at-sanvordem-station-to-take-in-35-migrants/articleshow/76349422.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CCMB develops method to diagnose leukaemia||HYDERABAD: In a major relief for people suspected to have got cancer, scientists at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, have developed a method that will do away with the painful process of extracting bone marrow to diagnose the cancer of lymph. The scientists have found biomarkers for the cancer of lymph or acute lymphocytic leukaemia (ALL) to diagnose the disease without extracting the bone marrow for test. The CCMB team said microRNAs or small RNA molecules have the potential to become important diagnostic tools for identifying and monitoring clinical outcome in patients suffering from acute lymphocytic or lymphoblastic leukaemia. At present, diagnosis carried out using peripheral blood or bone marrow specimens. This process is cumbersome and painful, while the CCMB method is simple and easy to detect this type of cancer. The CCMB team has used microRNAs as diagnostic tools. MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that play an important role in the regulation of gene expression. Abnormal gene expression by microRNAs is correlated with the initiation and progression of many types of cancers. Using these biomarkers, the CCMB scientists identified two sub-types of ALL -- T-ALL and B-ALL in children. The team comprised Lekha D Kumar, Shrish Tiwari and their lab members. They validated 51 novel miRNAs that can be used as biomarkers for not only diagnosing but also following the course of leukaemia. The new method has a potential to replace the painful bone marrow tests and costs of antibody tests. According to the scientists, ALL is one of the most common diseases observed in children. It is a complex blood disorder characterised by various underlying genetic abnormalities that block B (bone marrow) or T (thymus) cell differentiation and support abnormal cell proliferation. B and T cells play a role in immune response. The incidence of ALL is about 60% of all acute leukaemia cancers in children. “Increasing evidences suggest the involvement of microRNAs in the development of different types of leukaemia. Therefore, we aimed to identify novel signatures that could be used to classify the T and B subtypes and establish blood-based microRNAs for potential diagnostic and prognostic markers for childhood ALL in future,” the scientists said. The study was published in the latest issue of the scientific journal ‘Translational Oncology’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-develops-method-to-diagnose-leukaemia/articleshow/76348956.cms||Syed Akbar
June 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Flood of queries as ULCCS launches recruitment drive in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: The five telephones of Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS), one of the biggest cooperative societies in Asia, have been ringing non-stop ever since the society launched a recruitment drive for construction workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic on Thursday. At a time when Covid- 19 has severely impacted the construction sector, the recruitment drive by the worker-owned construction company with an annual turnover of Rs 1,100 crore for around 2,000 vacancies of workers in the centering, shuttering, bar bending fields have received over 2,700 telephonic inquiries from job seekers in just two days, including from expat returnees, and even those currently in the Gulf. “We have embarked on the recruitment drive for skilled workers to provide employment to the NRKs who are returning from the Gulf and other skilled workers in the state. Around 1,500 of our guest workers have returned to their home states and we thought of giving job opportunities for skilled workers here. However, though we got over 1,500 calls in the first day itself, just 10% of the job seekers had specific skills. If we can find people with right skills, we can give employment to over 2,000 people,” ULCCS chairman Rameshan Paleri said. ULCCS authorities said that the ongoing recruitment drive is for the worker vacancies in the 915 construction sites of the society across the state as they are slowly commencing activities after the lockdown. The age limit has been fixed at below 45 years and experience of five years. He said that the employment in society can be attractive even for skilled workers who return from the Gulf as they can get daily wage of Rs 900 in the beginning and wage hikes are given after six months. “Also, after a year, if they are found hardworking, they are given C-class membership of the society entailing them all benefit, including bonus, PF, gratuity, medical insurance, etc.,” he said. Rameshan, however, added that it remains to be seen how many Gulf returnees would take up the construction jobs. “In the past, people who had Gulf experience, were not that eager to do similar works in Kerala. But for the new generation, it is not an issue and we have workers who are graduates and postgraduates,” he said. T K Kishor Kumar, chief project coordinator of ULCCS, said that actually the skills and international exposure of those who have been working in the Gulf can become an asset to the society and the state. He said that the labour society made its foray into IT infrastructure sector by deciding to build a cyberpark in Kozhikode during the global economic crisis in 2008 and the society was looking for post-Covid-19 opportunities. The society has been the top player in the infrastructure sector and engaged in building roads, flyovers and bridges and clocked a turnover of Rs 1,160 crore last year. Most of the works in its order books are from government and cooperatives. The society has been providing direct employment to over 13,000 workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/flood-of-queries-as-ulccs-launches-recruitment-drive/articleshow/76347069.cms||K R Rajeev
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Man dies after wall collapses on him||MANGALURU: A bus agent died after the compound wall of his house collapsed on him at Matadagudde, near Gurupura-Kaikamba, on Friday afternoon. This is the first rain-related death reported in Dakshina Kannada. The victim is Narayana Naika, 52. According to police, heavy rain on Friday afternoon blocked a small water stream adjacent to his compound wall, and the deceased was clearing it. The stone compound wall then suddenly collapsed on him, and he got buried underneath. He sustained grievous head injuries and died on the way to hospital. Narayana is survived by his wife and two children. Dakshina Kannada received an average rainfall of 26.1mm in the last 24 hours till 8.30 am on Friday. The highest rainfall was recorded at Puttur and Mangaluru taluks at 31.3mm and 30.3mm, respectively. Bantwal and Sullia taluks received 26.3mm and 24.6mm of rain, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-dies-after-wall-collapses-on-him/articleshow/76347055.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Why so few international flights to Tamil Nadu, Madras high court asks govt||CHENNAI: While 356 international flights are scheduled to land in India between June 10 and July 1, why are only two flights slated to land in Chennai, asked the Madras high court on Friday. Wondering whether the poor flight service is due to non-availability of passengers or denial of permission to land in Chennai, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar directed the Tamil Nadu government to explain its stand on permitting international flights carrying stranded Indians to land in the state and the status of any such permission sought by flight carriers and airports. The bench was passing the interim orders after senior counsel P Wilson argued a public interest writ petition filed by the DMK, alleging that the state government was refusing permission for such flights, thereby causing a lot of problems to stranded people, particularly those who wanted to return to Tamil Nadu. Wilson said about 3 lakh Indians were stranded abroad, and it included tens of thousands of Tamils. Responding to the plea, additional solicitor-general of India G Rajagopalan said, “Tamil Nadu government requested us not to permit such flights due to high number of Covid-19 cases here. Union government has conceded to the request.” The bench also directed the Centre to report the details of relief provided to such stranded peopel, including financial help, ticket costs, food, and stay. The Centre has also been directed to file a report as to the number of applicants who have registered in various embassies where they are stranded and want to return to India, number of flights operated so far for their return to India/Tamil Nadu and the details of plans of the Centre to provide more such flights in the near future, under Vande Bharat Mission or otherwise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-so-few-intl-flights-to-tn-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/76348893.cms||Suresh Kumar
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||No local transmission in Jind: Health official||Jind: There is no local transmission of coronavirus (Covid-19) in Jind district as maximum patients who had tested positive come from other places, an official of the district health department said on Friday. The official said Covid-19 had infected the younger patients more than women and elderly in the district. Out of 75 Covid-19 cases, around 60 had confirmed travel history from Mumbai, Delhi, Gurgaon, National Capital Region (NCR), other states and foreign countries. Except three patients who died, the rest cases were asymptomatic in the district, said officials. Of the total Covid-19 cases, 51 were aged below 45. Jind senior medical officer Dr Gopal Goyal said, “Jind district is in the rural belt. There are several reasons for women and aged persons not getting infected with Covid-19 in the district. The elderly don’t move out generally. They spend their time staying at home or sitting with their peer group in the village common places. Women are engaged at home or do work in the fields. Younger persons step out for jobs to other districts or parts of the country so many of the Covid-19 patients from this age group.” He said now as cases are increasing, it is time focus on how to avoid the infection. One should avoid visiting hospitals and crowded areas for some more time if not in emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-local-transmission-in-jind-health-official/articleshow/76348891.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goa government school teachers take classes to students’ homes||PANAJI: While privately managed schools are encountering challenges in introducing online teaching to their students, it is an even bigger challenge in the case of government schools. With most of their students living in rural areas or coming from economically weaker sections, government institutions have a tougher task when it comes to conducting teaching online, leave alone holding live sessions. But some government high schools are rising to the occasion, by overcoming the problems using creative methods. Some are involving the panchayat and other community members and encouraging teachers to visit the students’ home. Teachers of Government High School, Nadora, Revora, for instance, are taking the class to the student. “We have started reaching out to students of Class V to X. Initially, we realised that we are facing some network issues. So we are making lesson videos and sending to students on Whatsapp to be accessed whenever they have access to the device and connectivity. In the case of students who have very poor or no internet connectivity, the teachers are visiting their houses by taking strict precautions to ensure that social distancing is maintained,” said school headmaster Sanjay Diukar. He said that students are assigned work so teachers can assess their progress. “We are still in the process of reaching out to all students. But students who have been assigned work are already reverting with the completed task. Students nowadays are more adapt in using devices than us and so we are not facing any issues, where students have a device available. Only few of our students cannot afford smartphones and we are trying to reach these students personally and providing them with printed study material,” said Diukar. Teachers of government high school, Malkarne, conducted a detailed survey of the nature of devices and the connectivity available to each student. “It was found that 77% of students have a device and may not get connectivity at their home, but they can access internet if they come to the nearest playground or other common village area. After the survey, we carried out concept mapping. Here, we identified concepts common to different classes like a chapter on soil in Class VII and life cycle of crops in Class VIII. Based on this we created modules and recorded 15-minute videos of each module of the teacher teaching the subject,” said school headmistress Sindhu Prabhu Desai Nayak. Only five such modules are sent to students each week, so as to not burden them and give them the freedom to learn at their own pace. The school has also involved the community by roping in the parent-teacher association, the school management committee and the village library, which is an e-library. “I am a farmer and students in this rural area may be witnessing agricultural activities everyday, but they are not aware how this corresponds with some of their geography and science concepts. We are trying to help the students as a community to understand concepts like soil and crop cycle,” said PTA chairman Rajesh Gaonkar. In both schools, the teaching is being supplemented with physical education and art assignments to be completed at home. “We are giving them tasks in physical education like making bats from spine of the palm leaf etc. The art assignments are given in a manner that students learn something from them. Like the last assignment was to make a logo for biodiversity day. Students are sending their art works back to the teacher by Whatsapp. The physical education lessons are very important at present to build their immunity,” said the headmistress. Similarly, Government High School, Kasarpal, is involving panch members to reach students who do not own smartphones to be able to access online classes. “We have started live classes too using Google Meet. We have begun with Class IX and X and we are moving to the lower classes phase wise. In cases where students do not have access to smartphones, we are sending the printed study material to them through the panch members,” said headmistress Rita Caldeira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-school-teachers-take-classes-to-students-homes/articleshow/76349438.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 13, 2020||Goa||Goans in Maldives arrange own charter back home||PANAJI: After receiving no response from either the Centre or state government to their plea for repatriation, stranded Goans in the Maldives teamed up with Maharashtrians stranded there and chartered a flight to Mumbai. The group of 170 Indians — 40 Goans and 130 Maharashtrians — arrived in Mumbai on Thursday on an Indigo flight. The Goans then reached the state on Friday, and are currently placed in quarantine in South Goa hotels. “When we saw that neither flights to Mumbai nor Goa (from Maldives’ capital Male) were considered for Vande Bharat, we decided to make our arrangements,” one Goan said. “We formed a WhatsApp group, coordinated with the Maharashtra WhatsApp group, and chartered the flight from Male to Mumbai. Indigo helped us get all the flight permissions.” He said that the Goans reached Goa with the help of Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) and Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte, who coordinated with the district collectors. The Goans have been appealing to the Centre and state government to be brought home since April, but received little assistance. “We contacted the Indian high commission in Maldives to guide us through the process and clearances for a private repatriation charter, but there was no response to our plea for help,” one said. “We received offers from CharterX (Mumbai based), IndiGo and Maldivian Airlines. IndiGo gave us the earliest dates, and hence we chose to fly with them.” The 40 Goans worked on various islands in the Maldives, and many of them have lost their jobs, been sent on leave without pay, or lost half their pay. From the islands, they got to Male, by air, boat and even seaplane. “The Maldives economy mainly relies on tourism, with the US and Russia being the main markets,” a Goan said. “Now, the future looks bleak. We don’t even know when we will be able to return to work as most of the resorts have closed. Most of us were living on small islands, with limited daily necessities and medical facilities, and that’s why we thought it’s better to fly home.” Yet, the group is relieved to be home despite the big hole in their pockets. Each of them spent close to Rs 70,000 for the journey. This included the inter-island transfer to Male airport ($167 per person), Male to Mumbai ($375 per person), Mumbai to Goa by Kadamba bus (Rs 4,000 per person) and seven days paid facility quarantine at Rs 2,500 per person per night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-in-maldives-arrange-own-charter-back-home/articleshow/76349435.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t target us if someone tests Covid-19 +ve after we reopen: Schools’ body||Dehradun: A body representing several private schools in the state has urged the government to give them the assurance that schools won’t be targeted (or penalised) if one of their students or staff members test Covid-19 positive after the schools reopen. Prem Kashyap, state president of Principals Progressive Schools Association, said, “The schools are probably going to reopen from mid-July. However, we have decided that we will only reopen after both — the parents and the state government — are willing to allow children to schools. We don’t want to be targeted if some student or staff member tests Covid-19 positive in the future. We want an assurance from the state government before the reopening of schools. We have even sent a letter to them in this regard."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-target-us-if-someone-tests-covid-19-ve-after-we-reopen-schools-body/articleshow/76348091.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 13, 2020||Patna||Lalu haunts ruling alliance from jail ahead of Bihar polls||Patna: “Jab tak rahega samosa mein aloo, tabtak rehega Bihar mein Lalu (I will be in Bihar till there is potato in samosa),” he once said about himself. Lalu turned 73 on Thursday. The maverick politician known for his sense of humour and witty one-liners is serving a jail term in fodder scam cases since December 2017. Yet he remains the most feared opposition politician for the ruling NDA in Bihar and their main target ahead of the assembly elections due in October-November. Is it because Lalu out on parole or bail, like a ‘Djinn’ (ghost) out of confinement, will win back the extremely backward caste (EBC) and other backward caste (OBC) votes, which CM Nitish Kumar has assiduously nurtured since ending the RJD’s 15-year rule in 2005? Though Lalu’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar told TOI over phone from Ranchi that he had no immediate plans to pursue Lalu’s bail matter, he did not rule out any such possibility either. Nitish, in his first virtual meeting with JD(U) workers on Sunday, asked them to tell the youths of Bihar about the “jungle raj of ‘pati-patni’ (Lalu and Rabri Devi) when people even feared to tread outside their homes after sunset”. Political analysts see Nitish’s appeal to his party workers in the context of then JD(U) national vice-president Prashant Kishor’s remarks that ‘Generation Z’ is not even aware of “Lalu-Rabri raj” and it would be of no use raking up the issue in the coming elections. NDA under Nitish’s leadership has chosen to fight the 2020 polls on 15 years of RJD “jungle raj” versus 15 years of NDA rule of “development with justice”, which, Nitish says, has pulled Bihar out of ‘bhay’ (fear) and established ‘bharosa’ (trust) in society”. Nitish refers to the “pati-patni” rule almost daily in his virtual meetings since June 7. Even Union home minister Amit Shah targeted Lalu and obliquely his heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in his first virtual rally on June 7. For Nitish, Tejashwi is not his match. And he had made this clear when he had cajolingly told his former deputy on the floor of the assembly last session to sit down “Apke pitaji bolte to achcha lagta. Aap baith jaiye (I would have liked it had your father (Lalu) said this. Please sit down,” Nitish had told Tejashwi the leader of opposition. Why Lalu still matters so much for the ruling combine when his son Tejashwi is leading the opposition alliance, asks senior RJD leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui and himself answers it. “It’s Lalu phobia which haunts those who believe in status quo. They are scared of Lalu because he will raise the issues related to the poor and creamy layer in reservation. Lalu never compromised with social justice. Why no one talks about Srijan scam, Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, but only reminds people of fodder scam? Talk to the migrant workers and they will say had Lalu been there, they would not have faced such hardships in returning home from other states due to the lockdown and coronavirus,” Siddiqui told TOI on Thursday. RJD MP and party spokesperson Manoj Jha said even after 15 years if JDU and BJP have to bring in Lalu ji, this simply shows the hollowness of their achievements. “Nitish ji or Sushil Modi ji (BJP) must thank Laluji. Had he not come to power, their political character might have been different. They (NDA) should not forget that in 15 years, a whole new generation has come up with own aspirations. BJP-JD(U) combine has summarily failed to address or even understand those aspirations. “People now ask why the state failed its own migrant workforce for over a month? Why it criminalized them? Why the government is clueless about huge unemployment scenario? And yes, whether Laluji is there during the elections or not shall depend on the legal procedure. But his name causes enough anxieties for our opponents,” Manoj told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-haunts-ruling-alliance-from-jail-ahead-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/76339147.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Goa||Police deployed at Mangor containment zone get PPE kits||Vasco: All 180 police personnel deployed at the Mangor Hill containment zone, including those from the Indian Reserve Battalion, were supplied with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits on Friday. “Everyone has been given a kit. Since it is very difficult to perform duty by wearing the PPE, as one feels very hot in it, they will only carry the kit along and use it as and when they have to come in contact with the people inside the zone,” DySP Raju Raut Dessai told TOI. He also said that since the police personnel are divided into three batches of 60 each and posted around the clock at the containment zone, the department has arranged for 65 hotel rooms in the port town. “In view of the safety of the policemen’s families we have arranged for hotel rooms so that they don’t have to go back home after duty hours. Arrangements for food have also been made,” said Dessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-deployed-at-mangor-containment-zone-get-ppe-kits/articleshow/76349442.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||181 Indians stranded in KL land in city in 1st of phase 3 rescue flights||Chennai: The first of a series of flights under phase-3 evacuation of stranded Indians by Air India landed in Chennai with 181 passengers from Kuala Lumpur on Friday. Six flights to be operated by Air India on different days till the end of June will bring in a total of around 1,000 people from Malaysia, Singapore, Manila, Bangkok and Ho Chi Minh City to Chennai under the flights scheduled under the Vande Bharat Mission. A couple of flights are also scheduled from the Middle East. Passengers travelling to Chennai from the US, the UK and Europe, however, are inconvenienced as they have to board a connecting flight at Delhi. The state health authorities and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) are preparing to receive the passengers, who will have to undergo Covid-19 checks at the airport upon arrival and be moved to a government facility or hotel for quarantine. Air India Express operated around 12 flights in the phase 1 of the mission early last month from Kuala Lumpur, Kuwait, Singapore, Muscat, Manila, London (via Mumbai) and Dhaka but there were no flights to Chennai under phase 2. More flights have been scheduled to Chennai, Trichy and Madurai under phase 3 because of requests from people stranded abroad, said an airport official. “The demand is now to operate direct flights from the US.” A majority of the stranded Indians were able to return only after foreign airlines operated chartered services following request from Indian missions abroad, especially from the Middle East in the last few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/181-indians-stranded-in-kl-land-in-city-in-1st-of-phase-3-rescue-flights/articleshow/76348909.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to conduct free Covid-19 test of sanitation workers||The Dehradun Municipal Corporation has decided to test all its sanitation workers for Covid-19 infection. The check-ups will be conducted at a city-based private pathology lab. The DMC claims that around 3,000 sanitation workers will be tested free-of-cost under this drive. “The DMC will bear the cost of Covid-19 test of sanitation workers. The tests will be done at a private lab,” said Kailash Joshi, chief health officer of DMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-conduct-free-covid-19-test-of-sanitation-workers/articleshow/76348126.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 13, 2020||Goa||Hostel of Verna inst to be Covid care centre||Margao: The South Goa district collector Ajit Roy, in an order, has requisitioned the services of the hostel premises of Sea Scan Maritime Foundation, Verna, under the provisions of Disaster Management Act. The premises have been designated and notified as Covid care centre. The district administration has already designated and notified primary health centre, Shiroda, and Gomantak Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Shiroda, as Covid care centres to house asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hostel-of-verna-inst-to-be-covid-care-centre/articleshow/76349447.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||Viral video shows doctor taking swab test on self in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A video of a resident doctor of RML Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) seen taking his own swab samples for Covid-19 test went viral on Friday. It was shot discreetly by a nurse in the green zone of the hospital. Video shows doctor taking swab test on self in #Lucknow#COVID19 #CoronavirusOutbreak #UttarPradesh https://t.co/9CkFxDYh9N— TOI Lucknow News (@TOILucknow) 1592021326000“We are identifying all people seen and heard in the video and will take disciplinary action as they were not authorised to do such an act in that area,” said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Shrikesh Singh. The nurse who shot the video can be heard telling the resident not to do such a thing. She has been relieved from duty. However, Singh said that director AK Tripathi had relived the nurse on Thursday itself because of fake posts by her on social media. She is an employee of the health department and was deployed in RML hospital which was later merged with the institute. A letter for disciplinary action against her was also sent to the health directorate on April 9, 2020, Singh added. Watch Doctor taking swab test on self in Lucknow, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/viral-video-shows-doc-taking-swab-test-on-self/articleshow/76349446.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Racist content: School inspectors summoned||KOLKATA: The chairman of the primary schools of East Burdwan, Achintya Mallik, summoned the district school inspectors to a meeting on Friday and asked them to explain why a book with racist content was recommended at a primary school there. The state education department on Thursday suspended headmistress of Burdwan Municipal Girls’ School Shrabani Mallik and teacher-in-charge Barnali Ghosh for including the book, which described a black person as ‘ugly’. In the book, the letter, ‘u’, is introduced with the word, ‘ugly’, accompanied by a picture of a black person. A parent lodged a complaint with the education department, which led to the suspension of the teachers. District inspector of schools Swapan Kumar Dutta said the institute had not asked for permission to include the book though it was not prescribed by the education department. “The school should have asked for permission to include a book that is not recommended. I sought a clarification from the headmistress who emailed me, saying the book was recommended by academics,” said Dutta, adding every state primary school was supposed to teach two books recommended by the education department. “These books are sent to the school by us. The third book was unnecessary.” Parents alleged they were asked to buy the book even though it was not on the original list. Contacted by TOI, teacher-in-charge Ghosh claimed she was not involved in selecting the book. “I have no idea who recommended it. Since classes are suspended, I have not been keeping track,” she said. Headmistress Mallik was not available for comments. An assistant teacher is ow in charge of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/racist-content-school-inspectors-summoned/articleshow/76348900.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Erode||Covid-19: 1,982 fresh positive cases in Tamil Nadu; low-risk Chennai cases must wait for hospital beds||CHENNAI: Hospitals in Chennai have begun to put low-risk patients on the waitlist for admission as Covid-19 infections surged unchecked. The city recorded 1,479 of the 1,982 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu on Friday, taking the state’s tally past 40,000. Eighteen deaths, too, were reported. The doubling period — time taken for infections to double — is now 14 days for Tamil Nadu and 13 days for Chennai. Of the 18,281 active cases in the state, Chennai is treating 13,906 and hospitals are stretched. Of the four main government hospitals, the 450-bed Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital only handles moderate and severe Covid-19 patients. Stanley and Kilpauk medical colleges each has around 400 beds and most are occupied. Each also monitors 1,200 patients in home quarantine. The 500-bed Omandurar hospital has nearly 400 in-patients and is responsible for 1,500 in home quarantine. The patients have been told to call doctors in case of emergency. “They sign an undertaking assuring us that they have facilities to support home quarantine and that they will come if there is an emergency. Local health authorities also visit them to inquire on their health condition,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. Spreading at lightning speed in city, more virulent: Minister“If they can’t afford home isolation, we send them to Covid care centres or health centres,” he said. “All asymptomatic patients, including those with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension are asked to stay at home,” said Apollo Hospitals infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. Earlier, government had advised that people with diabetes and hypertension must stay in hospitals. Now, they use a pulse oxymeter – clip worn on the fingertips to measure oxygen levels – and return to the hospital if the oxygen levels dip below 94% or if they feel discomfort, he said. “Most people are in step-down units where they are administered oxygen or admitted to high dependency units. We have cut down on luxury of independent rooms because we neither have that many staff nor rooms,” Ramasubramanian said about the situation in some private hospitals. Several private hospitals asked patients with chronic renal failure or respiratory disorder to go to government hospitals. “We can’t offer dialysis because there are several others in the room and sanitation may affect services,” said a nephrologist at a private hospital. At least 25 exclusive Covid care ambulances have been brought from districts to Chennai. “We are shifting more patients from homes to hospitals and from hospitals to covid care centres within the city. Every ambulance makes at least eight trips a day,” said 108-EMRI head Selva Kumar. The fleet now has 80 exclusive Covid care ambulances for the city. Health minister C Vijayabaskar again said the infection was spreading at lightning speed in Chennai and was more virulent in the last few days. Since June 1, the state has added 18,375 cases to the tally – which is almost 45% of the total cases reported in the state. Analysis by TOI, based on government bulletins showed that it took 69 days for the state to touch 10,000 cases on May 15, since it reported its first case on March 7. Two weeks later, it topped 10,000 more cases to reach a tally of 20,246 on May 29 and in another eight days, it reached 30,152. Since then, it has taken just six days to add another 10,000 to reach 40,698 cases. As there is no exit test, the number of people getting out of the hospitals and isolation also steadily increased. On Friday, 1,342 patients were discharged and the number of people cured rose to 22,047 in TN. Chennai’s neighbours – Chengalpattu (128), Kancheepuram (26) and Tiruvallur (92) -- together logged 246 cases. Barring six districts – Erode, Nilgiris, Krishnagiri, Salem, Tirupur and Tirupattur – all other districts shared the remaining 246 cases. While Madurai reported 31 cases, Tiruvanammalai had 22 and Sivaganga had 12. A 38-year-old patients admitted with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing on May 30 died at a private hospital on Thursday. Ten of the 18 deaths happened among people above the age of 60. The official toll of 367 does not include 236 deaths in Chennai. Health officials were still poring through death records sent by the Greater Chennai Corporation for reconciliation. “We will revise the toll by the weekend,” a senior member in the committee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/1982-fresh-ves-low-risk-city-cases-must-wait-for-hosp-beds/articleshow/76356125.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: 1,982 fresh positive cases in Tamil Nadu; low-risk Chennai cases must wait for hospital beds||CHENNAI: Hospitals in Chennai have begun to put low-risk patients on the waitlist for admission as Covid-19 infections surged unchecked. The city recorded 1,479 of the 1,982 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu on Friday, taking the state’s tally past 40,000. Eighteen deaths, too, were reported. The doubling period — time taken for infections to double — is now 14 days for Tamil Nadu and 13 days for Chennai. Of the 18,281 active cases in the state, Chennai is treating 13,906 and hospitals are stretched. Of the four main government hospitals, the 450-bed Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital only handles moderate and severe Covid-19 patients. Stanley and Kilpauk medical colleges each has around 400 beds and most are occupied. Each also monitors 1,200 patients in home quarantine. The 500-bed Omandurar hospital has nearly 400 in-patients and is responsible for 1,500 in home quarantine. The patients have been told to call doctors in case of emergency. “They sign an undertaking assuring us that they have facilities to support home quarantine and that they will come if there is an emergency. Local health authorities also visit them to inquire on their health condition,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. Spreading at lightning speed in city, more virulent: Minister“If they can’t afford home isolation, we send them to Covid care centres or health centres,” he said. “All asymptomatic patients, including those with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension are asked to stay at home,” said Apollo Hospitals infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. Earlier, government had advised that people with diabetes and hypertension must stay in hospitals. Now, they use a pulse oxymeter – clip worn on the fingertips to measure oxygen levels – and return to the hospital if the oxygen levels dip below 94% or if they feel discomfort, he said. “Most people are in step-down units where they are administered oxygen or admitted to high dependency units. We have cut down on luxury of independent rooms because we neither have that many staff nor rooms,” Ramasubramanian said about the situation in some private hospitals. Several private hospitals asked patients with chronic renal failure or respiratory disorder to go to government hospitals. “We can’t offer dialysis because there are several others in the room and sanitation may affect services,” said a nephrologist at a private hospital. At least 25 exclusive Covid care ambulances have been brought from districts to Chennai. “We are shifting more patients from homes to hospitals and from hospitals to covid care centres within the city. Every ambulance makes at least eight trips a day,” said 108-EMRI head Selva Kumar. The fleet now has 80 exclusive Covid care ambulances for the city. Health minister C Vijayabaskar again said the infection was spreading at lightning speed in Chennai and was more virulent in the last few days. Since June 1, the state has added 18,375 cases to the tally – which is almost 45% of the total cases reported in the state. Analysis by TOI, based on government bulletins showed that it took 69 days for the state to touch 10,000 cases on May 15, since it reported its first case on March 7. Two weeks later, it topped 10,000 more cases to reach a tally of 20,246 on May 29 and in another eight days, it reached 30,152. Since then, it has taken just six days to add another 10,000 to reach 40,698 cases. As there is no exit test, the number of people getting out of the hospitals and isolation also steadily increased. On Friday, 1,342 patients were discharged and the number of people cured rose to 22,047 in TN. Chennai’s neighbours – Chengalpattu (128), Kancheepuram (26) and Tiruvallur (92) -- together logged 246 cases. Barring six districts – Erode, Nilgiris, Krishnagiri, Salem, Tirupur and Tirupattur – all other districts shared the remaining 246 cases. While Madurai reported 31 cases, Tiruvanammalai had 22 and Sivaganga had 12. A 38-year-old patients admitted with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing on May 30 died at a private hospital on Thursday. Ten of the 18 deaths happened among people above the age of 60. The official toll of 367 does not include 236 deaths in Chennai. Health officials were still poring through death records sent by the Greater Chennai Corporation for reconciliation. “We will revise the toll by the weekend,” a senior member in the committee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1982-fresh-ves-low-risk-city-cases-must-wait-for-hosp-beds/articleshow/76348902.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 13, 2020||Goa||HC seeks timeline for CCP panel||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday asked the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) to give a timeline for compliance of constitution of ward committee in terms of City of Panaji Corporation Act, 2002. The court said that if the CCP is satisfied that the ward commitees have to be constituted in terms of Section 41 of the Act, then on Tuesday, a statement should be made by it regarding the timeline within which, there will be compliance of the provision of the law. Social activist Aires Rodrigues had approached the court and stated that the committees were not formed for the last 18 years. In his petition, he pointed out that public participation is a vital part of democracy and ward committees would act as a link between the corporators and the citizens for better planning . He added that the ward commitees have a role in determining integrated development planning, CCP budgeting and services for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-timeline-for-ccp-panel/articleshow/76349448.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Kochi||Adam Gilchrist praises dutiful Malayali nurse||KOTTAYAM: A Malayali nurse who is at the forefront of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic in Australia has become a star overnight after former Australia cricketer Adam Gilchrist congratulated her on social media. Sharon Verghese, who hails from Kuruppanthara in Kottayam has become the symbol of nursing care during the pandemic. The 23-year-old is a registered nurse at aged care in the coastal city of Wollongong. Adam Gilchrist gives a shout out to Sharon Vergese a nurse from @UOW who has been working as an #agedcare worker du… https://t.co/SFw71vdPZ5— Austrade India (@AustradeIndia) 1591074795000She had completed her bachelor's in Nursing from the University of Wollongong last December and had been registered as a nurse shortly before the virus outbreak. Sharon stayed back and joined an aged care facility as an assistant nurse. It was a short video clip she posted in a WhatsApp group that served as a platform for those who needed help during the pandemic that has made her famous. In the video, after giving a brief description of herself, Sharon says, "I have been working in the frontline along with the nurses, doctors and other staff to give the maximum support, love and best health outcome for the residents." Gilchrist saw the video reacted to it through social media saying he was delighted to hear the kindness of Sharon Verghese. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, she gave up her time to act as an age care worker throughout that time. Sharon, I want to say congratulations on your selfless act," said Gilchrist. He also said that the whole of Australia, India as well as Sharon’s family will be proud of her. Speaking to TOI from Wollongong, Sharon said that she never thought that the small video clip that she posted would catch the attention of the entire country. "This is an appreciation of Australia to the international students working in the country during the pandemic,” she said. Sharon was to join her mother Ancy Philip for a vacation in Kerala. However, Ancy, who is working as a nurse in Kuwait decided to stay back as the hospital needed her service. "The management of the aged care here made a personal request to me whether I could join them as they were short of staff," said Sharon who too dropped vacation plans. Sharon was born and brought up in Kuwait and her father Lallichen Mallissery is a civil engineer in Kuwait. Sharon, who has a sister and a brother, has been in Australia for three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gilly-praises-dutiful-malayali-nurse/articleshow/76347105.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Allow hotels, lawns & halls to host weddings, says collector||NAGPUr: Citing difficulties in following Covid distancing and other norms during weddings at households, collector Ravindra Thakare has urged the state government to allow marriage ceremonies with up to 50 guests in attendance at banquet halls, lawns, community halls and hotels. Even as there is no clarity on government stand yet, TOI has learnt that some resorts, service apartments, lawns, hotels and banquet halls have started accepting bookings for marriage ceremonies in Nagpur Rural. Thakare, in the letter dated June 10 and sent to principal secretary of disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department, said, “It will be appropriate to give permission for marriage ceremonies with attendance up to 50 people at hotels, lawns, community halls and banquet halls. This office feels there will be no objection. Therefore, it should be permitted,” he said. “We have received a letter from Nagpur Mangal Karyalay and Lawns Association seeking permission for hosting marriage ceremonies. Central and state governments had allowed weddings with up to 50 guests to contain spread of Covid-19. No permission is required for marriages to be held at home. As some of the citizens live in smaller houses or as tenants, it would not be possible to ensure Covid distancing even after limiting the number of guests,” states the letter. “Moreover, as monsoon is about to begin, marriage ceremonies following norms will not be possible at home if it starts to rain. Many families had to postpone marriages after the implementation of lockdown. As only a few auspicious days are available in June and no muhurats from July to October, people are requesting for permission to hold weddings at hotels, lawns, community halls and banquet halls,” Thakare says in the letter. “This will also ensure compliance of all norms including Covid distancing. It will be responsibility of owners/operators of hotels, lawns, community halls and banquet halls to ensure norms are followed. Action can be taken against them in case of non-compliance,” he said. While easing some restrictions, the state had prohibited any type of programmes in halls, lawns etc. The restriction on hotels too continues. Accordingly, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for city and Thakare for Nagpur Rural had issued circulars prohibiting all these activities. Talking to TOI, one of the hotel owners said, “There were some muhurats in May, but people had postponed ceremonies due to lockdown. Now, the government has allowed weddings with 50 guests, but it did not allow hotels, lawns etc to host the functions. This is contradictory. Only a few muhurats are in June and thereafter only some auspicious days in November-December. Therefore, many families which had postponed wedding ceremonies in April and May are now looking for bookings.” Corona positive cases are on the rise in the district. Cases surged to over 900 on Friday. Monitoring the number of people attending the ceremonies will be very difficult. Therefore, the government’s stand on Thakare’s letter will be keenly watched. Sources told TOI, “A few service apartments and halls in the city have started to accept bookings with norm of 50 guests. Some are sending messages to clients and some have started advertising their venues. A few parties were also held in hotels and resorts in Nagpur Rural.” TOI had reported a few marriage ceremonies which were held at households with attendance of only immediate family members during the lockdown. Interestingly, Thakare did not mention about permission for Nagpur Rural or entire district. On the other hand, though Mundhe has not sought any such permission from the government, he has reportedly directed officials to reject applications seeking permission for marriage ceremonies at halls, service apartments, lawns etc in city. NMC in a press release issued on Friday said no permission is required for marriage ceremony with 50 people at households, and the same will not be allowed in halls, lawns, hotels etc. “Considering rise in cases in the city, people should explore the possibilities of postponing programmes even at homes. In the larger interest of city, people should keep the number of guests less even though 50 guests are allowed,” said the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-hotels-lawns-halls-to-host-weddings-says-collector/articleshow/76348906.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Boy drowns in canal||MANGALURU: A boy drowned after he slipped and fell into a canal near his house at Kanbettu, near Kubchur, near Hebri, on Friday. The deceased is Srisanth Bhat, 10, the son of Dayanand Bhat. Srisanth was a student of Hebrai Amrita Bharati Vidyalaya. According to police, he slipped and fell into the canal while walking on a wooden log kept across it. A case has been registered at the Hebri police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/boy-drowns-in-canal/articleshow/76347087.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown won’t be extended, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Amid widespread speculation that the city may undergo another phase of economic lockdown, health minister Satyendar Jain made it clear on Friday that “the lockdown in Delhi will no longer be extended”. Following central guidelines to ease the anti-corona lockdown, Delhi government started opening up economic activities on a large scale from May 18, followed by more relaxations from June 1. Finally, all malls, restaurants and religious places were allowed to operate while adhering to strict safety norms from this Monday. In the meantime, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi are also increasing rapidly. While till June 1, the capital had 20,834 positive cases and 523 deaths, the counts stood at 34,687 and 1,085, respectively, on June 11, prompting the speculation. At 1,877 new cases, Thursday also recorded the highest number of positive cases in a single day. However, Jain said, “We have to see the context of the situation. The corona pandemic has been the worst disease to have hit the humankind in the past 100 years. Around 100 years ago, a virus known as Spanish Flu of the same intensity spread across the world.” “To say that the case count is more in Delhi and less everywhere else is not correct,” the health minister said. “The case count across different nations can be different, which is also true for various cities... The cities that have been hit by the pandemic much later are witnessing a stark rise in the case count, but the intensity of the spread of the disease is the same,” he claimed. The government is making preparations to deal with the increasing numbers, Jain said. “Beds and ventilators will be increased. The Centre has also told us that they will ensure full cooperation, so we will seek their help. Its hospitals have a lot of ICU beds. There are around 13,000 beds in the central government hospitals, we would like to request the Centre to use those beds for Covid-19 treatment,” he said. The government has also identified places such as banquet and community halls and stadiums to create additional beds and run temporary hospitals, said Jain. An official said the identified facilities can accommodate 27,000 beds — 12,000 in banquets halls, 10,000 in religious institutes like dharamshala and 2,500 in Pragati Maidan and Talkatora Stadium each. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to go out to identify more such facilities . “A total of 80% beds in the Covid-19 dedicated Delhi government hospitals are oxygen beds, and we are also preparing oxygen beds in non-dedicated hospitals,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-wont-be-extended-says-jain/articleshow/76349452.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bride takes off with gifts, jewellery||AHMEDABAD: A newly wed woman allegedly robbed her matrimonial house and fled with the jewellery and other things she had been given, in the Naroda area of the city. When the husband spoke to his father-in-law, he got a shock. The latter told him the marriage had been just for money and his wife would never return. He also threatened the man, saying that if he informed police about the incident, they would kill him. The man lodged an FIR against his wife and those who had arranged the marriage. They had taken Rs 1.55 lakh from him saying they needed the money and would return it in five months. Police said they are looking for the woman who is supposedly from Rajasthan, and the person who had arranged the match. According to the FIR filed by Jayesh Rathod, a relative of his, Manu Rathod, had asked one Manilal, a resident of Thaltej, to find a match for Jayesh. The two came to Jayesh’s house with the girl, Kalawati Kharadi, her father Sanjeet Kharadi and a man named Mohanlal Bhagora. “Jayesh liked the girl and she liked him too and they fixed the marriage. Before the wedding, Jayesh and his family had gone to Kalawati’s house in Rajasthan. Sanjeet told them that their financial condition was dire and asked them for Rs 1.55 lakh, which he would return five months after the wedding. Jayesh agreed to this and later married Kalawati,” said a police source. The FIR says Kalawati stayed at the matrimonial house for about a month and one fine day left for her parents’ home in Rajasthan without telling anyone. As she didn’t return for a long time, Jayesh called his father-in-law and asked him why Kalawati was not coming back. According to Jayesh’s FIR, Kharadi told him that the marriage had been done just to get money from him and Kalawati would never return to his house, said a police official. Kharadi also threatened to kill him if he informed police about the incident, he added. Jayesh, nevertheless, lodged a complaint against the accused at Naroda police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bride-takes-off-with-gifts-jewellery/articleshow/76348926.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Patna||Irrigation water for all farms if voted back to power: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Announcing his main poll plank, JD(U) president and chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said he would provide water to irrigate each farmland across the state, if voted back to power. Addressing the JD(U) workers of Magadh division at virtual sammelan, Nitish also said the other big works he intends to do in the next term would be announced before the beginning of the forthcoming assembly polls. He asked the party workers to interact with common people and seek their suggestion on what more the JD(U) should do if voted to power again. “Seek opinion of common people on this matter and pass it on to the senior party leaders,” he said. Rejecting his critics’ argument that more development works took place during the NDA government’s first term (2005-2010), Nitish said, “In each term, we did more development works compared to our previous term. We executed more works in the second term (2010-15) compared to the first and, similarly, even more in the third term (2015-20).” He also said some people have launched a misinformation campaign that more development works were executed in the NDA government’s first term in state. “It is wrong,” the CM said. Referring to the days of extremism, Nitish said, “During the ‘pati-patni’ (Lalu-Rabri Devi) rule in state, the villages in Magadh division used to remain in limelight mainly because of Naxalism and massacres. When I came to power in 2005, I started working for the development of the region and ensured the progress of poor and downtrodden families. Resultantly, Naxalism slowly died down.” Nitish said it was also the result of our commitment to “development with justice”. He asked the party workers to tell people 90% about the development works done by the NDA government in state and 10% about the situation before 2005. JD(U) national general secretary and WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who conducted the virtual workers’ meeting, said over 15 years back, districts like Jehanabad and Aurangabad were notorious for mass killings. “But now, two children of Jehanabad and five of Aurangabad district are among the toppers in 2020 Matriculation examination of Bihar board. It is a story of change in Bihar. It is a story of development in Bihar during Nitish Kumar’s rule,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/irrigation-water-for-all-farms-if-voted-back-to-power-nitish/articleshow/76347614.cms||Madan Kumar
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Horse-trading drama happening at the behest of Ashok Gehlot, alleges Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia has termed chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s repeated accusations of luring Congress legislators by the BJP as a ‘political drama.’ In a press conference at the BJP headquarters on Friday, Poonia said that the entire drama of horse-trading is happening at the behest of Gehlot. “It appears that he has lost his sense is the reason that he is making baseless allegations against the BJP. The chief minister should prove the allegations made by him or stop his drama, apologise to the people else we will take legal recourse against him,” said Poonia. He clarified that his party has not spoken to any of the Congress MLAs, any other party and independent MLAs. “If any MLA would like to join BJP following his inner voice is most welcome,” said Poonia. Taking on Gehlot, Poonia said that none of the MLA in Rajasthan is for sale. “The entire episode of horse-trading is scripted to divert the attention of people from the issue of coronavirus and also to hide the failures of his party from the people,” said Poonia. Taking a dig at Gehlot over the horse-trading issue, Poonia said that he has spread a virus in the state politics which is very dangerous. “I advise Gehlot to go for yoga, prayanam and medical consultation to save himself from this virus,” said Poonia. Reminding Gehlot of the statements highlighting the poor governance by his own ministers, lawmakers and leaders, Poonia said, “Your cabinet minister Vishvendra Singh, MLA Hemaram, Bharat Singh and Virendra Singh’s statements slamming their own government clearly shows the working style of Gehlot and infighting in his party.” He mentioned the statements made by deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in public platforms and to the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/horse-trading-drama-happening-at-the-behest-of-gehlot-alleges-poonia/articleshow/76348908.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||No lockdown for now: Tamil Nadu to Madras high court; EPS junks posts on social media||CHENNAI: Scotching rumours about Chennai going under intense lockdown, the state government on Friday informed the Madras high court that it had no such plans for the city or any other part of the state for now. On his part, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami called a social media post attributing lockdown to him as false. “A message circulating on social media with my photo is a false one. Criminal action will be taken against people who circulate false messages,” the CM told reporters at Mettur in Salem district. Earlier in the day, additional advocate-general S R Rajagopal told the division bench, “Cases are increasing in Chennai. We have taken stringent steps to contain the spread. But so far there is no proposal to implement 100% lockdown. We are containing streets where cases are high by restricting movement of people.” Parents should report schools seeking fees: CM To this, the bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar asked whether reports of people being denied permission to move out of Chennai and authorities denying e-passes were true. “All such reports are rumours. We are issuing e-passes. District collectors concerned are issuing such passes,” Rajagopal said. He was making the submission, in response to a question raised on Thursday by the judges as to whether the state had any special scheme to contain the virus spread in the city and its suburbs. The chief minister, who was in Mettur to release water from the Stanley Reservoir, said some private schools in the state were collecting fees from parents during the lockdown period. “We are requesting parents and public at large to lodge complaints against such schools. We will take strict action against such schools,” he said. Schools will be opened based on the central government’s announcement in that regard, he said. The chief minister said he had allotted Rs 67.25 crore to desilt canals to benefit tail-end farmers in the delta districts. “We already desilted 3,450km canals and 80% of the works have been completed,” he said. Asked about the Salem-Chennai green corridor expressway project, the CM said, “it is the need of the hour, as the number of vehicles has been increasing every day. Moreover, it is a central government project and the state government is only acquiring lands,” he said, adding that, agricultural lands were acquired for road projects even during the DMK regime. As for water scarcity in the state, Palaniswami said district collectors have been asked to utilise funds at their command to address drinking water needs on a warfooting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-lockdown-for-now-tn-to-hc-eps-junks-posts-on-social-media/articleshow/76348924.cms||Sureshkumar
June 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Three arrested in bogus billing scam||PATIALA: The Punjab GST department on Friday claimed to have busted a bogus billing scam running into Rs 350 crores with the arrest of three persons. The arrests were made following raids at four places in Mandi Gobindgarh and Amloh. Additional excise and taxation commissioner Showkat Ahmad Parray said the department had detected a network of firms issuing fake invoices and passing bogus input tax credit to various firms during an ongoing investigation. He said probe revealed that around 10 firms were conniving to issue fake invoices worth Rs 350 crores and involving tax of Rs 45 crores. He said there was a cash withdrawal of Rs 70 crores from various banks between these firms. According to the officer, these firms used to issue bills without any inward or outward supply of goods, causing a direct loss to the state exchequer. Among those arrested is Ganga Ram, who is the proprietor of GK Enterprises and Deepika Steel Industries and also the kingpin of the racket. The other two arrested include Amit Kumar, owner of King Sales Corporation and lshika Traders, and Vishesh Kumar, who runs Vishu Enterprises. The department also seized some documents during raids at the residences of the accused in the scam. Parray said these documents were being further scrutinised to identify all the beneficiaries of fake invoices so that steps are taken to recover the tax. The raiding teams were led by Ludhiana mobile wing assistant commissioner state tax V P Singh, Jalandhar assistant commissioner Pawanjit Singh and Fatehgarh Sahib assistant commissioner Sunita Batra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-arrested-in-bogus-billing-scam/articleshow/76348912.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Vacated residents want alternative accommodation||Coimbatore: At a time when the city corporation is busy removing encroachments along the Muthannan kulam, about 19 families residing on Sundapalayam road near the waterbody have alleged that they were asked to vacate their houses without providing any alternative accommodation.“We are ready to relocate to the houses of the slum clearance units even at the faraway locations. But how fair is to make us vacate our houses where we lived for over 35 years, without providing any alternative location,” said Ismail, one of the residents. “Until last week, we were hopeful that we would get an alternative accommodation, but the officials on Friday said, we are not eligible as we don’t have the required address proof,” he said. Meanwhile, the corporation has continued demolishing illegal structures for almost a week now. On Friday, they had demolished about 102 houses and disconnected electricity connection to 17 houses. A source privy to the eviction drive said that the corporation has been demolishing only vacant houses in the first phase. Pointing out that tokens were provided to over 1,500 families, the source said that only one flat at the housing unit would be provided to an illegal structure as per norms, but people have been demanding individual flats for each family that lives in a single house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vacated-residents-want-alternative-accommodation/articleshow/76348911.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Gurgaon||First 3,000 took 93 days, next in seven days: Gurugram surge pushes Haryana count past 6,000||GURUGRAM: Adding 366 Covid-19 cases in a day, Haryana crossed the 6,000-mark on Friday, the 11th state in the country to do so. It took 93 days for Haryana to get to its first 3,000 cases. For the next 3,000, it took seven days. Gurugram, with 2,922 cases, alone accounts for 46% of these cases. The surge is in keeping with the national trend, only much sharper in Haryana. India’s Covid-19 count went from zero to 3,000 in 66 days. For the next 3,000, it took five days. On the same lines, the first 3,000 cases in Maharashtra, which has the highest case load in the country, took 39 days. The next 3,000, just seven. In neighbouring Delhi, too, the surge came late — the first 3,000 cases took 57 days and the next, 11. Haryana’s just came even later. The number of deaths, too. Of the 70 deaths reported in Haryana, 46 were reported only over the last week. Haryana’s surge has been pushed along by Gurugram, which reflects in the number of active cases. In the state, 59.82% of the cases are active. In Gurugram, that’s 65.9%. Of these, an overwhelming majority have been active for fewer than 10 days — 93.3% of the cases in Haryana and 96.9% of the cases in Gurgaon. The Centre, consequently, has identified Gurugram as one of four “emerging districts of concern” — the others being Udupi and Yadgir in Karnataka and Kolhapur in Maharashtra. Gurgaon is also one of 12 in the country where more than 60% of the Covid-19 case are active. In Gurgaon, most of the 19 deaths have also been reported over the past few days. The late surge and concentration of cases in a few pockets mean a stress on resources. The state government has handed additional chief secretary of Haryana and financial commissioner Vijai Vardhan the responsibility of analysing the rate at which the virus is spreading in Gurugram. Vardhan will hold meetings with government officials, health officials, private labs and citizen groups. The Gurugram chief medical officer will provide updates on testing modalities, labs, resources, strategies of dealing with the rise in cases. He will also oversee management of containment zones, contact tracing modalities, and management of hospital beds and quarantine facilities. Based on his assessment, a report will be prepared with a statistical modelling of the expected rise in cases and the resources that would be needed to keep up. The state government has identified the two thrust areas in its response to the Covid surge in Gurugram — step up health infrastructure and streamline tests and contact tracing. “We have reserved 925 beds in 23 hospitals of Gurugram for Covid-19 patients. Of these, 670 are dedicated to Gurugram. The city has a total of 3,399 beds as of Friday,” a government official who is part of the Covid-19 management team said. A real-time update of beds available in Gurugram was launched on Thursday. As for Covid-19 testing, patterns have been inconsistent. Up to June 1, Gurugram had collected 13,972 samples, of which 903 had tested positive. That was a positivity rate of 6.46%. Between June 1 and June 11, the samples collected was 4,419, of which 1,834 tested positive — a staggering jump to a 41.5% positivity rate. Chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said the focus is on stepping up testing. “We set up a (government) testing facility in Gurugram because results from PGIMS, Rohtak would take about four to seven days to come back. In Gurugram, we can process that in 24-36 hours. But Gurugram does not have as many lab technicians as we need.” The health department will have to hire technicians or get them from other districts, he added. The other thing to keep an eye on, district officials said, was effective monitoring of those in home isolation. The district guidelines allow Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms to isolate themselves at home. But how far that helps depends on effective implementation. “All primary health centres have been assigned specific areas of the city which they will monitor. They will prepare a list of patients in home isolation and be responsible for monitoring their health. They have been asked to provide updates to the health department every day,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/first-3000-took-93-days-next-in-7-gurgaon-surge-pushes-haryana-count-past-6000/articleshow/76349450.cms||Bagish Jha
June 13, 2020||Ludhiana||67-yr-old woman is 19th Covid casualty in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: A sexagenarian woman resident of the city on Friday died of Covid-19 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here. With her death, the number of coronavirus casualties in Ludhiana district has gone up to 19, including eight from outside the district.According to health officials, the woman, 67, a resident of Dilbagh Nagar Extension, Grover Colony, was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar on June 5 with complaints of cough and fever and altered sensorium. Subsequently, she was referred to DMCH.DMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said, “After admission, the patient was given antibiotics, antiplatelets, anticoagulation and high-flow oxygen support. She was managed with multidisciplinary approach and was evaluated for Covid-19 infection in view of the ongoing pandemic. Her sample was sent for testing on June 6 and the report showed her positive the same day.”Dr Ashwani said on June 7, the woman continued to have the complications of tachypnea and desaturation that she had been admitted with and the renal functions also deteriorated. “Despite all possible efforts, the patient's condition did not improve. In the small hours of Friday, she had a cardiac arrest, after which she could not be revived,” he added.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “With her death, the tally of casualties in the district has reached 19, including 11 from Ludhiana district and eight from other districts and states. All of them had comorbidities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/67-yr-old-woman-is-19th-covid-casualty-in-ludhiana/articleshow/76347090.cms||Mehak Jain
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj, Sensi Mohalla are containment zones||Ludhiana: The area comprising Habib Ganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islam Ganj, which lie adjacent to each other, has been declared a containment zone, the second in Ludhiana. So far, 17 positive cases have been reported from there. It had got its first case on June 6. There has been a rapid rise in virus spread and within a week it became a cluster of infection. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said in a statement, “As per the May 21 guidelines of the Punjab government, Habib Ganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islam Ganj have been declared containment zones, as number of cases reached the threshold of 15. The containment area will have a boundary from Shani Dev Temple to a petrol pump, which goes to Amarpura. These zones are created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent it from spreading, and were identified by district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat on the basis of the extent of cases. Movement for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services is allowed here.” Dr Bagga said, “The population of these three places is about 4,600. Outside the containment zone, there will be a buffer zone, where the health department will conduct intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions, as required. The positive cases, if reported from both containment as well as buffer zones, will be shifted to health centres and the focus will be on pool sampling from the area. This will continue for 14 days. If no case is reported for 14 days, the containment zone tag will be removed. But if any positive case is reported, then it will continue to be a containment zone for seven more days.”Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “The movement of people is restricted in this area and lockdown will be in force till June 26 as per orders of the department of home affairs and justice, Punjab. Movement will be monitored to ensure that nobody leaves or visits the area except for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services. Dr Mala, senior medical officer of Mother and Child Hospital, will be in charge of this zone and supervise all the activities.”He added that the police department would seal the area and ensure lockdown was enforced. Dr Mala said, “Twelve teams have been formed to conduct house-to-house surveillance. Eight teams will collect samples from the containment zone and four from the buffer zone.” Earlier on June 5, Chawni Mohalla was declared a containment zone, the first of the city. Essential services allowed Only essential services, like groceries and medical supply, are allowed in containment zones. Authorities will ban movement inside the area and also block entry and exit points.17 Positive Cases Reported So Far June 6: Three women, aged 65, 60, 27, tested positive. Two of them were from Habib Ganj and one from Islam GanjJune 7: A 35-year-old woman of Sensi Mohalla was confirmed to have contracted the virus June 9: Six tested positive, including three of Islam Ganj and as many of Habib Ganj June 10: Five of Sensi Mohalla confirmed Covid-19 positive June 11: Two men of Habib Ganj tested positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/habib-ganj-islam-ganj-sensi-mohalla-are-containment-zones/articleshow/76347100.cms||Mehak Jain
June 13, 2020||Goa||Woman admitted to Covid hosp in the afternoon has baby in the evening||Panaji: The Covid hospital in Margao saw the first baby being born on its premises after a 33-year-old woman from Mangor Hill delivered a girl on Friday. The mother, who is Covid-positive, was however not permitted to hold the baby, who was quickly whisked away to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital’s paediatrics ward. The woman, who has three other children, was admitted in the hospital on Friday afternoon itself. A few hours later, at 6.45pm, the baby was born. “The baby will be tested after 48-72 hours,” said deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida. “If positive, she will be reunited with her mother, who is also positive.” The woman, however, is asymptomatic. The caesarian procedure was performed by a specialist team from GMC that wore full PPE — special sterile Tyvek suits — in the hospital’s operation theatre. The OT’s air-conditioning system was turned off, and special standing hepa filters used to filter the virus and decrease the room’s viral load were used. These precautions were taken to protect both the baby and the doctors. “Utmost care was taken to follow infection control measures and protocol for Covid caesarean procedures,” said Almeida. “Mock drills were conducted earlier, and everybody was prepared for a delivery. We have several pregnant women in the hospital, but she was the first who was a term pregnancy.” The youngest patient at the Covid hospital to date was a four-month-old child who was admitted with her mother (who tested negative). The hospital has a special paediatric ward and paediatric OT. When asked about Friday’s development, doctors said that they’re keeping their fingers crossed. “Yes, it’s positive news, but we hope she tests negative,” one doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-admitted-to-covid-hosp-in-the-afternoon-has-baby-in-the-evening/articleshow/76349449.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||Asymptomatic woman, 63, dies of kidney failure||Lucknow: A 63-year-old woman from Phoolbagh died at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Friday morning due to kidney failure during treatment of Covid-19, taking the toll to nine in the city with five people dying in the past five days. The woman’s case was similar to several reported earlier wherein a person was diagnosed with Covid-19 at a late stage after being admitted to hospital for the treatment of some other disease. Doctors said the woman had no symptoms of infection when brought to the hospital on June 6 following a hip fracture. Since she required a surgery, as per safety protocol, Covid-19 test was done which came back as positive. Treatment started immediately but the woman’s condition deteriorated rapidly as she also had comorbid conditions of diabetes that damaged her kidney, and hypertension. Her high sugar and blood pressure levels led to kidney failure. In medical terms, the condition is known as diabetic nephropathy, said KGMU in an official statement. Six other members of her family had tested positive on June 9 and are undergoing treatment at Lokbadhu hospital. These are her 73-year-old husband, two daughters-in-law and three grandchildren including an infant. Her son, however, tested negative. Doctors had fixed the woman’s fractured pelvis with a splint and were waiting for her to recover to conduct the surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/asymptomatic-woman-63-dies-of-kidney-failure/articleshow/76349451.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Living his passion while serving as revenue inspector||Coimbatore: Drawing portraits has always been a passion for 29-year-old C Gangadharan. A senior revenue inspector, he hasn’t let his profession get in the way of his artistic skills. A native of Padirikuppam in Cuddalore district, he is posted at the district collectorate now. Gangadharan says he started with portraits of national leaders. Today, he sketches collectorate staff and their immediate kin and gift the works on their special occasions. “I have drawn portraits of many revenue department staff and their children and gifted them on their wedding anniversaries or birthdays.”Gangadharan says he used to draw landscapes when he was in Class IV. He improved his skills with the help from the school drawing master, Lakshmi Natarajan. “During my schooling, I focused on scenery and participated in drawing competitions. I won most of the district-level contests. In 2007, I also won the state-level drawing competition.”His works had also won him third place in the national-level drawing competition that was conducted by India Post. “In 2012, my focus was on drawing live portraits. At family functions, I used to draw portraits of relatives and gift them. I just wanted to see their face lighting up with happiness on seeing the portrait,” says Gangadharan.He has drawn portraits of district collector K Rajamani, district revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan and revenue divisional officer Uma Maheswari, among others, and gifted the same to them. He has also sketched Thiruvalluvar and the portrait now decorates the collectorate building.The officer has also sketched Lord Vinayaga, national leader Dr B R Ambedkar, former chief minister M Karunanidhi and actors Rajinikanth, Prabhas, Aishwarya Rai, Nagesh, Anushka, Jothika, Ramya Krishnan, comedian Senthil, Bruce Lee, Jackie Shan, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Johnny Depp. “My favourite is actress Marilyn Monroe’s portrait.”He mostly does pencil sketches. “I want to continue this for another 10-15 years. It is my dream is to visit art galleries in many countries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/living-his-passion-while-serving-as-revenue-inspector/articleshow/76348934.cms||A Subburaj
June 13, 2020||Lucknow||24 helpline centre staff among 38 fresh cases||Lucknow: The state’s Covid-19 helpline had to be shut after 24 more employees of the call centre which runs it were infected with the disease. With 43 cases since June 5, the two-floor office in Vibhuti Khand which addressed people’s Covid-19 queries has now become a ‘hotspot’ or a single unit from where the highest number of cases have been reported in the city. With this, Friday’s tally has gone up to 38, the highest single-day rise since the outbreak on March 11. Earlier, April 16 witnessed 31 cases. A death due to Covid-19 also took place on Friday. So far, 553 cases have been reported in the city, of which 394 have recovered, while nine could not survive. “The office of the call centre has been sealed after the district administration’s order and sanitization is underway,” said RC Pandey, inspector, Vibhuti Khand police station. On June 5, a woman employee of the centre from Malhaur was diagnosed with the disease along with nine others living in her area. They were tested after a laundry man associated with a medical institute was found infected. As a precautionary measure, health officials tested all call centre employees. Nine each came positive on June 10 and 11. “We have asked all employees and their families to home quarantine themselves. We will test all,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. Meanwhile, the administration has declared Niralanagar a containment zone. There are 21 zones in Lucknow. Four members of a family including two kids in Lal Kuan were also diagnosed with the disease. A hairdresser in Telibagh was also reported to be infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/24-helpline-centre-staff-among-38-fresh-cases/articleshow/76349458.cms||Yusra Husain
June 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Race Course model road project begins||Coimbatore: The city corporation kicked off work to renovate the Race Course Road under the model road project of the Smart Cities Mission on Friday.The Rs 40.70 crore project will incorporate innovative components and renovate the road and the scheme road for about three kilometres, a corporation official said. “The salient features of the road will be retained,” he told TOI.Municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who performed bhoomi puja, said footpaths will be created on both sides of the road, which is used by walkers in large numbers. “In addition to the existing footpath on the inner side of the road, a 4-metre-wide footpath will be set up along the outer ring. Vehicles will not be allowed to enter the footpaths,” he said.“There will be drinking water facilities, toilets, safe rooms, Wi-Fi and eateries. CCTV cameras will be installed on the stretch to ensure public safety,” Velumani said. “Underground utility lines will be set up to carry power lines and telecom cables. Rainwater harvesting structures will be constructed to rejuvenate underground water table.”The existing men’s gym along the road will be revamped and a workout space will be created for women near the State Judicial Academy, the corporation official said. “To allow women keep an eye on their children when they are using the gym, a play area will be set up next to gym. The existing children’s park will be converted to an amphitheatre.” The project, which was initially submitted for the approval of the state-level high-powered steering committee for the Smart Cities Mission, had obtained its nod in February after revising the design several times.With this, the corporation has implemented most of the major projects it had proposed under the mission, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/race-course-model-road-project-begins/articleshow/76348921.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 13, 2020||Dehradun||Give priority to unemployed under CM Swarojgar Yojana: CM||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has directed the state authorities to ensure that the unemployed locals are given priority under the CM Swarojgar Yojana scheme. The ambitious project was launched to promote self-employment among locals who have returned from other states in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, CM Rawat discussed CM Swarojgar Yojana and Solar and Pirul projects with the district magistrates via video conferencing. He also asked the officials to ensure that all files related to Solar and Pirul (pine needles) Project are cleared in a span of one week. The CM pointed out that the state government will give Rs 1 for every kilogram of pine needles collected. At present, the self help groups get Rs 1 per kg from the forest department and Rs 1.5 per kg from the purchaser for collecting pine needles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/give-priority-to-unemployed-under-cm-swarojgar-yojana-cm/articleshow/76348140.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 13, 2020||Goa||Pollution board inspects mines in Bicholim taluka||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) on Friday inspected mines in Bicholim taluka after it was alleged that iron ore transportation is causing environmental damage. The inspection report is likely to be ready next week. “The team has gone for inspection of the mines in Bicholim taluka. If it is not completed then it will continue on Monday. The report will be ready by next week,” GSPCB member secretary Shamila Monteiro told TOI on Friday. GSPCB officials along with officials from directorate of mines and geology and the Bicholim deputy collector conducted the inspection following a high court order in a case alleging illegalities by mining leaseholders. Mulakh Khajan Tenants Association and others had approached the high court and pointed out that a mining company was indulging in fresh, illegal mining. The Supreme Court has permitted leaseholders to only transport extracted ore, the petitioners stated. The unregulated transport by other mining companies was causing environmental havoc, the petitioners stated. The high court in its June 2 order directed the GSPCB to file its reply addressing the petitioners’ concerns. “If the pollution control board desires to inspect the site physically, it may put on notice any representative of the petitioners and carry out the inspection—in coordination with the mining department,” the order stated. According to the farmers, they have been facing hardships due to illegal mining and sought to restrain a mining company. The petitioners also sought a direction to the government to monitor ore transportation activities and to ensure that their lands are not affected in the monsoon due to the proximity of the stacks of iron ore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-inspects-mines-in-bicholim-taluka/articleshow/76349453.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Nine more die in Telangana, 164 new cases; TRS MLA tests positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday registered nine deaths from novel coronavirus as 164 more persons tested positive, raising the state’s overall caseload to 4,484 cases. A ruling party MLA from Warangal district became the first legislator from the state to test positive for the virus. With greater Hyderabad reporting 133 cases among the new ones, authorities urged people to maintain social distancing. The virus has so far killed 174 people. An area hospital superintendent in city suburbs was infected from the virus and is now under home isolation. A doctor from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, two junior doctors, one plastic surgeon, a PG student from neurosurgery and two interns also tested positive from Osmania Medical College. With this, 64 doctors from OMC and five from Gandhi have tested positive so far. In Saroornagar, a pregnant woman and her husband also tested positive. The woman tested positive after she went to a private hospital for check up. In Nalgonda, another youth tested positive after he went to meet his father who was admitted in NIIMS. Gandhi hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao and director of medical education (DME) visited all the patients to know their health. A cancer patient in Atmakur mandal of the Warangal district was also tested positive. In the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) 40 people having symptoms were kept under isolation on Friday. Meanwhile, districts surrounding Hyderabad continued to report cases with Rangareddy and Medchal reporting six cases each. Another four cases were reported from Sanga Reddy. While there were no new cases among migrant labours and people returning from other countries. A total of 2,278 persons have been discharged till now. “Since the lockdown was relaxed, more cases are being reported and people need to take basic preventive measures,” said Dr Srinivasa Rao, director of medical health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-more-die-in-t-164-new-cases-trs-mla-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76349456.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jaipur||Number of Gujarat Congress MLAs falls from 22 to 10 in 3 days at Sirohi resort||JAIPUR: The contingent of Gujarat Congress MLAs lodged in a resort at Abu Road has reduced to 10 from 22 during the last three days. They were shifted here on June 7 for 10 days in order to avoid defection from the party ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled on June 19. Sources in Sirohi Congress informed that most of these MLAs have gone to their respective constituencies or for some personal work including distribution of ration and chairing some important meetings on Covid-19. “The resort has been booked till June 18 for the MLAs and a dozen Congress leaders from Gujarat. But it appears the plan has changed as half of the MLAs have left along with some Gujarat Congress leaders. It is very unusual as during such hideouts MLAs are kept under strict watch and not allowed to go anywhere till the voting,” said a Congress leader who is coordinating with the Gujarat leaders over the stay of MLAs. He clarified that Gujarat Congress has not dumped the resort and as per the list several MLAs will arrive after June 15. Two buses have been kept on standby inside the resort and several rooms have been prepared for the guests. “The destination (resort) has been chosen as it is very close to the Gujarat border. It takes 15-20 minutes to cross over the border making it a safe place for Gujarat Congress which has seen eight MLAs resigning since March,” said a Sirohi Congress leader. Since the political drama in Jaipur has unfolded and reached its peak, there is less possibility of Gujarat MLAs being shifted to Jaipur. “Since the situation in Gujarat is grim and the state can seal its borders anytime which could create a problem for the MLAs. This is the reason that they have chosen to stay close to the border,” said a source. The MLAs lodged in the resort are mostly from northern Gujarat districts including two from Ahmedabad. Meanwhile, Sirohi BJP leaders who have filed an FIR over lockdown violation expressed displeasure over no action on their complaint. Jai Singh Rao, secretary, Sirohi BJP, and a complainant said that despite lockdown violation by the resort owner and the MLAs, nothing has been done. “I have apprised the matter to BJP state president Satish Poonia and will meet the IG in Jodhpur to demand action on our complaint,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-of-guj-cong-mlas-falls-from-22-to-10-in-3-days-at-sirohi-resort/articleshow/76348932.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Alandur market area shut for a week||CHENNAI: Traders on MKN Road and two other streets — Mandi Street and Pudupettai Street — in Alandur, have been asked to shut shop for a week from Friday by the city corporation authorities to break the chain of Covid-19 spread. While Alandur (zone 12) is among the least affected zones in the city, with a recorded 555 Covid-19 positive cases as on Friday, the decision to shut down shops was taken after the authorities found out that the source of about one-third of the infections in the zone was traced back to visits to the market area. While MKN Road extends from the St Thomas Mount police station until the Maduvankarai bridge which connects with Anna Salai and has all kinds of business ranging from pulses, food grains to wholesale dealers of steel, plywood etc,., Mandi Street, Pudupettai Street form the local market area. A zonal staff told TOI that the closure was to be initiated from Thursday itself, but was postponed due to non-cooperation from the traders. “We had to pacify them and convince that it is for the larger good. So we allowed them to function on Thursday. From Friday, only banks and ATMs will be allowed to operate,” said a senior corporation official. “Wards 160 and 161 from the zone alone account for more than 150 cases and it is important to break the chain to reduce the spread.” In Nanganallur too, traders and vendors in the market area on 4th Main Road have been asked to function on alternate days. “All street vendors have been asked to move to the lanes and the shops on the main road are to function on alternate days, wherein those on left side of the market road will function on one day when those on the right will remain shut and vice versa,” a vendor said. The civic body had recently asked the wholesale market at Kothawal Chavadi to shut shop for a week. It falls under the most-affected Royapuram zone in the city, which has recorded 4,500 cases till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/alandur-market-area-shut-for-a-week/articleshow/76348931.cms||Srikkanth D
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||60 IEDs found in West Singhbhum, Maoist plot to target cops foiled||JAMSHEDPUR: West Singhbhum police on Friday recovered over 60 IEDs from two separate locations under Goilkera police station limits. The recovery was made after teams comprising district police, Jharkhand Jaguar and a battalion of CRPF stumbled upon a codex wire planted along the Kuida-Hatiburu road during a patrol. Upon digging out the area, 40 live bombs, including can bombs and cooker bombs, planted in a series circuit, was recovered. Some of the explosives weighed up to 20kg. The second recovery of 20 explosives was made from Merelgora area, which is 1.5km away from the Kuida-Hatiburu Road. While the forces were busy removing the bombs, Maoists opened fire, resulting in retaliatory fire in defence, following which the rebels retreated. “A bomb disposal squad of the district defused the recovered bombs with precaution,” said West Singhbhum SP Indrajeet Mahatha. Mahta said the search operation in the area was launched earlier in the day on a tip-off about movement by Maoists in the forest cover of Goilkera and Sonua police station areas. The SP said that though the rebels had planted bombs to target security forces, the kucha path they choose for planting the bombs is regularly used by local villagers. With increased anti-extremist operations in the district in the past four months, different factions of Maoists, namely CPI (Maoist) and its splinter outfit PLFI, are desperate to cause a major blow to the security forces. The operations also resulted in the surrender of 25 rebels and four squad members getting killed by security forces. On Wednesday, Maoists had put up posters in Sonua and Goilkera police station areas, condemning police action in which three women members of their outfit were killed in two separate encounters earlier in April and May this year. Maoists had also announced to take revenge of the killings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/60-ieds-found-in-w-singhbhum-maoist-plot-to-target-cops-foiled/articleshow/76348587.cms||B Sridhar
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||Social distancing at dist court compromised due to rain||Ranchi: Even though the Ranchi district court has implemented various measures to ensure social distancing within its campus, the pre-monsoon showers on Friday upset its entire planning. Former general secretary of Ranchi District Bar Association (RDBA) Sanjay Vidrohi said, “With the intermittent showers on Friday, the counters set up at the open space were shifted to the old DLSA (District Legal Service Authority) building, which lead to a congestion. The lawyers, who had come to court for filing fresh petitions and for other purposes, had to assemble in the small verandah of the DLSA building, to shield themselves from the rain.” He added that with the arrival of monsoon, the open space where the counters were set up cannot be used unless there is waterproof tent over it. Meanwhile, a court official said that the old DLSA building has been earmarked for filing of fresh cases and other works in view of the rainy season. He added that the lawyers can access its first floor for maintaining social distancing. The official mentioned that a host of precautionary measures have been taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 inside the court. All persons undergo thermal screening and sanitization before entering the court. There are frequent announcements urging people to maintain social distancing norms and wear a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/social-distancing-at-dist-court-compromised-due-to-rain/articleshow/76348787.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||‘Govt should encourage cooperative farming’||Ranchi: State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had said during a recent interaction with TOI that increasing the purchasing power of the people was central to the government’s economic revival policy. Reacting to his statement, members of trade, commerce and NGO sectors said the government would do well to also consider a policy of focused interventions. Kunal Ajmani, the president of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), said, “The key will be to increase liquidity in the markets. For six months now, the state government has blocked all payments to its vendors, and that has caused a reeling effect in different sectors.” Ajmani also stressed on the need for governmental support to MSMEs. “The state has to create a congenial environment to promote investment.” Ganesh Reddy, the secretary of Citizen’s Foundation, seconded Ajmani and said, “The pandemic is here to stay and so we have to strike a balance between generating jobs and saving lives. The need of the hour is to put money in people’s pockets so that cash can circulate in the economy and, thereby, boost trade and commerce.” Reddy said the government should first focus on strengthening agriculture, infrastructure and service sectors to create jobs. He added, “Domestic tourism sector can gradually churn out more opportunities, as people would avoid travelling abroad for quite some time now.” Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), an umbrella body of rights groups advised the government to increase the number of projects under MNREGA. It said, “The employment guarantee scheme should be expanded to urban areas too. Also, promoting agriculture and forest-based livelihoods is important. The government should repeal land bank policy, implement Forest Rights Act and develop local food-processing industry, among others.” The JJM added, “The government must encourage cooperative farming and community ownership of land and natural resources. Also, all workers must get at least half of the minimum wages as per 7th Pay Commission recommendations for the next three months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-should-encourage-cooperative-farming/articleshow/76348553.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||Daltonganj contractor gets Maoist calls, seeks cop protection||Daltonganj: Apprehending threat to his life, prominent Daltonganj-based contractor Mumtaz Ahmad Khan lodged a complaint with police citing calls for levy from alleged Maoists. Khan has also written letters to Jharkhand DGP M V Rao, IG operations Saket Kumar Singh, IG human rights Navin Kumar Singh, Palamu SP Ajay Linda, Latehar SP Prashant Anand and others for help. He said, “I was given two armed police body guards in 2018, but due to Covid-19, the guards were withdrawn under the order of the DGP as police required more manpower to handle the law and order situation. Recently, I got calls from Maoists who asked for levy.” Khan, who is one of the directors of Reasonable Enterprises Pvt Ltd, added, “Our firm has road and bridge construction works in districts like Palamu, Latehar, Ranchi and Gumla. Maoists and other naxal groups have full knowledge of our financial stakes in these districts.” Linda said, “We have received the written petition. Our officials are working on it. Details of our activities in this regard cannot be shared.” He added, “There are many from whom body guards were withdrawn because threat perception was absent. We are reviewing everything.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/daltonganj-contractor-gets-maoist-calls-seeks-cop-protection/articleshow/76348771.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||File report on covering drains: HC to RMC||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Friday directed the Ranchi Municipal Corporation to submit a status report withon the next two weeks on the work done in covering open drains in the state capital. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad, was hearing a public interest litigation filed by a Hindpiri resident named Muhammad Islam. Islam had mentioned in his petition that an open drain in his locality lacks even the basic safety facilities despite it being situated in the heart of the city. He further mentioned that it does not have flanks on its sides, which results in bikers and pedestrians falling into the drain. The open drain at Hindpiri, which channels dirty water from Main Road and other adjoining localities, exposed the callousness of the civic body when four-year-old Falak died in July last year after accidentally falling into it. The deceased, a resident of Nala Road in Hindpiri, was going for her tuitions when she fell into the drain which was gushing with sewage and garbage. Although many bystanders jumped in to rescue the minor, she could not be found. Later, her body was found about five kilometres away in Subernarekha River near Lower Chutia, where the drain converges with the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/file-report-on-covering-drains-hc-to-rmc/articleshow/76348566.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||60 IEDs found in West Singhbhum, Maoist plot to target cops foiled||JAMSHEDPUR: West Singhbhum police on Friday recovered over 60 IEDs from two separate locations under Goilkera police station limits. The recovery was made after teams comprising district police, Jharkhand Jaguar and a battalion of CRPF stumbled upon a codex wire planted along the Kuida-Hatiburu road during a patrol. Upon digging out the area, 40 live bombs, including can bombs and cooker bombs, planted in a series circuit, was recovered. Some of the explosives weighed up to 20kg. The second recovery of 20 explosives was made from Merelgora area, which is 1.5km away from the Kuida-Hatiburu Road. While the forces were busy removing the bombs, Maoists opened fire, resulting in retaliatory fire in defence, following which the rebels retreated. “A bomb disposal squad of the district defused the recovered bombs with precaution,” said West Singhbhum SP Indrajeet Mahatha. Mahta said the search operation in the area was launched earlier in the day on a tip-off about movement by Maoists in the forest cover of Goilkera and Sonua police station areas. The SP said that though the rebels had planted bombs to target security forces, the kucha path they choose for planting the bombs is regularly used by local villagers. With increased anti-extremist operations in the district in the past four months, different factions of Maoists, namely CPI (Maoist) and its splinter outfit PLFI, are desperate to cause a major blow to the security forces. The operations also resulted in the surrender of 25 rebels and four squad members getting killed by security forces. On Wednesday, Maoists had put up posters in Sonua and Goilkera police station areas, condemning police action in which three women members of their outfit were killed in two separate encounters earlier in April and May this year. Maoists had also announced to take revenge of the killings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/60-ieds-found-in-w-singhbhum-maoist-plot-to-target-cops-foiled/articleshow/76356075.cms||B Sridhar
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 49 new Covid cases, tally 1,657||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Friday recorded 49 fresh cases of Covid-19, a dip of more than 50% than earlier figures for the second consecutive day. Authorities of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) were also relieved as two of its intern doctors, who had tested positive for the viral infection June 2, recovered and were discharged on Friday afternoon. The total number of cases in the state has now risen to 1,657; of which 964 are active cases while 693 have recovered and eight have succumbed to the viral infection. Rims director Dr D K Singh said, “It is definitely good news for us as two of our young doctors have recovered and have been discharged from the Covid ward. We are also pleased to inform that samples of all 24 others who had come in contact with the two doctors have tested negative. The intern doctors, who were discharged, will soon join us in the fight against the pandemic.” Of the total cases detected on Friday, Gumla district reported the maximum number of cases with 19 followed by Palamu with seven cases. Ramgarh, East and West Singhbhum reported four cases each and Ranchi, Simdega and Chatra reported three cases each. Latehar reported two fresh cases. In Ranchi, all three cases were detected from Rims but the hospital’s health workers said the new cases didn’t affect the hospital’s operation as the patients were already in the isolation ward after their contact tracing exercise. “All three new cases on Friday are family members of those who were detected positive three days ago from neurosurgery and general surgery departments,” a Rims official said. Friday’s dip in the cases has come as a relief for health authorities in the state, which has recorded a total of 764 cases in the last seven days, a figure which accounted for nearly 46% of the total cases detected in Jharkhand since the outbreak of the viral infection on March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-49-new-covid-cases-tally-1657/articleshow/76348699.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro ditches restaurant food; eateries in deep financial crisis||Bokaro: Despite restaurant owners ensuring safety measures, customers in Bokaro are yet to grab a grub even if food is delivered at their doorstep, rendering the sector to reel under a severe financial crunch. Difficult to maintain operational costs, as per estimate, around 500 people of the sector lost their jobs and several others faced pay cuts. Till Thursday, the district recorded 29 cases. Speaking to TOI, owner of Regency Group, Deepak Gupta said, “Bookings are not being allowed and the sector is reeling under a massive economical stress. At the same time, we have to pay our employees and spend on cleanliness and maintenance. We thought if we deliver food at customers’ doorstep, we will be able to fetch some business, but it did not garner the desired response.” Amit Johar, the owner of West Inn chain of hotels and restaurants, said, “Leave aside profit, we are struggling to maintain even our daily cost and it has become difficult to even pay our staff. After an initial surge, home delivery orders plummeted below 50%.” Besides hotels and eateries, tent house owners and catering service providers are also staring at an uncertain future. Owner of Zaika Resort, Vikram Shanon, said, “I have shut my home delivery service. We do not know what the future holds for us.” Shanon has around 174 employees. Food delivery aggregators also reported a drop in sales by as much as 40% since June 1. Arpan, a manager with Swiggy, said, “Of the 205 registered eateries in Bokaro, currently only 70 are active.” Anand Kumar, a former cook at an eatery here, who was rendered jobless during the lockdown, said, “I have been searching for all kinds of jobs right now. But as I see it, it will take many months to get an employment.” To make things worse for the jobless, around 25,000 workers returned to their homes from across the country and most of them do not want to go back once the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-ditches-restaurant-food-eateries-in-deep-financial-crisis/articleshow/76348494.cms||Divy Khare
June 13, 2020||Ranchi||Successful Jharkhand Public Service Commission candidates join ‘irregularity’ chorus||RANCHI: The tug of war between the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) and aspirants, including the successful ones, seems to have no end over the sixth civil service examination that was initiated back in 2015. Even after the commission published the results announcing successful candidates, it was dragged to the Jharkhand high court after a slew of petitions were filed against a “flawed process”. On Friday, the high court asked JPSC to file a counter affidavit within four weeks while hearing a plea on alleged irregularities filed by Manisha Tirkey, who managed to make it to the list of successful candidates, but said her allotment of service cadre was made ignoring the reservation rules. Along with Manisha, several others also rapped the court’s doors and alleged irregularities by the commission. Speaking to TOI, Manisha’s lawyer Praveen Akhauri said, “Manisha scored more than the cut-off in her category (ST), but the commission counted her under the general category. While successful candidates with lesser marks in her category have been offered better service cadres, Manisha has been offered the leftover positions under the general category.” Akhauri added, “This is a gross violation of the reservation rules and leads to discrimination among same section of people.” Another successful candidate, Chandan Kumar, moved court with a similar grievance and challenged the service cadre allocated to him. “I have secured a total of 611 marks which is way ahead of the cut-off in all categories, but people with 608 in my category have been given administrative and police services while I have been denied a choice of my service,” Chandan said. He added, “I have qualified in the general category even after falling under a reserved category, but the commission handed over superior services to people with lesser marks.” Soon after JPSC announced the final selection list of the sixth JPSC examination for 326 gazetted posts on April 21, more than two dozen cases were filed at the high court alleging irregularities in the publication of results. In an advertisement in 2015, the commission had announced the examination, which was later cancelled due to a change in the syllabus. A revised advertisement was published in 2016 and the preliminary examination was conducted in December 2016 and results were declared on February 23, 2017 in which 5,138 candidates were announced successful. However, the results were challenged in the court by different student groups over “irregularities in implementation of the reservation policy and cut-off marks”. A revised result was released by the commission on August 11, 2017, declaring 34,000 candidates eligible for taking up the mains. The Mains and the interview process were conducted amid heavy protests from aspirants in September 2019 and January 2020, respectively. A section of aspirants also boycotted the examination. In the last 45 days, several aspirants moved court and alleged that JPSC violated their own affidavit submitted to the court. Till now, 25 cases have been filed in Jharkhand high court against the alleged irregularities in final selection list which was published on April 22 amid lockdown. On being asked about the allegations, the Controller of Examination, JPSC, Gyanendra Kumar said, “Everything has been done in a transparent manner and we have also sent the joining recommendations of successful candidates to the state personnel department on May 29.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/successful-jpsc-candidates-join-irregularity-chorus/articleshow/76348619.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 13, 2020||Delhi||SC tears into Delhi government for 'deplorable' state of hospitals||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday tore into the Delhi government for the pathetic condition of government hospitals, citing low number of daily tests, improper treatment of Covid-19 patients, undignified handling of dead patients’ bodies and denial of salaries to doctors to question the government’s claims about its preparedness to fight the pandemic. The apex court was particularly upset about the “deplorable” condition of hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, making a specific mention of images from Delhi government run Lok Nayak hospital. Patients are crying and there is no one to attend to them: SCA bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah said, “We are more concerned with the living than the dead. Look at the pathetic condition in the hospitals. Bodies are there in the ward where patients are getting treated. The undignified manner in which bodies are handled, dumped... They are being treated worse than animals. And why is testing so low in Delhi? Mumbai and Chennai are testing 16,000 to 17,000 whereas in Delhi, it is falling below 7,000. Media has highlighted this issue.” The court said besides Delhi, the situation was grim in Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal and issued notices to the chief secretaries of the four states and ordered them to file status reports on treatment status and preparedness by Wednesday. A separate notice was issued to Delhi’s LNJP Hospital for a separate status report, given its “deplorable condition”. “We direct that chief secretaries of the states shall immediately take appropriate notice of the status of patients’ management in government hospitals in their respective states and take remedial action. Status reports with regard to government hospitals, patient care and details of staff, infrastructure etc should be brought before the court so that appropriate directions can be issued by the court on the next date of hearing,” the bench said. Referring to a series of media reports depicting the depressing and deplorable state of affairs in Delhi’s government hospitals, the bench said, “Patients are in the wards and dead bodies are also in the same wards. Dead bodies are seen also in the lobby and waiting area. Patients were not supplied with any oxygen support or any other support, no saline drips were shown with the beds and there was no one to attend to the patients. Patients are crying and there is no one to attend to them.” When the bench took strong exception to bodies lying unattended or getting dumped, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Centre, as far back as March 15, had issued ‘Covid-19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management’, which were in the nature of directives. The SC said, “We notice that there is no proper adherence to the guidelines, nor are hospitals giving due care and concern to dead bodies. Close relatives of patients are not informed for several days about details of cremation, as to when the body will be cremated due to which families of patients are not even able to see the bodies or attend their last rites.” Turning its focus on Delhi and the gap in the state government’s claims about the number of beds and those actually available, the bench said, “This is the condition of a government hospital of Delhi, which has a capacity of 2,000 beds. As per the government app, only 870 beds were occupied in LNJP Hospital as on June 11. The government app itself gives details of beds occupied in government and private hospitals in Delhi. In government hospitals, the number of beds is 5,814, out of which 2,620 are occupied.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-tears-into-delhi-government-for-deplorable-state-of-hospitals/articleshow/76350296.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hint of eco turnaround in reverse migration trend||KOLKATA: The easing of restrictions during the existing lockdown has triggered a return of labourers back to Kolkata’s commercial hubs, indicating a revival in economic activities in the state sooner than expected. Economists and members of the business community say the trend, backed by anecdotal evidence and surge in business activities in the city’s wholesale and retail hubs, has raised hopes of a quicker economic recovery in Bengal because it resolves one of the biggest issues of labour constraints in sectors like logistics, textile, manufacturing, goods and public transport and construction. Conversations with several labourers who have returned revealed depletion of savings, mounting debts and absence of any direct transfer of benefits in their home states prompted their return. Many labourers who returned to the state from Maharashtra and NCR are also heading to Kolkata, primarily because of rising Covid-19 cases. Even if the disease itself weren’t a problem, few of them have the resources now to travel back so far. “It is a very encouraging sign for the economy of the state and the business community, as labour shortage would have become the biggest constrain in the coming days,” says economist Abhirup Sarkar, a member of the state planning board. “This also indicates that the business activities in the city have picked up, which is creating a demand for these workers. Earlier, it was being expected that it would take a few months for the process of the workers’ return to start. But this happening within a few weeks of unlocking raises a lot of hopes.” According to a survey by the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations (CWBTA), the apex body of leading trade associations of Bengal, more than 75% labourers had rushed to their villages in Bihar, Jharkhand, Eastern UP and Odisha soon after the lockdown was announced in March. “But the good news is that more than 50% of them are back, and many more are either in transit or preparing to return,” says CWBTA president Sushil Poddar. “Labour constraints were one of the biggest issues when we started opening up, but it is easing with many of them arriving in the city each day.” Incentives to bring labourers backThe return of labourers, which started as a trickle in the last week of May, turned into a steady flow in the beginning of June. The wholesale markets of essential commodities in Posta and Burrabazar, which operated with only 20% labour during the lockdown, are now bustling with commercial activity. “The entire market is now open because more than 70% of the labourers, including mutias, drivers and helpers who had left at the start of lockdown, are back. The rest will return soon as we need more people,” says Biswanath Aggarwal, secretary, Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association. The textile industry in the state was facing a shortage of 90% labourers at the start of Unlock 1.0. “Our industry is a labour-intensive one and totally dependent on workers for the movement of raw materials and finished goods and manufacturing. Many traders are now even offering incentives like money, higher wages and better staying conditions to convince them to return to Kolkata,” says Mahendra Jain, secretary, Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry, an umbrella body that also includes affiliates. Hundreds of these workers are reaching Kolkata every day in goods vehicles and in cars that operate as app cabs, which their owners took back to their hometowns when the lockdown began. “Many of them are reaching in lorries from Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh,” said Sanjay Upadhyay, president of the Posta Goods Transport Operators’ Association. Anil Singh, a van-rickshaw driver in Burrabazar, said he had exhausted all his savings and was running up debts at his village in Bihar’s Banka. “Covid is a reality, but so is hunger. When I heard markets were reopening in Burrabazar, I paid Rs 1,200 to a lorry driver and came to Kolkata. At least I will earn a few hundred rupees at the end of the day and manage to send something home,” he said. “Many of these labourers thought the governments in their home states would directly transfer money to their bank accounts, which would sustain them for a few months. But that did not happen, so they were forced to return,” said Amitava Dasgupta, a city-based economist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-hint-of-eco-turnaround-in-reverse-migration-trend/articleshow/76350299.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 13, 2020||India||Amid map row, Nepal police firing kills Indian national||PATNA/NEW DELHI: A day ahead of a vote in Nepal’s parliament seeking to change the nation’s map to include a part of India in its territory, tensions escalated along the border in Sitamarhi district on Friday after a local disagreement turned ugly and led to firing by the Nepal Armed Police Force in which one Indian national was killed and two received serious injuries while another was detained in Nepal. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) which guards the border, said the incident was “completely avoidable” and was an offshoot of a local situation with no wider implications. The incident took place around 8.40 am when some residents of Jankinagar in Pipra Parsaini panchayat under Sonbarsa police station in Sitamarhi district had gone to the border area in Nepal to meet relatives there. The Nepal APF reportedly objected to the meeting in violation of lockdown norms to check Covid-19, leading to an argument between the Indian nationals and the troops. The situation deteriorated when some APF members reportedly thrashed Lagan Rai (45) and dragged him to the nearby border outpost in Nepal. Those from the Indian side tried to rescue him. In the scuffle that ensued, APF personnel opened fire, causing bullet injuries to three people. Vikesh Kumar alias Vikas Rai (25) died on the spot while Udai Thakur (27) and Umesh Ram (20) suffered injuries in the hand and thigh. Locals told the police that Lagan’s daughter-in-law was a resident of Nepal and those injured had gone to see her. Inspector general, SSB, frontier headquarters, Sanjay Kumar said the incident took place between Lalbandhi in Sitamarhi and Narayanpur in Nepal. “The site of occurrence is deep inside Nepal and not ‘no man’s land,” he told TOI over phone soon after reports about firing along the international border reached the frontier headquarters in Patna. When contacted, Nepal police DIG Raj Arya called the firing “unfortunate” and said word from seniors was being awaited for Lagan’s release. He claimed the APF personnel fired in self-defence when a mob of around 50 people attacked them and tried to snatch their weapons. “Whatever happened today shouldn’t have happened,” he added. SSB DG Kumar Rajesh Chandra, in a byte to ANI shared by SSB, clarified that the incident was not linked to any brewing tension along the India-Nepal border. "I would like to reiterate that this is a completely local issue that emerged from a local altercation and had emerged just instantly. Our nearest border outpost is 1.5 km from there. Our personnel are keeping an eye and our senior officers have got in touch with Nepal APF’s senior officers," he said. "You are well aware that people get married from this side to (those from) that side. So ties are quite strong. Probably, she and some other members of Lagan Rai’s family were having a chat. It is claimed by Nepal APF personnel that they objected... This led to an altercation, an avoidable altercation I will say, because this was a completely local issue," Chandra said. Nepal police alleged that the Indian villagers became aggressive and 15 rounds were fired, five in the air. The villagers, on the other hand, said the APF troops were at fault. According to the Chandra, the SP of Sarlahi (the adjoining district on the Nepal side) was in touch with the Sitamarhi SP. “They will be instituting a case on both sides based on their (own) versions," he said. Meanwhile, tension is brewing among residents of Chandraman village under Chhauradano police station in East Champaran district and Sanfulwa under Bara district in Nepal following assault on one Narad Yadav (Indian citizen) by the APF three days ago. On Thursday, a mob of residents assembled on the border to protest the incident. (With inputs from Shyam Kishore Singh in Sitamarhi and C B Pandey in Motihari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-map-row-nepal-police-firing-kills-indian-national/articleshow/76350291.cms||Ramashankar
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Quarantine facility in hotels has few takers||Nagpur: Despite alleged lack of proper facilities and services at institutional quarantine centres, only 4.27% people have opted for quarantine in private hotels for the last 64 days. The Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA) had to withdraw its offer of providing the facility following very low response. Between April 10 and June 12, 380 persons stayed at four private hotels under institutional quarantine, as per data available from the district administration. As on date, 63 people are lodged in four private hotels, with the latest four being members of a family from Shivaji Nagar. Of the total 9,264 people quarantined so far, 8,884 were kept at 10 institutional quarantine centres set up by the district administration in association with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and state’s Public Works Department (PWD). Currently, 2,274 persons are in quarantine, of which 2,211 are in government-run 10 centres. NRHA had offered paid services at 18 hotels. Tejinder Singh Renu, president of NRHA, told TOI, “We set up quarantine rooms with staff, materials and security system at a reasonable price. Initially, only six people availed the facility in April. Entire system has been lying idle since then, leading to financial loss. So, NRHA decided to withdraw and asked hotels owners to enter into agreement with administration individually,” he said. Hotels on Wardha Road, Central Avenue, Ashok Chowk and Sitabuldi are now providing quarantine facility. Initially, the district administration was facilitating all types of services free of cost at institutional quarantine centres before the civic body took over. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Our staff gives information about facility at private hotels if anyone is hesitant to stay at these centres. If numbers are considered, our facilities are the best and people availing it,” he said. According to NMC officials, they are providing many facilities, including towels, bed sheets, breakfast with tiffin, lunch, tea with biscuits and dinner apart from basic requirements like soaps, toothpaste etc. “We also provide special meals and milk to children. Fruits were given to people having health issues. Sanitation, fumigation etc is done in a proper manner, while doctors and medicines are always available,” they said. MNS activist Durgesh Sakulkar has alleged people are not following Covid distancing at quarantine centres. He wrote to BJP city president Pravin Datke, “I was quarantined along with my entire family at VNIT quarantine centre. People were following norms at homes but they have no fear of rules at quarantine centres. People are meeting each other frequently. There are five toilets on one floor where people gather at a time. This is the reason behind rise in positive cases from Naik Talao-Bangladesh,” he said. The NMC officials regularly urge people at quarantine centres to not come out of their rooms. According to them, international flyers returning under Vande Bharat Mission are going into quarantine at private hotels as they fear contracting the infection at institutional quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/quarantine-facility-in-hotels-has-few-takers/articleshow/76348391.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||A different peak: 7L line up for Rs 238 a day under MNREGA in Maharashtra||Nagpur: Workers taking up MNREGA jobs have touched a record high this year in the state. Over 7.04 lakh workers attended the employment guarantee works throughout the state between May and June first week.At present, more than half of workers engaged in MNREGA jobs throughout the state are in Vidarbha, which includes Amravati and Nagpur divisions. For the state, this was 57% increase as against the numbers in the same period last year. In absolute terms, the workers employed under MNREGA were 2.58 lakh more than those engaged last year till June 8, after which the figures receded. MNREGA workers get Rs 238 a day as against Rs 300 to Rs 400 elsewhere.Sources said the peak employment has increased all over the country. In comparison to rest of the states, Maharashtra still remains slightly behind at 57% growth against an average growth of 60% elsewhere. The phenomenon is being attributed to the reverse migration due to Covid outbreak and the lockdown. Though officials in state’s employment guarantee scheme (EGS) department say it cannot be concluded to be so as yet. The highest employment in terms of talukas has been in Chikhaldara in Melghat region of Amravati district. Here, 22,526 persons were employed under various works. This is followed by Dharni, also in Melghat, where 22,388 persons have taken up the MNREGA jobs. Both the areas had seen heavy influx of persons back from cities after Covid-19 outbreak. The Melghat hills — a tribal area — have disrepute of poor agriculture and malnutrition.The state’s MNREGA commissioner ASR Naik said, “Even if Covid can be expected to be one of the reasons, the pandemic appears to have also deterred workers from coming out to work in some districts where numbers are abysmally low. However, the numbers can said to be an all-time high.”Naik said the department has also started direct monitoring of works and nearly 100 workers are being reached out each day and their grievances are heard. Gondia has recorded the highest number at 88,262 persons employed at present. However, districts like Bhandara and Gondia have traditionally attracted higher number of labourers for MNREGA work, said sources in the department. The numbers cannot be exactly attributed to reverse migration.At the same time certain other districts have also seen a major jump, as against the earlier levels.There are certain districts where the numbers are negligible. For example, in Raigad district only 478 workers turned up for MNREGA work. In Pune, it was 865. If Bhandara was second highest, next door Nagpur had only 7,606 workers taking up the MNREGA jobs. In Washim, it was 2,200 odd.The high of over 7 lakh was maintained till June 8, after which a drop was seen. As on June 11, over 5.33 lakh were employed under the scheme. This is still 20% higher than the same period last year. The numbers are expected to have gone down because the number of works have reduced due to monsoon and also that workers have returned to farming, said sources. Now works on water, soil conservation and horticulture will be taken up.Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), said the high number of MNREGA workers reflects economic crisis due to reverse migration.(in a nutshell)Wages under MNREGA | Rs238 a dayTotal workers in state on June 11 | 5.33 lakhWorkers engaged in Vidarbha | 3.61 lakhWorkers in Amravati division | 91,397 Workers in Nagpur division | 2,70,362 also highest in stateTop district: Gondia, 88,262 workersHighest employment taluka wise | Chikhaldara, 22,526 personsLeast employment | Raigad, 478||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-different-peak-7l-line-up-for-rs-238-a-day-under-mnrega-in-maharashtra/articleshow/76348403.cms||Shishir Arya
June 13, 2020||India||MPs force RS to shell out Rs 6.5cr for trains not taken||NEW DELHI: Only 15% of a bill of Rs 7.8 crore raised by the Indian Railways for the Rajya Sabha to pay for travel undertaken by MPs, their spouses and attendants in 2019 accounted for actual travel or journeys completed. The rest are cases of multiple bookings that were not utilised except for the purpose of claiming free travel. A detailed assessment ordered by vice president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has resulted in shocking revelations. A former member of the upper house made 63 bookings — nearly 4 bookings every day for 23 days in January, 2019 totalling a whopping Rs 1.69 lakh — which was in contrast to only 7 train journeys he actually undertook, the fare for which was merely Rs 22,085. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat, however, was billed an extra amount of Rs 1.47 lakh for the MP’s tickets that he neither cancelled nor used. Similarly, a sitting member’s claim amounted to only 15% of the bills raised. The audit conducted by officials of the Upper House has led the Rajya Sabha secretariat to issue an unprecedented warning to MPs that they will be made to pay for train tickets that they book, but do not utilise or cancel. The Rajya Sabha secretary general issued the directions on June 10 after the scale of the alleged misuse was revealed. The move, a part of Rajya Sabha’s measures to rein in wasteful expenditure and resultant inconvenience to public, comes into effect immediately. The Lok Sabha secretariat, sources said, has been served an even bigger bill of Rs 23.4 crore for travel undertaken by MPs in 2019. To monitor expenses better, the railways is likely to operationalise a change in software for train bookings by MPs of both Houses. As part of their allowances, MPs are entitled to one free, non-transferable train journey in first class, air-conditioned or executive class for themselves, free travel by any railway with their spouse,, and one free air-conditioned, two-tier class railway pass for one person to accompany the member when he or she travels by rail. A detailed assessment ordered by vice president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has resulted in shocking revelations. Only 15% of a bill of Rs 7.8 crore raised by the Indian Railways to pay for travel by MPs, accounted for actual travel or journeys completed. Watch Rajya Sabha MPs ‘misusing’ funds to book bulk train tickets for free||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mps-force-rs-to-shell-out-6-5cr-for-trains-not-taken/articleshow/76350316.cms||Swati Mathur
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||State govt offers to replace farmers as borrowers of banks||Nagpur: State government that stopped implementation of Jyotiba Phule farm loan wavier scheme midway due to financial crunch that followed Covid outbreak, now wants banks to clear the remaining dues by passing a book entry and show the amount as receivable from the state government instead. Such amount will be treated as loans by the bank to the Maharashtra government for tiding over paucity of funds it is facing. This means the banks will clear the farmers’ loans that were due in their books and the state will replace the farmer as the borrower. This will qualify such farmers for getting fresh crop loans. In turn, the state government has offered to provide a deed of declaration that the dues will be cleared with interest before September 30. In case of failure, the banks can stake their claim through legal process. The interest will be calculated from April 1. Farmers need short term crop loans every season to meet sowing expenses. A new loan is not granted until the earlier dues are cleared. Loans of as many as 11 lakh farmers who were covered under the waiver could not be paid by the state due to financial crunch. The state has directed cooperative banks not to consider such accounts as NPAs and grant fresh loans. This cannot be done for the commercial banks as they are governed by RBI and are not under the state government. It is expected that now the commercial banks will give fresh loans to such farmers on the basis of the deed of undertaking, a source said. A draft deed of undertaking has been submitted to the state level banker committee (SLBC) through which it is expected to reach to the banks. In the state the SLBC is headed by Bank of Maharashtra. The state has offered to provide the undertaking to only those banks that would agree to provide fresh loans to the farmers covered under waiver scheme. The draft deed says state will pay the interest from April 1 to September 30 or the actual date of payment. One of the clauses also mentions the repayment will be done before September 30. (In a Nutshell) The MVA government had come up with a waiver scheme covering farm loans upto Rs 2 lakh. Around 32 lakh farmers were covered under the scheme Govt could clear dues of only 19 lakh The rest were left out as state ran out of funds following Covid outbreak Now it offers banks an undertaking to repay the loans before September 30 Against the undertaking, banks are expected to grant fresh loans to farmers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-govt-offers-to-replace-farmers-as-borrowers-of-banks/articleshow/76348423.cms||Shishir Arya
June 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Patients at Lok Nayak hospital complain of neglect||NEW DELHI: Nitin Bhardwaj, a resident of Burari in north-east Delhi, got his father admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital for Covid-19 treatment three days ago. The 30-year-old alleges that no nurse or doctor visited him throughout the day, and for food his father was dependent on what they would get him from home.  "I could not let him stay like this. So I fought with the hospital to get him discharged, and last night (Thursday), we brought him home," Bhardwaj told TOI .  He is not alone. Families of many patients admitted to the hospital - which is the largest Covid facility run by the Delhi government - have similar stories. The staff is clearly overwhelmed, and scared too, it seems. Besides neglect, there is a clear lack of communication with the families of the patients which causes anxiety. 41% beds filled at LNJP, but it has its hands fullA video released by a news channel recently showed patients lying in absolute neglect with bodies in a ward of the hospital. A senior doctor from the hospital, who did not want to be quoted, said the contents of the video aired by India TV looked authentic. “There is nothing to justify such instances. It’s shameful,” said the doctor. Bhardwaj’s father, who is 59 years old, is a central government employee. He is currently stable and, family members said, they are giving him antibiotics, hydroxychloroquine and anti-viral and antipyretic drugs as prescribed by a doctor. “We have also found out about a company that provides oxygen cylinders on rent. If needed, we will give him that too at home but we will never go back to the hospital,” said Bhardwaj. Col Rajesh Kumar’s brother-in-law, Kunj Bihari Sharma, was admitted to the hospital for Covid-19 treatment on June 3. “He was 60 but a very fit man. Every year, he would go to Haridwar from Delhi on foot for the Kanwar Yatra but Covid-19 didn’t spare him. My brother in-law developed fever and cough on May 26 and about a week later he complained about breathing difficulty. That’s when we rushed him to Lok Nayak,” said Col Kumar. He passed away on June 10. Throughout his stay in the hospital, Sharma had kept complaining about the facilities and people dying around him. “We thought he was being anxious. Now we know he was right,” said Kumar. Niggling doubts about whether he could have been saved haunt such families. Elderly patients and those with co-morbidities face a heightened risk but their alleged neglect and the inordinate delay in removing bodies from the wards heighten their trauma, particularly when there are no attendants. “The bodies are packed and shifted to the mortuary by nursing orderlies under the instruction of the sister incharge. We don’t have enough orderlies,” said a doctor who wished to remain anonymous. "In the absence of attendants, these orderlies have to take the patients to the washroom, shift them and sometimes even give them medicines while they are wearing PPE suits. That isn’t easy and it takes longer than required." The doctor added that six to eight people are dying every day at the hospital. The hospital has 2,000 Covid-19 beds. Of these, only 826 (41%) were occupied on Friday. "If this is the situation, I wonder what will happen if more people fall sick and are rushed here. Not everyone can afford private facilities and even they have limited capacity," said one of the doctors. One of the key requirements in Covid-19 management is oxygen support. This is because the novel coronavirus impairs lung function, and if mechanical ventilation is not given in time, lack of oxygen can lead to further damage to other organs and tissues. Lok Nayak has centralised oxygen supply in the new medical block and the casualty block. The two blocks house around 400 patients. But in many other wards which have been turned into Covid-19 facilities, oxygen support is provided by cylinders. “In case of cylinders, it is difficult to control the oxygen flow. Also, if a cylinder is exhausted, replacing it takes time because currently there is a manpower shortage and the orderlies who have to get them take time to wear their PPE,” said a doctor who wished to remain anonymous. "The states were required to augment their capacity during the lockdown. That clearly hasn’t happened,” say experts. On May 15, the Resident Doctors Association of Maulana Azad Medical College — which is associated with Lok Nayak — had written to the hospital administration, highlighting the lack of trained nursing orderlies and support staff to help with work usually performed by attendants. "Since attendants are prohibited in the wards, patient care is hampered due to the difficulty in managing basic housekeeping services,” the RDA wrote. This had proved to be prophetic. Dr Parv Mittal, president of the RDA, said doctors on ground zero are putting in their maximum effort to ensure that every Covid-19 patient gets the best possible treatment, in the process even getting infected themselves. “Shortage of nursing orderlies and housekeeping staff is a major underlying cause of dissatisfaction amongst the patients and relatives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-patients-at-lok-nayak-complain-of-neglect/articleshow/76350326.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers’ outfit flouts law again, brings HT soyabean seeds||Nagpur: As members of farmers’ outfit Shetkari Sanghathana once again openly flouted the law by sowing genetically modified herbicide tolerant (HT) seeds, the organization has claimed that this year, apart from cotton, even the HT soyabean seeds were sown by its members. The HT cotton seeds were put up for trials by biotech major Mahyco-Monsanto, which eventually withdrew due to commercial reasons. The seeds are expected to have spread from trial farms, reaching to such an extent that a whole grey market exists now. However, HT soyabean was never introduced in India even for trials. The seed is available globally though. Now, as the seed was used by Shetkari Sangathana, it shows that even this variety is available in the country through illegal means. The outfit had started a campaign what it calls to be kisan satyagrahaha or civil disobedience movement in June last year. At that time, illegal HT cotton seeds were sown in different parts of the state. It started from Akola in Vidarbha. Their demand is that the seeds should be allowed to be used in the country so that farmers can have access to latest technology. The objective behind openly showing the seeds was to raise their demand on legalizing the variety and showing that it has gained wide acceptance among farmers. On Friday, a similar stance was taken once again. Anil Ghanawat, the state president, said the sowing took place in around 500 villages across the state and over 10 to 15 farmers took part in each village. The soyabean seeds were sown by 50 farmers in Latur with reports of some farmers doing it in Nanded district also. Ghanawat accepted that the soyabean seeds were available even as HT soyabean was not even taken up for trails anywhere in India. “The seeds are easily available from Gujarat and are also learnt to have spread in Madhya Pradesh,” he told TOI. Ghanawat claimed no action was taken against any of its members for sowing HT seeds. Last year, 12 persons were booked. A later court order directs that no forceful action should be taken against the farmers in such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-outfit-flouts-law-again-brings-ht-soyabean-seeds/articleshow/76348441.cms||Shishir Arya
June 13, 2020||Nagpur||Auto drivers in HC, seek Rs 5k/month aid||Nagpur: “On the brink of starvation due to Covid-19 lockdown”, aggrieved autorickshaw drivers from Vidarbha approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court seeking financial aid of Rs5,000 per month from the government since March 23 when the restrictions came into force. According to them, over one lakh people in the profession and dependent family members, who are about five lakh in numbers, are in acute distress due to loss of earning which has led to default on loan instalments, house rent, electricity and water charges. While adjourning the hearing till June 26, a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar on Friday directed government pleader Sumant Deopujari to inform whether the Maharashtra government had any policy in this regard. The HC’s poser came after petitioner’s counsel Ravi Sanyal informed that states like Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have already transferred cash into auto drivers’ accounts. He said discussions in this regard had taken place in Maharashtra as well after drivers approached the government with their grievances. Petitioner Vidarbha Auto-Rickshaw Chalak Federation through president Vilas Bhalekar contended that after imposition of lockdown due to global pandemic, the drivers stopped plying their autos, which was their only source of income. Though the federation represents 40,000 drivers in the region, there are over 15 lakh counterparts across the state who met the same fate, the petitioner said. Praying for directives to the respondents to immediately make funds available for them under ‘Maharashtra Contingency Funds Act, 2005’, the petitioner said auto drivers mostly come from the unorganized class and, therefore, there is no welfare board for them like for street vendors, building and construction workers and Mathadi labourers. According to the petitioner, the federation members suffered serious issues of livelihood after the lockdown and all their savings got exhausted, forcing them to seek help from the government. “With majority of them not holding ration cards, even free ration was not available. If some foodgrains were received, there was no money to buy cylinder or fuel to cook food. Those living in rented places and those who had taken loans are suffering most,” the petitioners said. Demanding directives to banks against taking any coercive action, the petitioner contended that most of them couldn’t even pay the electricity and water bills and house tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/auto-drivers-in-hc-seek-rs-5k/month-aid/articleshow/76348460.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Day after activists claim rates inflated, civic body scraps body bag tenders||MUMBAI: Following allegations on social media of purchase of body bags for Covid-19 victims at inflated rates, the BMC cancelled tenders for the procurement of an additional 3,000 pieces. So far 2,200 body bags had been bought at a rate of Rs 6,719 per bag, said the BMC. A BMC statement read: "An expression of interest was invited and during technical scrutiny it was found that only one company is eligible. Therefore, to ensure there is competitive bidding it has been decided to cancel the tender." On why the bags were so costly, the BMC said it needed good quality bags. On Thursday, activist Anjali Damania tweeted that the BMC had awarded the contract for body bags to a company with casting of metals as its main business. "This was for a cost of Rs 6,719 per bag. When I had enquired about the rate of the same a few days ago as we were planning to supply body bags to hospitals - via our trust 'Voice of Indian Taxpayers' - we were informed that the actual cost of a body bag varies from Rs 250 to Rs 1,200," she said. Vivekanand Gupta, secretary, BJP city unit, said it was he who had exposed the inflated rates, and the BMC was forced to cancel the tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-day-after-activists-claim-rates-inflated-civic-body-scraps-body-bag-tenders/articleshow/76350328.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Navi-mumbai||IMD issues orange alert for Mumbai, Thane; heavy rains likely on Sunday||MUMBAI: For yet another day, Mumbai and adjoining areas like Thane and parts of Navi Mumbai witnessed significant pre-monsoon showers accompanied by lightning in some areas on Friday.  The south west monsoon was seen advancing to a few more parts of the state and IMD officials said it is expected to cover the entire state in the next 48 hours. The IMD has issued a yellow alert for Saturday and the city as well as Thane can expect heavy rains at isolated places. An orange alert has been issued for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for June 14 indicating heavy to very heavy rain at a few places.  Meanwhile, Thane district has witnessed nearly five times more rain in the first 12 days of June compared to last year, bringing relief from the intense heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-imd-issues-orange-alert-heavy-rains-likely-on-sunday/articleshow/76350357.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Mumbai||IMD issues orange alert for Mumbai, Thane; heavy rains likely on Sunday||MUMBAI: For yet another day, Mumbai and adjoining areas like Thane and parts of Navi Mumbai witnessed significant pre-monsoon showers accompanied by lightning in some areas on Friday.  The south west monsoon was seen advancing to a few more parts of the state and IMD officials said it is expected to cover the entire state in the next 48 hours. The IMD has issued a yellow alert for Saturday and the city as well as Thane can expect heavy rains at isolated places. An orange alert has been issued for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for June 14 indicating heavy to very heavy rain at a few places.  Meanwhile, Thane district has witnessed nearly five times more rain in the first 12 days of June compared to last year, bringing relief from the intense heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-imd-issues-orange-alert-heavy-rains-likely-on-sunday/articleshow/76350329.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Thane||IMD issues orange alert for Mumbai, Thane; heavy rains likely on Sunday||MUMBAI: For yet another day, Mumbai and adjoining areas like Thane and parts of Navi Mumbai witnessed significant pre-monsoon showers accompanied by lightning in some areas on Friday.  The south west monsoon was seen advancing to a few more parts of the state and IMD officials said it is expected to cover the entire state in the next 48 hours. The IMD has issued a yellow alert for Saturday and the city as well as Thane can expect heavy rains at isolated places. An orange alert has been issued for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for June 14 indicating heavy to very heavy rain at a few places.  Meanwhile, Thane district has witnessed nearly five times more rain in the first 12 days of June compared to last year, bringing relief from the intense heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-imd-issues-orange-alert-heavy-rains-likely-on-sunday/articleshow/76350356.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, non-essential shops shut on Sundays||CHANDIGARH: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Friday approved detailed weekend and holiday restriction guidelines under which inter-district movement will be barred except for e-pass holders, and only shops dealing with essential commodities and services will be allowed to operate on all days of the week. Under the new guidelines, shops dealing with essential commodities and services will remain open on all days till 7 pm, restaurants (for take home/home delivery only) and liquor shops will also continue to be open till 8pm on all days. However, other shops will remain closed on Sundays, while on Saturdays they can open till 5 pm, with the district authorities directed to ensure strict compliance of these timings. The district magistrates may choose, in consultation with the respective market associations, to order closure of the non-essential shops on any other day of the week also, especially in the high-risk areas where the cases are high. E-pass for inter-dist movementInter-district movement will be allowed with e-passes issued only for essential work, but no pass shall be required for such travel in case of medical emergency. The e-passes will also be required for marriage functions and will be issued only for 50 specific persons. During review meeting on Thursday, Amarinder said the Punjab government’s focus was on saving the lives of Punjabis, even if it meant taking tough measures, particularly in the light of the grave projections of the pandemic peaking over the next two months. The guidelines issued on Friday are in addition to those notified earlier by the state government for Lockdown 5.0 / Unlock 1.0 and will remain in force on weekends and gazette holidays till further orders. Expressing grave concern over the spiraling Covid cases in the country, particularly Delhi, Amarinder once again appealed to the people of Punjab to strictly adhere to the social distancing norms and mandatory wearing of masks. The situation demanded stringent compliance with all the restrictions. Though the situation in the state was relatively in control, the Punjab government was not ready to take any chances, given the escalating trend of the pandemic, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-punjab-non-essential-shops-shut-on-sundays/articleshow/76350331.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sets targets for work to jobless||CHANDIGARH: With the sudden stoppage of economic activities due to Covid curbs rendering a large number of people jobless, the Punjab government has fixed targets for districts for registering, counselling and training the jobless to help them find work and rev up the industria activity engine in the state. These targets are to be achieved in the next 45 days (June 11 to July 25). If data in the recent report of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) is to be believed, the unemployment rate in the state in May was 33.6%. All the district's employment bureaus have been given a target of registering 6,000 labourers each and ensuring jobs for them. In case of semi-skilled and skilled job-seekers, the target is 4,500. In a communication dated June 10, all the district heads have also been asked to register 1,500 individuals for self-employment and ensure loan disbursals to all those found eligible. The state has also set targets for counselling and training of job-seekers, with each bureau being asked to counsel groups of the size of 20 applicants for at least one hour. ‘Workforce shortfall hurting industry’They have also been asked to ensure one-onone counselling for at least 20 minutes for 150 individuals in the next 45 days. There were 2.59 lakh registered industrial units in Punjab having 20.29 lakh employees before the restrictions were imposed. After commencement of Unlock 1.0, economic activities have started picking pace in the state with over 2.30 lakh units resuming operations with an estimated workforce of about 15 lakh. With about 30,000 registered industrial units yet to resume operations, about 5 lakh industrial workers, including migrants and local residents, are estimated to be out of work. Apart from unemployment, industrial units that have resumed operations in Punjab are complaining of shortage of labour caused by migrants returning back to their home states due to lack of work opportunities during the lockdown period. To assist the industry in overcoming shortage of manpower, special attention is being given to help maximum people find jobs in these units. An economist at Chandigarh-based Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Prof Ranjit Singh Ghuman, appreciated the steps being taken by the Punjab government to help jobless people find work. He, however, pointed out that these steps will not be sufficient to address the large scale problem of unemployment. As per the economic survey released earlier this year, the employment share of industry in Punjab stands at 33.1% while 26% of the workforce is employed in agriculture and allied activities. Expressing concern over shortage of labour, Rahul Ahuja, chairman of the Confederation of Industry, Punjab maintained that nonavailability of required number of workforce is hurting the industry and will hurt the government in the long run as it will result in lower GST collection. Punjab secretary, employment generation and training, Rahul Tiwari maintained that targets have been set keeping in mind the prevailing scenario of unemployment. Performance of all districts will be closely monitored so that set targets are achieved and maximum people get work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-sets-targets-for-work-to-jobless/articleshow/76350335.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 13, 2020||World||Nepal parliament set to clear new map today||NEW DELHI: The K P Oli government’s attempts to legitimise Nepal’s new map, which includes parts of India’s Pithoragarh district, is likely to get the final seal of approval from Parliament on Saturday in what is certain to severely strain bilateral ties. The constitution amendment bill for revising the map in Nepal’s national emblem will be put to vote on Saturday. The outcome though seems to be a foregone conclusion as all major parties have said they will vote in favour of the amendment. Nepal has hurriedly gone about the process of seeking the approval of Parliament despite attempts by India to reach out in the past few days. India had on Thursday reminded Kathmandu that it had ensured uninterrupted supplies of essentials to Nepal even in the middle of the lockdown. However, according to Indian government sources, Nepal’s “sledgehammer tactics” on a sensitive border issue preclude any meaningful or productive engagement between the two countries on the Kalapani issue despite Nepal continuing to publicly insist on talks. Nepal justifies its action saying it has been calling for talks on the issue since November last year. As Oli has said, the provocation for Nepal’s decision to issue a new map was India’s inauguration of a road to the Lipulekh Pass, which is among the areas Nepal has shown as its own. Nepal also claims Kalapani area and Limpiyadhura which it describes as where the Kali river, that acts as Nepal's western border, originates. India has also found it difficult to contend with some of the statements made by Oli and foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali on the boundary issue. Even while talking about holding talks with New Delhi, Oli accused India of creating “an artificial Kali river” and encroaching "Nepalese territory through deploying the army” at Kalapani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/nepal-parliament-set-to-clear-new-map-today/articleshow/76350333.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC asks Centre to review SOP for malls, shrines||BENGALURU: The central government must relook at clauses pertaining to religious places, malls and restaurants in its standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the Unlock 1.0 phase, the Karnataka high court said on Friday. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka noted that clauses 4(26) on religious places, 4(30) on malls and 4(35) on restaurants suggested that even suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients can be given entry to the premises. As shrines, malls and restaurants have reopened, the issue needs to be urgently considered, the bench added. The bench pointed out that while a cap has been placed on the attendance at weddings and funerals, there are no such restrictions for places of worship. It directed the state government to come up with measures to make SOPs legally enforceable. “If SOPs for religion/worship places are not properly enforced, then congregation in such places may lead to spread of Covid-19,” the court observed. It adjourned the hearing on a PIL filed by Letzkit, a Bengaluru-based organisation, which has sought stricter enforcement of new health-safety guidelines. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that social-distancing norms went for a toss at the funeral of a well-known personality recently. The court then permitted him to file a memo with the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-hc-asks-centre-to-review-sop-for-malls-shrines/articleshow/76350260.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Leading hotels adapt to offer contactless luxury experience in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Top hotels in the city have switched to contactless hospitality with the help of technology, tweaking the luxury experience to comply with the new normal shaped by heightened health concerns. Many hotels and restaurants resumed full service on June 8 as Bengaluru moved out of lockdown and entered Unlock 1.0 phase. While first-class service, comfort and pampering remain at the core of their business model, a few subtle touches — a hovering personal attendant or valet facilities, for instance — may go for some time. The star properties have adopted “enriched technology”, zero contact and Z-level health-safety precautions at every step of the customer experience. The steps include touch-free registration on arrival, QR-code-based menus, small portions for individuals and packed cutlery. Cleanliness standards, which have always been a top priority for luxury brands, will be raised further with frequent sanitisation. At some places, the food and beverage experience centres around self-service to minimise contact between guests and staff. Samrat Kumar, a techie who recently visited a star hotel, said he noticed marked changes. “But I believe it’s for the best, given the Covid situation. We were reminded to put on our masks, maintain distance and generally be careful in our conduct. Hospitality is also about keeping guests safe,” he said. ITC properties Gardenia, Windsor and WelcomHotel have restarted operations under a new programme called ‘WeAssure’. Amaan R Kidwai, general manager at ITC Gardenia, told TOI that the operations under the ‘Responsible Luxury’ tag focused on health safety. “We have re-engineered our guest experiences with zero or minimal associate engagement and remodelled the hotel layout to support safe distancing,” Kidwai said, pointing to a huge sofa with middle seats blocked and floor markers for social distancing. Brochures and menus have been removed from the 292 rooms here, replaced by iPads and a QR-code ordering system. Most luxury brands have also introduced changes behind the scenes. For instance, the laundry department at ITC Gardenia has dressed staff in colours as per their roles. “Soiled laundry will be handled by staff wearing red T-shirts, while clean clothes will be handled by those in green T-shirts. This will help keep the two teams separated,” Kidwai said. Restaurants have reduced the number of seats and put up roll-away partitions. Courtyard by Marriott has started contactless dining, said its general manager, Pranay Verdia. “Normal buffet system has been replaced with a ‘buffet on table’ concept, where food will be prepared in single portions at the live kitchen. There will be digital menus and payments will be accepted through QR codes,” Verdia added. One key addition at some hotels is a dedicated hygiene manager, who has been given special training on health-safety standards and sanitisation in the wake of the pandemic. The Leela Palaces, Hotels and Resorts ensures cleanliness and sanitisation is done under the supervision of a hygiene manager. “Technology will be used to ensure the highest standards of cleanliness across hotels. High-pressure dry steam cleaners and electrostatic sprayers are being used to clean rooms, restaurants and meeting halls,” said Anuraag Bhatnagar, chief operating officer, The Leela Palaces, Hotels and Resorts. Novotel and ibis Bengaluru Outer Ring Road have also taken a host of safety measures to welcome back guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-top-hotels-adapt-to-offer-contactless-luxury/articleshow/76350248.cms||Farheen Hussain
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||BMTC to fine staff Rs 500 for not wearing mask||BENGALURU: Two days after a conductor tested positive for coronavirus, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) said on Friday it would fine employees who don’t wear a mask on duty. The amount has been set at Rs 500. “All bus drivers and conductors have been provided with masks, gloves and sanitisers, but there have been complaints that many don’t use them. This puts both employees and passengers at risk. We will book cases against such staffers,” said a senior BMTC official. The 43-year-old conductor who tested positive is attached to KR Puram bus depot. He is the first BMTC employee to be diagnosed with Covid-19. The conductor reportedly worked till June 5 on the Hebbal-Silk Board and Shivajinagar-Hoodi bus routes. Currently, BMTC runs around 4,800 buses out of its fleet of 6,100, recording a daily ridership of around 10 lakh. Many BMTC employees are worried about their health as they deal with hundreds of people every day. BMTC officials said they were taking precautions to safeguard employees and passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmtc-to-fine-staff-rs-500-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/76350255.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Reform to support industries clears scrutiny||BENGALURU: A scrutiny committee led by the state law department has cleared a proposal for a long-pending industrial reform. It favours an amendment to the Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Act, 2002, which will exempt companies from obtaining clearances under multiple state laws, including trade licence and building-plan approval, for setting up a unit. The committee gave the go-ahead for the amendment proposal on Thursday, the day chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet announced reforms in land laws. “The scrutiny committee met yesterday (Thursday) and now, the decks have been cleared for the amendment proposal to be placed before the cabinet. We will spell out more details once the cabinet clears the file from the industries department,” said law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy, who headed the committee. TOI was the first to report that the state government is considering an amendment to the said act on June 5. Thursday’s development moves the proposal closer to an actual amendment. “During the scrutiny, some minor changes were made to the plan by our department. We will most likely issue an ordinance soon, after the cabinet clearance, and later introduce a bill in the assembly and council. This is to expedite the amendment and encourage industries so as to fuel economic recovery,” said industries minister Jagadish Shettar. The Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Act requires companies to complete several requirements and procedures listed under various state laws. “Post-amendment, industries, both SMEs and big manufacturers, will not need these clearances to start the project, although they would have applied for them. They will have to get them only after three years or at the time of commencing operations, whichever is earlier,” Shettar said, adding that the companies must give an undertaking that they would follow all rules. The government, he said, will also introduce administrative reforms to ensure approvals are granted quickly, so industries can start operations without delays. A senior official of the industries department said that pollution clearance would not be under the new bill’s ambit. “For now, exemptions will be from other state laws; pollution clearance is not being touched,” the officials said. Further, as advised by the law department, the amendment will hike the penalties for violating norms from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh for first time offenders. “Yes, it will be Rs 1 lakh for the first time and Rs 2 lakh for the second offence,” Shettar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-reform-to-support-industries-clears-scrutiny/articleshow/76350233.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 13, 2020||Shimla||Illicit liquor ring busted near HP-Punjab border||PATIALA: An illicit liquor racket being run near the Punjab-Himachal Pradesh border was busted on Friday night following a 10-hour joint operation by Ropar cops and the Himachal Pradesh police, leading to the recovery of 2,00,000 kg illicit brew and the arrest of 5 persons. Police claimed that the illicit liquor haul seized from HP villages of Majri and Dabt, comprising 2 lakh kg of lahan (fermented material for distilling liquor) and 7 working stills, was the biggest so far. Efforts on to trace links of accused in Pb, HP: SSPThe operation started in the forest area at around 3 am on Friday morning and continued till 1 pm. The smugglers were carrying out the illicit liquor trade here as the dense forest area and seasonal rivulets provided them cover. According to Ropar SSP Swapan Sharma, as many as 22 police teams comprising seven police personnel each raided the forests around Majri and Dabt after having cordoned off the entire area around the villages located 2 km from the Punjab border. The SSP said investigations are on to trace further links of the accused across Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. According to Sharma, the villages are known for liquor smuggling and in the last 5 years, HP cops have registered over 26 cases in the area while the Punjab Police have filed 38 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/illicit-liquor-ring-busted-near-hp-punjab-border/articleshow/76350365.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Illicit liquor ring busted near HP-Punjab border||PATIALA: An illicit liquor racket being run near the Punjab-Himachal Pradesh border was busted on Friday night following a 10-hour joint operation by Ropar cops and the Himachal Pradesh police, leading to the recovery of 2,00,000 kg illicit brew and the arrest of 5 persons. Police claimed that the illicit liquor haul seized from HP villages of Majri and Dabt, comprising 2 lakh kg of lahan (fermented material for distilling liquor) and 7 working stills, was the biggest so far. Efforts on to trace links of accused in Pb, HP: SSPThe operation started in the forest area at around 3 am on Friday morning and continued till 1 pm. The smugglers were carrying out the illicit liquor trade here as the dense forest area and seasonal rivulets provided them cover. According to Ropar SSP Swapan Sharma, as many as 22 police teams comprising seven police personnel each raided the forests around Majri and Dabt after having cordoned off the entire area around the villages located 2 km from the Punjab border. The SSP said investigations are on to trace further links of the accused across Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. According to Sharma, the villages are known for liquor smuggling and in the last 5 years, HP cops have registered over 26 cases in the area while the Punjab Police have filed 38 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/illicit-liquor-ring-busted-near-hp-punjab-border/articleshow/76350355.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 13, 2020||Delhi||NHRC satisfied with LNJP hospital; will plug gaps: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: Reacting to the Supreme Court's observations, the Delhi government said in a statement on Friday that the Covid-19 pandemic was an "extraordinary" situation and it was trying its best to set up better infrastructure and provide quality healthcare to all patients.  The government said it accepted the SC's observations with the "utmost respect" and "absolute sincerity" and was prepared to plug any gaps brought to its notice. However, it pointed out that the NHRC has expressed satisfaction with the facilities at LNJP. The apex court had taken suo motu cognisance of reports of improper handling of Covid-19 patients and undignified disposal of bodies, describing the situation in Delhi as "horrendous, horrific and pathetic". "The Honorable Supreme Court is the apex court of India and we accept their observations with the utmost respect and with absolute sincerity," said the statement. "The Delhi government is determined to provide healthcare for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each Covid-19 patient. But, if there are any gaps that still remain and are brought to our notice, we will act on them sincerely and immediately," it added. The government drew attention to the strenuous efforts being made by the frontline staff. "The frontline workers in our hospitals - our doctors and nursing staff - are working day and night to serve the people. Many doctors have not visited their homes in the past two months because of their hospital duty," the statement said.  Referring to the reports of mismanagement at Lok Nayak, the government said around 2,000 beds were available there. "Many critical patients from the central government and private hospitals in Delhi are being referred to LNJP for better medication. So far, over 2100 patients from LNJP hospital have successfully recovered from Covid-19 infection and returned to their homes," the statement said. It pointed out that an NHRC team had visited the hospital on Thursday and expressed satisfaction after scrutinising the facilities. "We will appraise the Honorable Supreme Court about this as well," it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nhrc-satisfied-with-lnjp-hospital-will-plug-gaps-delhi-government/articleshow/76350362.cms||---
June 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Bus service to Punjab, Haryana stopped till June 30||CHANDIGARH: A spike in Covid-19 cases has forced the UT administration to stop inter-state bus service to Punjab and Haryana from Saturday till June 30. Buses of other state transport undertakings will also not be allowed to operate in Chandigarh, according to the decision. Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) had resumed its long route bus service on nine routes to Punjab and seven routes to Haryana on June 10 after over two-and-a half months. The buses were running from ISBT, Sector 43, and operated with 50% occupancy keeping in view social distancing norms. The administration was waiting for consent from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and other states. In a review meeting on Friday, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore expressed concern about the cases and said certain restrictions should be imposed and special care taken to prevent infection from travellers coming from outside. A UT committee noted that most of the new cases are being detected in people coming from outside Chandigarh or their immediate contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bus-service-to-punjab-haryana-stopped-till-june-30/articleshow/76350374.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
