June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kumortuli beats lockdown blues, rises with hope post Amphan||Usually, the lanes and bylanes of Kumartuli hum with a buzz of activity during this time of the year, as several skilled artisans get busy giving shapes to idols of Goddess Durga. But this year, the popular idol makers’ hub in north Kolkata wears a deserted look. These clay artists are yet to come to terms with the unprecedented loss caused by Cyclone Amphan and the ongoing pandemic. The idols that these artisans wanted to sell during Annapurna Puja, Basanti Puja and Poila Baishak had to be discarded. Now, they have no option but to pin all their hopes on Durga Puja orders. Babu Pal, secretary of Kumartuli Mrit Shilpa Sanskiriti Samity, rued, “The artisans of Kumartuli are in a bad shape with no signs of improvement in business. About 3, 500 people work here, but hardly 50 people are working this year. They are unable to commute due to transport issues. If the state authorities don’t stand by us, we will die of hunger. We have been badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic and Amphan. Together, we have incurred a loss of about one and a half crore if not more. Artists are facing a huge problem in procuring soil from Uluberia. This soil is used with straws on the bamboo frame to give shape to the structure. So now, one has to depend on soil sourced from Diamond Harbour. But that soil is not good enough and has a tendency to crack. Earlier, soil used to cost us around `12,000 per vehicle, but now they are charging `15,000 for it. Then there are specialised labourers from Bihar and Jharkhand who prepare the mud and soil into a smooth paste, before a sculptor applies it on a straw model of the goddess. But these labourers got stuck in their hometown and we don’t know who should we seek help from. Previously, 24 feet bamboos used to cost around `150. Now, we got them `180. This year we made it clear that there will be no increase in the daily wage of labourers.” When quizzed, if there will be Ma Durga idols on corona, Pal said, “I don’t think people would like to see the goddess wearing a mask. This is not something we should celebrate. Also, I assume, there will be hardly any theme puja this year. People are happy with ek chaaler thakur.” So far, these artisans have got not more than five local bookings. “We have got orders from Santosh Square, Pally Mongol Unnoyon Samity in Belur, Phoolbagan Durga Committee and some others. Also, the budget is all on the lower side,” informed Pal. But despite all odds, these artisans are hopeful that things will look up after Rath Yatra, which is on June 23. Sujit Pal, another artist from Kumartuli, said, “Currently, I am busy making a Durga and Kali idol, which will be shipped to Glasgow. An idol has already gone to Melbourne. Locally, I got an inquiry from Phoolbagan Sasthitola Mandir and they will come to pay an advance. If I get orders on the Rath day, even on a low budget, I will have to send a transport to get my labourers. However, the advance money has to be 40%, as I made a huge loss during Annapurna and Basanti Puja due to the lockdown.” Kaushik Ghosh, who only takes foreign orders, said, “I have already sent an idol to Melbourne. The other one is ready, which will be shipped to Germany soon. Besides, one idol will be sent to Canada, one to Dubai and one to Singapore. We got three orders from the US as well. We have to figure out how to ship them. The order from Italy got cancelled due to the pandemic. I didn’t face much problem with labourers, as I started work in November. I work with fibre, so the procurement of soil and mud are also not an issue for me.” Sankar Pal, who works in a shop that sells ornaments (thakurer saaj) for idols, said, “Every year we send craft materials to other states, but things have gone haywire this year. How can we make ornaments without the help of my labourers?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kumortuli-beats-lockdown-blues-rises-with-hope-post-amphan/articleshow/76364523.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Maha govt slashes charges for Covid-19 tests by private labs||MUMBAI: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that the government has reduced the rates of the Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,200. Talking to PTI, Tope said the lowering of rates for the tests would provide a relief to the people. "Rs 2,200 will be charged for collecting the swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals, while it would cost Rs 2,800 for collection of swab from home. Earlier, the charges were Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,200 respectively," he said. The revised rates are the maximum these labs can charge. District collectors can negotiate with private labs to reduce the rates further, Tope said. "If the private labs charge more than the prescribed upper limit, legal action would be taken against them," he said, claiming that the new rates will be the lowest in the country. The minister said that at present, there are 91 labs in the state for COVID-19 testing and about four to five are in the pipeline. According to him, the government had last week formed a four-member committee to fix the rates of COVID-19 tests conducted by authorised private laboratories in the state. State Health Assurance Society CEO Sudhakar Shinde headed the committee, which had joint director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research Ajay Chandanwale and Grant Government Medical College and Hospital professor Amita Joshi as its members and Health Services director as member secretary. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed 44 government and 36 private laboratories in the state to carry out coronavirus tests. While the tests are free at the government-run laboratories, the ICMR had fixed charges at private labs at Rs 4,500. The committee was formed as the ICMR had conveyed to negotiate with private labs and revise the rates. The kits required for conducting the tests were being imported earlier when the charges of tests at private laboratories were fixed by the ICMR. However, as the kits are being manufactured in the country itself, the ICMR had conveyed to hold talks with the private laboratories and fix the test rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-slashes-charges-for-covid-19-tests-by-private-labs/articleshow/76364545.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Covid deaths cross 9,000 as cases on Saturday hit 12,000||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 death toll crossed 9,000 on Saturday with fatalities showing a steady rise in the past few days, even as new infections reported from across the country touched another new high. As many as 12,368 fresh cases were reported, the first time that the single-day count has crossed 12,000. Saturday’s tally of new cases was the sixth single-day peak in the past eight days. India’s Covid-19 caseload has risen to over 3.21 lakh, just a day after crossing the 3 lakh milestone. With 310 fatalities reported on Saturday, the country’s death toll rose to 9,195 — the ninth highest number of deaths from the virus in the world. Since India has the world’s fourth largest Covid-19 caseload, the mortality rate is quite low compared to most of the worst-hit nations. However, deaths from the coronavirus have seen an uptick in the past 10 days, when 312 people on average have succumbed to the infection every day. That’s more than double the average of 137 daily deaths seen during the month of May. The last 10 days have accounted for more than a third of all deaths from the virus since the first one on March 12. The surge is also reflected in India’s case fatality rate (the percentage of patients dying from the disease). The CFR, which had been gradually but consistently dropping since May 10, has shown a slight increase since June 12, rising from 2.8% to 2.9%. The record spike in cases on Saturday was again led by 3,427 new infections reported from Maharashtra, with Mumbai reporting 1,380 cases. With 113 deaths on Saturday, a slight drop from the toll in the past three days, the state has recorded 3,830 deaths in all. Its CFR remains significantly higher than the national average at 3.66%. Delhi remained a major source of worry for health authorities, as the city reported another record 2,134 new infections, the second straight day when the count has crossed 2,000. With this, the total tally of Covid-19 in Delhi has reached 38,958, third highest in the country after Maharashtra (1,04568) and Tamil Nadu (42,687). In terms of active cases, Delhi is second only to Maharashtra. Besides Delhi, Telangana (253 new cases), Andhra Pradesh (222), Odisha (225), Ladakh (198) and Sikkim (33) were among the states that reported their single-day highest count of cases. Infections also continued to surge in Tamil Nadu (1,989 cases on Saturday), Gujarat (517), Uttar Pradesh (503), Bengal (454), Haryana (415) and Rajasthan (333), among others. Ladakh recorded a massive surge in cases on Saturday, taking the total tally in the Union territory to 437, officials said as a strict lockdown was reimposed June 30 in Kargil which has the most active cases. All the fresh cases were reported from Kargil. Andhra Pradesh witnessed a new high in daily Covid-19 cases on Saturday with the pandemic infecting 222 more people including 22 police personnel. It also recorded two more deaths taking the Covid-19 toll to 82. The fresh cases pushed the state’s cumulative Covid-19 caseload to 5,858 with as many as 94 people were declared cured on Saturday. In Odisha, the biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases so far of 225 took the number of infections in the state to 3,723, the health department said on Saturday. Worryingly, the test positivity rate — which refers to the percentage of samples returning positive — for the day was 5.7%, compared to the state’s average positivity rate of 1.9%. The 225 fresh positive cases emerged from 3,880 samples tested on Friday. Tamil Nadu added 30 deaths, some of them from three weeks ago, to its Covid-19 toll on Saturday bringing into focus discrepancies in its count. And, with 1,989 fresh cases, the state’s tally rose to 42,687 cases, 30,444 in Chennai alone Earlier this week, TOI had reported that at least 236 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai until June 8 had not been added to the pandemic death register. Now it turns out that two senior officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, who face blame for the misreporting, are part of a nine-member committee formed to set things right. On Saturday, the committee added seven deaths that occurred between May 23 and June 7 to the toll. With the death of a retired doctor from Parray Pora area of Srinagar who was tested positive for Covid-19 died at JVC Bemina during the intervening night on Friday and Saturday, the death toll in J&K has reached 55.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-deaths-cross-9000-as-cases-on-saturday-hit-12000/articleshow/76364493.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Learning, contests go digital||From online learning, webinars and technology-backed financial transactions, digital tools are coming in handy in these times of coronavirus pandemic. And as the reach and usage of virtual platforms expands, the format of competitions, contests and games, quintessentially an on ground and in person feature, is also altered. Now, these are hosted virtually too. Recently, inter-school contests to mark World Environment Day took place Online. And it saw Over 950 students and teachers participating. The event was done by UT’s department of environment along with Yuvsatta NGO in association with several eco clubs in schools. The competition generated good response as students and teachers contributed poems, posters, videos and other art work with great enthusiasm. Five themes ‘I am with nature’, ‘Birds Connect our World’, ‘Save Plant and Animal Species’, ‘Covid Response: Stay Alert’ and ‘Time to focus on the issue of Biodiversity’ were given and participants had to model their creations accordingly. Debendra Dalai, director of department of environment said that overwhelming participation of around 970 students and teachers representing over 40 prominent schools of the city shows that young people these days not only actively participate to promote values of green living but also rate environmental problems quite higher in their lives. Pramod Sharma of Yuvsatta while sharing the results said that digital events are playing a vital role in maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/learning-contests-go-digital/articleshow/76364761.cms||---
June 14, 2020||World||Beijing goes into ‘wartime’ mode after fresh outbreak||BEIJING: A Beijing district put itself on a “wartime” footing and the capital banned tourism and sports events on Saturday after a cluster of novel coronavirus infections centred around a major wholesale market sparked fears of a new wave of Covid-19. As many as 45 people out of 517 tested with throat swabs at the Xinfadi market in the city’s Fengtai district had tested positive for the coronavirus, Chu Junwei, a district official, told a briefing. None of them were showing symptoms, he said, but added that 11 neighbourhoods in the vicinity of the market, which claims to be the largest agricultural wholesale market in Asia, had been locked down. The 45 were in addition to an earlier announcement of seven people with symptoms who had visited or worked at the market. China does not include asymptomatic cases in its case count. “In accordance with the principle of putting the safety of the masses and health first, we have adopted lockdown measures for the Xinfadi market and surrounding neighbourhoods,” Chu said. The district is in a “wartime emergency mode,” he added. The closure of the market and new restrictions come as concerns grow about a second wave of the pandemic,. The entire Xinfadi market was shut down at 3am on Saturday (00.30 IST on Saturday), after two men working at a meat research centre who had recently visited the market were reported to have the virus. It was not immediately clear how they had been infected. On Saturday, market entrances were blocked and police stood guard. Beijing authorities had earlier halted beef and mutton trading at the market and had closed other wholesale markets around the city. They plan for more than 10,000 people at the Xinfadi market to take nucleic acid tests to detect infections. According to the Xinfadi website, over 1,500 tonnes of seafood, 18,000 tonnes of vegetables and 20,000 tonnes of fruit are traded at the market daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/beijing-goes-into-wartime-mode-after-fresh-outbreak/articleshow/76364772.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Plan needed to curb Covid-19 spread in Delhi: PM Modi at review||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday flagged concerns over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the capital. At a high-level review meeting called to discuss the national coronavirus situation and attended by senior ministers and top officials, Modi noted it was important to get the capital back on track and devise a plan to contain the spike. His remarks set the stage for “an emergency meeting” — a detailed review of the situation in Delhi — to be attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi LG Anil Baijal, CM Arvind Kejriwal and senior government officials on Sunday. Sources said Modi felt there was a need to draw up a plan to slow down and arrest the spread of Covid in Delhi so that medical facilities didn’t get overwhelmed. There was a sense of urgency given the the capital's importance in economic and political terms. Sunday’s meeting to be convened by Shah aims at bringing all relevant authorities together and work out measures keeping all scenarios in light of the projections for next two months. It comes after the LG set up an expert committee to guide the city authorities and following sharply critical comments of the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court over the situation in the capital. Modi suggested Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan meet the Delhi LG and CM in the presence of senior officials of the Centre, Delhi government and municipal corporations to plan a coordinated and comprehensive response to handle the challenge posed by rising Covid-19 cases. Shah will separately meet the municipal heads on Sunday evening. Sources said the meetings to be chaired by Shah will discuss the entire gamut of issues relating to the pandemic in Delhi – the current situation and projections for the near future, measures to tackle the rising cases by ramping up health infrastructure and further containment strategies. A tweet by the home minister’s official handle on Saturday said his meeting with Delhi LG and chief minister — to be held at 11 am — will be attended by AIIMS director Randeep Guleria. The Centre’s review of the Delhi situation comes days after the Delhi LG reversed two decisions of the Kejriwal government on treating only bona fide residents of the city at Delhi government hospitals as well as discontinuing the testing of asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 positive persons. Also, the Supreme Court had on Friday made adverse observations regarding the “pathetic” conditions in Delhi government hospitals, low daily testing, improper treatment of Covid-19 patients, “undignified” handling of bodies and denial of salaries to doctors and healthcare workers. On Friday, the Delhi LG set up a committee of experts to suggest measures for ramping up the city’s health infrastructure. As per the Delhi government’s own assessment, the capital would see a surge in cases that may touch 5.5 lakh by July-end and require an estimated 80,000 additional hospital beds. Out of the total Covid-19 cases so far, two-thirds are in five states with an overwhelming proportion of cases in big cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai. The Delhi government has meanwhile ruled out reimposition of lockdown in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Watch TOI Daily: Concerns over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plan-needed-to-curb-covid-19-spread-in-delhi-pm-modi-at-review/articleshow/76364888.cms||Bharti Jain
June 14, 2020||India||Centre to further ramp up medical infrastructure for states with high Covid burden||NEW DELHI: The Centre will work with states to further ramp up medical infrastructure to deal with Covid cases over the next two months, when the monsoon is expected to hit the country with full vigour, with a particular focus on cities and states that have a high burden of infection and a large number of hotspots. A review held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday saw a focus on the need to augment treatment and management of Covid patients with statistical projections pointing to a further increase in cases. Going by the current doubling rate of cases, India could reach a total of 25 lakh cases in around 80 days and while such scenarios depend on how effectively social distancing and containment strategies are implemented, there is need to be prepared, said sources. The assessment shared at the meeting is expected to form the background of the Prime Minister's consultations with chief ministers over two days next week that can be expected to focus on reviewing the easing of lockdown and measures to contain the disease, particularly in dense urban surroundings. The meeting, attended by senior ministers and top officials, was presented with forecasts based on a few scenarios. The importance of dealing with high-incidence states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat was emphasised. While there has been a significant ramp up in testing and dedicated Covid hospitals since the beginning of March, more efforts may be required, while also keeping in mind the need to cater to a large number of patients needing treatment for non-Covid illnesses. India's Covid graph is expected to keep rising in the near future, though its growth has been even so far as the case burden has been distributed with the lockdown, officials have said. They have pointed out that a doubling rate of seven days, for example, would have seen India already cross the 10 lakh figure. The peak is likely to play out over a period of time and the government's efforts are aimed at ensuring daily rise in cases does not become exponential. Vinod Paul, NITI Aayog member and convenor of the empowered group on medical emergency management plan, made a detailed presentation on the current status and likely scenarios of Covid-19 cases in the medium term. “It was observed that out of the total cases, two-thirds are in five states with an overwhelming proportion of cases in big cities. In view of the challenges being faced, particularly by the large cities, it was discussed to augment testing as well as number of beds and services to effectively handle the peak surge of daily cases,” the PMO said in a statement. The PM took note of the recommendations on city and district-wise requirements of hospitals and isolation beds and instructed health ministry officials to undertake emergency planning in consultation with states and UTs. He also advised the ministry to ensure suitable preparations in view of the start of the monsoon. The PM and the senior ministers appreciated that there have been many instances of outstanding work done by several states, districts and cities in containing and controlling the outbreak successfully. They suggested that these success stories and best practices be widely disseminated to provide inspiration and innovative ideas to others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-to-further-ramp-up-medical-infrastructure-for-states-with-high-covid-burden/articleshow/76365020.cms||Akhilesh Singh
June 14, 2020||Business||Revival sign: Hiring up in some sectors||MUMBAI: In signs of revival, hiring has picked up in select sectors and profiles. Industry experts said over the last couple of weeks, they have seen an uptick in hiring compared to the last couple of months. Although the data is raw, sectors such as edutech, e-commerce, data processing, supply chain management, banking, FMCG, healthcare, insurance, digital experts, fintech and pharma have witnessed an increase in hiring. During lockdown, recruitment volumes were down nearly 80% for some firms as compared to pre-Covid levels, industry sources said. Aditya Mishra, CEO, CIEL HR Services, which has presence in 39 locations across the country, said these have come back to 50% of pre-Covid levels. "Hiring is picking up in select sectors, and the momentum will continue. However, sectors like tourism are unlikely to see any major progress," said Mishra. Sanjay Shetty, head (strategic account management), Randstad India, said, "By the end of June, hiring should stabilise for some sectors and reach pre-Covid levels. Sectors like aviation, tourism and hospitality would take time to revert to their earlier levels. However, parts of manufacturing and telecom, to some extent, are expected to see a pick-up." According to TeamLease Services, the job functions (within industries) that are currently the most in demand or growing include education. In the immediate run, the firm said, the profiles that are growing include doctors, nurses, paramedics, phlebologists and other professionals in healthcare; production, sales and logistics professionals in FMCG; warehouse executives and delivery agents in e-commerce; housekeeping staff in facility management and cyber security professionals, among others. In the medium-to-long term, digital marketers, sales executives and technology experts in Banking Financial Services Industry are expected to be more in demand. Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder & executive VP, TeamLease Services, however, said one should be cautious making predictions on whether the hiring growth momentum would continue. “Hiring is happening but in a very need-based, transactional manner. The hiring industry is not even at 30% of what we should ideally be. Companies are very cautious about adding new headcount. One must bear in mind that businesses are not fully functional yet,” said Chakraborty. On the other hand, with all services now focusing on becoming ‘contactless’, roles in fintech and digital are in demand. Tech, IT-enabled services and e-commerce form a big chunk of the hiring pie. “The overall impact which the lockdown has had will bottom out and a majority of sectors will begin to hire. With a lot of businesses now having a good grip on ‘work from home’, normalcy should return to India Inc. and hiring indicators point to that direction,” said Shetty. Watch Revival sign: Hiring up in some sectors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/revival-sign-hiring-up-in-some-sectors/articleshow/76365143.cms||Namrata Singh
June 14, 2020||Business||Govt curbs tyre imports in bid to help industry||NEW DELHI: The government put curbs on the import of tyres used in cars, two-wheelers and heavy vehicles, moving it from list of free imports to the "restricted" category, as part of a strategy to buoy the domestic industry. The commerce department had identified tyres among several categories of non-essential imports, where restrictions were proposed. While the government has been seeking to boost domestic manufacturing for the last six years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a fresh push through the Atma Nirbhar Bharat campaign. As reported first by TOI in January, tyres were identified as one of the sectors, along with furniture, for local production. The government raised the import duty on furniture, but a more drastic action has been taken for furniture. A notification issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade on Friday said that tyres for cars, SUVs, racing cars, including tubeless and radials are being put on the restricted list. In recent months, the commerce department has resorted to the use of import restrictions instead of free imports to boost local manufacturing. Import of new pneumatic tyres was estimated at around $450 million during the last financial year (data available for April-February) with China just pipping Thailand as the largest source of shipments into the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-curbs-tyre-imports-in-bid-to-help-industry/articleshow/76365150.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Surat||Surat Covid-19 death toll climbs to 100||Surat: The coronavirus death toll in the city touched 100 with death of three patients at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Saturday. Three patients who died including a 63-year-old male from Lambe Hanuman Road; 67-year-old male from Variav and 55-year-old woman from Bhestan—all having co-morbid condition like diabetes, hypertension and blood pressure. Surat municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani said that all the three Covid-19 patients who died on Saturday were having co-morbid conditions. “It’s time to change our normal lifestyle to ‘corona’ lifestyle. These two months are very critical and we do not want a single person to die of coronavirus. I request all the citizens not to take the relaxations lightly. People need to change their perception and start taking precautions to keep the pandemic at bay,” Pani said.According to Pani, the city recorded 53 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the total positive cases in the city to 2,514 on Saturday.“After Limbayat, Katargam is the second hotspot for coronavirus. Out of the total 53 cases on Saturday, 23 cases have been reported from Katargam alone,” he added.A meeting was also organised with the diamond industry leaders on Saturday and they were given detailed knowledge about the precautions to be taken at the workplaces. “The face mask, sanitisation and social distancing should be followed to ensure that their operations are not hampered,” said Pani. Pani urged the doctors’ community in the city to start prescribing medicines when they see even minor symptoms. Early treatment of the patients can prevent further aggravation of the disease. The municipal commissioner urged the industries, shopping malls, restaurants and hotels to keep pulse oximeter at their facilities to check the oxygen level of the visitors. Surat Covid-19 meter Total Positive: 2514Total death: 100Total discharged: 1716BOX: Zone-wise Covid-19 cases in Surat Zone CasesCentral 349 Varachha (A) 286Varachha (B) 78Rander 132Katargam 528Limbayat 736Udhana 304Athwa101||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-100/articleshow/76364017.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Mohun Bagan, East Bengal fans wear their loyalties on masks||KOLKATA: N95 masks have been around for quite some time to save people from fine pollutants. Then, with the outbreak of coronavirus, came masks of many makes — 2-ply, 3-ply, surgical, cloth-and-sponge and so on. But for a sizeable part of Kolkata, specifications like quality, variety or even the price are taking a backseat when it is coming to two colour combinations — green-maroon and red-gold. So what if Mohun Bagan and ATK have merged to form a new entity? For Alok Bayen, the name ‘Mohun Bagan’ will always remain embossed in his heart. When he first spotted a passer-by sporting a Mohun Bagan mask a couple of weeks ago, he was determined to get hold of one “at any cost”. “Within an hour, I had three. It cost me a little more at that time, but now they are available everywhere,” beamed Bayen. Ditto for Sumit Dasgupta. In his case, though, the colours differ. “If there is anything in the market related to East Bengal, my friends and I make sure we have them. East Bengal may not have had a good season last year, but we will make it up with our support,” Dasgupta said. Feeling the pulse of Kolkata, which is clutching at every positive aspect of life at present, a handful of local entrepreneurs have used the opportunity of making a quick buck. Prabir Das, owner of Diamond Hosiery in Baghajatin, has floated a new franchise — D-Masks — to manufacture masks. He is now struggling to meet demands for orders of East Bengal and Mohun Bagan masks. “Orders for East Bengal masks are more in this part of the city. The venture has helped me crawl out of the lockdown crisis,” Das said. Avi Saha, a manufacturer from Bagbazar, on the other hand, has more orders for Mohun Bagan masks. He has been working overtime every day to meet deadlines. The manufacturers are delivering 20-25 bundles (each with 100 masks) every day, but are still falling short of meeting the demand. At most shops, the price of these masks is Rs 30 apiece. But, vendors said if there is a bulk order, the rate could go low depending on the volume bought. For legions of fans of the Big Two, masks have come as a handy tool to express support while going easy on the pocket. Shilton Paul, who has been standing below the bar for Mohun Bagan for 14 straight years, it is no wonder that supporters will go for any thing to express love for the club. “I’ve seen people painting their houses green-and-maroon. So, if such masks are available, there will be high demand in a sports-loving city like Kolkata,” said the 2015 I-League-winning captain. The demand has been so high that East Bengal has decided to make 1.5 lakh official masks and distribute them for free. Mohun Bagan, too, is planning to come up with their official version. “We will bring out the official masks soon,” said Debashis Dutta, finance secretary of Mohun Bagan club. He also had a word of caution for those using the Mohun Bagan logo illegally. The fans, however, are not perturbed. “We will buy what is easily available, but the green and maroon colours should shine bright,” said Sudipto Sardar, a private tutor. With I-League yet to resume and no sporting activities around, Maidan fans are, amid all this gloom, going vocal for local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mb-eb-fans-wear-their-loyalties-on-masks/articleshow/76364314.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||169 Indians return from UAE||Kolkata: As many as 169 Indians stranded in the United Arab Emirates for nearly three months flew down to Kolkata on an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah early on Saturday. At Kolkata airport, thermal checks were carried out and none of the passengers was found to be symptomatic. While the current regulation requires all foreign returnees to be put in institutional quarantine for seven days, followed by another seven days of home quarantine, only two of the flyers were sent to hotels. The rest — all labourers working in the Gulf — were allowed to go for home quarantine as they did not have the means to stay in a hotel. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/169-indians-return-from-uae/articleshow/76364421.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Two held as woman forced to lick spit, paraded in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF: Police on Saturday arrested two people – Arun Kumar and Satyadev Prasad – on charges of cutting the hair of a widow, forcing her to lick spit and parading her in the village after accusing the woman of stealing their goats. The incident occurred at Balia Bigha village under the Rahui police station area in Nalanda district on Friday. Police swung into action after a video of the crime went viral on the social media. A police complaint was lodged against Arun, Satyadev and 12 other villagers. The police have also arrested the woman on charges of stealing goats. SHO of Rahui police station Swaraj Kumar said the complaint against the woman was lodged by Arun. “Arun said in his complaint that they caught the woman when she was taking his three goats on Friday,” the SHO said. The woman has, however, refuted the allegation of theft against her. The woman told the police that she was taking rest under a tree outside the village when some locals thrashed her with bamboo sticks, cut her hair, paraded her in the village and forced her to lick spit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-held-as-woman-forced-to-lick-spit-paraded-in-nalanda/articleshow/76363031.cms||Farrukh Nadim
June 14, 2020||Patna||Youngsters try on trendy face masks in Patna||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, stepping out of one’s house without putting on a face mask is quite risky. It is no less than a necessity and has become an indispensable part of one’s life now. Taking advantage of the situation, many entrepreneurs and brands have designed different-coloured masks with their logos for men, women and children. The manager of a high-end garment store near Jagdeo Path, Mukul, told this newspaper that masks that provided three-layered protection were in demand. “Our masks can be washed 30 times. An adults’ pack with four pieces costs Rs 449 while a kids’ pack is available for Rs 399,” he said. St Michael’s High School (SMHS) alumnus Amit Jha has also made masks with his alma mater’s badge on them. He said, “I wanted to create something with the help of jobless artisans. Surprisingly, we have received many orders from different parts of the country.” Amit, who sells a pack of three masks for Rs 150, has come up with almost 100 designs. “We also sell personalized masks with people’s names on them,” he added. Meanwhile, many youngsters have adjusted to the new normal and are flaunting their stylish masks. Bans Ghat resident Shristy Sonal said, “Earlier, wearing a mask was annoying, but now I like it. It keeps me safe and is also fashionable.” Nahar Khagaul Road resident Aryan Raj has ordered a customized mask with his face imprinted on it. He said, “Although I had to spend Rs 500 on buying a mask, I am happy that I am following the latest trend.” Some people also claimed that several online stores were charging a lot of money for simple kids’ masks. Buddha Colony resident Rima Yadav rued, “I bought two masks with cartoon characters for Rs 399 for my six-year-old daughter. Their quality is not great, though.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youngsters-try-on-trendy-face-masks/articleshow/76362978.cms||Archi Rani
June 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Appointment of Billava leaders to key posts in Mangaluru seen as move to consolidate votebank||MANGALURU: After springing a surprise by nominating two grassroots workers to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, the BJP has decided to follow its policy of rewarding its loyal activists even at the district level. Two prominent members of the BJP from the Billava community – Ravishankar Mijar and Harikrishna Bantwal – have been appointed chiefs of the Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (Muda) and Keonics Ltd respectively. The move is being seen by political observers as part of the party’s strategy to consolidate its support among the Billava community members. Harikrishna’s elevation as the chief of Keonics, considered one of the leading corporations in Karnataka, is being perceived as a political masterstroke. In addition to being a former member of the Sangh Parivar, Harikrishna had, as recently as three years ago, been a loyalist of former minister and senior Congress member B Ramanath Rai. Prior to falling out with Rai and the Congress three years ago, Harikrishna had been one of BJP’s most vocal critic. But he has been rewarded suitably for severing his long tryst with the Congress with a plum post. Sudarshan Moodbidri, president of BJP’s Dakshina Kannada unit, endorsing the party’s decision to elevate Harikrishna and Mijar, said that their appointments would have occurred much earlier but for the pandemic crisis. “Despite having been a trusted lieutenant of the former KPCC president B Janardhan Poojari for many years, his service went unacknowledged there. We have identified his leadership abilities,” Sudarshan said. The lockdown having forced the temporary closure of Keonics, Harikrishna said that he would chalk out a plan to restart operations there in accordance with the safety norms. “Keonics has around 180 franchisees across Karnataka, and steps will be taken to revitalise operations at all units. We will usher in transparency in the purchase of both hardware and software that Keonics makes for the state government,” he added. Not making a bid for MLC seat, says MRG group chief K Prakash Shetty, founder chairman of MRG group, has scotched rumours that he is making a bid for the state legislative council after BJP with whom he has identified himself closely with, overlooked him for the Rajya Sabha seat. Shetty who runs the Gold Finch group of hotels said he was indeed an aspirant for the Rajya Sabha seat and accepts with humility, decision of the party that selected two senior karyakartas to the post instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/appointment-of-billava-leaders-to-key-posts-in-mluru-seen-as-move-to-consolidate-votebank/articleshow/76364223.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Minister moots credit cooperative societies for ASHA workers||MYSURU: At the instance of minister for cooperatives ST Somashekar, the Karnataka cooperation department has decided to extend a blanket of financial security for the 40,275 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) by instituting credit societies for their benefit. Sources in the department said that the minister has asked joint registrars of cooperative societies in all districts to study the feasibility of forming these bodies in their jurisdiction. “We have been asked to list the number of ASHA workers who would be willing to seek membership if we register the credit cooperative societies,” a source told TOI. In both urban and rural areas, credit cooperative societies have filled a gap in the financial sector, extending small loans to people from the vulnerable sections of society, in addition to instilling among them a habit of saving. The loans are extended to the underprivileged at interests markedly lower than what is charged by banks and other private financial institutions. The minister’s proposal to set up credit cooperative societies comes close on the heels of the state government rewarding ASHA workers with an incentive for Rs 3,000 for their selfless service during the Covid-19 crisis. The ASHA workers receive an honorarium of Rs 7,000 per month, of which sum the central government accounts for two-thirds. Among other responsibilities during the Covid-19 crisis, ASHA workers were involved in testing people for the novel coronavirus, tracing contacts of those confirmed infected and tending to those in isolation wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-moots-credit-cooperative-societies-for-asha-workers/articleshow/76364063.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Allahabad||Reopening after months, salons turn a blind eye to precautions||PRAYAGRAJ: The number of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases might be rising in the city, but salons and barber shops in Prayagraj are yet to realise the importance of safety measures. As they reopen after months after remaining shut during the lockdown, employees in many of these shops are seen working without wearing masks or personal protection equipment (PPE) kits or maintaining social distancing — as mandated by the district administration. Most barbers opened their shops on June 1, after lockdown curbs were relaxed. The district administration had also issued safety guidelines which these salons, beauty parlours and barbers were supposed to follow . As per the guidelines, workers in these shops had to wear PPE kits, gloves and masks and, would have to maintain hygiene within the shops. They were not allowed to use the same towel or apron twice and sanitize all equipment and furniture after every use. However, most salons were seen turning a blind eye to these rules. The few shops following the guidelines were mostly in upscale localities like Civil Lines. In rural areas, many barbers were seen giving their customers a haircut without wearing masks or gloves. “When we were allowed to open the shop, my senior told me to buy all accessories required to keep me and the customers safe from Covid-19. I always wear gloves and a mask while entertaining customers,” said Abhishek, a barber in Sulem Sarai area. While Abhishek might be aware of the precautions required to keep the disease at bay, many like Ramkhelawan of Pipalgoan area are not. “We have been doing our business like this for several years and no one has had any complains, I won’t be able to use scissors or a comb if I wear a PPE kit or a face mask,” Ramkhelawan said. The lack of concern about being infected can also be seen among several barbers who function on the roadside in areas like Gaughat. ADM (city) AK Kanojia said, “Now that the issue has been brought to our notice, we will take action and ensure that no one takes these instructions lightly as salons or beauty parlours are vulnerable to an outbreak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/reopening-after-months-salons-turn-a-blind-eye-to-precautions/articleshow/76363227.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Migrants account for 70% of total cases in Bihar: Government||PATNA: If figures released by the state health department are anything to go by, migrant workers account for around 70% of the total Covid-19 positive cases in the state. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state started increasing with the influx of migrants, who have returned home from different parts of the country by Shramik Special trains. As per the health department, of the 6,183 cases recorded in the state till Saturday afternoon, 4,349 were migrants who have returned after May 3. The first train with migrant workers had reached the state from Jaipur on May 2. So far, more than 20 lakh migrants have reached the state by 317 special trains. At least two lakh migrants had returned to the state before May 2 and some of them were also tested positive for the virus. While there were just 481 coronavirus cases in the state till May 2, the figure has now crossed 6,000. Also, most migrants who have tested positive have travel history from Delhi, Maharashra, Gujarat, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The state health department had changed its testing criteria on May 8 and started random testing of migrants. This helped the department identify a large number of positive cases. Those coming from red zones were given priority in random testing, especially women, kids and elderly. On May 22, the state government had divided places from where migrants were coming into two categories – ‘A’ and ‘B’. Category ‘A’ had eleven cities – Surat, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurugram, Noida, Kolkata and Bengaluru. Migrants from these cities were kept in institutional quarantine, while others were put in home quarantine. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the government was strictly monitoring those put in home quarantine. Assuming that all migrants have returned home, the state government stopped registration of migrants for keeping them in quarantine centres on June 2. Hence, all the quarantine centres will now be closed on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-account-for-70-of-total-cases-in-state-govt/articleshow/76362912.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 14, 2020||Patna||Cadets of Nalanda Sainik School shine in NTSE||PATNA: Thirty-three cadets of Sainik School, Nalanda have brought laurels to the school by excelling in National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), 2019. Of the 65 cadets from the school who had participated in the Stage I of NTSE on November 17 last year, 33 have qualified for Stage II. The results were announced by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) on June 11. Principal of the school Col M I Hussain has congratulated the cadets and wished them good luck in the next stage as well. He also appreciated the efforts of the teachers for guiding the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cadets-of-nalanda-sainik-school-shine-in-ntse/articleshow/76363011.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar targets 50,000 beds to tackle Covid-19||PATNA: With the continuing surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state health department has targeted to arrange for 50,000 beds in the coming weeks in its three tier facilities for admission of coronavirus positive people. So far, the department has identified space for over 40,000 beds. The three-tier health facilities to tackle Covid-19 cases comprise District Covid Care Centres, Dedicated Covid Health Centres and Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said they have identified the space for around 33,000 beds in the district category and 5500 in the DCHC category. In the previous month, DDC and DCHC together had 7,381 beds. “Apart from DDC and DCHC, we have three dedicated Covid hospitals, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, Anugraha Narayan Medical College and Hospital and Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital with around 19,000 beds altogether. Those patients who need special medical care are kept in these hospitals, while others are admitted in DCCCs or DCHCs,” said Lokesh. He added, “Right now we have 2,700 active patients and this number is quite less than the number of beds we have in the three facilities. We are not facing any bed shortage and are fully prepared to tackle Covid-19.” A senior health department official said the district centres have been converted out of hotels, guest houses and newly constructed government buildings that are not in use. Asymptomatic people, who do not need medical aid, will be kept here and doctors and paramedics will visit the premises to take stock of their health. However, these facilities will not have medical equipment. Those with mild symptoms who do not require critical care will be admitted in the DCHCs. Beds have been earmarked in the sub-divisional and district hospitals and newly constructed buildings in the hospital campus which were built for academic purposes. These will have pulse oximeters, oxygen pipeline and doctors and paramedics will be available 24X7. Critical patients will be admitted in either of the three dedicated hospitals, which have ventilator facilities. “As of now, bed occupancy is much less and there are around 70 patients in these three hospitals. This number keeps changing frequently. We have even planned to reserve 50% of beds in all the government as well as private medical colleges and hospitals in Bihar,” said an official. He further said additional 50 ventilators have been procured which are being installed in these medical colleges and hospitals, in addition to the 378 ventilators which they already have.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-targets-50k-beds-to-tackle-covid/articleshow/76362895.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 14, 2020||Patna||24k travel by 17special trains: ECR||PATNA: Nearly 24,000 passengers travelled by 17 special trains to different places from Patna and other stations falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) on Friday. However, some of them registered poor turnout. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the occupancy rate in the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Rajdhani Express (02309) was poor as only 196 passengers travelled by the train. “However, in New Delhi-bound trains like the Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express, Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti Express, Darbhanga-New Delhi special, Saharsa-New Delhi special and Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar special, the turnout was better. The Patna-Howrah and Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi special trains, on the other hand, witnessed 100% occupancy,” the CPRO said. Rly Board’s nod: The Railway Board has approved the request made by seven states to run 63 Shramik special trains for sending migrant workers back to their native places, including Bihar. ECR’s CPRO Rajesh Kumar said trains were demanded by Kerala (32), Tamil Nadu (10), Jammu and Kashmir (9), Karnataka (6), Andhra Pradesh (3), West Bengal (2) and Gujarat (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/24k-travel-by-17special-trains-ecr/articleshow/76362968.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Fuel prices continue upward trend in Bihar||PATNA: Petrol and diesel prices continued upward trend in the state for the seventh consecutive day on Saturday. The sales of petroleum products, on the other hand, have continued to plummet. Diesel prices went up by 41 paise per litre and petrol became costlier by 60 paise per litre on Saturday. The diesel price has increased by Rs 2.8 per litre the last seven days and petrol price by Rs 3.41 per litre in the last seven days. Petrol was sold at Rs 79.27 per litre in the city on Saturday and diesel at Rs 71.9 per litre, said Vijay Kumar, a sales executive at a Bharat Petroleum outlet near Gandhi Maidan. He said after enforcement of Unlock 1.0, fuel prices started to increase and the number of vehicles coming to the refill station declined by 20-25%. Ajay Kumar, manager of a petrol pump at Dak Bungalow, said they are now selling between 9 and 10 kilolitres of petrol and diesel per day against 14 kilolitres that used to be sold before the lockdown. “The sales declined after the prices of petrol and diesel started picking up. Also, one-third of vehicles are still off the roads,” he said. The first week of this month saw petrol sales plunging by over 46.8% and diesel sales by 49% when compared to the figures of the last week of May. According to the latest figures, in the first week of June, 17,271 kilolitres of petrol were sold in the state against 32,497 kilolitres in the last week of May. “The sale of diesel in the first week of June was 41,742 kilolitres compared to 82,707 kilolitres in the last week of May,” an Indian Oil Corporation official said. Prabhat Kumar Singh, president of Bihar Petroleum Dealers’ Association (BPDA) said after the announcement of lockdown relaxations in May, more and more vehicles started plying on the roads. As a result, fuel sales started picking up from May 15 onwards. However, the sales have suddenly registered a drop in the state,” he added. Economist D M Diwakar said the state government has increased the taxes on fuels, including goods and services tax and VAT, leading to the rise in prices of petroleum products. “The economic condition of the country was not good even before the lockdown. The Unlock 1.0 was implemented when Covid-19 cases started increasing. People are not come out of their homes as they are not safe,” he said. Diwakar, also a professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said increasing the prices of petrol and diesel was not an option to recover the losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fuel-prices-continue-upward-trend-in-state/articleshow/76362925.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 14, 2020||Patna||17 from Gaya OTA inducted into Army||GAYA: Altogether 17 special commissioned officers were inducted into the Indian Army on Saturday after a passing out parade at the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Gaya. Gaya OTA commandant Lt Gen Sunil Srivastav administered the oath to the officers to serve the country with sincere dedication. The induction ceremony, though simple in view of the Covid-19 protocol, was held with military elegance that included a flypast by three micro light aircraft of the Army. All the inducted officers are from lower ranks of the Army and they were given yearlong basic training in military science, including the changing warfare techniques like chemical, biological and cyber warfare. Reviewing officer of passing out parade Lt Gen Sunil Srivastava, who is also the Commandant of the Gaya OTA, exhorted the young officers to serve the nation in the highest traditions of the Indian Army by imbibing the virtues of military ethos and excellent soldierly qualities. According to a press note issued by the media cell of the Gaya OTA, besides the 17 special commissioned officers who were inducted in Gaya, 81 other cadets obtained degrees from Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering Secunderabad, Military College of Telecommunication Engineering Mhow and College of Military Engineering, Pune. They were inducted into the Army at their respective institutes. At the ceremony at Gaya, a group of 69 senior secondary school passouts, who completed one-year training programme at Gaya OTA, were sent for military engineering programmes conducted at Secunderabad, Mhow and Pune. As per the statewise breakup of the Army officers inducted on Saturday, three officers each are from UP and West Bengal, two each from Assam and Maharashtra, one each from Andhra Pradesh, Arunanchal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Nagaland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-from-gaya-ota-inducted-into-army/articleshow/76363067.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Police HQ seeks report from IG on ASI’s death||PATNA: The state police headquarters has sought a detailed report from Magadh range IG on the death of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) who was later tested positive for Covid-19. The 58-year-old ASI was found dead inside police lines in Aurangabad on June 7. His sample was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 8. The ASI was posted at Khudwa police station. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the police headquarters would look into the matter after receiving the IG’s report. “All SPs have been asked to take precautionary measures in a bid to prevent spread of Covid-19 among police personnel. They have also been asked not to deploy police personnel with medical history on frontline duty,” the ADG added. He said senior officers have been asked to ensure periodic sanitisation wherever necessary. The ADG said 97 police personnel have so far been tested positive for Covid-19 in the state and one died. “Altogether 87 police personnel have already recovered from the disease,” he added. The Bihar Police Association has alleged that the dead ASI was deployed at a quarantine centre at Hasanpura where migrant workers were kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-seeks-report-from-ig-on-asis-death/articleshow/76362988.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Farmers prepare for kharif crops as monsoon sets in||PATNA: With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) declaring onset of monsoon in the state on Saturday, the sowing of kharif crops would become brisk. The target area for paddy cultivation this year is 33 lakh hectares, as per the discussions agriculture minister Prem Kumar had with the state, division, district and block-level officials through videoconferencing on June 9. Similarly, the target area for kharif maize is 4.5 lakh hectares, kharif variety of pulses 1.5 lakh hectares and jute 1.37 lakh hectares. The agriculture department’s June 9 report has also mentioned that the seeds required for various crops were available in the state. According to it, while 4.89 lakh quintals of paddy seeds are required for sowing, the availability is 4.95 lakh quintals. Similarly, more than required quantity of ‘arhar’ ‘urad’, ‘soyabean’, peanut and jute seeds are available. “On Thursday, the day was cloudy in our area, but partial rain was received here and there on Friday and the easterly wind has started blowing,” said Abhishek Kumar, a resident of Dhamdaha block in Purnia district, adding farmers have been waiting for the good monsoon showers as it would mark the start of paddy cultivation. Once there are good early monsoon showers and the plots of land are filled with water, the preparation of the part-plots for the sowing of paddy begins in the state and the process is completed by June 20 or so. Then, after a gap of 18 days, paddy seedlings are uprooted for transplantation from the first week of July. This process is completed by mid-July if parameters like wet and humid weather conditions, backed by adequate rain or water availability, are met. Although paddy is cultivated in all the 38 districts of the state, there are only 23 districts where the annual yield of paddy is more than 1 lakh metric tonnes. The highest yield is generated in Rohtas district, also called the “rice bowl” of Bihar, followed by Auarangabad and Kaimur. The top 12 rice-producing districts in the state are Rohtas, Aurangabad, Kaimur, Bhojpur, Nalanda, West Champaran, East Champaran, Supaul, Madhepura, Madhubani, Purnia and Katihar. The 11 other districts with rice yield in the range of 1 lakh to 2 lakh metric tonnes are Patna, Sitamarhi, Muzaffapur, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Nawada, Arwal, Gaya, Araria, Kishanganj and Banka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-prepare-for-kharif-crops-as-monsoon-sets-in/articleshow/76364138.cms||Abhay Singh
June 14, 2020||Surat||SMC loses dedicated Covid warrior to heart attack||Surat: His relentless fight against the pandemic and the dedication towards his service earned him the sobriquet ‘warrior’ among his close circle. But Shailesh Bhoyre, 48, a sanitary inspector (SI) posted in the coronavirus hotspot of Maan Darwaja couldn’t fend off fate. Owing to a severe heart attack he suffered on Saturday morning, Bhoyre passed away leaving behind his two children and wife. Since the nation-wide lockdown, Bhoyre, who was posted at the Umarwada ward in Limbayat zone was entrusted with the task of visiting households, especially in Maan Darwaja, for survey. He not only collected samples of suspected patients, but also arranged 108 ambulance for Covid-19 positive patients among many other duties he executed with dexterity. A resident of Dumbhal fire station in Limbayat, Bhoyre started his career in the SMC as safai worker and worked up his way steadily to clear the SI examination with lot of hard work in more than 10 years. He was then appointed as the sanitary sub-inspector in the Limbayat zone. Uday Naik, deputy engineer and head of the five clusters in Limbayat zone told TOI, “Bhoyre’s untimely death is a big loss to all of us. I have not seen such a dedicated health worker in my long stint with the SMC. A relentless worker, Bhoyre was a single point for all Covid-related issues in Maan Darwaja, from taking patients to hospitals and tests in the last two-and-a-half-months.” According to Naik, to help him relax after working tirelessly for a long time, Bhoyre had recently been assigned duty at the Samras centre in Umarwada from 10 pm to 6 am. Congress councillor from Limbayat, Aslam Cyclewala told TOI, “I have seen Bhoyre’s dedication in the field. He was not wary of going near positive patients and would pay regular visit to check for more suspected cases. His death is a huge loss in the Covid fight.” Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “We have lost the first corona warrior of SMC. It is a big loss to the health department of losing such a dedicate worker. He was a man of the field and has worked tirelessly during the coronavirus pandemic. We will ensure that his family gets all possible assistance from the civic body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-loses-dedicated-covid-warrior-to-heart-attack/articleshow/76364045.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Properly screened staff clean train coaches: ECR||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has launched a mechanized coach cleaning system at all its depots and washing pits falling under the jurisdiction of its five divisions — Danapur, Sonepur, Samastipur, Dhanbad and Pt Deendayal Upadhyay. Following an advisory issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the step was taken to ensure passengers’ safety in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper that the cleaning staff at the Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patna Junction, Danapur and other major stations were taking full precautionary measures. “They are equipped with the latest gadgets and clean the coaches at least five hours before the departure of any special train,” the CPRO said, adding that extra precautions were being taken while cleaning the air-conditioned (AC) coaches and toilets. Besides, steam cleaning system has been adopted as part of the new guidelines to leave no room for infection inside the coaches. The CPRO said, “Spots like AC filters are also being cleaned under the supervision of healthcare and sanitizing staff, who are allowed to enter the coaches only after being properly screened.” According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, at least 24 pairs of special passenger trains have been running from different places to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Secunderabad, Pune, Chennai, Howrah, Ahmedabad, Ranchi and other destinations since June 1. “The railways has been sanitizing platforms, booking counters, waiting halls, foot overbridges, circulating areas, main concourse of the buildings at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction, Danapur and other stations,” Kumar said and added that social distancing norms were also being followed. Moreover, no blanket and linen is being provided to the passengers in special trains. “We have also asked the staff to maintain the AC coaches’ temperature between 24 and 25 degrees Celsius,” the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/properly-screened-staff-clean-train-coaches-ecr/articleshow/76362956.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Drug boxes available in running trains now||PATNA: A first-of-its-kind life-saving drug box was introduced in all the trains originating from different places falling under the jurisdiction of the Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) on Saturday. It was launched by divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar in the Patna-New Delhi Rajdhani Express (02309) with an aim to cater to the medical emergencies of passengers. According to Danapur senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Adhar Raj, the drug box contains a stethoscope, blood pressure machine, glucometer, pulse meter, thermometer and essential medicines to treat patients with problems like chest pain, nausea, vomiting, muscle pain, stomach upset and other minor diseases. It also has a first aid kit. “The railways has made sure that prescription medicines or those that require a medical prescription to be dispensed are also available in the drug box. Passengers with chronic illnesses can carry their prescriptions on WhatsApp and ask for medicines in case of an emergency,” the DCM said, adding, “Nearly 600 cases of medical emergencies on trains reach the Danapur commercial control room every year.” The commercial staff of the Danapur division, including train superintendents, as well as pantry car managers will reportedly take care of the drug box. Many other senior railway officials attended the function organized at the Patna Junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drug-boxes-available-in-running-trains-now/articleshow/76364153.cms||Kumod Verma
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Realty project deadlines extended by 9 months||KOLKATA: West Bengal Housing Industry Regulatory Authority extended the deadline for completion of projects by nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, providing a breather for the real estate industry in the state. Besides, on a case-to-case basis, any project can get three months’ additional time to be completed. The measure would directly benefit over 900 projects in the state. Following this, leading developers are also planning to reschedule payments of customers, which will benefit a few thousand who have booked flats in these projects. “The extension has been granted due to force majeure, an extraordinary circumstance usually caused by a natural calamity and, in this case, by the pandemic. This will be in addition to one that may have been granted earlier to some projects for other reasons,” the order said. State housing minister Chandrima Bhattacharya told TOI that the real estate industry had given representations and the government has tried to help out. “Whatever we could do, we did,” she said. The president of Credai West Bengal, the apex body of all Credai chapters in the state, Sushil Mohta, welcomed the development and said the real estate industry and construction sites were completely closed during the lockdown and no work could be done. “We are very happy about this and are planning to reschedule the payment of the customers,” he added. Mohta pointed out that the industry is concerned about the delay in projects and, as a result, they are pushing the schedules now. But in spite of that, the projects are bound to be delayed since there is a chance that as they start work after the lockdown, the monsoon will spoil the foundation and sub-structure. According to him, real estate players are also upgrading the skill set of the labourers at the sites. He also pointed out that Credai West Bengal has similarly written to KMC, the urban development department and various other authorities for extension of the approval period because of the delays due to the pandemic. “We have also asked for a one-year extension of validity of building plan and environment clearances,” he said. The president of the Bengal chapter of Credai, Nandu Belani also appreciated the state move. “We shall pass on the benefits of this relaxation to customers by rescheduling their payments,” he said. Credai national president (elect) H V Patodia said, in the current circumstances, the state has done the right thing. The managing director of Siddha Group, Sanjay Jain, whose projects have also been affected due to the lockdown, said the firm would complete its pending projects according to the new schedule. Incidentally, real estate is one of the highest contributors to revenue. In Bengal, stamp duty collection on registration of property documents was about Rs 5,400 crore by March 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/realty-project-deadlines-extended-by-9-months/articleshow/76364321.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||3 employees of UP-based Ponzi company held||Vadodara: The CID (Crime) of Gujarat police arrested a local manager and two agents of an Uttar Pradesh-based company which had floated different investment schemes and did not return around Rs 9 crore to investors. The manager Mehul Sharma and two agents Pramod Ravidas and Rakesh Saroj were arrested on June 10 in connection with the cheating case. Police said that a resident of Subhanpura Nilesh Agrawal had registered the case this year after the company Kalpataru Customer Management Services Ltd abruptly closed its operations in Vadodara and did not return his and his family member’s invested money. Agrawal had invested Rs 93,000, while his father had invested Rs 3.3 lakh and his brother Harshad had invested Rs 68,000 in different investment schemes. He told police that Ravidas and Saroj had lured them to invest more and more money in the company’s schemes with a promise of high returns. Initially, the company paid the returns but later, it closed its office in Sayajigunj. According to police, most of the investors are small-time vendors, vegetable vendors among others and the cheating amount is estimated to be around Rs 15.9 lakh. However, if all investors’ case is considered the company has not returned money to the tune of Rs 9 crore, cops said. On June 10, a special GPID (Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act) court remanded the trio to five day police custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3-employees-of-up-based-ponzi-company-held/articleshow/76363228.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Surat||Surat powerloom units to close again from June 15||SURAT: Praveen Dhameliya, a powerloom weaver at Diamondnagar industrial estate in Laskana, some 20km from the city, is left with no option but to shut the unit for an indefinite period. Out of his 350 powerloom machines, only 40 are operational with less than seven workers who want hike in their wages. Dhameliya’s cost of production has increased by Rs 1 per metre of fabrics due to the increase in the fixed electricity charges, raw material cost and workers’ wages. On the other hand, he is not finding buyers for his grey fabric. Dhameliya is not an isolated cases. Over 600 powerloom units at Anjani industrial estate in Amroli, Diamondnagar in Laskana and Pipodara industrial estates, which had resumed operation post government relaxations from May 20, have unanimously decided to shut down units for indefinite period starting June 15. These three industrial estates house 10,000 units. The reasons cited by the powerlooom weavers are severe shortage of workers, rising production cost and the textile traders not buying grey or unfinished fabrics due to the weak demand in the domestic and international market. Shailesh Mangukiya, another powerloom weaver in Anjani industrial estate told TOI, “My unit was shut for two months during lockdown and I was issued average electricity bill of Rs 4 lakh. I am running only 20 machines out of the 150 in the unit and was able to manufacture 1,000 metres of fabric in the last 10 days. When I contacted the traders in the market, they refused to purchase the fabric.” “I am running 30 machines for six hours and the workers are demanding Rs 500 per day wages. There is no demand for the fabric in the market and the production cost is very high. It is better to shut the unit for indefinite period,” says Himmat Patel, a powerloom weaver in Pipodara industrial estate. Vijay Mangukiya, president of Anjani industrial estate in Amroli said, “We have unanimously decided to shut the units for indefinite period from June 15 and wait for the migrant workers to return to Surat and the business to normalise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-powerloom-units-to-close-again-from-june-15/articleshow/76363996.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: 17-day-old baby girl from Vyara tests Covid-19 positive||SURAT: A 17-day-old baby girl from an interior village in Tapi district was tested positive for Covid-19 at the New Civil Hospital in Surat on Saturday. Tapi district had become coronavirus-free after the last Covid-19 positive patient got recovered and was discharged on May 11. Official sources said that Saroj Gamit, 27, a resident of Patel Falia in Kapura village in Tapi’s Vyara taluka delivered a baby girl at the Janak hospital in Vyara on May 26. Saroj was discharged from the hospital on May 28. A few days after coming home, the new-born suffered from high fever and severe coughing. The baby girl was rushed to the Janak Hospital in Vyara for treatment. However, the hospital authorities referred the baby for treatment at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital on June 11. Again, the baby was referred to the New Civil Hopistal (NCH) in Surat on June 12, where she was tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Sources said that parent of the baby have tested negative for Covid-19. Dr Yogesh Parikh, nodal officer of the NCH’s paediatric department told TOI, “The baby girl was brought with high fever and cough and that we decided to test for Covid-19 on Friday. Sample was collected and sent for laboratory testing which confirmed her positive for the virus.” “The baby is non-critical and that she is responding well to the treatment. The baby may have contracted the virus either from the hospital where she was born or after coming in contact with a positive person in the village,” added Parikh. Chief District Health Officer (CDHO), Tapi, Dr Harshad Patel told TOI, “The parent of the baby girl are farm workers and they do not have any travel history. The baby was suffering from high fever and that she was referred to NCH in Surat. Meanwhile, the Kapura village in Vyara, which has about 300 population has been put under containment.” Meanwhile, four fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Bharuch district on Saturday. The cases were reported from Haridwar society in Bholav, Goa Tekri in Ankleshwar, Shriji Falia in Netrang and Malhar Green city in Bharuch town. The total Covid-19 positive cases in Bharuch has reached 77.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/17-day-old-baby-girl-from-vyara-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76363982.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||Stray dogs poisoned in Mysuru: FIR registered||MYSURU: An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons for allegedly poisoning stray dogs in Kuvempunagar. Five dogs were found dead on Friday. Harish KB a resident of the area filed the complaint about the incident. The complaint states that residents on Wednesday afternoon informed the NGO People For Animals about a person poisoning two stray dogs near VDB Mint Apartment at Kuvempunagar. While one dog had died on the way to the PFA rescue centre, the other was being treated by vets. The deceased dog was shifted to Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals (IAHVB) Hospital on Dhanvantri Road. PFA head Savitha Nagabhushan told TOI that on Friday, PFA volunteers found a stray dog suffering near the sub registrar office in Kuvempunagar. “The dog is in critical condition and in coma. A complaint has been filed at Kuvempunagar police station,” she said. MCC animal husbandry assistant director VO Thirumala Gowda told TOI that the samples of the dead stray dogs have been sent to IAHVB Hospital in Hebbal, Bengaluru. “We are waiting for the test results to know the cause of death. Based on the complaint, police have launched a probe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/stray-dogs-poisoned-in-mysuru-fir-registered/articleshow/76364351.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||37 cops recover from Covid-19||KOLKATA: As many as 37 Kolkata Police personnel from different units, who had been diagnosed with Covid-19, were released from KPC Hospital on Saturday. Most of the infected cops had fever and some other symptoms at the time of admission. With their release, the number of Kolkata police personnel who have recovered rose to 165. Twenty other cops admitted to the same hospital are likely to recover soon. After being released from hospital, they were asked to undergo two weeks of home quarantine and some extra rest, if possible. The good news, though, was short lived as news of 10 new personnel getting infected was reported from the Kolkata Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/37-cops-recover-from-covid-19/articleshow/76364404.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 14, 2020||Patna||A week on, hotels & malls still struggle to return to normalcy||PATNA: A week after hotels, restaurants and shopping malls in the city were permitted to reopen as part of Unlock 1.0, they are still struggling to return to normalcy and attract customers. Several mall employees claimed that the footfalls had not been consistent since June 8. Asharam Singh, the chief security officer of a shopping mall on Patliputra Kurji Road, told this newspaper on Saturday, “The number of visitors keeps dwindling. I think a lot of them still do not know that malls have reopened.” According to hoteliers, the two-month lockdown also had a “disastrous impact” on the hospitality sector, especially at tourist places like Bodh Gaya and Rajgir. Rakesh Ranjan, the general manager of a Rajgir-based resort, said the business was slowly picking up the pace, but “things are not expected to return to normalcy before October”. “There were some couples and friends from Patna and Kolkata, who visited us recently. We also made a booking for a wedding,” he added. Even parks are witnessing poor turnout these days. Dilip Kumar, a security guard at Rajdhani Vatika or Eco Park, said, “Earlier, nearly 1,000 people would come here in the morning. Now, the number has dipped to 500. However, the response is much better during the evening hours.” The rising trend in coronavirus cases has also prompted many devotees not to visit places of worship. Kishore Kunal, secretary of Mahavir Temple Trust Committee, pointed out, “There is hardly a difference in the number of people, who visit the temple every day. However, the occasional visitors are not coming. We have also witnessed a drastic fall in the number of devotees on Tuesdays and Saturdays.” Similar is the situation at the Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara where only 30% of the devotees are coming nowadays. M S Dhillon, secretary of the Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Prabandhak Committee, said, “The situation will remain the same till the crisis exists.” Elderly miss morning walks: People above the age of 65 years and below 10, who are not allowed to enter parks, have started missing their morning walks. Sexagenarian Vimal Kishor, a retired professor, said, “Before the lockdown, there was not a single day when I would not visit parks and do yoga with my friends. But now with so many restrictions in place, I am not allowed to go out which is traumatizing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-week-on-hotels-malls-still-struggle-to-return-to-normalcy/articleshow/76362944.cms||Archi Rani
June 14, 2020||Patna||Nepal APF frees detained man from Bihar||PATNA/SITAMARHI: An Indian citizen, who was detained by the Nepalese paramilitary forces on Friday following the firing incident in which a Sitamarhi villager was killed, was released on Saturday. Ram Lagan Rai, 45, returned to his village Jankinagar under Sonbarsa police station amid a dharna by his family members and local residents, who had assembled near the India-Nepal border, after Rai was taken into custody by the Nepal Armed Police Force personnel on Friday morning. The protesters shouted anti-Nepal government slogans. “Minor incidents of clashes do happen on the border from both sides and subsequently they are sorted out. And Friday’s incident was no exception. It was related to a local issue and had nothing to do with any dispute over territory between the two neighbouring countries,” said Sanjay Kumar, IG of SSB, Frontier Headquarters, confirming the safe release of the Indian national. A 25-year-old youth Vikesh Kumar, stated to be a migrant worker from Jankinagar under Pipra Parsaini panchayat, was killed and two others were injured in the police firing by APF personnel inside Nepal territory at Sarlahi. The condition of the two injured—Udai Thakur (27) and Umesh Ram (20)— is stated to be out of danger. Rai was set free after a dialogue between officials of the two countries led by Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar and SSB officials on the Indian side and the Nepal team headed by DIG Raj Aaryal. Recalling his ordeal, Rai alleged that he was physically and mentally harassed by the APF personnel to force him to confess that he was taken into custody from inside Nepal. “I rushed towards Indian territory after the firing by APF personnel on a group of people, who had gone inside Nepal territory to meet some relatives. “But APF personnel assaulted me with rifle butts and dragged me inside Nepal territory. Thereafter, I was taken to Sangrampur where they tortured me,” Rai alleged. Rai also showed injury marks on his back. “Friday’s incident has shaken me from within. The people of two nations have cordial relations since ages. People from both sides cross the porous border for agriculture work. I have been doing this since childhood. But we never faced such a situation before,” he said. The last rites of the deceased, Vikesh Kumar, was conducted after the APF relented and set detainee Rai free unconditionally, a senior police officer said. Sources said Vikesh, a migrant worker, had returned to his village in Sitamarhi from Ludhiana in Punjab after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. “He returned home in the hope that he will not die of hunger in an alien land (Ludhiana). But destiny had willed otherwise,” said a close relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepal-apf-frees-detained-man/articleshow/76363050.cms||Ramashankar
June 14, 2020||Patna||Fake job advertisement: Power firm lodges FIR in Bihar||PATNA: Days after publication of a fake advertisement on a website about recruitment of 575 junior engineers in Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited (BSPHCL) for year 2020, an FIR was lodged by the power firm with Kotwali police station here on Friday. The candidates were asked by the fraudsters to fill up online form and submit fee. To make things look genuine, several links and BSPHCL’s logo were used by the fraudsters along with description of vacancies according to reservation category, pay scale and different terms and conditions which are generally seen in advertisements for actual vacancies. The BSPHCL, in a press statement, said fake advertisements had been published with an intention to misguide people and dupe them. SHO of Kotwali police station Ramashankar Singh said they have started an investigation into the matter. “It will take some time to get the details as the matter is related to a website. Technical support will be sought from the cyber cell,” he added. On June 9, fraudsters had pasted a result list near gate number 6 of Bihar Legislative Assembly. The list had contained names of “successful” candidates for group-D vacancies in the assembly. The fake results created a flutter in the government circles. Later, assembly’s under secretary Vimlendu Bhushan Kumar lodged an FIR with Sachivalaya police station. City SP (central) Vinay Tiwary said police are investigating the matter and trying to zero in on suspects who had pasted the fake results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fake-job-advertisement-power-firm-lodges-fir/articleshow/76364115.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Surat||Three booked for extorting from cryptocurrency fraud accused||Surat: Three persons were booked by the Umra police on Friday for alleged extortion of Rs 70 lakh from a man accused in multiple cases of cryptocurrency fraud. The accused had allegedly started extorting money from Divyesh Darji in July 2019 and continued till March 2020.Those booked include Umesh Jain, a resident of Kamrej, his associate Gautam and Jain’s driver. The accused were booked for extortion, voluntarily causing hurt to extort property and others. Police are yet to make any arrest in the case.The complainant Darji is main accused in Bitconnect cryptocurrency racket and co-accused in similar offences registered in other parts of Gujarat and country. He is accused of fraudulently collecting investment from individuals in cryptocurrency and later disappearing with money. Darji was arrested by CID crime and he is currently out on bail. In his complaint, Darji alleged that, Jain had kidnapped him on July 9 in a car and thrashed him. He said that Jain was demanding Rs 1.25 crore claiming he had invested the money in Dokado, another coin floated by Darji. Initially Darji claimed that there was no money invested by Jain but following threats he agreed to pay the money. Darji Rs 70 lakh in cash and cheque to Jain in multiple transactions. Meanwhile, Jain continued to demand money and on August 16 he made 2,104 calls to Darji for money. As Jain continued to demand money, Darji approached police in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-booked-for-extorting-from-cryptocurrency-fraud-accused/articleshow/76364150.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||Twin cities’ troika are ‘blood relatives’ of a different kind||Hubballi: What’s the common thread passing through Suchit Angadi, 28, civil engineer; Shambhu Alagundagi, 35, tax consultant; and Sanjeev Achalkar, 37, medical representative? It’s their noble gesture of donating blood, which the trio has been doing for the last 7-8 years. Their passion for blood donation and creating the related awareness has made them float SamVruksha, an organisation to help needy patients. Angadi, who has donated blood/ platelets 51 times, told STOI that his father Lingaraj Angadi, president of Dharwad district Kannada Sahitya Parishat, has also donated blood 36 times. “Though there should be a gap of three months between two donations, we keep donating platelets as it can be done after every fortnight,” said Angadi, the founder of the SamVruksha. Alagundagi has donated blood 17 times and platelets four times. He was earlier involved with Red Drop team, which works for the cause of blood donation and awareness. “Under SamVruksha, we have expanded our services to distribution of ration kits during lockdown and helping flood-affected people. In the 31 blood donation camps conducted over the last eight years, we have collected 2,200 units of blood,” he said. Achalkar has made 43 donations — 10 for whole blood and 33 for platelets. He said that they have formed blood group-wise WhatsApp groups of donors. “From those 10 groups, we have over 1,000 donors in the twin cities. Some of them have donated platelets over 90 times,” he added. The trio said they are trying to disprove myths and fear surrounding blood donation. “We are trying to convince people to celebrate their special occasions by donating blood. The need for blood is increased by the day. To address this, people should come forward in large numbers,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/twin-cities-troika-are-blood-relatives-of-a-different-kind/articleshow/76363991.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 14, 2020||Surat||Post-lockdown proving to be a harrowing time for cops in Surat||Surat: The city police is facing a strange situation while dealing with criminals. Without knowing the medical status of the accused, the police have to arrest them. Cops also have to get their Covid-19 test done before producing the accused in court. During this process, the police personnel have to stay with them at least two days. During the lockdown, police arrested a large number of people for violation of order issued under public notification and negligent behaviour that could spread the infection. These accused were released on bail soon after arrest to reduce chances of infection to the cops. But in serious crimes like rioting, murder, kidnapping and rape, police have to arrest the accused and send them to judicial custody. Among those arrested during the over two-month lockdown, at least 13 accused out of 58 tested positive. . “It is a tricky situation for police to work in the post-lockdown period. As we don’t know who is infected and as part of duty we come in close contact with those arrested. As the restrictions in movement of people ends with the lockdown, there is the possibility of rise in crime and hence the risk is high for police,” city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt told TOI. Till now total 30 policemen, homeguard, SRP and TRB jawans have been found positive in the city. Senior officials in the city police claim that the situation is better compared to Ahmedabad. To deal with the such situations, the police department is also taking various steps with which cops can stay safe. City police distributed 500 litres of sanitiser, 2.34 lakh masks, 2,500 faceshield, 57,000 pairs of gloves and 2,000 PPE kits to its staff. “The city police will continue taking various steps to ensure that our staff doesn’t get infected,” Bhrahmbhatt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/post-lockdown-proving-to-be-a-harrowing-time-for-cops-in-surat/articleshow/76364072.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Strict checking for entrants from Delhi to check Covid-19 spread: Captain Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern about the spread of Covid-19 in the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday called for strict checking of people coming from other states, particularly Delhi, where cases are spiralling out of control. However, he made it clear that Punjabis can get hospital beds reserved in Punjab on the recommendation of a Delhi hospital. The chief minister was responding to a question from a Punjab resident working in Delhi during his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. On the issue of sealing borders with other states, Amarinder said while Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh have sealed their borders with Punjab, people from Haryana and Delhi are coming in large numbers every day. On Friday alone, 6,500 vehicles entered Punjab from Delhi and Haryana, which translated into about 20,000 people coming from these states on a single day, he said. In view of the increasing number of positive cases in the state, the CM said Punjab government is considering ways of making entry norms more stringent. Of the 2,986 cases reported in Punjab, 1,471 can be traced to outsiders and their contacts, he said. On 117 cases reported in the state in one day, the chief minister said it was caused by the influx of people into the state, where as many as 43,000 people have come in one month. In addition to people landing in Amritsar from Dubai and other places, trains culminating in the historic city are also adding to the deluge of people, he said, adding that maximum cases were reported from Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. Another reason for more cases being reported is intensified testing, which has gone up from the initial 700 to 11,000, he said. The state government, Amarinder said, is in the process of procuring latest machines to increase the number of tests to 20,000 a day. So far, a total of 1,65,000 tests have been conducted, he said, quoting experts as saying that testing is the only vaccine against Covid-19 at present. Of the 2,986 positive cases reported, 2,282 have fully recovered, with 532 in isolation facilities and only nine in high dependency units, with two patients on ventilators, he said. The CM said testing facilities would soon be established in Pathankot and Gurdaspur, so that people from these cities do not have to go to Amritsar to get their tests done. The health department is also in the process of training more medical staff, he added.  In reply to a question, he said he hoped that the situation would not arise wherein the state’s health infrastructure would get overwhelmed. Already, the state government was allowing asymptomatic patients or those will mild symptoms to remain in home isolation, to ensure that there is not major burden on the health system, he pointed out. Answering a question, Amarinder said all deputy commissioners were being directed to check meat shops to see if any meat was being sold without protocol to avert any virus spread from this source. Home delivery is allowed for senior citizens during the weekend or gazetted holiday lockdown and DCs were being given instructions on this count, he clarified. There was also no bar on industrial operations, while marriages and funerals/Bhog ceremonies could also be held with the restricted numbers as allowed by central government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/strict-checking-for-entrants-from-delhi-to-check-covid-19-spread-capt/articleshow/76364740.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Strict checking for entrants from Delhi to check Covid-19 spread: Captain Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern about the spread of Covid-19 in the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday called for strict checking of people coming from other states, particularly Delhi, where cases are spiralling out of control. However, he made it clear that Punjabis can get hospital beds reserved in Punjab on the recommendation of a Delhi hospital. The chief minister was responding to a question from a Punjab resident working in Delhi during his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. On the issue of sealing borders with other states, Amarinder said while Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh have sealed their borders with Punjab, people from Haryana and Delhi are coming in large numbers every day. On Friday alone, 6,500 vehicles entered Punjab from Delhi and Haryana, which translated into about 20,000 people coming from these states on a single day, he said. In view of the increasing number of positive cases in the state, the CM said Punjab government is considering ways of making entry norms more stringent. Of the 2,986 cases reported in Punjab, 1,471 can be traced to outsiders and their contacts, he said. On 117 cases reported in the state in one day, the chief minister said it was caused by the influx of people into the state, where as many as 43,000 people have come in one month. In addition to people landing in Amritsar from Dubai and other places, trains culminating in the historic city are also adding to the deluge of people, he said, adding that maximum cases were reported from Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. Another reason for more cases being reported is intensified testing, which has gone up from the initial 700 to 11,000, he said. The state government, Amarinder said, is in the process of procuring latest machines to increase the number of tests to 20,000 a day. So far, a total of 1,65,000 tests have been conducted, he said, quoting experts as saying that testing is the only vaccine against Covid-19 at present. Of the 2,986 positive cases reported, 2,282 have fully recovered, with 532 in isolation facilities and only nine in high dependency units, with two patients on ventilators, he said. The CM said testing facilities would soon be established in Pathankot and Gurdaspur, so that people from these cities do not have to go to Amritsar to get their tests done. The health department is also in the process of training more medical staff, he added.  In reply to a question, he said he hoped that the situation would not arise wherein the state’s health infrastructure would get overwhelmed. Already, the state government was allowing asymptomatic patients or those will mild symptoms to remain in home isolation, to ensure that there is not major burden on the health system, he pointed out. Answering a question, Amarinder said all deputy commissioners were being directed to check meat shops to see if any meat was being sold without protocol to avert any virus spread from this source. Home delivery is allowed for senior citizens during the weekend or gazetted holiday lockdown and DCs were being given instructions on this count, he clarified. There was also no bar on industrial operations, while marriages and funerals/Bhog ceremonies could also be held with the restricted numbers as allowed by central government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/strict-checking-for-entrants-from-delhi-to-check-covid-19-spread-capt/articleshow/76366671.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Private labs may stop Covid-19 tests if Maharashtra’s reduced rates are applied||NAGPUR: The state government’s decision to reduce Covid-19 testing prices from Rs4,500 to Rs2,200 has drawn sharp reaction among owners of private laboratories in the city because they feel the new testing prices is not going to help meeting even the infrastructure expenses. Most of them hints at closing down the business to avoid losses. “We will stop doing Covid-19 tests if revised rates are applied in Nagpur,” said Dr Rajkumar Rathi, whose lab has received approval to test Covid-19 samples just three days ago. According to him, proprietors of private laboratories have spend lakhs of rupees to meet the ICMR requirements for Covid-19 testings. “The machine costs more than Rs25 lakh. A simple but needful independent refrigerator to store samples costs Rs3.50 lakh. Staff and technicians who are working in Covid lab get additional payment for their job. In Rs2,200 per test, it’s impossible to recover this money,” Rathi said. Dr Shailesh Mundhada of Dhruva Pathology Laboratory said that it will be difficult to manage testing at such a low price. “Lot of expenses other than machine and kits are involved in testing. NABL accreditation, PPE kits for staff, biomedical waste disposal, Covid-19 insurance for our staff and many other expenses are there. The state government should have taken into consideration all these heads,” he said, adding that some reduction was necessary but these rates were too low. A senior official from one of the government labs in the city told TOI that private labs were a good addition into the city’s testing capacity. “Testing had become very easy for those who could pay for it. Now, all have to wait for government labs. Many may not come forward for testing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/private-labs-may-stop-covid-tests-if-states-reduced-rates-are-applied/articleshow/76363762.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents pitch for fee reduction||Hyderabad: With schools insisting on payment of fee during lockdown, the Hyderabad Schools Parents Association(HSPA) demanded that the state should direct schools to waive off the fee for the first-quarter or 50% fee off from all private schools as students have been at homes since the March. The Parents Association said that despite the state’s order to collect only tuition fee, many schools are violating the norms by charging various other fees for food, activities, etc. “On June 14, the parents from all the states will join a Twitter campaign to to make our voices reach to the govts of our respective states and Center,” the members said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-pitch-for-fee-reduction/articleshow/76365052.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||No no-confidence motion against Mundhe at GB: BJP and Congress||Nagpur: An online petition opposing the transfer demand of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was submitted to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after 15,000 people signed it. On Saturday, the petition continued to generate interest and now has more than 24,000 signatories.In another development, mayor Sandip Joshi has called for a general body meeting on June 20. It is being organized after a gap of three months due to the Covid-19 scare and lockdown. The meeting is to be held not at the usual place of Town Hall in Mahal but at the Suresh Bhat Auditorium in Reshimbagh.A few days ago, BJP and Congress corporators had threatened to bring a no-confidence motion against Mundhe in the general body. However, Joshi told TOI that only pre-monsoon works (see box) will be discussed at the meeting. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav and opposition leader Tanaji Wanve too said there is no plan to move any motion against Mundhe.Joshi added that the meeting venue has been changed to ensure Covid distancing is maintained and all norms complied with even as Nagpur is approaching mark of 1000 positive cases. Citing steep rise in cases, the state government had postponed its monsoon session from June 22 to August 3.According to the mayor, all corporators are facing criticism from people due to pending works. “Storm water and sewage drain networks are badly choked and needs repair,” said Joshi.On a government nod to hold the meet, Joshi said, “I have submitted the notice for the meeting to Mundhe. The agenda too has been issued which means he has given approval.”The mayor added that the meet is not a “programme or gathering but a forum where policies for the city are discussed”.Two days ago, ministers of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) from the district and speaker Nana Patole had demanded the transfer of Mundhe. After an FIR was filed against Congress corporator Nitin Sathwane for allegedly obstructing mass quarantine of people of Satranjipura, Jadhav, Wanve and some corporators had warned of the no-confidence motion.On Friday, an anonymous observer moved an online petition — ‘Nagpur city needs Mr Tukaram Mundhe. We do not want any transfer right now’. Though it has been submitted to the CM, it continues to evoke responses.Though Covid-19 cases crossed 1 lakh in state, the city has registered below 900 cases and 11 deaths. The central government’s Rapid Response Team and experts had credit fewer cases and mortality to NMC’s mass quarantine and testing model, and innovative measures. As per general body norms, any corporator can move a no-confidence motion by submitting a proposal three days before the meeting or while discussing issues or by tabling adjournment motion etc.According to NMC sources, the BJP is keen to see Mundhe out of the way but is apprehensive that the CM may not approve its request. “The Congress leaders have the backing of BJP in this,” they said.Mundhe became the civic chief in January. He has apparently never completed the three-year term in previous postings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-no-confidence-motion-against-mundhe-at-gb-bjp-and-congress/articleshow/76363753.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 14, 2020||India||3 kids among 6 killed in MP mine collapse||NEW DELHI: Six people, including two women and three minors, were killed and three critically injured when a village limestone quarry caved in on Saturday morning in MP’s Shahdol district. The victims were working in a five- to six-foot-deep quarry in Papredi village, the likes of which are common in these parts, to excavate limestone. Around 10 villagers had entered the mine when it collapsed at around 8 am. "It was the farm of a local. Extracting such minerals is allowed for local villagers. There is normal soil for fivesix feet and below it there is white soil, like limestone," collector Satendra Singh told TOI. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief at the deaths and announced compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the families of the dead. Ex-CM Kamal Nath also expressed condolences. Those killed in the mine collapse in Madhya Pradesh were identified as 13-year-olds Mangal Saket and Rajesh Saket, 16-year-old Rohit Chowdhary, Arjun (23), Hirawati (42) and Buti Bai (60). They were from Papredi and Boddiha villages. Four others were severely injured and three of them were sent to a district hospital in critical condition. A backhoe loader was used to dig out the bodies. Meanwhile, the district collector ordered the quarry to be demolished and the ground levelled. CMShivraj Singh Chouhan said Rs 5,000 has been given to the kin of those killed for the last rites, and Rs 10,000 each as interim relief. The injured will be treated at state expense.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-kids-among-6-killed-in-mp-mine-collapse/articleshow/76365155.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Goon throws cocktail party on wife’s birthday||Nagpur: A young woman, who is a DJ-cum-model and wife of a goon, celebrated her birthday celebrated in the first week of June at an apartment near Sonegaon lake with around 40 people in attendance though Covid norms prohibit such activities.The cocktail party was attended by several goons, her family members and friends. One of the goons had been earlier questioned by the state ATS and nabbed with a firearm. Around a few years ago, the woman’s husband had stabbed a musician on seeing him getting close to his girlfriend-turned-wife.Named in several cases, the goon had invited several upcoming criminals from the city, said a source and added that food and booze was ordered online.Sources from the crime branch said that cops have started collecting information about the party. Addl CP Nilesh Bharne said that police are keeping close watch on activities of the goons, including parties at farmhouses and private places. “It’s learnt goons from south Nagpur are throwing parties and indulging in such activities. We are on the prowl and none would be spared,” said Bharne. The birthday party is the latest which is doing the rounds after the so-called ‘mutton party’ of Naik Talao and another one at Civil Lines by high-class people of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-throws-cocktail-party-on-wifes-birthday/articleshow/76363770.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 14, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Body of BHU’s missing medico found in Ganga||VARANASI: The body of an MBBS student of Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Navneet Parashar, who was missing since June 9 morning, was found floating in river Ganga near Kolhua Ghat under Chilh police station area in Mirzapur district on Saturday. Parashar, a native of Gopalganj, Bihar was a 2015 batch student and was doing his internship.A case of missing was lodged with Lanka police in Varanasi on June 9 after complaint of his hostel inmates. Parashar had collected all photographs of deities from the walls of his room and left his mobile before leaving on his motorcycle. SP Mirzapur Dharmvir Singh said Vindhyachal police team led by inspector Ved Prakash Rai located the body in the Ganga near Kolhua Ghat after continuing search operation for past four days. ASP city Prakash Swaroop Pandey and CO city Sudhir Kumar reached the spot on being informed about the recovery of body. ASP Pandey informed Navneet’s family in Gopalganj district of Bihar about the body. His father Manoj and other family members left for Mirzapur. Singh said, “Parashar’s motorcycle was found abandoned in forests of Vindhyachal area and its keys later from the steps of Vindhyavasini Dham temple. Mirzapur cops collected details about missing people and traced the motorcycle and case lodged at Lanka police station in Varanasi.” Several teams were set up to search Parashar in forests of Vindhyachal and in the river. When the CCTV footage of Vindhyachal temple was checked, Parashar was seen moving between the temple and Ganga ghat in wet clothes between 1.35 pm and 1.50pm on June 9. Police said Parashar had gone missing for over a week last year also, but had returned after spending time in Sarnath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/body-of-bhus-missingmedico-found-in-ganga/articleshow/76364380.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Covid deaths cross 9,000; 12,000+ cases on Saturday||New Delhi: India’s Covid-19 death toll crossed 9,000 on Saturday with fatalities surging in the past few days, even as new infections reported from across the country touched another new high. As many as 12,368 fresh cases were reported, the first time that the single-day count has crossed 12,000. Saturday’s tally of new cases was the sixth single-day peak in the past eight days. India’s Covid-19 caseload has risen to over 3.21 lakh, just a day after crossing the 3 lakh milestone. With 310 fatalities reported on Saturday, the country’s death toll rose to 9,195 — the ninth highest number of deaths from the virus in the world. Since India has the world’s fourth largest Covid-19 caseload, the mortality rate is quite low compared to most of the worst-hit nations. However, deaths from the coronavirus have seen an uptick in the past 10 days, when 312 people on average have succumbed to the infection every day. That’s more than double the average of 137 daily deaths seen during the month of May. The last 10 days have accounted for more than a third of all deaths from the virus since the first one on March 12. The surge is also reflected in India’s case fatality rate (the percentage of patients dying from the disease). The CFR, which had been gradually but consistently dropping since May 10, has shown a slight increase since June 12, rising from 2.8% to 2.9%. The record spike in cases on Saturday was again led by 3,427 new infections reported from Maharashtra, with Mumbai reporting 1,380 cases. With 113 deaths on Saturday, a slight drop from the toll in the past three days, the state has recorded 3,830 deaths in all. Its CFR remains significantly higher than the national average at 3.66%. Delhi remained a major source of worry for health authorities, as the city reported another record 2,134 new infections, the second straight day when the count has crossed 2,000. With this, the total tally of Covid-19 in Delhi has reached 38,958, third highest in the country after Maharashtra (1,04568) and Tamil Nadu (42,687). In terms of active cases, Delhi is second only to Maharashtra. Besides Delhi, Telangana (253 new cases), Andhra Pradesh (222), Odisha (225), Ladakh (198) and Sikkim (33) were among the states that reported their single-day highest count of cases. Infections also continued to surge in Tamil Nadu (1,989 cases on Saturday), Gujarat (517), Uttar Pradesh (503), Bengal (454), Haryana (415) and Rajasthan (333), among others. Ladakh recorded a massive surge in cases on Saturday, taking the total tally in the Union territory to 437, officials said as a strict lockdown was reimposed June 30 in Kargil which has the most active cases. All the fresh cases were reported from Kargil. Andhra Pradesh witnessed a new high in daily Covid-19 cases on Saturday with the pandemic infecting 222 more people including 22 police personnel. It also recorded two more deaths taking the Covid-19 toll to 82. The fresh cases pushed the state’s cumulative Covid-19 caseload to 5,858 with as many as 94 people were declared cured on Saturday. In Odisha, the biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases so far of 225 took the number of infections in the state to 3,723, the health department said on Saturday. Worryingly, the test positivity rate — which refers to the percentage of samples returning positive — for the day was 5.7%, compared to the state’s average positivity rate of 1.9%. The 225 fresh positive cases emerged from 3,880 samples tested on Friday. Tamil Nadu added 30 deaths, some of them from three weeks ago, to its Covid-19 toll on Saturday bringing into focus discrepancies in its count. And, with 1,989 fresh cases, the state’s tally rose to 42,687 cases, 30,444 in Chennai alone Earlier this week, TOI had reported that at least 236 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai until June 8 had not been added to the pandemic death register. Now it turns out that two senior officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, who face blame for the misreporting, are part of a nine-member committee formed to set things right. On Saturday, the committee added seven deaths that occurred between May 23 and June 7 to the toll. With the death of a retired doctor from Parray Pora area of Srinagar who was tested positive for Covid-19 died at JVC Bemina during the intervening night on Friday and Saturday, the death toll in J&K has reached 55.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-deaths-cross-9000-12000-cases-on-saturday/articleshow/76364748.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Migrants keen on going home find most local bodies shut||PANAJI: On Saturday morning, Anil Sha, a native of Uttar Pradesh, set out for the Verna panchayat with three other friends to register for return to their native state. Working as labourers in an industrial unit in Verna, the four were keen on meeting the June 14 deadline for re-registration. But the friends found the panchayat office shut as it was the second Saturday of the month. They were not alone. When migrant workers turned up at panchayat offices across Goa on Saturday to re-register themselves, they found them shut. From Sangolda, Parra, Tivim and Kundaim to Betalbatim, the CCP and the Margao Municipal Council, none was open. As per Supreme Court directives, states must make travel arrangements by June 22 for stranded migrant workers to return to their native states. “Work at the industrial unit we are employed at has started. We have no shortage of food or supplies now. But my parents are urging me to return. We had earlier registered with the panchayat but we did not receive any calls to catch the Shramik Special trains. On Saturday too, the Verna panchayat was shut and then someone told us we have to register at Cortalim as we live in Consua. I hope we can register on Sunday at least,” Sha said. A citizen volunteer said that after pursuing the case with the district collectors and member secretary of the state disaster management authority, they have been informed that registrations will now be allowed to continue on Monday. Volunteers, however, said the workers faced extreme difficulties on Saturday, with some panchayats stating that they still haven’t received forms for the re-registrations or that panchayats are no longer meant to carry out registrations and that the process will be done at the deputy collector’s office. The collector’s office, however, clarified later that panchayats themselves have to re-register migrant workers. Only a few panchayats like Mopa made it a point to fix a time for registration and got it completed for all migrants who approached the office. Even labour minister Jennifer Monserrate was seen being questioned on Twitter by citizens about panchayat offices being closed on Saturday, when she had tweeted about June 14 being the deadline for registration process. “In compliance of the Supreme Court order, fresh registration of stranded migrants workers in Goa is being conducted till June 14 at panchayat and municipality offices. Application forms are available free of cost. Transportation will be planned and undertaken by June 22,” the authorities had stated earlier. “It is very painful for us to receive calls from workers after we had popularised the administration’s messages with the deadline as June 14,” said a citizen volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrants-keen-on-going-home-find-most-local-bodies-shut/articleshow/76365057.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Will cherish IMA memories forever, say foreign cadets||DEHRADUN: At the 146th Passing Out Parade (POP) held at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday, 90 foreign cadets from friendly foreign countries were commissioned as Army officers. The gentlemen cadets (GCs) belong to countries like Afghanistan, Bhutan, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, and Sri Lanka among others. Speaking to TOI, Mohammad Nasir, a GC from Afghanistan, said, “I come from an Army family. I remember that my uncle had died on duty. Initially, my family members tried to hide it from me but later I got to know about it. The training at IMA has prepared me to serve my country with my best potential. I had an amazing experience with my Indian colleagues at the academy.” Another cadet from Afghanistan, Riyazuddin Musleh said, “Terrorism is everywhere and it’s our duty to eradicate it. I intend to fight against anti-social elements in our country and for that, we have received a high level of training at the IMA.” Ilimotama Rakavono from Fiji thanked his colleagues at IMA for improving his understanding of Hindi language. “I used to listen to Hindi songs back in Fiji but couldn't understand all of it. Now, my Hindi has improved a lot because of my colleagues at the IMA. Also, I got to experience the winter season for the first time in my life at the academy here as we don’t experience cold weather at all in Fiji,” said Rakavono. Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General MM Naravane who was the reviewing officer of the POP congratulated the 90 gentlemen cadets from friendly foreign countries on successful completion of course. He said, “I am sure, you as ambassadors of your country carry back a treasure of fond memories of IMA and training which you shall cherish for a lifetime. The Indian Military Academy has imparted training which will form the bedrock for your growth, both professional and personal, and will definitely strengthen the ties between our countries.” Meanwhile, IMA officials said they had arranged for the return of the foreign cadets to their countries despite travel restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic by co-ordinating with the embassies of the respective nations. “The cadets will first leave for Delhi and from there, they will take the flight to their home country. Cadets from Bhutan will leave on Saturday night and those from Afghanistan will go on Sunday morning. All foreign cadets will leave IMA within a week’s time,”an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-cherish-ima-memories-forever-say-foreign-cadets/articleshow/76363775.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 14, 2020||Kochi||It’s bumpy rides again as potholes mushroom in Kochi||KOCHI: The monsoon rains have started to expose the bad condition of many of the city roads. Despite road owners like Kochi Corporation, GCDA and PWD taking up efforts to relay roads following the high court’s intervention, potholes have begun to emerge on many stretches, including on NH 66 between Vyttila and Kundanoor. Puddles have formed on many roads where tiled sections meet the tarred portions of the road. The joints are not evenly laid, and the rainwater gets collected along the uneven surfaces. A drive along the Kaloor-Kathrikadavu Road reveals a couple of areas, where such puddles have been formed due to uneven road surfaces. “There are differences in height between the tiled surfaces and the tarred portions at several places. The tiled surfaces are at a higher level. If slopes are not properly laid, water gets collected at these places when it rains. Eventually, it will affect the durability of roads,” said Sudha Dileepkumar, corporation councillor. She also said often the road works begin long after preparing the estimates. “By the time, cost estimates would escalate. The contractor will not relay the entire stretch of the road, and some portions will remain unfinished. It results in cracking up of road surfaces and formation of potholes,” she added. Potholes are visible at Puthiya Road near NH 66, AL Jacob flyover, along Chembumukku-Vazhakkala stretch, and between Palarivattom Junction and Pipeline Junction on NH 66. The national highway stretch between Kundannoor Junction and Tripunithura bypass also needs relaying. The road near the corporation building bus stop at Vyttila Junction is also in a bad shape, and traffic movement has slowed down in the area. “As the monsoon is expected to gain momentum in July, these small potholes will become bigger. When large potholes are formed, they will disrupt smooth movement of traffic and cause fatal accidents. Road owners will have to take immediate steps to fill these potholes before it turns into a larger issue,” said Aswathy Anujan, a student. Meanwhile, in the city, many works associated with culverts are being carried out as part of Operation Breakthrough. Some of the roads are dug up for these works. Citing the case of the exit point of Pullepady railway over bridge towards MG Road, Sudha Dileepkumar said efforts are on to remove the silt and muck accumulated at the area. Culvert works need to be executed to prevent waterlogging in low-lying areas at Pulleppady. “Once the works are completed, the road will be re-laid using tiles. The culvert on Rajaji Road is almost over. Similar works are being carried out at various parts of the city as part of Operation Breakthrough,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/its-bumpy-rides-again-as-potholes-mushroom/articleshow/76363789.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||NPA cadets armed with thermo guns to counter virus threat||Hyderabad: SVP National Police Academy (SVPNPA) 2018 cadets who are otherwise supposed to be training with actual guns, are now mandated to use a different gun on a regular basis - the thermo gun. Each of the 137 cadets were given a thermo gun and are mandated to record their body temperature on a regular basis during their ongoing quarantine stay in SVPNPA campus. This measure was one of the several preventive measures which were taken by the academy, keeping in view that two of its cadets tested positive for Covid-19. If any of the trainee IPS officers shows signs of fever, such as an increase in temperature during their temperature check-up, they are expected to immediately report to the academy authorities. As a precautionary measure, the academy officials have allocated accommodation to all the 137 cadets in the guest house, which is on a hillock inside the academy, to avoid them coming contact with areas where the academy staff will be present. “The online classes are already in progress. Even the two cadets who tested positive are attending the classes while being in quarantine. We asked all the cadets to self record their temperature and keep us informed in case of fever,” a senior SPVNPA officer told TOI. The cadets who tested positive, had contracted coronavirus while they were in District Practical Training (DPT) recently at their cadre allotted states. As a result, when the 2018 batch cadets reported to academy, all of them were tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/npa-cadets-armed-with-thermo-guns-to-counter-virus-threat/articleshow/76365058.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 14, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Ventilator stolen from BHU’s Trauma Centre||VARANASI: A portable ventilator was stolen from BHU’s Trauma Centre by a person posing as service engineer on June 8. The university officials lodged a case in this connection after the theft came to light on Saturday. Inspector Lanka Ashwini Chaturvedi said, “Police are trying to identify the thief with the help of CCTV footage of the Trauma Centre. As the theft took place in a high security zone, the security personnel deployed there are also being interrogated.” Trauma Centre in-charge Prof SK Gupta said, “A portable ventilator of the hospital was lying defunct in yellow-red area of the campus due to technical snag. On June 8, a man met the nursing officer of the area claiming that he was a service engineer and had come to repair the ventilator. However, without reporting anything further, he left the campus with the machine.” The varsity officials came to know about the theft on Saturday morning when the news went viral on social media. They immediately lodged a case with Lanka police through varsity’s proctorial board. Proctorial board officers were also interrogating the Trauma Centre staff and the security personnel who were on duty at the time of theft. The Inspector said, “Efforts have been intensified to nab the thief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ventilator-stolen-from-bhus-trauma-centre/articleshow/76364388.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: District courts to not function till June-end||HYDERABAD: The full court of Telangana high court comprising chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and 13 other judges met on Saturday and decided to defer its earlier decision to let district courts function from June 15. The full court resolved that district courts will not function till the end of this month. They will be reopened only after a review by in June-end. The judges expressed anxiety over the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Advocate general BS Prasad appealed to the advocates’ fraternity to extend their cooperation to the decision of the high court. because it was taken to ensure safety and protection to the judges of the trial courts, staff, advocates and their clients. The high court, it can be recalled, has already decided not to commence physical hearing till the end of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dist-courts-to-not-function-till-june-end/articleshow/76364749.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||No harm in using sanitizers before namaz, say clerics & community elders||Nagpur: Amid a controversial decision against the use of alcohol-based sanitizers inside Masjids by an Islamic group in Uttar Pradesh, city clerics and religious bodies have clarified that the use of hand sanitizers can be permitted without violating any shariah laws.As sanitizers contain alcohol, which is forbidden in Islam, community members and imams were in doubt about its use even though Masjids are yet to open in Maharashtra.Clerics have started issuing advisories regarding personal hygiene and protocol as and when the government permits opening of religious places. Islamic scholar Maulana Abdullah Mazahiri said talks about sanitizers being haram (forbidden) are only confusing people. “We have consulted our higher institutions in Deoband and have got it clarified that there is no harm in using sanitizers. The alcohol they contain is not najayaz (illegitimate). It is common knowledge that alcohol is also used in perfumes and medicines. The same type of alcohol is used in sanitizers,” he said.Hamid Qureshi, secretary of Jamiat Islahul Muslameen, said Quran has forbidden consumption of alcohol while the sanitizer is for maintaining personal hygiene to kill any virus. “Still, those having doubts have the option of washing their hands with soap for more than 20 seconds instead of the quick solution,” he said.Jamiat Ulema Hind’s Maulana Masood Ahmed suggested that it is better to use soap or wash hands before establishing namaz. “This completely rules out the contentious issue of alcohol,” he said, adding that several health advisories have been issued discouraging excessive use of sanitizers.Jamiat Ulema Hind Nagpur district’s Maulana Siraj Ahmed said Darul Deoband has issued a fatwa on the use of sanitizers made from vegetables and fruits. “Such sanitizers can be used for hygiene purpose before namaz. One must try to find out the contents to reassure oneself,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-harm-in-using-sanitizers-before-namaz-say-clerics-community-elders/articleshow/76363776.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 14, 2020||Goa||No exams for junior yrs of BPharm, BFA||Panaji: Goa University (GU) said that semester-end exams for the junior years of the BPharm and BFA programmes in GU affiliated colleges will not be held. Only the final year exam will be conducted, which will be held by the respective colleges and not the university as usual. “The university has decided not to hold semester-end examinations for the second, fourth and sixth semester regular students of the BPharm programmes. The students of second and fourth semester shall be graded based on the marks scored by them in the internal test (sessional examination) during the current semester. The best of the performance in two internal tests shall be considered,” GU has said in a circular. In the case of sixth semester, the performance of one internal test will be considered to calculate the grade, the circular states. It has said that these instructions will be applicable unless the Pharmacy Council of India comes out with other regulations in this regard. Similarly, the university has said that semester-end exams will not be held for first, second and third year students of Bachelor in Fine Arts programme for the current academic year 2019-20. All the above students will be graded based on the marks scored by them in the internal test during the current semester, GU has said. “The fourth year BFA examination to be conducted by the college and the marks to be submitted to the examination division,” reads the circular. GU has extended validity of identity cards of its postgraduate students up to July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-exams-for-junior-yrs-of-bpharm-bfa/articleshow/76365059.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kochi||‘Demolish bund at Chilavannoor’||Kochi: The CPM district secretariat has asked the district collector to take steps to remove the coconut trees driven into the backwaters at Chilavannoor as it is causing damage to environment and waterlogging in many places. The district secretariat of the party also asked the state government to implement the Padmasarovaram project in its original form which according to the party is environment-friendly. Original plan was to implement the project in 16.7 acres on the shores of Chilavannoor backwaters, the party secretariat said in a press release. The project was designed in 2002, when C M Dinesh Mani was Kochi mayor. The project envisioned construction of an amusement park for children, open air theatre, lotus lake, boating pool, etc. But the corporation changed the plan in 2015 and started implementing the project in 2018. As per the revised plan, a viaduct will be constructed across the backwaters at Chilavanoor connecting Sohadaran Ayyappan Road and Subhash Chandra Bose Road. Cycle track and walkway will be set on the viaduct. The Rs 9-crore project was included in Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme. A seven-metre-long bund was constructed across the backwaters in the guise of facilitating the work on the viaduct. This is causing waterlogging in places like Kaloor, Kadavanthra and Elamkulam, the district secretariat said. At a time when many parts of the city are under the threat of waterlogging, mayor Soumini Jain is implementing the project which causes waterlogging in her own division, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demolish-bund-at-chilavannoor/articleshow/76363801.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||NRI from Anand dies in US||Vadodara/ Anand: An NRI from Anand who was settled in the United States (US) has died of Covid-19 on Friday. He was resident of Vasna village of Anand’s Borsad taluka. Sources said that Shailesh Patel had tested positive before ten days after which he was hospitalised but he succumbed in course of treatment. The 45-year-old had gone to US before a decade, but his family stays in Vasna village. There have been reports of many NRIs from the Charotar region succumbing to the deadly virus mainly in US. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Anand district reached 122 with a 80-year-old man, a resident of Anand city, testing positive. The elderly man is a resident of Maulana Mension on Polson Dairy Road. As many as 99 of the 120 patients have been discharged so far and 12 have died due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nri-from-anand-dies-in-us/articleshow/76363236.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Seven more HSRP fitting centres stop operations||Panaji: After a spike in Covid cases in Mangor hill forced suspension in services of the Vasco centre for fitting high security registration plates (HSRP), seven other HSRP centers in the state have stopped operations. “ Installation of the number plates at Canacona, Quepem, Ponda, Dharbondra, Bicholim, Mapusa and Pernem HSRP centres will not be operating for a few days,” Kate Kayani, in-charge of HSRP fitments in Goa said. The team is in the process of sending out messages to inform vehicle owners about the suspension of operations. Sources said that workers employed at these centres are from areas affected by the lockdown. After discussion with authorities, it was decided that the operations at these centres have to be suspended temporarily as a precautionary measure. The HSRP bookings counter at regional transport offices (RTOs) have also been shut. “Operations at the larger HSRP centres however will continue; at Porvorim for Panaji-based vehicles, and Arlem for Margao-based vehicles. Data entry operations are also continuing,” Kayani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-more-hsrp-fitting-centres-stop-operations/articleshow/76365060.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||80% Covid-19 cases due to Delhi: Health official||CHANDIGARH: With the number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana rising from 2,356 on June 1 to nearly 7,000 on June 12, an official of the health department has claimed that around 80% infected cases in the state were due to Delhi. Also, on contact tracing, most fresh patients have been found infected because of their connections in Delhi. As per the details, they had been traveling to Delhi frequently because of work or residence. Apart from border districts Gurugram, Faridabad and others, a Delhi connection has also been found in cases reported in Panipat and Karnal. Talking to TOI on the surge in cases, Haryana additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora said it was natural to see some increase in Covid-19 cases after most areas were opened in the state on lifting of lockdown. “Majority of cases in the state are from Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, which have direct access to Delhi. People travel frequently to Delhi for work or other reasons. Also, in other districts, we found from the examination of data that a majority of cases were connected to Delhi. Around 80-85% cases in the state are due to Delhi connection,” claimed Arora. Denying reports of community spread in some parts of Haryana, Arora said the situation had become stable in the state in the past three days and they were hopeful it would come under control in few days. He accepted that the health machinery of the state was focussing on Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, and Jhajjar to contain the spread. Talking about the strategy adopted in view of the spike of cases, Arora said maximum symptomatic cases were being isolated at their home and only those who developed serious problems were being admitted to hospital for intensive care. Even those isolated at home have been linked to medical teams who are making regular calls to monitor the situation. They are taken to hospital in case their condition deteriorates, he said. The purpose is to keep hospitals in reserve and keep them ready only for serious cases, he explained. Arora said the state had around 33,000 beds, 9,000 isolation beds, 2,086 beds with oxygen facility, 1,100 ventilators, and sufficient number of PPE kits and N-masks. “The current facilities were developed in two months. We have the facility of testing around 7,500 persons every day and the focus is on developing more testing in government hospitals and medical colleges,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/80-cases-due-to-delhi-health-official/articleshow/76364750.cms||Ajay Sura
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt plans PPP route for rental housing push||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government plans to provide a major boost to the rental housing sector in the state. Apart from introducing a new affordable rental housing policy, the government will incentivize affordable rental housing projects through the public private partnership (PPP) mode. The state government’s policy will be on the lines of the Union government’s proposed rental housing policy. Apart from providing a much needed boost to the real estate sector, the move will also bring into use the piled-up housing inventory. A key state government official said that at present, there are over 8,000 constructed apartments of the Gujarat Housing Board (GHB) that are lying vacant because of various reasons. “The government aims to offer all these properties under the affordable rental housing policy. A very large chunk of migrant workers do not get housing facilities. Workers coming to the state for a shorter period of time do not want to buy houses either and are also not able to afford high rent. Such persons will benefit from the proposed affordable rental housing policy,” the official said. More importantly, the government is considering a proposal to use plots of land reserved for economically weaker sections (EWS) housing projects to create large scale rental housing facilities under the PPP mode. “The government will offer plots reserved for EWS housing in all areas of all cities to private developers. This will ensure that the floating population of our cities can get housing facilities on rent at affordable rates,” the official said. Sources in the government said that existing affordable housing schemes which are lying vacant due to poor demand will also be included in the PPP affordable rental housing schemes that the government intends to offer. “The developer will begin to get money against his investment even while catering to the demand of affordable rental houses,” the official said. Sources further said that, “The government aims to acquire over 25,000 homes under the PPP mode in the coming months and offer these as affordable rental housing units. Government plans to offer FSI and other incentives similar to affordable housing and EWS housing schemes. In addition, the government may pay a subsidy also for these affordable rental housing projects, so end users can get benefits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-plans-ppp-route-for-rental-housing-push/articleshow/76364431.cms||Kapil Dave
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||‘India can supply potential Covid-19 vaccines to the world’||Mumbai: India is a major supplier of vaccines globally, and its manufacturing capacity could be useful for the world for potential Covid-19 vaccines. Several MNCs are talking to Indian manufacturers to see if their vaccines can be made here, Gagandeep Kang, vice-chair, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi) said, adding that there’s reason to be optimistic as “data emerging from clinical trials says a vaccine is feasible”. Globally, there are 230-odd programmes looking to create Covid-19 vaccines, with 130 companies being in a reasonably advanced stage. Of this, around 10 have already started clinical trials. In India, over a dozen companies are working on vaccines. “We have a long way to go. But we are on the right track, and we are moving as fast as possible — faster than what we thought was possible six months ago,” Kang said at a Harvard Business School webinar on ‘Science, Business & Vaccine Development to Combat the Pandemic’. There could also be problems over access to vaccines, regulatory and pricing issues and a global shortage of supply of syringes in the future. Availability and affordability of the vaccine will be key once it’s launched. “We need private-public partnerships and the communities to take this forward, as we saw with polio in India,” Umang Vohra MD and global CEO, Cipla. He also said that emerging economies mostly focus on access to vaccine while developed countries usually target local manufacturing. “However, emerging countries should now focus on self-sustainability. India is one of the few developing countries with production capacity, and this is important. Most governments and countries should be vocal about being local in manufacturing vaccines and also regional cooperation,” he added. He also said that countries rely on global funding. “Without a viable funding mechanism, the problem of a pandemic is impossible to tackle,” he added. There is a large-scale commitment required for vaccine funding and development now. David E Bloom, Clarence James Gamble Professor of Economics & Demography, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health said, “We have underinvested in vaccine development. There will be a move to a new pattern of sustained and large-scale commitments to vaccine development, which will encompass Big Pharma and non-Big Pharma funders and developers. A crisis is also an opportunity, and it’s a good time to develop a funding plan. We have Covid-19 to thank because it’s providing irrefutable proof of the benefit of staying on course, when it comes to development and manufacturing of vaccines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-can-supply-potential-covid-19-vaccines-to-the-world/articleshow/76364756.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 14, 2020||Goa||280 seamen reach Goa, quarantined at Bambolim||Panaji: A Qatar Airways chartered flight arrived at Goa International Airport on Saturday morning with 280 stranded seafarers who were employed with P&O cruises. The flight departed from London and had a stopover at Doha. The Goan seafarers have been put up at Bambolim Beach Resort and are expected to be tested on Sunday or on Monday, officials said. The seafarers were stranded in London for over 60 days and had tested negative before they boarded the flight for Goa but will be tested again as per the state government’s protocol. “Early Saturday morning Qatar Airways, the 11th repatriation flight, brought in 280 stranded seafarers from London to Goa via Doha,” Goa airport director Gagan Malik said. The passengers were screened by directorate of health services and then allowed to board special KTC buses that were deployed to take them to the resort at Bambolim. “Their tests are expected to be taken either on Sunday or Monday after which they will have to wait for another two to three days for the results before they are sent home,” nodal officer for repatriating Goans P S Reddy said. Three more flights are expected to arrive at Goa International Airport in the coming days with crew that used to work on vessels operated by P&O Cruises, a British cruise line owned by Carnival Corporation. Interestingly, the government has yet to test the seafarers who had arrived a few days earlier and who have been put up at various hotels in Vasco. “With the coronavirus spreading in Mangor Hill and other parts of Goa, the department does not have staff to test the boys. They want the boys to go to Margao for tests,” Goa Seamen Association of India founder president Dixon Vaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/280-seamen-reach-goa-quarantined-at-bambolim/articleshow/76365064.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab crosses 3,000 mark as 77 more infected with Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 77 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 3,063 and the casualty count to 65. Both deaths took place in Amritsar. As 45 patients were discharged, the number of patients who have recovered reached 2,327. At present, 671 cases are active. Of them, one patient is critical and on ventilator support, and 14 are on oxygen support. Though there were reports of five deaths in the state, only two were mentioned in the state bulletin. Among the remaining deaths, two were in Amritsar and one in Sangrur. Of the new patients, six are police officials and one is an Army personnel from Bathinda. Four cops tested positive in Pathankot and one each in Sangrur and Tarn Taran. Twenty-six cases was from Ludhiana, 11 from Mohali, nine from Amritsar, six from Pathankot, five each from Jalandhar and Nawanshahr, four from Tarn Taran, three from Sangrur, two from Barnala, and one each from Ropar, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala and Patiala. Three patients have travel history of Delhi, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Also, seven patients had influenza-like illness (ILI) and 13 were contacts of patients. In Patiala, a staff nurse working in the isolation ward at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, tested positive. While the state bulletin said there was one case in the district, local officials said there were six. (With inputs from Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-crosses-3k-as-77-more-infected/articleshow/76366288.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman’s laborious walk: Temporary road laid in Telangana village||HYDERABAD: Following the incident in which a pregnant woman was forced to cross a rivulet in the absence of an approach road to reach a hospital, Bhadradri Kothagudem district authorities have laid a temporary road to Gundala village to make 108 ambulance service accessible to villagers. The road was laid from Gundala to Pasra to facilitate movement of vehicles into inaccessible villages. Following instructions from district collector M V Reddy, a list of pregnant women in the villages is being made so that they will not face problems in reaching the hospital in time. On Friday, Eesam Sandhya Rani had to cross the Mallanna Vaagu (stream) as the approach road was damaged in the heavy rains. The 108 ambulance could not reach Rollagadda village in Gundala mandal because of this. After she crossed the stream, the ambulance took her to the government hospital at Khammam where she gave birth to a baby boy. The proposed bridge across Mallanna Vaagu has also been asked to be speeded up. Officials are also now identifying villages, if any, which have become inaccessible because of rainwater and damaged roads so that temporary roads could be laid. In addition to a list of pregnant women, a list of all people having health issues, especially those needing dialysis, has also been asked to be prepared so that they will also have no transport issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womans-laborious-walk-temporary-road-laid-in-village/articleshow/76364758.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Auto driver’s son makes family proud at IMA||Dehradun: For newly-commissioned officer Sarthak Dhawan, the Passing Out Parade at IMA on Saturday was the accomplishment of a lifelong dream. Having seen his parents struggle hard to provide him quality education, he always wanted to make them proud for all their efforts. Talking to TOI, Dhawan said that his father has been ferrying schoolchildren in an autorickshaw for over 30 years. “I have seen my parents struggle for everything and always wanted to make them proud. Today, I have fulfilled that dream by joining the Army.” He first completed his training at the National Defence Academy, which he had got through in the first attempt, before joining IMA. Yet, his excitement was marred by a certain gloom. “My mother is no more to see me in this uniform but I know that, somewhere up above, she would be blessing me,” he added. He also said that he was missing his father and brother at the ceremony. Another newly-commissioned officer Manoj Kumar Yadav hailing from Hisar in Haryana felt proud of the fact that he was posted in the same regiment as his father who died in 1997 while serving as a Lance Naik in 317 Field Regiment. “My father is my role model. I have always been inspired by his dedication. Being posted in his regiment is a blessing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/auto-drivers-son-makes-family-proud-at-ima/articleshow/76363792.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 14, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab crosses 3,000 mark as 77 more infected with Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 77 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 3,063 and the casualty count to 65. Both deaths took place in Amritsar. As 45 patients were discharged, the number of patients who have recovered reached 2,327. At present, 671 cases are active. Of them, one patient is critical and on ventilator support, and 14 are on oxygen support. Though there were reports of five deaths in the state, only two were mentioned in the state bulletin. Among the remaining deaths, two were in Amritsar and one in Sangrur. Of the new patients, six are police officials and one is an Army personnel from Bathinda. Four cops tested positive in Pathankot and one each in Sangrur and Tarn Taran. Twenty-six cases was from Ludhiana, 11 from Mohali, nine from Amritsar, six from Pathankot, five each from Jalandhar and Nawanshahr, four from Tarn Taran, three from Sangrur, two from Barnala, and one each from Ropar, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala and Patiala. Three patients have travel history of Delhi, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Also, seven patients had influenza-like illness (ILI) and 13 were contacts of patients. In Patiala, a staff nurse working in the isolation ward at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, tested positive. While the state bulletin said there was one case in the district, local officials said there were six. (With inputs from Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-crosses-3k-as-77-more-infected/articleshow/76366292.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Agra||HC seeks response from UP govt over status of Covid-19 in Agra||Agra: Following a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by a city-based lawyer alleging inefficiency of the district administration in containment of Covid-19, the Allahabad High Court has sought a response from the state government regarding the status of novel coronavirus in Agra district. Additional advocate general Manish Goyal has been asked to present the details before the court on June 19. The litigant has alleged that the district administration is doing less sampling so that fewer cases of Covid-19 are reported. Dayalbagh resident advocate Arun Kumar Dixit said, “Following rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Agra, chief minister Yogi Adityanath sent a high-level team to check the situation in Agra and guide the local authorities regarding containment of the infection. Few days later, the team returned and after that number of fresh cases reported on a daily basis started decreasing significantly. Authorities must give an explanation about the sudden cut down on cases.” Alleging delay in sample testing, the litigant has raised the question of people being reported Covid-19 positive after death. Discrepancies in sampling and testing of migrant labourers are also a matter of concern put forth by the litigant. The PIL mentioned, “Despite the concerns expressed by people in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has failed in delivering its duties under the law to protect and safeguard the interest of the citizens in Agra.” “Health of the people in Agra is at stake due to negligence and lackadaisical approach of the authorities concerned which is in violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India in the current circumstances,” the PIL stated. So far, over 1,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Agra district. At least 60 people who tested Covid-19 positive have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hc-seeks-response-from-up-govt-over-status-of-covid-19-in-agra/articleshow/76363808.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 3,000 mark as 77 more infected with Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 77 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 3,063 and the casualty count to 65. Both deaths took place in Amritsar. As 45 patients were discharged, the number of patients who have recovered reached 2,327. At present, 671 cases are active. Of them, one patient is critical and on ventilator support, and 14 are on oxygen support. Though there were reports of five deaths in the state, only two were mentioned in the state bulletin. Among the remaining deaths, two were in Amritsar and one in Sangrur. Of the new patients, six are police officials and one is an Army personnel from Bathinda. Four cops tested positive in Pathankot and one each in Sangrur and Tarn Taran. Twenty-six cases was from Ludhiana, 11 from Mohali, nine from Amritsar, six from Pathankot, five each from Jalandhar and Nawanshahr, four from Tarn Taran, three from Sangrur, two from Barnala, and one each from Ropar, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala and Patiala. Three patients have travel history of Delhi, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Also, seven patients had influenza-like illness (ILI) and 13 were contacts of patients. In Patiala, a staff nurse working in the isolation ward at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, tested positive. While the state bulletin said there was one case in the district, local officials said there were six. (With inputs from Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-3k-as-77-more-infected/articleshow/76364762.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kochi||‘Each had a role, reward will be shared equally’||Kochi: It was a confidential tip-off that led them to the gambling racket operating in Aluva three years ago, said Sony Mathai, who was the then principle sub-inspector of Nedumbassery station. A team of policemen set out to raid the private club in October 2017 after A V George who was serving as rural SP received information about the racket, said Mathai, who is presently serving as Kattapana circle inspector in Idukki. Three years down the line, all the members of the police squad would be sharing 50% of the bounty they seized from the club among themselves in accordance with an order issued by the Angamaly magistrate court a few days ago that half the money seized from the gambling gang be allotted to the 23-member squad which investigated the case, as per the Kerala Gaming Act. The police team had seized Rs 18.06 lakh from the club and arrested 33 persons during the raid. That means, the policemen would share about Rs 9 lakh among themselves. Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick said he has received the cheque and has issued the order to share the money equally among the members who were part of the raid team. “It was not easy to reach the club as only members were allowed. Our officers in plainclothes still managed to infiltrate the crime ring and conduct preliminary analysis. Later, a combined team of the SP’s squad and Nedumbassery police raided the club and caught the members of the gambling gang red-handed. We took extra care in conducting the documentation as there was a huge amount of money involved,” said Mathai. Noble P J, who was part of the team, said they recovered the entire money from the gang. “I was Edathala SI then and was called upon to go as part of the squad. When we entered the club, we found tables, cards and other arrangements for the game and promptly seized them,” said Noble, who is presently Edathala circle inspector. SP Karthick said he has received the cheque and since it was up to the SP in charge to decide on the distribution of the reward money proportionately, he ordered to divide it equally. “Everyone from the team, from those who conducted the raid to those who were part of the court duty, executed the operation as a team. So, each one of them deserved the reward,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/each-had-a-role-reward-will-be-shared-equally/articleshow/76363815.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Mongolian monks fly out of Dabolim||The Goa International Airport facilitated the return of 219 Mongolian monks aboard a Mongolian Airways B 767 on Friday night. The Buddhist monks were stranded at the Tibetan camp at Mundgod in Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka. The embassy of Mongolia in India handed over 530 reusable PPE kits to the state government. Another relief flight left Goa on Saturday evening for Russia with 439 adults and eight infants. The B 747 aircraft of Rossiya Airlines will land in Moscow. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mongolian-monks-fly-out-of-dabolim/articleshow/76365073.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam reports seven new Covid positive cases||Kochi: Seven new Covid-19 cases were reported in Ernakulam district on Saturday. With this the total number of people under treatment in the district touched 63. Of the seven cases reported on Saturday, two are Maharashtra natives. As many as 767 people have been placed under home quarantine and 841 have been released from quarantine on Saturday. A total of 9,905 people are under home quarantine in Ernakulam. Meanwhile, the number of people choosing paid quarantine has increased in the district. As many as 1,064 people are undergoing quarantine in paid facilities. As many as 115 people are under observation in various hospitals, including 50 in Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. A total of 128 samples were sent for testing on Saturday. Results of 151 samples, including seven positive cases, came on Saturday. Results of 317 samples are awaited. Details of 145 drivers and cleaners of 122 trucks that reached major markets in Ernakulam on Saturday were also collected. Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar has said restrictions in godowns in the district will be intensified in view of more people from other states turning up at these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-reports-seven-new-covid-positive-cases/articleshow/76363826.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||IMA Passing Out Parade held under Covid-19 shadow as cadets march in masks; Indian Army gets 333 new officers||Dehradun: The Indian Army on Saturday got 333 new officers as the 146th Passing Out Parade (POP) was held at the historic Chetwode Drill Square of Indian Military Academy (IMA). A light drizzle and shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic couldn’t dampen the spirit of the ceremony, as 423 Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) including 90 from friendly foreign countries, all wearing masks, marched with perfection to the military tunes of “Col Bogey”, “Sare Jahan Se Achha” and “Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja”. The reviewing officer of the parade was Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General MM Naravane. Addressing the GCs set to join the Indian Army, Gen Naravane said, “You are just a step away from the historic and magnificent moment of your commissioning into the most elite forces. Let me adjure you to value the great traditions of the Indian Army, the basic tenets of which are love for your country, love and compassion for the men you command and unflinching loyalty towards them. The fundamentals of soldiering have been instilled in you here, the onus is now on your young and firm shoulders to define the various facets of the art of soldiering and to be men of formidable bearing, courage and stature.” He also complimented parents of the passing out course for having motivated their children “to join such a noble profession, serve the nation and face all the threats that our country might be required to encounter in the present and the future”. According to IMA authorities, the commissioned officers included 146 from the Regular Course and 129 from the Technical Graduate Course. The coveted Sword of Honour award was presented to Battalion Under Officer Akashdeep Singh Dhillon. Gold medal for the Gentleman Cadet standing First in the Order of Merit was presented to Academy Under Officer Shiv Kumar Singh Chauhan. Silver Medal for the Gentleman Cadet standing Second in the Order of Merit was presented to Academy Cadet Adjutant Sakshyam Rana. Bronze Medal for the Gentleman Cadet standing Third in the Order of Merit was presented to Senior Under Officer Suraj Singh. Silver Medal for the Gentleman Cadet standing First in the Order of Merit from Technical Graduate Course was presented to Junior Under Officer Bharath Yogendra. The Silver Medal for the Gentleman Cadet standing First in the Order of Merit from Foreign GCs was presented to Sergeant Doan Van Son (from Vietnam). Chief of Army Staff Banner was shared by Alamein and Sinhgarh Coy for standing Overall First amongst 16 companies for the Spring Term 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ima-passing-out-parade-held-under-covid-19-shadow-as-cadets-march-in-masks-indian-army-gets-333-new-officers/articleshow/76363799.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Collector’s first online adalat gets warm response||Thiruvananthapuram: The first online adalat held by district collector Navjot Singh Khosa turned out to be a success with several people joining with complaints and the collector addressing most of them. Due to Covid-19, the adalat was held online and complaints of people from Varkala taluk were addressed on Thursday. As many as 118 complaints were received during the adalat. The collector gave direction to officials after listening to the complaints and informed the complainants that necessary action will be taken in given time. The people conveyed their complaints from nearby Akshaya centres. The complaints received till June 10 were taken in the adalat. Rajan, a resident of Elakamon panchayat, complained that his shop and property had been taken over when he was not at home. And the collector has sought explanation from the panchayat director on the matter. On a complaint by Shyamala, a native of Karamana, that though the house was constructed under PMAY scheme, it was not given electricity connection and the collector assured her that the issue will be sorted out within two weeks. Anganwadi worker Sheeja requested the collector to withdraw the revenue recovery procedure on a mini tempo vehicle registered in the name of her husband who is ill. She claimed that the vehicle is not in use for the last seven years. Collector Navjot informed her that revenue recovery has been suspended due to Covid outbreak and a decision will be taken after verifying the complaint. There were also requests to improve internet connectivity. Most of the complaints were related to resurvey, changing the ration card from APL to BPL category, property tax payment and request for electricity connection. ADM V R Vinod, tahsildar and other officials also attended the online adalath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/collectors-first-online-adalat-gets-warm-response/articleshow/76363828.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Agra||Two Covid-19 patients die in Agra, bank staff passes away in Sambhal||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Two more Covid-19 patients passed away in west UP's Agra district on Saturday. While a 58-year-old bank employee from Sambhal died at medical college in Meerut. Also, in one of the highest jumps in recent weeks, Meerut registered 23 new cases and one death, taking the tally to 605 and death toll to 46, CMO Dr Raj Kumar said. The deaths in Agra included a 50-year-old man of Tajgaj suffering from hypertension and septicemia and a 51-year-old man from Kamla Nagar suffering from SARI with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Both the men died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 58 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Agra district. At least 15 fresh cases also surfaced in Agra, till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 1,035. The new cases include a pharmacist of a district hospital. Also, 11 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,035 cases, 83.82% have recovered. There are 115 active cases. In Sambhal, the deceased man was also a cancer patient. Besides, four fresh cases were reported in Sambhal on Saturday, taking the district tally to 181 with 80 active ones. Sambhal's CMO Dr Anita Singh said, "The patient died around 3am on Saturday. With this, three deaths have been reported here." In Bareilly, nine migrants tested positive, taking the tally to 123 with 74 active, 47 discharged and two deaths. While in Budaun, eight new cases were reported, and of these, three are from Myau, two from Dataganj and one each from Ujhani, Bilsi and Sahaswan. Total cases here rose to 61. Pilibhit reported one case, taking the district tally to 81 with 35 active patients. Three more people tested positive in Bijnor district on Friday, taking the tally to 202. Out of these, 103 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-covid-19-patients-die-in-agra-bank-staff-passes-away-in-sambhal/articleshow/76363820.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Agra||New cases of Covid-19 surface in inactive containment zones||AGRA: The areas that were marked free of coronavirus earlier have now started reporting fresh cases again. At least five city areas have been marked as containment zones again in the last 13 days. These include Tajganj, Khandari, Kamla Nagar and Gandhi Nagar and Dayalbagh Presently, there are 67 active Covid-19 containment zones in the district. Of these, 45 are in the city. Health department teams are screening people living in these areas. Each containment zone has a perimeter of 250 metres. The district administration has marked areas around the containment zones in the city as buffer zones to curb the spread of infection. The buffer zones range from 750 metres to upto a kilometre. Businesses are not allowed to operate in the buffer zones. The containment areas are completely sealed to ensure no public movement. Agra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr RC Pandey said, “In the past few days, new cases have surfaced in the inactive containment zones. This mainly happened due to public movement. To check the spread of infection, containment zones are being closely monitored. Buffer zones have been marked around the containment zone. Our teams are screening residents in all the newly-marked containment and buffer zones. Samples of people suffering from fever and breathing difficulties are being sent for lab testing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/new-cases-of-covid-19-surface-in-inactive-containment-zones/articleshow/76363814.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||‘Install LED boards outside hospitals to display availability of beds’||Madurai: A consumer body has written to the chief minister to make it mandatory for hospitals authorised to treat Covid-19 patients to put up LED boards at the entrances, displaying the number of beds available. The demand was made to ensure transparency in the availability of beds.Executive director of consumer body Empower India centre for consumer and environment education, research and advocacy, A Sankar said that this will put an end to hurdles faced by patients in finding a hospital and start treatment without delay. “On one hand the health minister is claiming that there are adequate beds to treat Covid-19 patients. On the other, many public are making claims that they are unable to find beds. Videos of hospitals claiming that there is no room for new patients is also doing rounds on social media,” he said.“LED boards have been implemented by the Delhi government and should be implemented across Tamil Nadu too,” he added.Without such boards, family members of affected people are forced to run from one hospital to another or make multiple calls. In case of lack of transparency by the hospitals, the government should take stringent action against them. Sankar said that such modes are needed now as the number of patients affected by the virus is nearing 2,000 a day in the state, and the existing government hospitals and facilities alone will not suffice to treat them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/install-led-boards-outside-hospitals-to-display-availability-of-beds/articleshow/76364453.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Iconic Marthanda Varma bridge turns 80 today||KOCHI: Anyone walking through the iconic Marthanda Varma bridge which turns 80 on Sunday can still feel the shock absorber springs imported from Italy. The 141m-long bridge, which connected the state of Travancore to north of Kerala, was opened by Marthanda Varma Ilayaraja of Travancore on June 14, 1940. An Anchal stamp depicting the three-arched bridge was released in 1941 to commemorate the event. The plaque on the bridge, built at a cost of Rs 8 lakh, carries silver-coloured insignia of the state of Travancore and the names of its two engineers — GBE Truscott, who held the charge till July 1939, and M S Duraiswami Iyengar. A parallel bridge was built in 2002 but the utility of the old bridge remains intact despite weakening of the structure. The bridge with a carriage way of 5.5m was built by J C Gammon Ltd, the company formed by John Gammon, a British-educated civil engineer who was an employee of the PWD. Gammon who wrote the book ‘Reinforced Concrete Design Simplified’ is also credited with pre-cast concrete piled foundations and concrete domes of Gateway of India. But a tragic story associated with the bridge has not received much attention. A total of 11 people, most of them who were less than 20 years of age, lost their lives while engaged in building it. One person Thanippilly Thommi had a miraculous escape. Thommi died in 2004. Orna Krishnankutty, a chronicler of Dalit histories, alleges that the workers were deliberately killed so that the structure would become strong. “It was common practice to sacrifice people to ensure longevity for structures like dykes and bridges. The mishap happened when they were digging for the southern pillar of the bridge. They were asked to continue even after the work for the day was over,” said Krishnankutty, who has written a chapter on the incident in his forthcoming book on Ayyankali. Krishnankutty says he arrived at the conclusion after talking to relatives of these workers. But P T Joseph, son of Thommi, said he had not heard any stories of workers being sacrificed. “We grew up listening to his stories but he always spoke of it as an accident. I remember him telling me that the wage was 60 paise. I also know the families of at least two persons who were killed in the mishap,” said Joseph. Aluva Taluk Citizen Rights protection council is planning a small celebration by decorating the bridge with garlands and distributing sweets. “The bridge is weak and one more bridge is essential. We wish that once another bridge is built we can convert the old bridge into a monument,” said Aluva municipality former chairman M O John.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iconic-marthanda-varma-bridge-turns-80-today/articleshow/76363845.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chennai||One-day death toll at 30 after Tamil Nadu adds 7 ‘unrecorded’ fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 30 deaths, some of them from three weeks ago, to its Covid-19 toll on Saturday bringing into focus discrepancies in its count. And, with 1,989 fresh cases, the state’s tally rose to 42,687 cases, 30,444 in Chennai alone. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that at least 236 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai until June 8 had not been added to the pandemic death register. Now it turns out that two senior officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, who face blame for the misreporting, are part of a nine-member panel formed to set things right. The committee set up by director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam has had two marathon meetings and reviewed 250 deaths. On Saturday, they added seven deaths that occurred between May 23 and June 7 to the toll. The remaining deaths will be added after the state receives a reply “for clarifications it has sought from the civic agency”, officials said. City health officer Dr M Jagadeesan, who is the registrar of births and deaths in Chennai, and corporation health officer (statistics) Dr Selvi Ganesan are members of the committee. Other members of the committee have asked them to stay away. “We asked them not to attend meetings. We don’t know how we can hold them responsible when they are a part of the decision-making team. We have still not prepared any report because Dr Jagadeesan has to sign the report accusing himself of failure,” said a committee member. The revision in toll could push death toll to more than 500 and push up mortality rates close to 1.5% from the existing 0.9%. “Our primary aim is early detection and intensified treatment to prevent deaths,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. As the number of patients in Chennai went up with 1,487 cases on Saturday,, government hospitals were slowly increasing the number of beds for Coid-19 patients. Stanley Medical College added 100 beds to the existing 400 on Saturday. “Many patients were sick and could not be transferred to Covid care centres. By the month-end we plan to double our Covid bed strength,” said Stanley hospital Dean Dr P Balaji.  “Many patients with kidney diseases are being brought to government hospitals as private hospitals are turning them away. We now have three dialysis machines and we will be adding 10 more soon, “ the Stanley hospital dean said. While doctors and facilities were being rushed to the state capital, epidemiologists warned about the increasing cases in other districts. On Saturday, barring eight districts, spike in cases was recorded by all districts. While Tiruvannamalai had 50 fresh cases, Tuticorin had 30 and Madurai recorded 15 cases. In the morning, the health minister also flagged off 254 mobile health units to criss-cross the city to screen people for fever and other symptoms of Covid-19. At a press conference that followed, the minister eaded answers on the number of people being tested in Chennai every day, but said the state had screened more than 6 lakh people – highest in the country. He admitted that the infection rate was beginning to exert pressure on the healthcare system. “We are doing our best to scale up human resources and infrastructure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-day-death-toll-at-30-after-tn-adds-7-unrecorded-fatalities/articleshow/76364763.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Initial trend: Positivity rate low in antibody testing||Thiruvananthapuram: The rate of positivity for those undergoing antibody tests in the district has been considerably low. The tests had begun five days ago and till Friday, 12 out of 450 samples turned positive and eight out of them yielded negative results in in confirmatory RT-PCR tests. The health department has said that antibody testing is meant to supplement the strategy of sentinel surveillance system, which uses RT-PCR tests to detect evidence of community transmission. Antibody testing is being used to measure herd immunity status among specific populations and the health department hopes that it will help in providing early warning signals and epidemiological information about the epidemic in the state. Samples are being collected from five categories, which will cover healthcare workers who directly handle Covid patients and those in non-Covid hospitals, police personnel, field level health workers, workers in ration shops, food and grocery delivery boys, those in contact with interstate truck drivers, guest workers, persons under home quarantine, those under vulnerable category (above 60 years of age), personnel from general population and expatriates after 14 days of arrivals in the state after May 7. The test detects antibodies; immunoglobulins, IgG and IgM; which are proteins produced by the immune system in response to an infection. The antibodies are detected from serum or plasma. This is meant to give an idea about whether the person has been exposed to Coronavirus, or has recently travelled to a place where Covid-19 was confirmed or has been in close contact with a suspect case or a confirmed patient. IgG develops within 7-10 days after the onset of symptoms of Covid-19 and it remains in the blood after the period of infection. If IgG tests positive, it shows the patient has had infection in the recent past. The district has a total of 1,006 kits at present and in the first two days, health workers in Covid hospitals and non-Covid hospitals were covered. As many as 200 kits are being used for antibody test of healthcare workers involved in Covid patient care and health care workers in non-Covid hospitals. On Saturday, no fresh cases were reported in the district. As many as 926 persons were brought under observation in the district on Saturday, while 196 persons completed observation period without showing any symptoms. As many as 15,366 persons are currently under room isolation in homes and 854 persons are under surveillance in Covid care centres. Twenty people were admitted to hospitals in the district with disease symptoms while 21 persons were discharged on Saturday. As many as 186 persons are currently under observation in hospitals in the district. 332 samples were sent for testing on Saturday and results of 287 samples were negative. Fifty one persons reached the district via Inchivila border till Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/initial-trend-positivity-rate-low-in-antibody-testing/articleshow/76363847.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 14, 2020||Erode||One-day death toll at 30 after Tamil Nadu adds 7 ‘unrecorded’ fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 30 deaths, some of them from three weeks ago, to its Covid-19 toll on Saturday bringing into focus discrepancies in its count. And, with 1,989 fresh cases, the state’s tally rose to 42,687 cases, 30,444 in Chennai alone. Earlier this week, TOI had reported that at least 236 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai until June 8 had not been added to the pandemic death register. Now it turns out that two senior officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, who face blame for the misreporting, are part of a nine-member panel formed to set things right. The committee set up by director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam has had two marathon meetings and reviewed 250 deaths. On Saturday, they added seven deaths that occurred between May 23 and June 7 to the toll. The remaining deaths will be added after the state receives a reply “for clarifications it has sought from the civic agency”, officials said. City health officer Dr M Jagadeesan, who is the registrar of births and deaths in Chennai, and corporation health officer (statistics) Dr Selvi Ganesan are members of the committee. Other members of the committee have asked them to stay away. “We asked them not to attend meetings. We don’t know how we can hold them responsible when they are a part of the decision-making team. We have still not prepared any report because Dr Jagadeesan has to sign the report accusing himself of failure,” said a committee member. The revision in toll could push death toll to more than 500 and push up mortality rates close to 1.5% from the existing 0.9%. “Our primary aim is early detection and intensified treatment to prevent deaths,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. As the number of patients in Chennai went up with 1,487 cases on Saturday,, government hospitals were slowly increasing the number of beds for Coid-19 patients. Stanley Medical College added 100 beds to the existing 400 on Saturday. “Many patients were sick and could not be transferred to Covid care centres. By the month-end we plan to double our Covid bed strength,” said Stanley hospital Dean Dr P Balaji.  “Many patients with kidney diseases are being brought to government hospitals as private hospitals are turning them away. We now have three dialysis machines and we will be adding 10 more soon, “ the Stanley hospital dean said. While doctors and facilities were being rushed to the state capital, epidemiologists warned about the increasing cases in other districts. On Saturday, barring eight districts, spike in cases was recorded by all districts. While Tiruvannamalai had 50 fresh cases, Tuticorin had 30 and Madurai recorded 15 cases. In the morning, the health minister also flagged off 254 mobile health units to criss-cross the city to screen people for fever and other symptoms of Covid-19. At a press conference that followed, the minister eaded answers on the number of people being tested in Chennai every day, but said the state had screened more than 6 lakh people – highest in the country. He admitted that the infection rate was beginning to exert pressure on the healthcare system. “We are doing our best to scale up human resources and infrastructure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/1-day-death-toll-at-30-after-tn-adds-7-unrecorded-fatalities/articleshow/76369222.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Jobs lost, savings over, 50,000 from Qatar want to return||NAGPUR: Stranded in Qatar from the past two and a half months, city resident Anil Shirbhate is worried for his family, particularly his wife, who is suffering from brain tumour. Santosh Gaikwad from Khopoli in Raigad, too, is finding it extremely difficult to survive there due to costly standards of living. In the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, thousands of Indian citizens, including these two, lost their jobs and since then have been stranded there since the last two and half months due to lockdown in both countries. According to the duo, nearly 50,000 Indians are stranded in Qatar, a majority of them in the capital Doha, hoping for help from the Centre and state to evacuate them. Around 30,000 are from Kerala alone, while 2,400 are from Maharashtra and other states. Over 300 are from Vidarbha. Though both Shirbhate and Gaikwad were appreciative of the help extended by the Indian embassy, they blamed the Maharashtra government for being reluctant to bring them back by not allowing flights to land in the state, apprehending further spread of deadly virus. “Many are with their families. We’ve exhausted all our savings. Now, we’re pooling in our remaining resources to take care of the others who have lost everything. It’s impossible for us to survive here. Everything is very expensive, like the rent of a two-bedroom flat is around one lakh per month. Some are frustrated to such an extent that they talk of committing suicide. With a lot of encouragement and positive talk, we keep their morale high,” they told TOI. They are, however, all praise for the Kerala government for its proactive approach in evacuating its citizens. Refuting the allegations, Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said the government was making all out efforts, not only for the stranded citizens in Qatar, but also for those in other countries. “We have set some conditions for them like they need to inform us about their final destination after landing in Mumbai. They would be put under institutional quarantine for a week and at home for the next seven days as per the Government of India’s rules. We’ve published a list of hotels, right from five star to even lodges for their quarantine. In fact, we’re among the few states who’re offering free quarantine at our Covid centres in Mumbai,” he told TOI. Vinod Nair, who is helping these stranded citizens by coordinating with the Indian embassy, told TOI that Maharashtra being a big state should have demanded more Vande Bharat flights for repatriating its citizens. “The Indian government has allowed 300 flights to bring back stranded migrants from Gulf countries. We’ve formed a committee to make a list of all stranded citizens who want to go back. We will hand over the list to the Indian embassy,” said Nair. Another citizen, who didn’t wish to be named, claimed that maximum Vande Bharat flights were going to Kerala, but only one flight was allowed to Mumbai in the last two and a half months. The flight is scheduled to take off on Monday. “We’ve tried to contact all the important leaders from the ruling dispensation and the opposition in the state, but none is willing to help us. We’re even ready to pay for a chartered flight. We only need permission from the Maharashtra government to land the flight in Nagpur or Aurangabad if not in Mumbai or Pune,” he said. Shirbhate, who was lucky to get the ticket for Monday’s flight, said for over 2,000 citizens, the state has allowed only one flight that will carry roughly 180 passengers. “Many families like Vijendra Selokar’s from Manewada in the city are worried as they would have to confirm admissions of their children in schools and colleges. If there is any further delay then their wards may lose one academic year,” he told TOI. Gaikwad, who couldn’t get a ticket, is uncertain about his future. “We’re only doing coordination work from the time we were laid off. Ideally, it should be done by the government. Identifying Indian citizens, readying their documents to return, talking and encouraging them to have patience is the government’s job,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobs-lost-savings-over-50k-from-qatar-want-to-return/articleshow/76364452.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 45 petition govt to include private hospitals in Covid-19 fight||HYDERABAD: Suggesting that the Telangana government rope in private hospitals in Covid-19 treatment, albeit with a cap on pricing, a group of 45 prominent personalities from the city, including former bureaucrats, public health administrators, professors, authors, among others, tabled a petition before the state health minister, on Saturday. Indicating an increase in pressure on the health infrastructure, in the coming days, the petition also sought full operationalisation of the newly-inaugurated Gachibowli hospital at the earliest. “Involve private hospitals but with a reasonable price limit for all patients, and with Aarogyasri coverage for BPL patients who have white ration cards. Decentralize with careful planning treatment of Covid-19 cases at various levels of health facilities including district hospitals to prevent mounting pressure on a single hospital leading to the crumbling of already inadequate infrastructure,” the petition stated, expressing concern over the attack on a junior doctor at the state run-Gandhi Hospital on June 10. “We would like to express our worry about the problems faced with the governmental response to the Covid-19 epidemic which is ravaging the state. We are not affiliated to any political party and we support the government’s attempts to handle this difficult crisis,” added the petitioners including K Sujatha Rao, former health secretary, government of India. Jeevan Kumar of Human Rights Forum, Prof Shantha Sinha, former chairperson, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Prof Padmaja Shaw (retired) Osmania University, Minnie Mathew, former chief secretary, government of Andhra Pradesh (undivided) among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/45-petition-govt-to-include-pvt-hosps-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/76365078.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sadhvi to conclude special ‘tapa’||Ahmedabad: Sadhvi Giranshushreeji, disciple of Sadhvi Vasantprabha, will conclude her 480-day-long tapa or observing religious practice on Sunday. The practice, identified as ‘Gunaratna Samvatsar Tapa,’ is considered to be one of the toughest in Jainism, said experts. “In 480 days, there are 408 upvaas (fasting) – in the first month the person fasts every alternate day, in the second, fasting takes place on two consecutive days with a break of one day and so on. In the 16th month, the person doesn’t eat for 16 days, takes a one-day break and again fasts for 16 days before concluding it,” said a disciple, adding the sadhvi has lost 30kg in body weight during the fast. Such tapa generally end with auction for parana (offering the first drink of water) that runs to lakhs of rupees. But in this case, the sadhvi will conclude her tapa by the person who performs 1,008 samayik, donates Rs 100 daily for one year in seven areas and performs 9.99 lakh repetitions of Navakar mantra in one year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sadhvi-to-conclude-special-tapa/articleshow/76364441.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||As pandemic mars parade, IMA instructors turn family, kin share joy via video call||Parents of Gentlemen Cadets wish them over video calls on SaturdayDehradun: Kamal Singh Yadav from Haryana could not hold back his tears when his mother gave him a flying kiss from the other end of the smartphone screen during the Passing Out Parade at IMA on Saturday. He had waited almost a decade for this day. With a tinge of sadness on his tone, he said, “When the day finally came, my family could not be here with me.” Yet to make up for the loss, the staff and instructors at the academy pinned the stars on the shoulders of the Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) as the dear and near ones joined in the celebrations from across the phone screen. IMA officials had earlier announced that parents and relatives of the passing-out batch will not be in attendance to watch the POP of the summer batch keeping in view the restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. AK Kushwaha from Varanasi said that his parents had purchased new clothes for the occasion almost three months in advance yet couldn’t make it to the ceremony. “It was heart-breaking when we came to know that our parents won’t be there for the parade, which is a once-in-a-lifetime occasion for any Army officer,” he added. AS Mankotia from Himachal Pradesh, a fourth generation Army officer, regretted that he couldn’t click a group photo with his uncles and brothers, like his other siblings. Those hailing from Dehradun and adjoining areas said they considered themselves the most unlucky group of all. Abhishek Negi, whose parents reside in Baliwala which is barely a kilometre away from the academy, said, “Despite being so near, they couldn’t make it.” “We wish our parents could have come,” added Heera Singh Rawat from Prem Nagar in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-pandemic-mars-parade-ima-instructors-turn-family-kin-share-joy-via-video-call/articleshow/76363811.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: After testing positive for Covid-19, security guard on ventilator||PANAJI: A 56-year-old security guard who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday is in critical condition and has been put on ventilator. The two men who rushed him to hospital couldn’t be traced for several hours, till one was found in the evening. The second is still at large. The security guard is the first Covid patient in Goa since the first cases reported in March to require ventilator support. “The man was taken to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital in critical condition after he suffered a heart attack,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said. “He is also a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He was then shifted to the ESI hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. He is currently on ventilator.” A health official said that one of the two men who took him to GMC was traced and tested negative for Covid-19. The other person, however, is yet to be found, and has also switched off his phone. Porvorim PI Ninad Deulkar said they were trying to find the missing man. A health official said that the security guard probably got the infection from another worker, who came to Goa from Mumbai on June 5, and stayed at the site with him. “He was tested on arrival, and after his report came positive, he was shifted to hospital,” the official said. “Luckily, there were just three persons on the site, with construction being almost complete.” Meanwhile, Goa’s active Covid-19 count shot up to 453 on Saturday, with the detection of 60 more cases, 26 of which were from the Mangor Hill containment zone. Vasco’s Sada area reported 13 cases and Baina eight, which are also considered linked to Mangor Hill. Apart from the Betim case, an isolated case was also found in Margao. Mohanan said that 60 swab samples were collected from Chimbel, which as of Saturday has ten cases. When asked whether it will be declared a containment zone, she said that the health department was watching the trend there. “We need to have sufficient epidemiological reasons to declare a containment zone. Let us observe the trend after we get results,” she said. She also said that a survey is being conducted at Margao’s Moti Dongor, and samples are being tested. Regarding the Taleigao cases, she said that no more samples have tested positive. However, after a tea boy at the ESI/Covid hospital tested positive two days ago, three of his contacts also tested positive. In the southernmost taluka of Canacona, the count increased to five, after the three year-old daughter of a KTC driver tested positive. Her father had tested positive on Wednesday. “However, his pregnant wife has so far tested negative. The child has been shifted to the ESI hospital in Margao,” said Dr Vandana Desai, health officer, Canacona community health centre (CHC). Fifty other contacts of the driver all tested negative. Desai said that since the driver’s wife had visited her relatives in Khola, CHC officials collected swabs of 30 people from there too. Apart from the cases within the state, five travellers also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A teen who arrived with his family from Gujarat via Mumbai and was residing in a flat in Mapusa, and a woman who also came from Gujarat, tested positive. “The teen’s family was strictly instructed not to step out of their residence,” said Mapusa councillor Sandeep Falari. “I even gave them my phone number, and told them to call me if they needed any help. I even shared the police inspector’s contact number.” On Saturday, eight suspects were admitted to isolation wards. Out of the 2,808 samples tested, 1,852 returned negative. Reports of 956 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-testing-positive-for-covid-security-guard-on-ventilator/articleshow/76365128.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 14, 2020||Kanpur||Interstate gang of cheats bustedby Etawah police, five arrested||KANPUR:A five-member interstate gang of cheats was busted by the Etawah police on Saturday for allegedly impersonating Indian Revenue Service, Central Bureau of Investigation and Research & Analysis Wing officers and duping gullible people in and around the region. The arrested gang members were identified as Manish of Jaswantnagar, Ram Kumar Rajput of Ekdil area and Saurabh Chauhan of Pakka Talab, Yogesh of Amroha and Balwant of Ramgarh Bihar. According to police, the king-pin of the gang is Manish, who used to travel in a blue beacon-fitted Innova SUV. He along with four others posed as IRS, CBI and RAW officer, besides journalist. They targeted gullible people and extorted money by harassing and issuing threats to them. The kingpin used to work as a probationary officer in a public sector bank, and was terminated from job for committing financial bungling a few years ago. Apart from Etawah, he also used to live in a rented accommodation in Noida. During interrogation, it came to light that they had also made IDs of deputy commissioner Revenue of Delhi. “We have also recovered two cheques amounting to Rs 9.5 crore issued in the name of a woman and of Rs 96 lakh issued in his name. Manish had also made a fake website and have expertise in IT. Also, a factory- made rifle, one pistol and one country-made firearm, besides two firearm licences have been recovered from their possession. A fake letter pad of CBI, five mikes of news channel, eight mobile phones, nine stamp seals were seized from them,” said Etawah SSP Akash Tomar. He added, “The cheats first used to make a complaint against the person on state government’s Integrated Grievance Redressal System (IGRS) portal and then posing themselves as IRS/CBI/RAW officials, conducted raids at gullible persons’ residence or offices and extorted money by harassing and issuing threats to them. They were active in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida besides other districts of UP including Etawah. On the basis of tip-off, the police laid a trap near Luhanna Crossing and made their arrest possible on Saturday.” The police are now verifying how many more civil services profiles under the garb of which they used to operate, they created, and how many persons they duped and how much money they extorted, along with how many cases they may be involved in. The police are now in the process of obtaining CDR (call detail records) of their mobile phones to tab their vicious network. “They have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and further investigations are continuing. We are on the lookout for their other aides,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/interstate-gang-of-cheats-bustedby-etawah-police-five-arrested/articleshow/76364636.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 14, 2020||Shimla||16 new Covid-19 patients take Himachal past 500 mark||SHIMLA: Sixteen cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, including 10 from Kangra, 4 from Shimla and one each from Solan and Sirmaur. Also, 16 positive patients recovered from the virus. The state has so far reported 502 cases, of which 176 are active, 309 have recovered, six have died and 11 have migrated out of state. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 30-year-old woman, her seven-month-old daughter and 24-year-old sister-in-law were among the new patients. The family is from Jaisinghpur and had returned from Delhi in a taxi on June 1. He said a 29-year-old man from Jawali tehsil, who had returned from Rangpuri in New Delhi on June 5 by train, and a 49-year-old man from Khundian tehsil, who also returned from Delhi, were among the patients too. The other patients include a 27-year-old man from Rakkar who returned from Vijaywada and an 11-year-old boy of Baijnath who had returned from Delhi. The other three Kangra patients had also returned from Delhi. The DC said all patients are asymptomatic and without comorbidities. He said two patients had been discharged from a dedicated Covid-19 care centre in Baijnath, one from dedicated care centre in Dadh, and one from Ner Chowk Medical College in Mandi. They're being sent home. In Solan, a 47-year-old man who had returned from Bangalore and is a resident of Ratwari village near Nalagarh. In Shimla, all four cases are contacts of a 64-year-old patient from Housing Board Colony, Sanjauli. So far, 52,737 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 52,172 have tested negative and results of 60 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/16-new-patients-take-himachal-past-500-mark/articleshow/76364764.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Scientists to study Lonar lake’s pink hue||PUNE: The 50,000-year old Lonar lake, which recently turned pink, has grabbed the curiosity of scientists and nature-lovers. Pune’s Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) is also investigating the cause and is considering theories — growth of red-pigmented algae, flamingos and low pollution levels in the water. “Preliminary studies (of the water samples from the lake) have led to the detection of the red-pigmented Dunaliella species of algae. In addition, we are also investigating the presence of Haloarchaea, which too produces the red pigment,” ARI director Prashant K Dhakephalkar said. Dhakephalkar also said ARI was trying to correlate the arrival of flamingos with the colour of the water. “We would like to see if there is any relation between these two,” said Dhakephalkar. There is yet another theory that ARI is working, on which takes into account the lack of pollution in the lakewater due to the lockdown. This might have led to the increased pH of the water, which in turn led to the growth of a certain type of algae, which has red pigment. “Lonar lake is peculiarly situated. There is a continuous human activity around the lake. This time of the year, the lake receives a lot of waste from nearby areas and water from the nearby dam, reducing the salinity of the water. Because of the lockdown, the water has not become diluted. The pH of the water currently is 9.8. Generally, the pH of the polluted water layer is significantly lower. Maybe this has favoured the growth of a particular type of algae,” said Dhakephalkar. Dhakephalkar said that it would take 7-8 days for a complete the initial investigation. “This is a first, hence the interest. A team of ARI scientists is also investigating the water’s microbial diversity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scientists-to-study-lonar-lakes-pink-hue/articleshow/76364770.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Workers from Tripura await train to go home, but see no response||CHENNAI: It’s been four months since hundreds of guest workers from Tripura have been waiting to get home. The last train from city to take them home was two weeks ago. The workers are now running out of money and patience. “We have been calling local officials repeatedly, trying to find out when the next train will arrive to take us home, but there is no response,” said Suman Nath, who along with 200 others from Tripura, is stranded in the city. A native of Udaipur in Tripura, Suman had come to Chennai a few years ago to work in a hotel management firm. However, he was asked to leave when the lockdown was imposed. “Our contractor left without paying us, the past four months have been really hard,” he said. While Suman and his friends are living in a rented room, many others are living in community halls in Tambaram, Pallikaranai and Egmore, pining to go home. There are reports doing rounds that there may be no more trains to the north eastern state since its government and authorities are not willing to take them back fearing spread of the virus, the workers said. “This has made everyone very scared and depressed,” said Lucy T R, another stranded native residing in Tambaram. She said all guest workers have been repeatedly filling out forms to travel back home, but in vain. “There is absolutely no response. Governments of other northeastern states are reaching out to their people but we are left helpless. We want to go home,” she said. Karthik Srinivasan, a social worker who has been providing essentials to stranded workers, “They are all pining to go back to their families. Until then we are all, including the state authorities, doing our best to ensure their safety here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workers-from-tripura-await-train-to-go-home-but-see-no-response/articleshow/76364456.cms||Aditi R
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Varsities turn blind eye to disabled candidates||Ahmedabad: The state government and various varsities have announced guidelines for conducting college-level exams while employing social distancing norms and other safety measures. They all seem to have overlooked the needs of disabled candidates pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses at various colleges and varsities. There are about 3,500 such students across the state, said Congress spokesman Manish Doshi. The annual exams at colleges in Gujarat, which have been delayed due to the lockdown, will now be held from June 25. Various rules have been put in place including the use of sanitizers, mandatory masks and fewer students in an exam hall. However, disabled candidates need the assistance of writers and this seems difficult given they have to comply with distancing norms. “Various varsities including MSU, North Gujarat University and Gujarat University, have published details such as dates and exam centres on their websites, but there is no mention of how students with disabilities will take these tests. We have made a representation to the government to come up with guidelines for such candidates,” said Doshi. Issues such as arranging exam writers for them while ensuring their safety is a challenge and the government and varsities should come up with an appropriate solution. “We are worried about how my daughter will take her exam. While she needs a writer, we also have to protect her from the risk of getting Covid-19,” said a parent whose daughter, a visually impaired candidate, is in her final year of undergraduate studies at a city college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/varsities-turn-blind-eye-to-disabled-candidates/articleshow/76364451.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Wife of fisherman stranded in Iran seeks govt intervention for his repatriation||Kanyakumari: Fearing delay in the repatriation of a fisherman from Iran after the owner of the boat where he was working demanded money to return his passport, the fisherman’s wife has petitioned the Kanyakumari district collector. Anusha Wilson, wife of Wilson Dasan, 33, of Kurumpanai in Kanyakumari district sought government intervention for the easy repatriation of her husband.In a petition submitted along with the representatives of Meenavar Orunginaipu (MOS), she stated that her husband flew from Thiruvananthapuram on February 13 to the Gulf and started working in Iran. Meanwhile, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic more than 800 Indian fishermen including nearly 700 people from Kanyakumari went on a strike from the following week seeking immediate repatriation.There was a standoff between the Iranian boat owners and the fishermen as the boat owners insisted that the men should continue fishing. A couple of days ago the employer of Wilson Dasan forced him and five others – three from Tamil Nadu and three others from Vizhinjam area in Kerala – to disembark the boat. “The owner is demanding Rs 50,000 to return my husband’s passport that is in his possession,” she said.Meanwhile, it is leant that officials in the Indian Embassy in Iran have promised to look into the matter and facilitate the repatriation. “A few fishermen from Gujarat who were repatriated from Iran also faced a similar issue and the embassy officials came to their rescue. Officials have promised similar efforts to repatriate the men from Tamil Nadu too,” said activist Charles Johnson who has been working on the issue from the beginning.On Saturday, the six stranded fishermen had reached terms with their Iranian employer to go for fishing till the INS ship Jalashwa repatriates them from Iran later this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wife-of-fisherman-stranded-in-iran-seeks-govt-intervention-for-his-repatriation/articleshow/76364462.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Quepem municipality for action against illegal structures in Sirvoi||QUEPEM: The dozen-odd illegal structures, which had come up at Sirvoi during the last few months, face demolition, as the Quepem municipal council has decided to issue them notices within two days amid mounting pressure from three councilors. A resolution to this effect was adopted in the council meeting on Friday after councilor and ex-chairperson, Filu D’Costa, based on TOI reports, raised the issue and asked chairperson Dayesh Naik about the action taken against these illegal structure. TOI had reported the matter on May 11 following which QMC had sent the stop work order on May 15. The chairperson had not included the issue in the agenda despite a demand by majority of the councilors and D’Costa having raised it during the slot for any other business. As the head clerk Subodh Sirvoikar and his wife are allegedly involved in the illegal construction issue and the head clerk was sitting in the meeting hall, the chairperson told the clerk to vacate the meeting hall after Colaco raised the issue. Backing D’Costa, former chairperson Raul Pereira and Manuel Colaco demanded immediate demolition of the illegal structures at Sirvoi. Around 25 structures have been illegally built by migrants in one survey number without property documents and construction licence. D’Costa said that Sirvoikar’s wife Suchita, a former councilor of QMC holda power of attorney of the property, but does not have the power to sell the land. D’Costa alleged that Sirvoikar sold the plots measuring 100-150sqm to the migrants without registering a sale deed or any other documents of possession of land in lieu of monetary considerations with a condition that they cast their vote for her in the next elections. Pereira told the council that the clerk, who is also the comunidade attorney at Pedamoll Sirvoi, had sold the comunidade land to migrants without registering sale deeds. The comunidade in 2018 had demolished around 25 illegal houses at Peddamoll and more than 50 houses are on hold for demolition. “We don’t want another Monti Dongor in Quepem Town,” said Colaco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-municipality-for-action-against-illegal-structures-in-sirvoi/articleshow/76365080.cms||Johnny M
June 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Zilla parishad survey poser on digital education||PUNE: Only 60% of parents of children studying in Pune zilla parishad schools own smartphones, a sample survey carried out in Junnar block has revealed, prompting the authorities to do a rethink on the scope of digital education in the state. The survey was carried out in 352 primary ZP schools in the block, which caters to 17,906 students. “Digital education is not possible when the majority do not have the resources,” Ranjit Shivtare, chairman, education and finance committee, Zilla Parishad, said, adding that the survey was conducted to understand whether online education was reaching the students and the possibility of schools reopening in areas where no Covid-19 cases have been reported so far. “What can be done is to increase the school hours by one hour. On Saturdays, instead of half-day school, a full-working day can be observed and we can cancel all holidays, such as Diwali breaks etc. This will ensure that the syllabus is completed on time,” Shivtare said. However, out of 16,675 parents surveyed, 9,170 said no to sending their children back to schools after they reopen, 6,150 said yes, while 1,355 did not respond. “Parents do not want children to go to schools where they fear social distancing will not be followed. Hence, I think reopening the schools is not a possibility at present,” said Pandurang Memane, block education officer, Junnar. The survey found that only 50% of households have television sets in their homes. “Even if 60% of parents have smartphones, they take them to work. This means that there is no phone with the students when they study,” said Memane. Many of the students are also first-generation learners. “Without us guiding them and correcting their notebooks, there is no way of knowing whether what we send on WhatsApp is actually being read by students,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-survey-poser-on-digital-education/articleshow/76364766.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Stop issuing certificates for EWS quota, Tamil Nadu tells collectors||CHENNAI: In a major policy decision, the state government has instructed revenue officials not to issue income and asset certificates for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in general category. It has also withdrawn circulars issued last year permitting officials to issue certificates for reservation under EWS. The government circular dated June 4 has been sent to all district collectors asking them to instruct tahsildars not to issue such certificates for EWS applicants. “The state insists the certificates need not be given since it has not adopted the EWS quota. It has not taken a policy decision yet,” said a senior official. A section in the government, however, expressed concerns about the prospects of EWS beneficiaries getting affected in accessing central government jobs and admission to professional courses. Incidentally, the state cabinet led by Edappadi K Palaniswami will meet on Monday to give its nod for promulgation of an ordinance providing for 10% horizontal reservation for government school students in medical courses. The BJP government at the Centre introduced the quota for the poor in the general category, hitherto not covered by any reservation, under 103rd constitutional amendment, the validity of which has been challenged in the court. In its affidavit before the Supreme Court in January, the Centre said the states were free to decide on implementing the quota system. “The state government need not give EWS quota because it is enabling constitutional amendment and not a mandatory fundamental right as such to be enforceable in the court of law. This is the discretion of the state to do or not to do,” senior advocate K M Vijayan said. The state government has taken note of the open category, which is less than 4% of the population in the state. It was only on Thursday did the Supreme Court refuse to hear a batch of petitions from political parties in Tamil Nadu seeking 50% OBC quota for medical courses under All India Quota (AIQ), on the ground that no fundamental right had been violated entitling parties to move the Supreme Court directly. In its guidelines issued in May last year in line with the constitutional amendment, the state government said persons not covered under the existing scheme of reservations for the SCs, the STs, and the socially and educationally backward classes and whose family had a gross annual income below Rs 8 lakh are to be identified as EWSs for the benefit of reservation. An all-party meeting convened by the AIADMK government in July turned inconclusive, as parties like Congress, BJP and CPM supported the quota and DMK and the regional parties opposed it. The government decided to seek legal opinion on the issue. “We opposed the quota even when the Bill was introduced in the Parliament. The Constitution talks of reservation only for socially and educationally backward, and there is no mention of economically backward,” DMK MP and spokesperson T K S Elangovan said. A petition filed by the DMK, challenging the quota, last year is pending in Madras high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stop-issuing-certificates-for-ews-quota-tn-tells-collectors/articleshow/76364767.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Returnees catalyse Covid surge on coast||Mangaluru/Udupi: Udupi recorded 14 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, and became the first district in Karnataka to cross 1,000 positive cases. Dakshina Kannada registered 30 positive cases, its biggest spike in a single day, beating the previous highest spike by six cases. The total Covid-19 cases in Udupi has touched 1,005, while in Dakshina Kannada it has touched 263. All the 14 positive cases that Udupi recorded during the day, including a six-year-old girl, eight men and five women, are those who returned from Maharashtra, said Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha. However, despite breaching the 1,000 mark, the district has 285 active cases, and they are all responding well to treatment at the designated hospital, the DC said, adding results of 90 samples sent for tests are awaited. Out of the 30 positive cases that Dakshina Kannada recorded, 25 of them are those who had returned from Saudi Arabia on June 5 and 10, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh. In the 18 positive cases detected in a batch of passengers who returned in a chartered flight on June 10, seven are children below 12, and includes five children below four. Due care is being given to treatment of 3 of these children, two of whom are aged 1 and one is aged 2, she said. The other five cases in Dakshina Kannada are reported from those who returned from Maharashtra on May 29, June 4 and June 5, respectively, and includes two children aged 4 and 1, Sindhu said. The district, with the day’s developments, has 118 active cases as against a total of 261 positive cases reported thus far. The district health authorities also discharged 17 patients during the day from Wenlock Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/returnees-catalyse-covid-surge-on-coast/articleshow/76363850.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Hopes rekindle for 700 Indians stranded in Pakistan||NAGPUR: In Karachi, Aslam Mukhtar and Abdul Sait from Tamil Nadu are finally looking forward to reach their homes in Ambur and Chennai, respectively, and Deepak Bajaj, who lost his father after being stranded in Pakistan due to lockdown, also hopes to reunite with his wife and children in Pune. The long wait finally appears to be over for nearly 700 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan. They include people from Jammu & Kashmir to Tamil Nadu, who had gone to Pakistan on visit visas. On Friday, night some of the stranded nationals got an e-mail from Indian embassy which reads, “the Indian high commission has requested the Pakistani minister of foreign affairs to open the Wagah border. A final confirmation is awaited from the Pakistani side”. It further says that the border will be open only on June 23. The Indian nationals have been asked to remain present there on that date. They will be quarantined for 14 days in India after return. The mail has quickly got circulated among several others. Earlier, as Vande Bharat flights evacuated Indians stranded in other countries, including bordering Bangladesh, there was no official word for those held up in Pakistan. Requests to the Indian embassy to be allowed to cross over the border got vague replies. On the other hand, the Pakistani citizens stranded in India were promptly taken back from the Wagah border by their government. “They have sent us a mail but it’s not a final confirmation yet. Hope everything works out well in the end,” said Aslam. His wife Mehjabeen is from Pakistan. Originally from Tamil Nadu, her family had migrated to Karachi. She got Indian citizenship in 2005 after marriage. If it brings a good news for Indian passport holders, the wait continues for those hoping to get Indian citizenship one day. Mostly Hindus from the Sindh province are among others stranded in Pakistan. Not Indian nationals but they had been living in the country for a decade or even more on long-term visas (LTV). They had been on brief visit to Pakistan under a special arrangement called no-objection return to India (NORI) visas, which are valid for three months. There is no news for them yet. They were hoping to get citizenship under CAA. As their stay has extended beyond three months due to lockdown, many may not qualify for CAA. Amarta Haswani, who is on LTV, has left behind her three-year-old daughter in Aurangabad. “My only demand is that even those on NORI visa should be allowed to cross the border so that I can be with my daughter,” she said. TOI had reported about the plight of Indian nationals and also those on visit on NORI visas like Gurcharan Mandia in Shikarpur who says even he has left his three and six-year-old children behind. Rajesh Jhambia, president of Sindhi Hindi Panchayat, said efforts were taken by Indore MP Sanjay Lalawani for the evacuation which have helped. “We have also been verbally assured that once the 14-day quarantine period of Indian national is over, those on NORI visas will be brought back too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hopes-rekindle-for-700-indians-stranded-in-pakistan/articleshow/76364460.cms||Shishir Arya
June 14, 2020||Indore||Problems plenty, but Indore means business||INDORE: Taking baby steps towards unlocking economic activities, trade across sectors have resumed operations at skeleton capacities though poor stocks, delay in transportation of raw materials and absence of retail demand is hurting many businesses. A slowdown in fresh production and consecutive delay in getting supplies through transportation is hitting many traders failing to honour deliveries. Supplies of electrical and electronic items from outstations to Indore have slowed down since lockdown months hampering business activities, claimed traders. With ease in lockdown curbs most traders in city have resumed operations with conditions and following safety guidelines but business activity is anticipated to take around 3 months to heal from the slump, said traders and associations. A drop in consumer off-take and restriction on retail sales have affected many trades, hugely dependent on walk-in customers while delay in payments from suppliers and dealers have hit almost most sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/problems-plenty-but-indore-means-biz/articleshow/76364458.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Unable to afford sanitary pads, women fall back on old cloth in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Several women switched to using cloth instead of sanitary napkins during the lockdown due to financial constraints. Shahina (name changed), a 19-year-old from Gowlipura area, have always used sanitary napkins during menstruation, but for the past two months, she and her sisters are using cloth instead. “My mother showed us how to use it. It is very uncomfortable. I get rashes,” she said. The cost of sanitary napkins for three women was too much, she added. Ahana’s (name changed) father is an auto driver whose income was close to nothing during the lockdown. “I used to buy pads using my pocket money. During lockdown, as I didn’t get any pocket money, I had to stop using sanitary napkins,” said Ahana, who was able to collect her sanitary napkins from an NGO a few days ago. The Tolichowki resident added that her family took a loan from a local financier to pay off rent during the lockdown. “After the lockdown was relaxed, we distributed sanitary napkins to women in need,” said a volunteer from Shaheen NGO. “Pads became unaffordable during lockdown. I needed the money to buy vegetables and deal with other necessities,” said Gauri (name changed), a domestic help from Ameerpet. She has been reusing old clothes as pads in the last few months. “When financial crisis hits underprivileged families, women’s needs are the first to get affected. Many women and adolescent girls were forced to go back to using cloth during lockdown, either because of lack of access or financial crisis,” said child protection officer Rubina Philip from Mahita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unable-to-afford-sanitary-pads-women-fall-back-on-old-cloth/articleshow/76364771.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dos and don’ts in case of a strong earthquake||NEW DELHI: The tectonic plate in the National Capital Region is currently quite active, resulting in 15 earthquakes, the strongest being 4.5 on the Richter scale, since April 12. The series of temblors has been keeping people on their toes with a viral message on social media asking them to prepare an emergency kit in case a strong quake strikes the region. Experts believe that with earthquakes up to 6.8 in magnitude recorded in the past, an emergency kit carrying important documents and essentials like food and water must be kept packed near the exit of the house in case of any emergency or disaster. Harish Mathur, district project officer (central) with Delhi Disaster Management Authority, stated that highrise residents should first run for cover, particularly under a strong table or bed. “Usually, people think of rushing out immediately, but this can be risky for highrise residents. You need to protect your head and brace for the earthquake. Only when it seems safe, you can take the kit and head out. Even outside, one needs to stand away from wires and electricity poles, which may fall,” he added. “Drills are regularly conducted at schools and in societies to let people know what to do. There may be more panic in apartments, so it’s important to have a plan. New buildings should be built to be sturdy and older ones can be strengthened too,” said Mathur. AK Shukla, former head at National Centre for Seismology, said the activity in the region is an indicator warning for better preparedness. “Not only agencies and the government, but people too can be more cautious. Due to Delhi’s proximity to the Himalayan region, it can easily record an earthquake of 6.5 magnitude,” he told TOI. In preparation for an earthquake, retrofitting is a viable option, but that is a long-term solution and may take time. Shukla said in case a strong earthquake hits, running out is an option if one can easily head out within seconds. “It will also depend on the time of the day. At night, for instance, if you are sleeping, the ideal thing is to look for cover. You can hide under a bed, table or crouch in the corner and cover your head. A ceiling will fall in the middle of the room. People should avoid elevators at all costs,” he added. Dr Anshu Sharma, co-founder, Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society, said preparing a “go bag” is important, but running out during an earthquake is generally not easy. “When the building is shaking violently, furniture is sliding around, cupboards and paintings are falling over and light fittings are falling from above, the best strategy is to take cover under a sturdy table or bed. A pillow can be used to protect your head and neck,” said Sharma, adding that once the earthquake stops, the gas supply should be turned off and people should head out using the stairs. “If trapped under debris, tap something so that rescuers can locate you and refrain from shouting to conserve energy. One also needs to discuss with family members what to do in such a scenario,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dos-and-donts-in-case-of-a-strong-quake/articleshow/76364780.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 14, 2020||Kochi||Reluctance of donors a cause of worry for NGOs in Kerala||KOCHI: The increase in the number of Covid-19 cases has had an adverse impact on blood donation with donors becoming reluctant to come to hospitals. However, a few willing donors are still helping to meet the demand, say NGOs. Concerned organizations suggest that once the lockdown eases, campaigns should be launched to encourage blood donations to specialized blood banks which are separate entities and do not treat patients. “While we do not face a major shortage, we have been requesting donors to come to specialized blood banks such as IMA Blood Bank,” said Dr Junaid Rahman, coordinator, IMA-Blood Bank. “Initially, people were a bit reluctant to come to indoor blood donation camps. But now, more number of people are coming in,” said Sanal Lal J, state general secretary, Blood Donors Kerala. Blood Donors Kerala (BDK) said it has organized 170 blood donation camps during Covid-19 in the state. Around 8,000 people participated in the camp. Driven by a group of youngsters, the Ernakulam unit of Blood Donors Kerala received an appreciation for their contributions on Saturday from the Ernakulam General Hospital on the occasion of World Blood Donors Day, which falls on Sunday. “We were able to meet the demand for blood from various hospitals and individuals who appeal on various social media groups. Earlier, people used to immediately get back to them. It is not happening so fast these days,” said Jishnu Raj, coordinator, BDK-Ernakulam. The theme for this year’s World Blood Donor Day is ‘Safe blood saves lives’ with the slogan ‘Give blood and make the world a healthier place’. During the lockdown period, BDK-Ernakulam organized 16 camps. As many as 290 people donated blood to the bank while 1,350 gave their blood directly to patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/reluctance-of-donors-a-cause-of-worry-for-ngos/articleshow/76363853.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 14, 2020||Goa||Congress holds protest at Patradevi||Panaji: With the government refusing to heed its ultimatum, Congress on Saturday organised a protest at the Patradevi border, blocking the main highway for a brief moment. The protest, which began around 11am and went on for 90 minutes, even saw party workers questioning some truck drivers entering the state. They cleared the highway after authorities met them, but continued the protest at the side of the road. The deputy collector for Pernem assured them that the government was looking at their demand to seal the state borders once again. “We have demanded that outsiders should not be allowed in. Only those who are Goans or of Goan origin should be allowed to enter the state,” said party spokesperson and former Calangute MLA Agnel Fernandes. “We checked a few trucks and found that some of the drivers were not wearing masks. Checking is not happening seriously and many are being allowed to come in just like that,” said state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-holds-protest-at-patradevi/articleshow/76365081.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Indore||2nd survey to be conducted in Indore district before Covid-19 peak||INDORE: Expecting a surge in Covid-19 cases in next one month, district administration has decided to carryout second phase of an extensive door-to-door survey to examine health of locals. Relaxations granted in lockdown can however pose problems before the survey team in screening of working professionals. According to senior administrative officials, there are around 370 anganwadi centres, which will each cover about 350 houses of their respective area. Besides, there are about 600 Asha workers in district and each of them will also cover around 350 houses of their respective areas. “Remaining households will be covered by ANM workers and if needed, government school teachers of the area will be roped in to the survey work,” zila panchayat CEO Rohan Saxena told TOI. He added that it will be an extensive door-to-door survey, in which, health details including comorbidity of the person will be noted. “Apart from identification of suspected Covid patients and ensuring to provide them required treatment, the team will take regular follow up of patients while a control room will be monitoring the same,” he said. Saxena added that the survey is likely to start in city from Tuesday and it will be extended into rural areas. Before starting survey, collector Manish Singh on Saturday held a meeting of revenue, IMC and health department officials and asked them to work in coordination. He also instructed members of the survey teams and Rapid Response Team (RRT) to take the work assigned to them very seriously. “Examination of contact history of Covid-19 patients is necessary while samples should be taken of all the persons, who come in contact of positive patients,” said Singh adding that fever clinics are yielding very good results and if any patient is tested positive there, they should be immediately admitted in hospital of red-category for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/2nd-survey-to-be-conducted-in-dist-before-covid-peak/articleshow/76364463.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn to screen all houses for symptoms||Madurai: Madurai corporation has embarked on a door-to-door screening of households for fever and other symptoms of Covid-19, with the help of 1,285 nurses, health workers, anganwadi teachers and volunteers. Each team will consist of four to five members and visit more than 3 lakh houses. They will also inquire about recent returnees from Chennai and other states. Elderly people and pregnant women, if any, will also be recorded. The details of those with fever will be intimated with the respective fever clinics. The civic body had recently opened 155 fever clinics. Paramedics will follow up with the cases, health officials from the corporation said. Apart from screening, awareness is also being spread. They are informed about the importance of consuming immunity boosters like kabasura kudineer, homeopathy tablet arsenicum album-30, multi vitamin tablets and zinc sulfate tablets. The corporation, has planned to distribute immunity boosters to 1.5 lakh poor families and has already covered more than 1 lakh. Corporation commissioner S Visakan addressing volunteers on Saturday said that corporation will provide the teams safety kits consisting of hand gloves, masks and hand sanitizer.  Volunteers would be involved in screening families in their respective wards as they know residents in the area. Volunteers said that they spent around 15 minutes in each house to collect data and screen everyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-to-screen-all-houses-for-symptoms/articleshow/76364459.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||CS exams postponed to August 18||Ahmedabad: After requests from students to defer the Company Secretary examinations, the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) has decided to postpone the examinations for the June 2020 session. All exams, including for the foundation programme, the executive programme, the professional programme, and the post-membership qualification (PMQ) have been deferred. The ICSI CS examinations for the current session will now be held from August 18 to August 28. The decision has been taken keeping the Covid pandemic in mind. The institute has released the revised timetable on its official website. The ICSI has begun conducting classes online. It is also offering free coaching and crash courses for those who wish to take the online exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cs-exams-postponed-to-august-18/articleshow/76364457.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Jio Platforms to raise 4,547cr from US private equity firm TPG||Mumbai: Reliance Industries (RIL) said on Saturday it has raised Rs 6,442 crore by selling 1.32% stake in Jio Platforms. It has sold 0.93% of Jio to US private equity firm TPG for Rs 4,547 crore and 0.39% to L Catterton, a consumer-focused fund, for Rs 1,895 crore. The company, controlled by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, has so far raised Rs 1.04 lakh crore by selling 22.38% in Jio to various US and Middle Eastern buyers, with the largest chunk being bagged by Facebook. The foreign investments boosts RIL’s efforts to reduce its dependence on refining and petrochemicals and increase focus on telecom, e-commerce and online entertainment. The outside money will also aid RIL to lower its Rs 3.36 lakh crore debt. Texas-based TPG and Connecticut-headquartered L Catterton, like the previous financial investors in Jio, have pegged the telecom-cum-digital services company’s valuation at Rs 5.16 lakh crore. The multiple deals in Jio are a precursor to RIL’s plans of taking the subsidiary public in the near future. TPG, founded in 1992 and which today manages assets worth $79 billion, has investments in other technology-enabled companies such as Airbnb, Uber and Spotify. The fund, which has been investing in India since 2000, has backed healthcare, financial services and retail sectors here. Established in 1989, L Catterton has invested in Vroom, an online-used car seller; Japanese eyewear chain Owndays; apparel retailer FabIndia; and online fitness studios Peloton and ClassPass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jio-platforms-to-raise-4547cr-from-us-private-equity-firm-tpg/articleshow/76364783.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||Highest spike, 40 test +ve in a day||Vadodara: In the highest single day rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, 40 new patients were detected in the city since Friday evening. The number of discharges was also highest on a day so far with 66 persons being discharged in the city. The fresh cases reported in Vadodara included eight from the rural areas outside the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits and the remaining 32 from within the city. The cases from the city included 15 from the east zone of the civic body, followed by 13 from the north zone, three from the south zone and one from the west zone. The fresh cases were detected from 186 samples tested since Friday night. With the 40 new cases being detected, the total number of cases went up to 1,524 in the city and district. The cases include 106 from the rural areas of the district outside VMC limits and 16 from other districts or states who tested positive in Vadodara. The 66 patients who were discharged include 30 from private hospitals, nine from GMERS, Gotri Hospital, seven from SSG Hospital and 20 from home isolation. With the fresh discharges, the total number of discharges patients now stands at 1,001. Sources said that a high number of patients will be discharged in the coming days too. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Vadodara now stands at 476 including 26 on ventilator or BIPAP machines and 67 on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 383 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/highest-spike-40-test-ve-in-a-day/articleshow/76363251.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kochi||Corp to speed up repair works||Kochi: As potholes begin to resurface on city roads, the Kochi corporation has decided to carry out patch works on a war footing. “Corporation engineers have been entrusted with the job of monitoring and coordinating these activities. Tenders have been awarded for road tarring. The rains are a hurdle. However, the patch works will be done as and when there is sunshine,” said deputy mayor K R Premkumar. Last year the local body was subjected to severe criticism for the bad condition of roads. They received flak from the high court when a 23-year-old man died after his two-wheeler fell into a pothole on a city road. The court even equated the death of K L Yadhulal to a murder and during the hearing tendered an apology to his parents. The court said the incident occurred due to apathy of authorities. Following this the corporation and other road owners in the city speeded up road relaying and repair works. However, due to the lockdown they could not execute much work during March-May season. “Those were the dry days. But we couldn’t take benefit of it,” added Premkumar. Meanwhile, corporation works standing committee chairperson P M Harris said that they have already opened around 30 files for executing patch works. “We are looking at the option of providing helpline numbers where public can report potholes. It will help identify the spots which needs immediate attention. A meeting will be convened on Monday to discuss on this matter,” he said, adding that when the city experiences waterlogging the local body provides contact numbers of its engineers to the public for seeking assistance. “A similar plan can be made for potholes also. Once a decision is taken we will announce the helpline numbers to the public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-to-speed-up-repair-works/articleshow/76363861.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Agartala||Tripura teen sold to Jhunjhunu man for Rs 1.5 lakh is two months pregnant||JAIPUR: In an alleged case of child trafficking, a 14-year-old girl from Tripura, who was sold to a resident of Jhunjhunu, is now two-month pregnant. The accused had kept her at his home hiding her real identity. Though the girl had provided her real identity and age in her statement, no FIR has been registered. Now, the Rajasthan State Commission of Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) has directed the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to file an FIR against the accused under appropriate sections of Juvenile Justice Act, POCSO Act and anti-child trafficking sections. The RSCPCR has given a week’s time to act on it. After police and CWC failed to find her real identity, RSCPCR member Shailendra Pandya sought the help of the National Commission of Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The NCPCR then wrote to Unakota police of Tripura on June 2, a copy of which is in the possession of TOI, asking it to find that if the girl had provided her correct identity. In reply, Unakota police on June 9 wrote to NCPCR clarifying that the girl had provided her correct identity. The Unakota police met her family and they informed police that she had been missing. “In her statement, ly girl told that she had been sold by one Raju. The man who had been keeping her at her home old had bought her for Rs 1.5 lakh and he claimed that he had married her. I came to know about the matter of purchasing of a girl for Rs 1.5 lakh on June 1 and the girl is pregnant now. The issue is serious, so I informed the NCPCR,” said Pandya. The incident came to light when she fled from the person’s house, who had allegedly purchased her, on May 2 and the later filed a missing complaint in Mandawa police station mentioning that his wife had been missing. Mandawa police found her on May 4 but she refused to go with the person and demanded protection. Following that, Jhunjhunu SDM issued an order to provide her shelter at Swadhara Women Home (SWH), Jhunjhunu. The teen told SWH officials that she had been trafficked and her real name is Seema (name changed) and she originally belongs to Uttar Ratacherra in Unnakoti district of Tripura. She also told that she is below 18 years. Based on the counselling report of Swadhara Women Home, the SDM directed the police station incharge of Mandawa to reinvestigate the matter on May 9. Based on the victim’s statement, Mandawa police presented her before CWC Jhunjhunu. But, CWC rejected her plea and had a doubt about victim’s real name, age and identity. The medical examination for age determination was suggested to CWC but it was found out that the medical cannot be done because the victim is two and a half months pregnant, RSCPCR officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/tripura-teen-sold-to-jhunjhunu-man-for-rs-1-5-lakh-is-two-months-pregnant/articleshow/76366551.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Tripura teen sold to Jhunjhunu man for Rs 1.5 lakh is two months pregnant||JAIPUR: In an alleged case of child trafficking, a 14-year-old girl from Tripura, who was sold to a resident of Jhunjhunu, is now two-month pregnant. The accused had kept her at his home hiding her real identity. Though the girl had provided her real identity and age in her statement, no FIR has been registered. Now, the Rajasthan State Commission of Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) has directed the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to file an FIR against the accused under appropriate sections of Juvenile Justice Act, POCSO Act and anti-child trafficking sections. The RSCPCR has given a week’s time to act on it. After police and CWC failed to find her real identity, RSCPCR member Shailendra Pandya sought the help of the National Commission of Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The NCPCR then wrote to Unakota police of Tripura on June 2, a copy of which is in the possession of TOI, asking it to find that if the girl had provided her correct identity. In reply, Unakota police on June 9 wrote to NCPCR clarifying that the girl had provided her correct identity. The Unakota police met her family and they informed police that she had been missing. “In her statement, ly girl told that she had been sold by one Raju. The man who had been keeping her at her home old had bought her for Rs 1.5 lakh and he claimed that he had married her. I came to know about the matter of purchasing of a girl for Rs 1.5 lakh on June 1 and the girl is pregnant now. The issue is serious, so I informed the NCPCR,” said Pandya. The incident came to light when she fled from the person’s house, who had allegedly purchased her, on May 2 and the later filed a missing complaint in Mandawa police station mentioning that his wife had been missing. Mandawa police found her on May 4 but she refused to go with the person and demanded protection. Following that, Jhunjhunu SDM issued an order to provide her shelter at Swadhara Women Home (SWH), Jhunjhunu. The teen told SWH officials that she had been trafficked and her real name is Seema (name changed) and she originally belongs to Uttar Ratacherra in Unnakoti district of Tripura. She also told that she is below 18 years. Based on the counselling report of Swadhara Women Home, the SDM directed the police station incharge of Mandawa to reinvestigate the matter on May 9. Based on the victim’s statement, Mandawa police presented her before CWC Jhunjhunu. But, CWC rejected her plea and had a doubt about victim’s real name, age and identity. The medical examination for age determination was suggested to CWC but it was found out that the medical cannot be done because the victim is two and a half months pregnant, RSCPCR officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tripura-teen-sold-to-jhunjhunu-man-for-rs-1-5-lakh-is-two-months-pregnant/articleshow/76364765.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi procession begins||PUNE: The Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj annual Palkhi procession commenced from the temple town of Alandi on Saturday, with only 50 representatives of various dindis and select invitees attending the procession as per district collector Naval Kishore Ram’s order. Temple trustees and traditional invitees completed rituals and took out the paduka of the Maharaj from the sanctum sanctorum in their hands around 4.15pm. Vikas Dhage Patil, chief trustee of the temple, told TOI, “We had invited 12 representatives of the dindis and guests who were given the honour to perform various poojas of the paduka. Amidst chant of ‘Dnyanoba Tukaram’, the padukas were taken to ‘Ajolghar’ near the temple premises. The padukas will remain there till June 30.” “Since many warkaris couldn’t come to Alandi this year, we have decided to broadcast daily rituals on social media platforms till June 30,” Patil added. Watch Pune: Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi procession a low-key affair due to Covid-19 lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dnyaneshwar-maharaj-palkhi-procession-begins/articleshow/76364777.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Over 2,500 returnees to Madurai tested, quarantined||Madurai: As many as 2,587 people who have arrived in Madurai by road, bus and train from other states, have been tested and quarantined in the 20 government facilities, minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar has said. He was speaking at a function organised to receive Rs 25 lakh worth of testing equipment donated to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) by the Rotary Club. Elaborating on the numbers, Udayakumar said that 1,476 from Maharashtra, 216 from Gujarat, 118 from Uttar Pradesh, 58 from Delhi, 28 from Bihar, 14 from Punjab, 62 from Karnataka and 615 from other states had arrived till date. Of these, 2,449 had tested negative but quarantined as per government rules and then asked to self-isolate at home. Eighty-six people who tested positive are undergoing treatment in the GRH. He also claimed that the government had taken measures on a war-footing to prevent the spread of the disease in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-2500-returnees-to-madurai-tested-quarantined/articleshow/76364470.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Fronline staff check reveals 17 asymptomatic cops with coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: As many as 17 Punjab police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in a random sampling carried out of 7,165 posted in various police stations and on other frontline jobs. Out of the 17 positive cases, 14 belonged to the district police; two (including a cook) were from state armed police/Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) and one from Punjab home guards. Sangrur has reported the maximum number of positive cases. All the 17 infected were posted in isolation, either in civil hospitals or in the Covid care centres established by the Punjab health department. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said while 1,868 of the 7,165 samples collected till June 12 had tested negative, results for 5,280 were pending. He added that the sampling process was started on June 1 and efforts were being made to test a maximum number of police personnel posted in police stations and other high risk areas on a daily basis depending upon the spare sampling and the testing capacity available with the health department. Punjab DGP had ordered a special RT-PCR Covid testing drive amid apprehensions of a spike in cases in the wake of relaxation of the curfew in the state. Around 48,000 Punjab police men and women were on continuous frontline duty for almost three months during the statewide lockdown.  A Covid positive ASI with co-morbidities has been reported to be in critical condition in Amritsar, said the DGP, adding he was not part of the random sampling exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fronline-staff-check-reveals-17-asymptomatic-cops-with-virus/articleshow/76364779.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Indore||Pool testing begins for early detection of cases||INDORE: As Indore’s positivity rate goes down, MGM Medical College has started pool testing of samples to detect asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19 disease. The technique is stated to provide quick results, reducing workload at laboratories and saving cost by using a single RTPCR test for up to five samplings. According to MGM dean Dr Jyoti Bindal, they conducted successful trials of pool testing of the samples on June 7 and started the procedure from next day. “By June 11, we have conducted total 4920 samples and of this, around 260 samples have come positive,” the dean said. Around 1,000 pool testing carried out by MGM to test about 5,000 samples in last three days, the result was found positive in about 70 cases and when tested individual, as many as 260 samples were found positive. She added that as per ICMR guidelines, the college is testing five samples in a single unit under pool testing method. If the pool tests negative then all individuals are regarded as negative. But if the pool sample is positive, each person in the pool is tested individually to find out, who is affected. The college has started pool sampling for identification of asymptomatic patients after rate of positive cases has gone down in last around 10 days. As per the protocol, said testing is done in areas, where prevalence of the disease is less than 2% of the population. According to local health officials, if the infection rate is low, pool testing can significantly expand the testing capacity of the existing laboratory infrastructure. With easing lockdown norms from June 1, Indore district administration has increased sample testing to check spread of the disease. As per Indore CMHO, the local health department on Thursday collected total 3110 samples and received report in as many as 1982 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/pool-testing-begins-for-early-detection-of-cases/articleshow/76364472.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||21T of PDS rice seized from rice mill, 7 arrested||Tuticorin: Civil Supplies CID officials have seized 21tonnes of smuggled ration rice and arrested 7 people including the employees of co-operative societies and public distribution outlets in Tirunelveli district. The officials raided SVK Modern Rice Mill in Tuticorin district based on a tip-off. The team led by deputy superintendent of police Elangovan and inspector Selvi who conducted the raid in the mill at Therivilai area in Arasur village, Sathankulam Taluk, found 21,000kg rice stacked in 420 bags weighing 50kg each. Preliminary inquiries revealed that rice from the civil supplies godown in Vallioor, Tirunelveli district, was smuggled by the accused. According to police, Swaminathan, a movement clerk in the co-operative marketing society, procured 220 bags (11 tonnes) of PDS rice from the TNCSC godown. Nallarasu the movement staff of the co-operative marketing society is in-charge of supplying essential commodities to PDS outlets in Thisayanvilai, Suvichesa Nagar, Thiruvampalapuram and Uvari using a lorry. The said people colluded with A Natesan, 51, the salesman of the PDS outlet in Thisayanvilai, V Maharajan, 50, the salesman of the PDS outlet in Uvari – 1 to smuggle rice in a lorry and hoarded it at SVK mill in the neighbouring district. Other accused who were arrested include Kannan, Babu, and Lingesh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/21t-of-pds-rice-seized-from-rice-mill-7-arrested/articleshow/76364473.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Family raises doubt on death,body exhumed||Thiruvananthapuram: The Pozhiyoor police on Saturday exhumed the body of a man, who had died three months ago, for postmortem after his father and sister raised doubts over his death. John, a former NRI-turned-fisherman, had died on March 6, police said. As per his wife’s statement, he had died after suffering a cardiac arrest. But, his father, Mikhael Pillai, filed a complaint before police on March 12 citing that he had doubts over the death. His doubts were based on rumours that John committed suicide by hanging and his wife concealed this matter so that it would not affect his funeral as the church would not let the burial of suicide victims to be held on their cemetery. Mikhael stated in his complaint that the truth behind his son’s death must be brought out. Following this, police forwarded the matter to district collector, whose permission was needed for exhuming the body and performing postmortem. Police exhumed the body on Saturday following which the postmortem was performed. The result of the examination is expected within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/family-raises-doubt-on-deathbody-exhumed/articleshow/76363856.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Indore||CET likely in last week of August||INDORE: Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) is likely to conduct Common Entrance Test (CET) in last week of August. The varsity has planned to place advertisement for entrance test in a week. DAVV conducted a meeting regarding budget for computer-based entrance test on Saturday. “We have been planning to conduct the entrance test by last week of August. The meeting was conducted regarding budget and outline of CET,” vice chancellor of DAVV Dr Renu Jain told TOI. As decided earlier, varsity has decided to let National Testing Agency (NTA) conduct the entrance test this year. The varsity has decided to keep the same fee that was charged last year for this year as well, said chairman of CET committee Dr K Ahuja. “The budget to conduct examination for this year is likely to be finalized in a span of one week,” he added. Thirty four courses of 11 departments of varsity will be divided into five groups in CET. While group A and E will be for post graduate courses, group B, C, and D will be for undergraduate courses. Admissions in non-CET courses will begin before CET at department level. Considering the fact that some of the departments don’t even take the tests, the admissions will be given on merit. The varsity has 72 non-CET courses of 24 UTDs for over 2000 seats. “The process will be different for non-CET courses and it will vary department wise. The admission for non-CET courses is likely to begin from August,” media spokesperson of DAVV, Dr Chandan Gupta told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cet-likely-in-last-week-of-august/articleshow/76364476.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Indore||Narmada line hit by power cut, several areas feel the pinch||INDORE: Many localities of Indore witnessed water shortage on Saturday due to snag in Narmada tap waterline system. According to IMC officials, heavy wind reported on Friday led to a fault in 33KV electric line supplying power to the pumping station of first and third phase water supply line, which could be repaired by evening. Later, a similar problem developed at around 3am on Saturday after a branch fell on the 33KV electric line, which shut pumps of first and third phase line. Maintenance team started repairing the fault and could fix it by around 8am. Due to the faults, overhead water tanks situated in Annapurna, Subhash Chowk, Bilawali, Khatiwala Tank, Yashwant Club, Cotton Adda, Scheme 54, Saikripa Colony, Barfani Dham, Sneh Nagar, Nand Nagar Street No. 13 and Mahalaxmi Nagar could not be filled. As many as 13 overhead water tanks situated in Rajmohalla, Sadar Bazaar, Bhawarkuan, PWD, Tukoganj, Scheme 71, Krishi Nagar, Scheme 74, Chhatribagh, Radio Colony, MYH, Scheme 78 and Scheme 114 Part II could not be filled to its capacity and led to ‘partial’ distribution of tap water in localities associated with it. “Technical snag reported at pumping station has been fixed this morning. Around half-a-dozen overhead water tanks will however remain affected on Sunday as we will be able to fill it less than full capacity,” said Narmada Project Executive Engineer Sanjeev Shrivastava. He added that IMC has already running tankers in different areas to meet demand while there are around 7,500 borewells across the city and thus, no other efforts were made to meet demand. “MPEB has cut tree branches, which can fall on electric lines during rainfall. If such problems come up for a day, extra water tankers are not required,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/narmada-line-hit-by-power-cut-several-areas-feel-the-pinch/articleshow/76364481.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Botanist’s study spots 42 new tree species in 10 years||PUNE: Walking along the streets of Warje, amateur botanist Shrikant Ingalhalikar found the ambarella tree (spondias dulcis), a native of Sri Lanka. He also spotted a Burma padaiuk tree (Pterocarpus macrocarpus) standing proudly on the median of Abhimanshri Society in Pashan and was thrilled to bits to see a rare species of padal or snake tree (stereospermum angustifolium) off Paud Road. His study has spotted 42 new tree species in the last 10 years from the 482 species recorded in 2010. The city also lost 20 species during the decade. Ingalhalikar has documented the city’s tree cover in his book ‘Trees of Pune’ published in 2010. The book has been out of print for years. “I could not reprint as there were several additions and deletions. I lost the print files in a computer crash, and photographing the trees again was impossible due to security permissions involved in entering institutions,” he said. But his passion draws him to the lanes and bylanes where he finds rare trees. “Identifying them is challenging and interesting,” Ingalhalikar said. “Pune’s tree diversity is richest among Indian cities. This richness is because of the city’s proximity to the biodiversity hotspot of Western Ghats. Metros like Bengaluru, Delhi and Hyderabad have not published any account of their tree diversity, but from books published so far their species may not exceed 300,” Ingalhalikar said. His study took him two years and was inspired by ‘Trees of Delhi’, a book by Pradip Krishen. “It included each wild and exotic species found in the civic limits. The number is high because wild habitats have been included in urban areas. Of the 482 species, I listed 200 rare species and marked their locations on an interactive Google Map,” Most missing species have been removed while some perished on their own. Ironically, mortality is more in botanical gardens, he said. Ingalhalikar’s discovery of new species of plants is being looked into by scientific journals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/botanists-study-spots-42-new-tree-species-in-10-yrs/articleshow/76364782.cms||Manjiri Damle
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western Railway to run parcel special||Ahmedabad: The Western Railway will be running parcel special Okha-Guhawati and Porbandar Shalimar between Sunday and July 1. The Okha-Guhawati train will have 10 trips which will leave from Okha on June 14, June 17, June 21 and June 24 and June 28. The train will have halts at Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surendrnagar, Ahmedabad, Anand, Patna, Muzzafarpur, Katihar, and Changsari stations on its way to Guwahati. The train will leave Guhawati on June 17, June 20, June 24 and June 27 and July 1. Also another train from Porbandar to Shalimar will run and will make 18 trips. The train will leave Pobandar on June 15, June 17, June 19, June 21, June 23, June 25, June 27 and June 29. The train will leave at 8am and reach Shalimar at 3.30am on third day. The train will halt at Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surendranagar, Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Nandubar, Bhusaval, Akola, Nagpur, Durg, Raipur, Bilaspur, and Tata Nagar stations among others. The train will leave from Shalimar for Porbandar on June 15, June 17, June 19, June 21, June 23, June 25, June 27 and June 29 and July 1. Meanwhile the Indian railways will also run two trips of a special parcel train from Kankaria to Cuttack. The train left from Kankaria on Saturday at 6.30pm and will reach Cuttack on the third day at 2.30am. The return train will leave from Cuttack on June 16 at 7.30 pm and will reach Kankaria at 3.15 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-railway-to-run-parcel-special/articleshow/76364471.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||Hassan soldier dies of heart attack in Chhattisgarh||Hassan: A 42-year-old CRPF soldier from Hassan died of heart attack in Chhattisgarh on Saturday. É D Hemanth Kumar, native of Echanahalli village of Hassan taluk served in the force for 19 years. He was attached to 150th battalion in the last posting. Hemanth had called his wife at 5pm on Friday. But within the next 30 minutes, she got another call that broke the news of her husband dying of heart attack. The flight carrying his mortal remains will arrive in Bengaluru, and then to Echanahalli. The last rites will be held around 9am on Sunday. Hemanth had visited Hassan in the first week of January, said Lokesh, his cousin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hassan-soldier-dies-of-heart-attack-in-chhattisgarh/articleshow/76363875.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Sloth bear that strayed into human habitat trapped||TIRUNELVELI: Forest department officials in Tenkasi district on Friday night trapped a sloth bear that strayed into human habitat. The aggressive four-year-old male bear was released into the forest about 27km from the forest boundary (Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve) on Saturday morning. “This is the third sloth bear to be trapped since the last week of April. Traps have been placed to nab eight more bears that are on the move in the region,” forest range officer for Kadayam range, C Nellai Nayagam said. The three bears are among the 11 that had strayed out of the forest since January. The bears roam four to five km away from the forest boundary in Kotaivilaipatti, Muthaliyarpatti, Bangalakudiruppu, Pudhukudirpuur, Sivasailam, Kalyanipuram, Samangulam and Alagappapuram villages. There they feasted on coconuts and sapota, mango, papaya and other fruits. There were also two attacks on men in Pudhukudirpuur and Muthaliyarpatti, but the injured men managed to escape. Camera traps were set by the department in various places to observe the movement of the omnivores based on complaints from the locals. Two bears aged around 12 years were trapped in Bangalakudiruppu and Pudhukudirpuur respectively on April 29 and May 31. The traps are kept closed till 6pm to avoid children getting caught and opened from 6pm to the early hours of the next morning. On Friday evening, a trap was set at Muthaliyarpatti, where the four-year-old bear was caught. “We placed jackfruit, sapota and other fruits in the cage. The bear was caught around 9pm,” Nayagam said. Deputy director of the Ambasamudram division of the KMTR, Kommu Omkaram, led the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sloth-bear-that-strayed-into-human-habitat-trapped/articleshow/76364477.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||Wife, son of man who succumbed to Covid test +ve||Hassan: Eleven people tested positive for Covid-19 here on Saturday, taking the tally to 237 in Hassan. Of them, 8 have a travel history from Mumbai, and 2 are the relatives of a Covid-19 patient from Hassan, who succumbed to the disease, and one is a 5-year-old boy, who had influenza-like symptoms. Among the 11 cases, 7 are from Channarayapatna, 2 from Hassan and one each from Arkalagud and Holenarsipur. Channarayapatna alone has 160 total positive cases with 28 active cases. Hassan district, as of now, has 52 active cases. The Covid victim’s wife, aged 50, and son, aged 25, have been shifted to the designated Covid hospital here. The 60-year-old man died on Friday. A 5-year-old boy from a village in Arkalgud taluk suffered from an influenza like illness on June 9, whose samples tested positive for Covid-19. On June 7, a family member from KR Pet had visited the boy’s house, with regard to a marriage proposal. The village was sealed on Saturday. The district presently has 20 containment zones, said deputy commissioner R Girish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wife-son-of-man-who-succumbed-to-covid-test-ve/articleshow/76363873.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||UK gurdwaras set to reopen for individual prayer from today||LONDON: Gurdwaras in Britain will start to reopen on Sunday for individual prayer but some are unhappy with the Covid-19 measures that have been put in place. The shrines, however, remain closed for collective worship, study classes and tourism purposes and ‘kirtan’ is still not allowed. Collective worship is not expected to resume until July 4, at the earliest. Jatinder Singh, who sits on the management committee of Guru Nanak Gurdwara Smethwick, said: “The reopening places of worship taskforce did not properly consult the Sikh community and has organised the reopening more through a Christian prism. The conduct of our programmes cannot be dictated. The conduct of our stage (darbar) cannot be interfered with. It has continued even during battles. It does not get changed. The government should not interfere with it.” “Kirtan has to happen. It is part of our service,” Jatinder said. The latest government Covid-19 guidance for the safe use of places of worship states that faith leaders should “strongly discourage people above 70 from attending faith gatherings”. But some gurdwaras think that with social distancing, good hygiene and limited numbers, the elderly should be allowed to attend. “This does not take into account the way of life for Sikhs that sangat is a big part of the gurudwara set-up,” Jatinder continued. “Those above 70 should be allowed to come if they wish to and take precautionary measures such as washing hands and wearing face masks. There should not be an age limit. Many people over 70 live alone and rely on the gurudwara for social interaction. They want to come back for individual prayer.” The guidance also states that no food or drink should be made available, even though the Smethwick gurudwara, like many others, has been open throughout the pandemic preparing 3,000 langar a day and delivering it to the needy. “What about Prashad?” Jatinder said. “Why would giving Prashad make any difference? It can be put in a take-away bag.” “There is no science that backs up the notion the virus spreads through food,” said Harmeet Singh Gill, general secretary of the Sri Guru Singh Sabha Southall. “The over 70s have been kept in lockdown long enough and that is not good for their health. They are saying worshippers can’t be present for collective worship and it does not make sense. There is no distinction where they sit inside whether it is for communal or individual prayer. It feels like they are making it up as they go along. A core tenet of our faith is collective prayer. We want to open for congregational worship,” Gill added. “Our donations are down but we have also reduced our costs and had a lot of donated food. I think the smaller gurdwaras are most affected,” he said. “We will follow the guidelines as we don’t want to put someone in danger,” said Satvinder Singh Dadiahla, joint general secretary of the Sri Guru Singh Sabha Hounslow. “Many people were giving us standing orders online before the pandemic. “The Kirtan will go on behind closed doors. We are just encouraging people to come in and see the Guru. If there are no Covid cases in Hounslow then we would like to open sooner for collective worship,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-gurdwaras-set-to-reopen-for-individual-prayer-from-today/articleshow/76364797.cms||NAOMI CANTON
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rape survivor files case against caste panchayat||Jaisalmer: A rape survivor, who was socially boycotted by the caste panchayat, met the Barmer SP on Friday. On the directions of SP Anand Sharma, a case was lodged against 18 panchs on Saturday. The girl, who was allegedly raped in January, stated that the caste panchayat had ordered her to compromise with the rapist. When she refused, the panchs socially boycotted her family. They even imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on them. The girl told the SP that on January 22 she was alone at home when Dinesh aka Devaram Jat, a resident of Anakhia, forcefully entered her house and raped her. He later threatened to kill her if she opened her mouth about the incident. But showing courage, she lodged a case at Gudamalani police station and got the accused arrested. Later, the accused was released on bail. She was on her way home on June 8 when Dinesh came and started beating her. He forced her to take back the case. But, the family refused. So the culprit approached the caste panchayat. The panchs were continuously building pressure on the family to compromise and threatened to kill them. The girl has registered a case and demanded action against 18 caste panchs including Bhadmanram Vishnoi, husband of the sarpanch, Kevalchand Jat, Khetaram, Dedaram, Shriram and Meharam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-survivor-files-case-against-caste-panchayat/articleshow/76364784.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Need change in policy discourse, says Sardesai||Panaji: Goa has been plagued by lopsided policies which have led to a decline in the state’s economy and put Goans at a disadvantage, said GFP president Vijai Sardesai, as he announced the setting up of the Ravindra Kelekar Dnyanapeeth — Centre for Public Policy and Discourse. Through the institution, which will function as a think tank, GFP aims to impart legislative and policy acumen to Goa’s future leadership, said Sardesai. Sardesai, who will inaugurate the facility at Fatorda to mark his birthday, hopes to facilitate discussion on public policy through various programmes. “There is a deficiency in our political and administrative system,” Sardesai told TOI. “Public policy has not yet become relevant in Goa. In fact, I don’t know how many elected representatives at the end of their term are aware of their rights.” Elaborating, Sardesai said that most of the policies drafted by Goa or the laws enacted by the Goa legislative assembly are mere copies of policies and laws introduced by other states. These “flippant ideas” lack a Goan perspective and thus put Goa at a disadvantage, Sardesai said. “We need a massive mind shift that will reverse the anti-Goemkar element in every aspect of our policy and governance. We also need to groom a new generation of young leaders,” said Sardesai as he explained the need for the centre, which is named after his uncle. Kelekar is one of Goa’s stalwarts who fought for liberation, for Goa’s statehood, for Konkani, and the only Jnanpith recipient of Goa. The centre will serve as a forum for public participation in public policy and will be open to students, activists, NGOs, professionals, artists and anyone else who can shape public policy. Sardesai said that the deficiency in political discourse and policy making has led to the mining industry logjam, affected Goa’s tourism sector and caused the decline in agriculture, industry and environment. “The quality of our discourses in all subjects that affect our society, politics included, have left a lot to be desired. This directly impacts public policy because our ability to think of new ideas and innovative solutions to present and future challenges, are hampered by the lack of constructive and critical thinking,” said Sardesai. While Sardesai refrained from naming the person who will head the centre, he said that he wants to keep it as neutral as possible. The Ravindra Kelekar Dnyanapeeth, Centre for Public Policy and Discourse is expected to formally start only in August. “The political upbringing that is required for upcoming political leaders is lacking. The BJP trains its local leaders, gives them training for political leadership, I want to do something similar, something that espouses our regionalistic ideology,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-change-in-policy-discourse-says-sardesai/articleshow/76365088.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Staring at uncertainty, food malls wait for right time for ‘safe’ restart||NEW DELHI: When it opened, Epicuria transformed eating out for the corporate work force and residents in and around Nehru Place. Occupying a part of Nehru Place metro station, it offered an array of options at its 35 food outlets, with the mall also providing side dishes, so to say, with a gym and cinema nearby. After the Covid lockdown, it is, however, struggling to draw people, what with Delhi Metro still not running, open hours limited to 9pm, no serving of alcohol and gyms and cinemas directed to remain shut The mall is waiting for the situation to normalise. Explaining that the situation is tough for dedicated food hubs like Epicuria, mall founder Vivek Bahl said he wouldn’t want to reopen only to find he’d have to shut again. He has written to his landlord, DMRC, explaining the need for concessions that he is able to pass on to his tenants. “We want the food outlets to remains with us without suffering financially due to a hasty resumption of business,” Bahl said. “We will rather wait for situation to become more conducive to dining out.” Sangam Courtyard, another popular ‘food mall’, is also trying to assess how to deal with what Archit Jain calls an “unprecedented scenario”. Jain, director of Sangam Cinemas which owns the mall, says their approach is to be responsible rather than hurry into reopening. Any case detected at the food hub will jeopardise efforts and investments going into resumption of business, he said. Jain went on, “There has been a shift in the way customers spend time in places like restaurants. We are working out how to overcome challenges and reopen in phases, even take it slow if needed at this hour.” He expects the fear to start easing from July onwards and business and consumer sentiment to rebound from August on. With colleges closed, offices running at less than half their capacities and the fear of the coronavirus growing by the day, most food malls may not reopen in June. Mall operators are also renegotiating agreements with with each tenant to be able to provide viable business for both the mall and the retail tenants so as to share the financial impact of the closure. Food outlets, especially dedicated food courts and malls, had become a lucrative investment option for real estate players, boosted by the promise of high footfall. Jaideep Bhandari of Bhandari Infra, which runs Palate of Delhi at Dhaula Kuan metro station, said outlets there had focused on delivery and takeaway and have done decent business since April. Bhandari said he would decide on reopening the hub only after taking all his tenants on board. “Restarting dine-in cannot be a half-hearted effort,” he said. “Our intentions is to reopen, but we are assessing the circumstances. While delivery and drive-through outlets have already started achieving 80% of their pre-lockdown sales, we will have to take precautions before allowing dine-in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/staring-at-uncertainty-food-malls-wait-for-right-time-for-safe-restart/articleshow/76364791.cms||Amin Ali
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two rob man of bike, give him scooter key to go home||NEW DELHI: The empty stretch along the Signature Bridge could turn into an ideal place for criminals to waylay passersby and rob them. Recently, a man heading to work on a motorbike was stopped by two men on a scooter. They snatched his motorcycle and handed him their scooter’s key to return home. In his complaint, the biker Mujahir told the cops that he was driving down the loop towards the Ring Road while returning from Loni. He works for a logistics delivery company and was on his way to drop a consignment. When he had slowed down near the loop, two men on a scooter approached him from behind and held him. They asked him to step away from his bike and give them the keys. While leaving, the accused handed him the key of the scooter on which they had come and asked him to return home on it. Stunned by the brazen robbery, Mujahir reached the Timarpur police station in north Delhi to lodge a complaint. He told the cops that he had bought the motorbike on a loan a few months back after he lost a job so that he could earn by working with the logistics company. According to him, the stretch on which the incident took place did not have CCTV coverage. The stretch remains dimly lit during the evening hours, claimed a resident. The stretch between the Signature Bridge and Bhopura Road was marked as a vulnerable spot for crimes during a survey last year after which the LG’s office had directed Delhi Police and the government to ensure proper lighting and patrol along the stretch. Even though police have anti-snatching patrol teams, the time taken by them to make a turnaround is long at several places in the capital because of the lengthy loops. “This makes two-wheeler riders vulnerable to snatchings and other crimes,” the resident added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-rob-man-of-bike-give-him-scooter-key-to-go-home/articleshow/76364789.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Fitness course for overweight BSF officers||Jaisalmer: BSF has started a three-week physical fitness course for its officers who are struggling with obesity and weight issues. The training started on June 9 and will continue till June 30. Around 25 officers of DIG/Commandant level from Rajasthan Frontier, Punjab, J&K and Gujarat Frontiers have been sent to the BSF Academy, Tekanpur (MP), for the training in the first phase. A DIG and two commandants from Rajasthan Frontier are taking part in the programme. Special diet and fitness programme has been made to reduce their weight. Recently, BSF DG S S Deshwal had visited the international border. He walked 50km with the officers to meet the jawans to boost their morale. During the visit, he felt that some officers were unable to walk the distance due to lack of physical fitness and obesity. He directed them to take part in the programme on fitness training at BSF Academy, Tekanpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fitness-course-for-overweight-bsf-officers/articleshow/76364781.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Youth kills neighbour who attacked his mother||MADURAI: A teenager, who beat up his neighbour woman under the influence of alcohol, was stabbed to death by the woman’s son. The deceased has been identified as K Ajithkumar, 18, of Keerathurai in Madurai city. On Friday night, Ajithkumar was coming to his house in an inebriated condition and he broke a liquor bottle in front of his neighbour S Lakshmi’s house. After Lakshmi scolded him for this, Ajithkumar attacked her in an abusive language and in a fit of rage, he beat her up with his hands. A quarrel ensued between Lakshmi’s son S Murugan, who was present at the house, and Ajithkumar. Soon, it turned into a fist fight. Murugan rushed into his house, brought a knife and stabbed Ajithkumar on his chest. He collapsed down and was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital. But, he died on the way to the hospital due to sever bleeding. Based on a complaint from Ajithkumar’s relative R Muthulakshmi, 36, a murder case was registered with the Keerathurai police station under Section 302. Murugan, 27, was arrested by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/youth-kills-neighbour-who-attacked-his-mother/articleshow/76364487.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: PG doctors write to authorities, file PIL seeking postponement of final exams||HYDERABAD: With less than a week left for their final year exams, at least four PG doctors who recently tested positive for Covid-19 — and many of their primary contacts — have reached out to health officials and the Telangana governor, appealing for postponement of exams. The PG doctors also filed PIL (public interest litigation) on Friday, as a last resort, hoping that the high court will intervene in the matter. There are close to 370 PGs in OGH and over 200 in Gandhi Hospital who will be taking the exams slated from June 20 to June 29. While the four are currently isolated in Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital (OGH), some of their primary contacts are home quarantined. Worried that the might lose a year if they are not allowed to write the test, the PG doctors say that they have carried their books to the isolation ward, to prepare for the exams. Students are scared that conducting exams under such circumstances might result in a further spread of the virus among PG doctors. “The students who tested Covid-19 positive, which include my close friends and colleagues, are under much greater stress. After the treatment at Gandhi they have been advised two weeks of home quarantine. It would be unfair to expect them to adequately prepare for and take the exams despite the ordeal they have undergone. It is the same for the primary contacts, many of whom left the hostels and the reading rooms after the outbreak of cases in the premises,” wrote Dr Syed Mustafa Hashmi, a final year PG doctor from the Osmania General Hospital saying how that the lack of clarity from the authorities have only added to their misery. The fact that the Osmania and Gandhi hospital premises - both hotbeds of Covid-19 — will also be the exam centres with PGs writing the exam together , has also become a matter of concern. “There is no word about alternate arrangements being made for those affected, under treatment at Gandhi or under home quarantine. It is even unclear what happens to their primary contacts,” said another doctor. Meanwhile, the state health minister has already stressed that the exams will not be postponed. Speaking to STOI, vice-chancellor of the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences, Dr Karunakar Reddy said, “There is a PIL filed on the subject. The matter is now sub-judice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-docs-write-to-authorities-file-pil-seeking-postponement-of-final-exams/articleshow/76365086.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Monsoon makes a mark with surplus rain||Panaji: With Pernem receiving the highest quantum of very heavy rainfall of 145mm (nearly 6 inches) and a few other centres recording heavy rainfall during the last 24 hours, the monsoon activity in the state has been vigorous after its onset since Thursday. The seasonal total has reached 426.8mm, 54% above normal, which is 277.7mm. Three atmospheric features have induced favourable conditions for the rainfall after its onset. “A circulation over Odisha, an atmospheric feature called shear zone caused over north of Ratnaigiri and wind circulation over north and central Maharashtra has enhanced the monsoon activity at the beginning itself,” Rahul M, scientist at India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said. While the copious rainfall in Pernem was just 55mm short of extremely heavy rainfall, a few other weather centres recorded heavy rainfall till Saturday morning. Ponda recorded 80mm, Canacona 72.2mm, Sakhali 68.2mm and Margao 64mm. While figures of Mapusa and Valpoi were not available, Dabolim recorded 61.6mm, Panaji recorded 51.5mm and other centres on a lesser scale. On the first day, a 24-hour period from 8.30am on Thursday to 8.30am on Friday, Dabolim turned out to be the wettest place with very heavy rainfall of 117.2mm. With this, Dabolim recorded 178.8mm (seven inches) during the last 48 hours while Pernem recorded 169.4mm (24.4mm on Friday and 145 on Saturday). During the first 24-hour period, besides Dabolim, Mormugao recorded 105.6mm, Quepem 87mm, Panaji 86, Margao 73mm and Old Goa 65mm.Figures for Ponda, Valpoi and Sanguem were not available. IMD had issued red alert, an extremely heavy rainfall warning, for Goa till June 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-makes-a-mark-with-surplus-rain/articleshow/76365083.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Missing woman found dead, suicide suspected||Thiruvananthapuram: The body of a Secretariat employee who went missing on Friday was fished out of Vamanapuram river near Ayanthikadavu on Saturday. Ila Divakar, 49, of Ottaplamukku near Valiyakada under Chirayinkeezh police station limits is the deceased. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide. According to police, Ila Divakar, who worked as an under-secretary at records section at Secretariat, was reported missing from her residence since Friday morning. She was a widow and survived by two daughters, Bhavya and Athena. Chirayinkeezh police had registered a case after receiving a formal complaint from her niece. Soon, police found Ila’s scooter parked near Vamanapuram river at Ayanthikkadavu. Since the family had told police that she had displayed suicidal tendencies in the past, police launched a search in the river with the help of fire and rescue services personnel. The scuba-diving team of the fire department too were summoned to search for her. “The body was found around 3.45pm from a spot that is around 1.5 kilometre downstream from the spot where her scooter was found,’’ said Chirayinkeezh sub-inspector V S Vineesh. The SI said as per the statement of her family members, Ila was suffering from mental illness for nearly a decade. She was under treatment for depression. Her husband, Laiju, who was an employee of KSEB, had died around 10 years ago, succumbing to cancer. It was after that she fell into depression. Though she was under treatment, she was often reluctant to take the medicines, her family members told police. “Her family members also said she had attempted suicide once in the past too by hanging,’’ the SI said. She was last seen by her domestic help. Around 5.30am on Friday, the domestic help reached the house and it was Ila who opened the door for her. Around two hours later, her daughters woke up and could not find her anywhere. The body was shifted to mortuary after inquest. There were no unnatural injuries found on the body during the inquest. A postmortem will be held on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/missing-woman-found-dead-suicide-suspected/articleshow/76363894.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Car-on-rent scam: 1 more police case filed, 7 so far||Ahmedabad: One more complaint of mortgaging a car after hiring it on rent has been filed. The case has been filed with Vejalpur police on Friday against Kaushal Gohil, a resident of Rameshwar Society in Vasna, Bharatsinh Solanki, a resident of Modasar, and Parth Ode, a resident of Paldi in Ahmedabad. The accused used to hire cars from people and then mortgage them to different people. “A total of 17 cars were taken on rent by Ode. He had assured the owners that the vehicle would be given on lease to a mobile phone service provider company. After that he mortgaged them to different persons. Seven complaints have been registered so far with Vejalpur, Vasna and Satellite police in this connection,” said ACP, N Division, Divya Jadeja. In the latest complaint, one Ibrahim Saiyed, 35, of Fatehwadi in Juhapura, has said that his car was hired by Ode in April on a two-month contract. “However, as the insurance of the car was getting over on April 27, Saiyed called Ode and demanded his car back to renew the insurance, but Ode never listened to him,” said a police source. Later Saiyed was informed by his friend Rajesh Khetaria that his car has been mortgaged to one Bharatsinh Solanki of Modasar, and that Solanki has given the car to one Kaushal Gohil of Sanand. On June 11, Saiyed came to know through the GPS system installed in his car that the vehicle was in Radhanpur. He rushed to Radhanpur and got his car from one Malekbhai and lodged the complaint. The accused will now be handed over to Vejalpur police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-on-rent-scam-1-more-police-case-filed-7-so-far/articleshow/76364480.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Let’s allow test for all, Satyendar Jain urges ICMR||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday Indian Council of Medical Research should amend the guidelines on Covid-19 testing and make it accessible to all. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh also wrote a letter to the Union health minister urging him to make testing open for all while expanding the existing laboratory networks by licensing more facilities for the testing. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had recently asked Delhi’s director general of health services, which had ruled out testing of asymptomatic persons, to stick to ICMR guidelines after a decline in the number of tests being conducted in the city. Asked whether testing had indeed decreased in Delhi, Jain said, “The ICMR guidelines need to be altered for testing to be expanded. Testing can be done only according to guidelines, which clearly mention who should be tested and who should not be. The testing can be opened up for everyone if the ICMR guidelines permit it, but then the number of people getting tested will go up whether or not they have Covid symptoms.” With testing limited to those showing infection symptoms, the percentage of positive cases among those tested has been high, filling Delhi’s citizenry with a sense of panic. On Friday, 2,137 persons tested positive for coronavirus among the total of 5,947 tests. Overall, till Friday, 2,77,463 tests had been conducted, of which 36,824 returned positive results. The ICMR guidelines do not currently allow everyone to be tested, but permit only the contacts of Covid-positive persons — irrespective of whether they are asymptomatic or symptomatic — to undergo the test for corona infection. Meanwhile, Jain said that the government was making arrangements for additional beds to meet the requirement of the expected increase in the number of cases in the coming days. “The base right now is 37,000 cases in Delhi. Given the doubling rate of the infection in the city is 13-14 days, it means that the next 10-15 days, Covid cases will increase by another 37,000,” Jain pointed out. “The recovery rate is such that of every 100 people infected, 97-98 recover. It takes around 15 days for a patient to recover from Covid-19.” On the testing rate in states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, Delhi’s health minister said, “The testing rate in those two states is 10 times lower than in Delhi. Accordingly, if the testing rate is so low, the detection of corona cases is, accordingly, 10 times lower there than in Delhi.” As for the criticism of Delhi government by the Supreme Court on Friday, Jain said that the government had resolved to act on the short-coming noted by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lets-allow-test-for-all-jain-urges-icmr/articleshow/76364795.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 hits cornea harvest, transplant; waitlist for corneal operations lengthens||HYDERABAD: Eye harvest has been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the last three months, further pushing the waitlist for corneal transplant. Eye surgeons could not take up corneal donation from the dead due to Covid-19 lockdown and associated risk of transmission of novel coronavirus. According to doctors at LV Prasad Eye Institute in Hyderabad, the decrease in the collection of cornea will increase the burden of the pre-existing gap of demand-supply of corneal tissue. They, however, said the pandemic is an opportunity to brainstorm innovative methods for long-term storage of corneal tissue, especially for an emergency like the current one, in the future. A research publication shows that most of the eye banks in India have discontinued collection through the hospital corneal retrieval programme, which is a major source of cornea collection. In their research publication in the latest issue of the scientific journal, ‘Indian Journal of Ophthalmology,’ Sunita Chaurasia and Namrata Sharma of LVPEI, Hyderabad, and Sujata Das of LVPEI, Bhubaneswar, said ophthalmologists need to “fall back on alternative procedures like glycerine preserved cornea as an interim measure of managing the globe threatening conditions. Although we do not have surplus optical quality tissue, we can plan to preserve tissues either in glycerol or gamma irradiation, which have been discarded due to causes other than seropositive reasons.” They said in view of uncertainties over restoration of eye banking activities, there is a need to establish guidelines on ways to restart eye banking activities in the future. Donor cornea, however, carries the unknown and unquantifiable risk of transmission of disease to the recipient. Since there is a risk of transmission via ocular surface, it carries a risk of transmission to the recipient. “Each eye bank has to come up with a plan that works in a specific geographical location keeping a track of the updates on the stage of spread of the Covid-19 in the area. Stringent safety measures need to be adopted by the eye bank technicians that would include PPE during donor cornea retrieval. The eye banking activities should be initiated in a calibrated manner where no active cases are reported,” they suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-hits-cornea-harvest-transplant-waitlist-for-corneal-operations-lengthens/articleshow/76364803.cms||Syed Akbar
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Railway colony headed for a plush look with high-end villas, bungalows||NEW DELHI: As many as 64 high-end duplex villas and bungalows are expected to come up in north Delhi’s Civil Lines area with Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) planning a redevelopment project. Replacing the old railway colony located on Boulevard Road, the project will be spread over an area of 5.38 hectares. Officials said the total project cost might be close to Rs 400 crore. “There are 64 units planned on the railway colony site. At present, there are 12 to 14 old bungalows and 40 outhouses,” added an RLDA official. The site lies close to the Tis Hazari metro station, the Kashmere Gate metro station and is in proximity to the Bungalow Zone in Civil Lines as well — a high-end neighbourhood in north Delhi. The area also boasts of proximity to the Delhi University and the Delhi Legislative Assembly among others. RLDA says the estimated project time is two to three years. However, work can only begin once the entire railway colony is relocated. “It will be partially moved to Sarai Rohilla, land for which has been already identified. The relocation there has already begun. The remaining half is likely to be shifted to Sarojini Nagar,” said the official, adding compliances and approvals will be finalised during this period. Due to height restrictions in the area – since it falls in the green zone, officials said the buildings will not be high and are likely to be two-storey villas or bungalows. “The height restriction is close to 11 metres so two to two-and-a-half storey bungalows and duplex buildings can be constructed. These will be high-end properties,” said an RLDA official. The project will also have a commercial aspect with 10% of the buildings to be made commercial, towards the main road (Lala Hardev Sahai Marg). “The proximity to the metro stations and the overall location which is close to ISBT Kashmere Gate, Delhi University and the Vidhan Sabha make it lucrative for homeowners,” said RLDA vice-chairman Ved Prakash Dudeja. RLDA is a statutory body under the Ministry of Railways for the development of vacant railway land. RLDA at present has over 70 sites across the country for leasing and is in the process of identifying developers through a bidding process, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/railway-colony-headed-for-a-plush-look-with-high-end-villas-bungalows/articleshow/76364805.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Foreign universities begin e-lessons before classes on campus||HYDERABAD: Amid Adapting to the new normal — courtesy the pandemic — many universities across Australia and the United Kingdom, and other countries have decided to give their new semesters a virtual start. So, students at home in Telangana, enrolled with these varsities, can now begin the course from the comfort of their living rooms and continue it at the overseas campus when borders re-open. The blended learning approach, which will combine physical, virtual classes and learning support, will begin from the ensuing fall semester and continue until it’s safe to resume face-to-face studies, these universities have informed. “We are pleased to offer online face-to-face learning for all international students commencing at the university’s study centres in July,” said Andrew Vann, vice-chancellor of Charles Sturt University, Australia. “This teaching model will provide students the same level of interaction with our staff as studying on the campus and means they won’t have to delay their study plans as a result of Covid-19 restrictions.” The varsity has decided to schedule face-to-face virtual classes during the afternoon and evening to suit a wider range of time zones, including the Indian Standard. Similarly, Royal Holloway, University of London, has also decided to adopt online teaching along with physical classes for all postgraduate courses this year. “The coronavirus pandemic has created uncertainty in every area of life, but we want students from India to feel confident about studying here at Royal Holloway. We recognise that students might be worried about starting a course this year and we hope that our adapted postgraduate courses will ease concerns,” said James Knowles, senior vice-principal for education at Royal Holloway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foreign-univs-begin-e-lessons-before-classes-on-campus/articleshow/76365094.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Vigilance stepped up at Madurai district borders||MADURAI: Teams from the police and the Madurai district administration have increased vigilance and intensified vehicular checks along the seven borders of the district, as more number of vehicles from Chennai and its surrounding districts are coming in. On Saturday morning, a private bus from Chennai, carrying 38 passengers, was stopped at the Kottampatti check-post as it was found operating without any pass. Inquiries revealed that the operator had collected Rs 2500 from each passenger to drop them at Madurai. All the passengers and the crew were shifted to an isolation facility at Kottakudi village. A police officer said the teams take turn and monitor vehicular movement round-the-clock. Apart from main roads, more than 12 smaller roads are also being monitored for inter-zonal movement. “Strict measures are enforced on vehicles originating from Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. Those without pass are made to return. Otherwise, they are given institutional quarantine option,” he said. P T Subash, deputy superintendent of police, Melur said that 90% of the vehicles carry a valid e-pass. Passengers of such vehicles are allowed to enter the district after collecting swab samples through the medical teams deployed at the borders. The remaining are sent to an isolation facility and allowed to leave only after ensuring that they do not have Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vigilance-stepped-up-at-madurai-district-borders/articleshow/76364490.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Crorepati bleeding-heart lawyers fail to walk the talk||NEW DELHI: Super-rich lawyers of the Supreme Court, who command respect and money in equal measure, appear to be reluctant to donate even a fraction of their daily earnings to help the SC Bar Association's initiative to give grant of Rs 20,000 to advocates who are facing financial hardship due to drastic reduction in litigation during coronavirus-triggered lockdown. On a rough estimate, there will be at least a dozen senior and noted lawyers whose daily earnings used to touch Rs one crore prior to the lockdown. It is also common knowledge that there are at least 100-odd advocates, practising in SC, whose pre-lockdown monthly income exceeded Rs one crore. But when the SCBA, through its president Dushyant Dave, acting secretary Rohit Pandey and treasurer Meenesh Dubey, sought donations from its well-to-do members to create a distress fund from which ex-gratia grant of Rs 20,000 could be given to members to tide over financial crisis, the response was at best less than lukewarm. Some of the super rich advocate-politicians had criticised the Supreme Court for not coming to the help of the poor and destitutes by entertaining PILs by activists. Except Dave, none of those critics donated a pie to the SCBA fund. Also, none of the 22 senior advocates, who had written to the CJI and SC judges imploring them to intervene to help migrant workers prior to the court initiating suo motu proceedings, featured in the list of donors to the SCBA benevolent fund. To inspire the rich section of advocates to contribute generously and lend a helping hand to the distressed advocates, Dave donated Rs 25 lakh. The example was followed by former additional solicitor general PS Narasimha who pitched in with Rs 15 lakh and former SCBA president Vikas Singh who donated Rs 10 lakh. In all, only 19 members sent in their contributions. Those who donated Rs 5 lakh each included C S Vaidyanathan, Ritin Rai, C U Singh, K V Vishwanathan, Mahesh Jethmalani and Guru Krishna Kumar. Having collected Rs 96 lakh from donations, the SCBA doled out ex-gratia to its members whose income in the last year did not exceed Rs 8 lakh. It put in certain conditions for eligibility of advocates for availing the ex-gratia payment. Prior to the grant, the SCBA had also floated a loan scheme that allowed members of the association to avail a maximum interest-free loan of Rs 25,000. In this scheme, the members had the option of repaying the loan in easy instalments in two years, which works out to a little over Rs 1,000 a month. While the loan scheme drew its corpus from the SCBA fund, the one-time ex-gratia grant scheme was independent of the funds at the disposal of the association and was built purely with voluntary donations from advocates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rich-lawyers-not-willing-to-help-poor-colleagues/articleshow/76365163.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 14, 2020||Amritsar||Private hospitals fear Covid-19 quota, offer cheaper care||AMRITSAR: With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in Punjab, private hospitals are apprehensive of the government asking them to earmark a certain percentage of their beds for Covid-19 patients on the lines of the Delhi government. They also oppose the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) treatment rates for the Covid 19 patients, which force them to cap charges. Condemning Delhi government’s decision of earmarking 20% beds for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, managing director of Hartej Hospital, Dr H S Nagpal said the decision was not in the best interest of every patient. “We are already experiencing a tough time dealing with patients’ attendants while making them to understand the importance of safety norms for coronavirus and if we admit Covid-19 patients for treatment it will be impossible to handle the situation.” Instead of earmarking some beds for Covid-19 patients, he said the government should have MoU’s for dedicated private Covid-19 hospitals. Managing director, Amandeep Group of Hospitals, Dr Avtar Singh also expressed similar reservations. “This is a ridiculous decision of the Delhi government, which will not help contain the spread of the virus at all.” If Punjab government issued similar directions for private hospitals in Punjab, the virus could spread further and regular patients would be discouraged from reporting to hospitals. Saying that he had dedicated a 35-bed hospital exclusively for treatment of Covid-19 patients, Avtar said the government should come forward and convert private hospitals into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals to win the battle against the virus. The medical fraternity is also reluctant to fix treatment cost at Rs 4,000 to Rs 7,000 per day in accordance with CHGS guidelines for private hospitals. “The CGHS rates are practically not viable given the treatment cost and overhead expenses incurred on patient and staff care,” said the owner of a private hospital on condition of anonymity. Recently, Punjab government had issued a notification stating that private hospitals would charge only CGHS approved treatment cost from Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pvt-hospitals-fear-covid-19-quota-offer-cheaper-care/articleshow/76364804.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government may cap Covid-19 prices at private hospitals||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is likely to cap treatment cost for Covid-19 in private hospitals. It may also fix a ceiling on private ambulance charges and reduce prices for Covid tests conducted by private labs. In some private hospitals, the one-day charge for a bed with ICU and ventilator is as high as Rs 72,000. Fixing price ceiling for treatment by private hospitals is one of the key agenda points for the Delhi Disaster Management Authority meeting scheduled for Tuesday. The meeting will be chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and CM Arvind Kejriwal will attend it. Recently, the Tamil Nadu government had capped the Covid treatment costs in private hospitals. It had fixed a ceiling of Rs 7,500 for treatment in general wards and Rs 15,000 for treatment in ICUs. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday hinted at the possibility of price capping in the capital. “All the hospitals have been asked to share the rates that they are charging for Covid treatment. We will decide on what to do after observing every hospital’s details,” the minister stated during a media interaction. In the wake of reports that some private hospitals were asking the patients to pay arbitrary Covid-19 treatment charges, Delhi government earlier this week asked all private hospitals treating Covid patients to display the rate list of all services, including various lab tests, isolation beds and beds with ventilators, at prominent places on their premises. Apart from it, the director general of health services also asked the hospitals to provide a list of the schedule of charges for treatment of Covid patients. A government official said that a few private hospitals in the city are charging Rs 15,000 to 25,000 for general ward, Rs 18,000 to Rs 27,000 for twin sharing ward and Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 for private room with isolation per day for Covid management. BJP and Congress have supported the demand for price capping. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor in a letter to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday stated that it was shocking to learn that medical bills of Covid patients with history of some other disease were usually not less than Rs 7 lakh and ran up to Rs 15 lakh. Kapoor demanded price capping in private hospitals. Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said that exorbitant treatment cost causes unnecessary stress to the families battling the Covid infection. The high treatment charges are keeping many middle-class families with serious Covid-19 patients away from the private hospitals and the burden on the government hospitals is growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-may-cap-covid-prices-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76364801.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 14, 2020||Patna||14-year-old girl raped by senior, his uncle in Patna||PATNA: Police are conducting raids to nab a minor boy for allegedly raping a junior girl from his school along with his 20-year-old uncle at his house in Punpun in Patna district on the intervening night of June 2 and June 3. The 14-year-old survivor lodged an FIR at her local Rajeev Nagar police station on June 10 and the matter came to light only on Saturday. The accused minor is a resident of Danapur. Both accused are on the run, police said. “On June 2, the accused minor took the survivor to Punpun where his uncle has a house. There, both stayed for a night during which he raped her,” a police officer of Rajeev Nagar police station said quoting the FIR on condition of anonymity. He added, “The next day the boy’s uncle came. He then raped the girl. Thereafter he threatened her not to tell the incident to anyone.” “The boy’s family traced the duo at Punpun. They brought them back on June 3 and handed over the girl to her respective family,” the police officer said. Police said probably due to fear, victim didn’t tell anything to the family initially. “However, they approached the police soon after coming to know about the rape,” he said. City SP (central) Vinay Tiwari said, “The survivor and the accused minor know each other. She had alleged that the boy cajoled her to go Punpun where he raped her followed by his uncle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/14-year-old-girl-raped-by-senior-his-uncle-in-patna/articleshow/76363138.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 14, 2020||Goa||Govt grants permission to set up cyber lab via PSU||Panaji: With Goa police failing to attract private bidders for setting up a cyber forensic lab cum training centre, the state government has now granted permission to establish the lab through a public sector undertaking (PSU). The Centre had approved Rs 1.4 crore for Goa police to set up the lab meant for solving cybercrime cases. Speaking to TOI, crime branch SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said, “The government has granted permission to set up a cyber forensic lab through a government-owned enterprise, and the process will commence soon.” Despite floating a tender twice in 2019 for setting up a state of the art lab and training centre at Ribandar, Goa police received entries from single bidders, due to which they were unable to award the tender. Goa police had written to the government requesting it to decide on a single bidder participating in the tender process. However, the government has now granted approval to set up the lab through a government agency. A tender was floated by Goa police in the first quarter of 2019, but it failed to elicit any bidders. The second tender was issued in mid-2019, however, only one bidder participated in it. A senior officer said that to award the tender, at least two bidders must participate in the process. There is only one bidder in the country who has the expertise to set up the lab and training centre, the officer said. At present, the crime branch has a small lab set up under corporate social responsibility. Most of the cybercrime cases reported in the state have remained unsolved due to lack of infrastructure and cyber experts. The lab to be set up under the Cybercrime Prevention Against Women and Children (CCPWC) scheme will help Goa police solve many pending cases by identifying or locating the accused, as the case may be. Investigations into cybercrimes include financial crimes involving cheating, credit card frauds, money laundering, cyber photography involving production and distribution of pornographic material, sale of illegal articles such as narcotics, weapons and wildlife, intellectual property crimes such as theft of computer source code, software piracy, copyright infringement, trademark violation, deployment of virus, cyber-attack, cyber terrorism, etc, which requires computer skills, mainly for on-site imaging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-grants-permission-to-set-up-cyber-lab-via-psu/articleshow/76365091.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||Hope for stranded Godhra residents||Vadodara: Eventually, some hope is emerging for the group from Godhra who had been stranded in Pakistan’s Karachi for almost two months now waiting for permission to cross the border. A group of 28 persons had gone to Karachi for a wedding in March. Of them, two were to stay back, while 26 wanted to return to Godhra. But the lockdown was declared and they got stuck in Karachi. But even with transport facilities being available on either side of the border, the group still needs permission to cross the international border. When train services resumed, they booked tickets from Amritsar to Godhra for June 4 seeking nod to cross the border. They also gave undertaking that they would follow all guidelines including staying in quarantine in India. However, their tickets had to be cancelled after they didn’t get a nod. The group was then contacted by a person from the Indian high commission recently informing them that they should be prepared to cross the border on June 23. Yet again they are pinning their hopes on getting a final nod to leave Karachi. Salim Murshad, a resident of Karachi, whose parents had migrated from Godhra after partition said that the group has booked train tickets from Karachi to Lahore for June 22. “I have also arranged vehicles to take them from Lahore to the Wagah border,” he said. The group will reach Amritsar from Wagah on the same day. The journey from Amritsar will have to be planned after they reach there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hope-for-stranded-godhra-residents/articleshow/76363260.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Monsoon’s earliest entry into state in 10 years||PATNA: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday announced the onset of southwest monsoon in Bihar, the earliest entry of the rain-bearing clouds into the state this decade (2010-2020). “Southwest monsoon has entered Bihar and covered up to Bhagalpur. Unlike previous years, when the onset of monsoon got delayed, this year the onset has been on time as per the revised onset dates, which came into effect this year,” said Patna meteorological centre’s director Vivek Sinha in a statement issued on Saturday evening. According to the bulletin issued by the Patna meteorological centre on Saturday evening, rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm is likely in all 38 districts in the state till June 17. Districts in north-east Bihar, including Araria, Kishanganj and Purnia, as well as in south-east Bihar, including Katihar, Bhagalpur and Banka, are likely to receive rainfall with thundershowers on Sunday. The intensity of rainfall is likely to increase from Monday onwards. Patna is likely to witness comparatively more showers on Monday and Wednesday. While the northern limit of monsoon passed through Bhagalpur on Saturday afternoon, the daily bulletin issued by the Patna meteorological centre stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at one or two places over central and eastern Bihar in the past 24 hours. Monsoon makes its foray into mainland India through Kerala coast by June 1 and is normally scheduled to enter Bihar through the north-eastern districts of Purnia and Kishanganj around June 10-12 and takes another two to four days to cover the entire state. However, monsoon was making delayed onset in Bihar in most years at least over the past two decades. (See chart) Accordingly, India Meteorological Department (IMD) revised the normal onset and withdrawal dates for southwest monsoon in Bihar and most parts of the country this year. The revised onset date for two representative stations of Patna and Gaya is June 16 against the earlier date of June 12, while for Chhapra it is June 18 against the earlier date of June 13. Apart from making timely onset, monsoon is also expected to advance swiftly in the region. The all-India bulletin issued by IMD on Saturday evening stated that conditions were favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon in some more parts of Bihar in the next 24 hours. With regard to rainfall in the four month-long monsoon season (June- September), Patna meteorological centre’s director Sinha said Bihar is expected to get 96% of the long period average rainfall during the season this year. A meteorologist at the IMD’s Patna centre claimed that rainfall in the first half of monsoon season (June-July) is likely to be a tad less but will pick up in the second half (August- September).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monsoons-earliest-entry-into-state-in-10-years/articleshow/76363112.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 14, 2020||Patna||193 new Covid-19 cases take Bihar’s tally to 6,289||PATNA: Altogether 193 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bihar on Saturday, including 15 in Patna, taking the total number of registered cases to 6,289 in the state. With 3,686 recoveries so far, active cases stand at 2,567. In Patna, a three-year-old girl, a 13-year-old boy and a 51-year-old man tested positive for the coronavirus, however, their locations were not mentioned by the health department. Four other cases in Patna are from Masaurhi, three from Athmalgola, two from Pandarak and one each from Naubatpur, Maharaj Ghat and Gopalpur. So far, 322 people in Patna have tested positive for the virus, of whom 198 have recovered and two have died. Active cases in Patna stand at 122. As per information shared by the health department, cases on Saturday were reported from 32 districts with maximum 19 cases from Madhubani followed by Sheohar with 18 cases. Other districts which reported large number of cases on Saturday are Banka 16 cases, Patna 15 cases, Bhagalpur with 14 cases, and Purnia 13 cases. Six cases were also reported from Aurangabad, of which three were from Police Lines and one 26-year-old woman from Auragabad divisional jail. The health department further stated that 370 people have recovered in the past 24 hours. So far, 4,349 migrants, who returned after May 3, have tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/193-new-cases-take-states-tally-to-6289/articleshow/76363159.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for talks with Nepal on flood works||PATNA: Following tension over the killing of an Indian citizen by Nepalese paramilitary personnel, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked officials to hold talks with their counterparts in Nepal to remove hurdles in the execution of anti-erosion and flood management projects across the border on Gandak, Lalbakeya and Kamla rivers, which flow into Bihar. Holding a high-level meeting with ministers and top officials to review the preparations for flood management across the state, CM asked the DMs of East Champaran, West Champaran and Madhubani to maintain proper coordination with the Nepalese authorities to resolve the issues related to flood management before the floods this year. The DMs and SPs of all districts were connected via video-conferencing with the CM during the review meeting which continued for more than five hours. “The CM specifically asked the DMs of East Champaran, West Champaran and Madhubani to hold talks with their counterparts in Nepal and resolve the issues related to the obstacles being created by certain elements in Nepal,” a minister who attended the review meeting, told TOI on Saturday. Bihar government every year undertakes some anti-erosion works and flood management projects on the Nepal side to save its villages from the annual floods. But this year, Indian officials are facing hurdles in movement of manpower and materials up to the projects site, leading to delay in completion of the projects. “The CM asked officials to maintain proper coordination and ensure timely completion of the flood management projects,” the minister said on condition of anonymity. “During the review meeting, the DMs of all 38 districts expressed their satisfaction on the ongoing flood management projects in their districts in the state,” said a senior official of the water resources department. CM further asked the disaster management department to establish more relief camps this year so that flood-affected people could maintain the norms of social distancing in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Referring to last year’s unprecedented water-logging in certain parts of Patna, the CM asked the urban development and housing department officials to make special arrangements this year in the Patna Municipal region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-for-talks-with-nepal-on-flood-works/articleshow/76363423.cms||Madan Kumar
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Display details of Covid-19 services, rate chart at entrance’||Aurangabad: Private as well as government-run hospitals and clinics have been ordered to put Covid-19 details, including the rate chart, visibly on display on LED screens at their respective entrances. As per the order issued by revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar, hospitals, clinics and nursing homes will have to display the total number of beds reserved and available for Covid as well as non-Covid patients, number of patients being treated in both categories, treatment charges, number of available rooms, details of recovered and discharged Covid-19 patients, among other relevant data. Senior revenue authorities unanimously said that Marathwada is the first region in the state to take this step for ensuring transparency at the hospitals. Kendrekar issued the directives citing need for transparency in the overall process of catering to Covid-19 patients during the current pandemic. The order, a copy of which is with the TOI, also cites the need for the effective implementation of central and state governments’ health schemes for the masses. When contacted, Kendrekar said, “All collectors, civic body chiefs have been asked to strictly follow these orders in letter and spirit. The order is in the larger interest of the society.” Going a step ahead, they have also been asked to appoint nodal officers at each of these hospitals to ensure implementation of government guidelines from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/display-details-of-covid-19-services-rate-chart-at-entrance/articleshow/76363907.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Monkey menace on the rise in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Residents of Jyoti Nagar in the city have been complaining about the rise of monkey menace in their colony. There have been many cases of monkey attacking and injuring people in the area. Geeta Devi, 73, was attacked by monkeys a week ago when she was going to the temple in her colony. A monkey bit her left hand after which she had to take five anti-rabies injections. Recalling the incident, Geeta said, “It was horrific! There are many monkeys in the colony and they follow us everywhere. It has become difficult to get out of the house. I was alone on my way to the temple when monkeys attacked me. Someone in the colony immediately came to my rescue and informed my family. My son has complained to the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) office, but to no avail.” According to the residents, four people were attacked in the last one month, including one teenage girl. Infants of monkeys are said to be more dangerous as they come closer to humans, which agitates their mother. Ravi Jangid, another resident, said, “Many a times these infants come closer to humans if they see someone carrying milk or fruits. If we try to chase them away, their mother attacks us. It has become dangerous, especially for children. Many have stopped sending their children outside their homes alone.” When TOI contacted JMC officials, they said the contractors are working towards catching monkeys and if any complaint has been filed it will be looked into. “We will ask the contractors to look into this issue. However, in the last three months, most of the JMC officials were busy with the pandemic duty. We were given work of ration distribution and sanitising the city. With relaxations in lockdown, the routine work will restart,” said a senior JMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monkey-menace-on-the-rise-in-city/articleshow/76364814.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||UPSC aspirant tests positive||Shivamogga: One among many UPSC aspirants who recently returned to Shivamogga from New Delhi has been tested positive. He was under home quarantine and a street in Vinobanagara in Shivamogga where he had stayed has been sealed-off. The student came to Bengaluru from Delhi and was quarantined. As he was asymptomatic, he was moved to his native Shivamogga on June 4. He was quarantined at home. Recently he fell sick with cold and fever. Health department officials collected swab samples and he tested positive. Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said the patient was isolated at his home. Samples of his primary contacts have been collected and sent for testing and contact tracing has been launched, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/upsc-aspirant-tests-positive/articleshow/76363910.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Calling everyone profiteer not acceptable, says SGRH chief||NEW DELHI: The last 10 days have upended Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s quiet existence in Delhi. First, the hospital was debarred from carrying out Covid-19, along with seven other testing centres, for not following the regulations on updating sample collection data. Then, in an unprecedented action, Delhi government filed an FIR against the hospital for allegedly violating its order to collect samples for Covid-19 tests through the RT-PCR app. While the FIR is being contested in court by SGRH, sources said that Delhi government had agreed to restore Covid testing at the hospital. Dr D S Rana, chairman of the hospital’s management board, confirmed this when he told TOI that patients can undergo testing from Sunday. SGRH has around 300 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, of which 87% were occupied at 10pm on Saturday. The hospital charges around Rs 20,000 daily for a bed in a four-bed cubicle, around Rs 25,000 for a two-bed cubicle and Rs 30,000 for a single room. The cost of ICU care is close to Rs 50,000 per day. Rana refuted the popular view that hospitals are profiteering in the time of crisis, saying, “In April, we had a deficit of Rs 28 crore, which rose to around Rs 30 crore in May.” According to him, Covid management does not need aggressive medical or surgical intervention, but it requires deployment of more staff beside high expenditure in sanitising the hospital and providing personal protection equipment kit to workers. “We spent Rs 30 lakh in redoing the private OPD where screening of suspected Covid-19 patients is carried out. It involved putting up exhaust fans everywhere and re-working the air circulation system,” Rana said. He also talked about the salaries of nurses, whom he described as the backbone of Covid services in any hospital. “We have to pay them salaries and also arrange for their quarantine, transportation and food while they work in the hospital. All this costs money,” Rana said. When asked about certain private hospitals overcharging and exploiting crisis-hit patients, the SGRH chairman said his hospital was open to the auditing of expenses related to money charged from patients. “If the government thinks a hospital is making money, it should investigate and take action. But calling everyone a profiteer isn’t acceptable,” Rana added. The SGRH trust, the hospital chairman said, doesn’t take any benefit from the hospital. “Whatever profit we make from surgeries or other services, goes towards charity work in terms of treating the poor patients for free,” Rana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/calling-everyone-profiteer-not-acceptable-sgrh-chief/articleshow/76364811.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Small nursing homes also part of Covid infra: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: With a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the city and a requirement of around 15,000 beds by the end of this month, the state government on Saturday declared all small nursing homes — with bed strength ranging between 10 and 49 — as Covid nursing homes. The government also directed 117 private nursing homes, with bed strength of 50 or more, to reserve at least 20% of its beds for Covid-19 patients. As per the order issued by Directorate General of Health Services, more than 70% Covid beds in the private sector are already occupied and it is projected that there would be a requirement of over 15,000 beds by June 30. This requirement is likely to further swell up to 33,000 by July 15. All nursing homes with bed strength between 10 and 49 beds have been declared Covid nursing homes to avoid intermingling of Covid and non-Covid cases in small and medium multi-specialty nursing homes. Delhi government, however, has exempted exclusive eye centres, ENT centres, dialysis centres, maternity homes and IVF centres from this direction. The nursing homes have been directed to make their Covid beds functional within three days and non-compliance would be treated as violation, and action, as deemed fit by the government, would be initiated against the defaulter nursing homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/small-nursing-homes-also-part-of-covid-infra-govt/articleshow/76364815.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: In Hisar, option for paid quarantine||HISAR: In a bid to reduce burden on government facilities, paid quarantine and isolation centres have been set up in various hotels of Hisar, said deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni on Saturday. “While the government is bearing the cost at free facilities, one can go for a paid facility as per his choice,” the DC said. Payment-based quarantine centres have been set up in some hotels of the city, which will cost between Rs 1,500 and Rs 1,800. Similarly, payment-based isolation facilities have also been created at four hotels in the city. According to the DC, payment-based testing facility is also being provided through Core Diagnostic Pvt Ltd, Gurgaon, which will cost Rs 3,950 per test. Soni said to reduce the increasing pressure of patients in hospitals, the Covid-19 discharge policy has also been amended in line with the central government’s guidelines, under which a patient not running fever for three days can be discharged after 10 days. At the time of discharge, the patient would be advised to stay in home quarantine for the next 7 days, the DC said.To avail paid quarantine facility, the interested persons can contact Dr Navneet Aggarwal (98127-57575). Nodal officer for paid isolation facility is Dr Subhash Khatreja (9991110505), while for payment-based testing facility, one can contact Sanyam Verma (9416465011).).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-hisar-option-for-paid-quarantine/articleshow/76366374.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi may get wet Sunday before temperature starts rising again||NEW DELHI: Parts of the capital received light showers on Saturday with overcast conditions prevailing for the majority of the day. IMD said there is a possibility of very light rain on Sunday with gusty winds expected throughout the day. The mercury is, however, expected to rise from Monday and could touch 41 degrees by Wednesday, the Met department said. Delhi’s maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 39.4° Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said this spell of activity was receding and the next spell of showers was only likely around June 18. “Temperatures are expected to rise from Monday and could touch around 41 degrees. There is no likelihood of a heatwave and rain will return by the end of next week. Temperatures could stay in the range of 39-41 degrees over the next few days,” said Srivastava. Till 5.30pm on Sunday, the city had recorded ‘trace’ rainfall at Safdarjung, 0.2mm at Palam, 3.6mm at Lodhi Road and 0.4mm at Ayanagar. The humidity levels, meanwhile, oscillated between 54 and 71 percent in the last 24 hours. Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the ‘moderate’ category on Saturday with an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 123 according to the CPCB. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) — a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences — said the spell of rain on Saturday and Sunday is likely to bring the air quality to the lower end of ‘moderate’ category or into the ‘satisfactory’ range. Officials at IMD said drizzle activity could occur on Sunday accompanied with winds ranging between 30-40km/hr. The maximum is likely to be around 39 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-may-get-wet-sunday-before-temp-starts-rising-again/articleshow/76364816.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: In Hisar, option for paid quarantine||HISAR: In a bid to reduce burden on government facilities, paid quarantine and isolation centres have been set up in various hotels of Hisar, said deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni on Saturday. “While the government is bearing the cost at free facilities, one can go for a paid facility as per his choice,” the DC said. Payment-based quarantine centres have been set up in some hotels of the city, which will cost between Rs 1,500 and Rs 1,800. Similarly, payment-based isolation facilities have also been created at four hotels in the city. According to the DC, payment-based testing facility is also being provided through Core Diagnostic Pvt Ltd, Gurgaon, which will cost Rs 3,950 per test. Soni said to reduce the increasing pressure of patients in hospitals, the Covid-19 discharge policy has also been amended in line with the central government’s guidelines, under which a patient not running fever for three days can be discharged after 10 days. At the time of discharge, the patient would be advised to stay in home quarantine for the next 7 days, the DC said.To avail paid quarantine facility, the interested persons can contact Dr Navneet Aggarwal (98127-57575). Nodal officer for paid isolation facility is Dr Subhash Khatreja (9991110505), while for payment-based testing facility, one can contact Sanyam Verma (9416465011).).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hisar-option-for-paid-quarantine/articleshow/76364818.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Designers’ stores step in to protect weavers||Thiruvananthapuram: As lockdown has confined everyone to their homes, one of the sectors that has been hit the worst is the handloom industry. To help the weavers overcome the crisis, a group of designer stores in the city has launched initiatives to rope them in to make products relevant to Covid times. The stores have launched a variety of trendy, eco-friendly and ‘ayurveda’ masks made of handloom cloth to pique the interest of customers. Maithri Srikant, founder and creative head of Vedhika Designer Fashion Store at Sasthamangalam, said there is a huge demand for designer masks with prints, lace and aplic-work.  “There are surplus stocks with weavers due to poor sales during Vishu festival. We decided to use the materials to make masks, which have a good demand during these days. All the masks are hand crafted with prices starting from Rs 40. Other than masks made of khadi and cotton, we are also selling ready-to-wear clothes such as skirts, kurthi, etc,” said Srikant. Under the designer fashion store’s initiative christened ‘Samraksha’ (Protect the Wearer, Protect the Weaver) masks made of Kasuvu were distributed to the police department. Governor Arif Muhammed Khan handed over the Kasavu masks to the police personnel. Besides lending a helping hand to weavers, the initiative is also providing alternative livelihood opportunities to over a hundred people who are involved in stitch these masks. Weavers Village, is another clothing store in the city, which has launched a programme to support weavers and tribespeople by making masks from handloom materials. Its founder Sobha Vishwanath said the store has also launched ‘ayurvedic’ masks, which are made cotton clothes dyed with neem and other ayurvedic herbs. “We source handloom materials from weavers at Balaramapuram. We have engaged tribal units in Vithura and Kattakada to stitch the masks. It took us one month of research to make the ayurvedic mask. These are eco-friendly reusable masks and it takes around one week to make them. Their price start from Rs 35. We are receiving bulk orders from across the country for these masks, said Sobha. Raj Baiju, co-founder at Southloom.com, an online handloom store, said it is now focusing on contacting regular customers and requesting them to buy the unsold stocks to support the weavers. “The stocks bought during Vishu are piled up in the store. Making masks from that stock will not be feasible. Now, the weavers are pinning their hopes on Onam festival sales, but they are also wary of the floods. Our request to our customers to buy some products to help the weavers has received a positive response,” said Raj. Southloom.com purchases handloom materials from weavers at Balaramapuram and Kuthampully. “I have been making handloom clothes for the past 30 years and we all are facing a severe crisis now. No one is giving us a loan, as we cannot repay during such hard times. The products made for Vishu festival have not been sold and we are not able to procure raw materials to make new ones for Onam festival. We have more than 10,000 handloom workers in this village itself who have been rendered jobless. This year we did not get the contract for uniform clothes from the government. Sale of a few materials would be a great help now,” said Prakash K, a handloom weaver from Payattuvila, near Balaramapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/designers-stores-step-in-to-protect-weavers/articleshow/76363914.cms||Anasooya.S
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||91 new cases take Aurangabad district’s tally to 2,626||AURANGABAD: The Covid-19 case tally in the district went up by 91 on Saturday to settle at 2,626. Moreover, between 10pm on Friday and 12.30pm on Saturday, seven patients succumbed at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). A 72-year-old man from Garkheda also died at a private hospital on Friday night. GMCH media coordinator Arvind Gaikwad identified the deceased as a 41-year-old from Kanadgaon, a 78-year-old from Khokadpura, a 43-year-old from Kailas Nagar, a 70-year-old from Ram Nagar, a 42-year-old from Subedari Guest House area, 50-year-old from Rahemaniya Colony and a 54-year-old from Sambhaji Colony. According to the district administration, 1,451 Covid-19 patients have so far been discharged and 143 have succumbed. Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has requested the residents to use the Majhi Health Majha Haathi (MHMH) mobile app. “We ask the citizens to spend some money and purchase a thermal gun and pulse oximeter and regularly update their temperature and blood oxygen level on the app. This is especially important for the people who are 55 years and above,” municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/91-new-cases-take-aurangabad-dists-tally-to-2626/articleshow/76363919.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Thousands of fish found dead in pond in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Surging mercury is taking a toll on the wildlife in the desert. Thousands of fish were found dead in Ghadia Nadi pond in village Soyla under Baori subdivision of Jodhpur on Friday, on account of receding water levels due to escalated evaporation. Villagers pooled money to fill up the pond with the help of water tankers.  Villagers spotted the dead fish in the pond when they began floating on the leftover water and informed the administration. “I visited the pond in the evening and saw the dead fish floating on the water. They died due to drying up of water due to heat and the heating up of the rocks,” said tehsildar Dhannaram Godara. Seeing the situation, Godara called for people’s support and arranged 50 water tankers to fill up the pond so that the remaining fish could be saved. “The immediate concern is to save the remaining fish and taking procedural measures could take time which might kill all the fish in the pond. So I began with Rs 300 contribution per water tanker and encouraged others to contribute,” Godara said. About 25 tankers were emptied in the pond on Friday and the other 25 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/thousands-of-fish-found-dead-in-pond-in-jodhpur/articleshow/76364807.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||It’s a mixed bag: Some markets see higher footfall in Delhi, but not all||NEW DELHI: Pleasant weather and the usual weekend enthusiasm ensured a slight improvement in business in the popular markets on Saturday. In some places, however, the trader community continued to be apprehensive about risks of infection, and an online survey conducted by the Confederation of All India Traders determined that 88% of the respondents were in favour of shutting down the markets. Sanjiv Mehra, member of the Khan Market Traders Association, happily reported hustle and bustle there after many days. “The weekend has brought around 40% improvement in transactions. Now, the 9pm deadline for business should be revised,” said Mehra. Rajender Sharda in Greater Kailash 1 M Block Market also informed of an improvement. “On Saturday, the market wasn’t deserted like in the past few days,” he said. The local traders’ association said most members felt the 9pm deadline should be lifted. In South Extension, however, Vijay Kumar Arora said shopper attendance was more or less similar to the weekdays. “We are getting 10-15% of the pre-lockdown costumers. But we do not want to close the market again, else we will have to restart from scratch,” Arora said. Shops in Sarojini Nagar Market weren’t too happy on Saturday, though they admitted buyers are back in small numbers. “We are expecting Sunday to be a better day,” said Ashok Randhawa, member of the market association there. In Karol Bagh, Murli Mani, who heads the Ajmal Khan Road Vyapar Mandal, said, “We noticed a little improvement on Saturday. Our business is traditionally focused on Saturday and Sunday, and it is picking up. The situation should become clearer on Sunday.” The Walled City markets did not have much happy news on Saturday. Sanjay Bhargav of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal disclosed that only 25% of the shops there have resumed business and even these “are not seeing much sales”. He added, “Delhi government’s view that the city will have over five lakh Covid cases by July has caused fear among consumers.” To promote social distancing, Kucha Mahajani and Lajpat Rai markets in old Delhi have devised their own systems. While the shops in the gold and jewellery market of Kucha Mahajani opens on an odd-even basis, Lajpat Rai Market operates only on three days every week. CAIT’s online survey revealed Delhi traders were concerned about the fast spreading of the virus. Over 92% of the 2,610 respondents felt that if the markets remained open, the virus would spread. While 96.6% worried that the spread of Covid-19 would affect markets, 88.1% were in favour of closing the markets to prevent the coronavirus from spreading among traders and consumers. General secretary Praveen Khandelwal said CAIT had convened a video conference of leaders of Delhi’s trade associations on Sunday where the survey findings would be shared and the participants asked to decide whether to keep the city’s markets open. “Closure of markets is a big issue. That is why all market associations need to be consulted,” Khandelwal said. Meanwhile, Brijesh Goyal of AAP’s trade wing, said that the capital’s markets are not being closed and no one should spread rumours to this effect. “Whatever decision on closing markets is taken by Delhi government or the Union home ministry, that is what the traders will have to accept,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/its-a-mixed-bag-some-markets-see-higher-footfall-but-not-all/articleshow/76364823.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Cash-strapped JDA mulls half-baked housing scheme||JAIPUR: To score brownie points by displaying exemplary work in front of the top bureaucrat and urban development and housing (UDH) minister, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) officials are planning to launch a housing scheme without proper planning. The attempt can dash the hopes of many economically weaker section (EWS) investors, who would file an application to purchase a house in these schemes. From Monday, the JDA will start accepting applications for 1,448 flats, which will be developed in three separate schemes — Anand Vihar (zone-12), Surya Nagar (zone-14) and Kheda Jaganath Pura (zone-14). Sources said, these houses will be developed under provision 4 A (I) of the Chief Minister Jan Awaas Yojana, 2015. The scheme will be developed on public private partnership (PPP) model, where construction will be done by a private developer. “The applications are invited without finalising the developers. In past, JDA made attempts to lure the developers. However, not many showed interest in the project. Under Awaas Yojana provision , 4 A (I), a pre-meeting bid was held on July 1, 2016, where five developers participated. But, no one turned up,” said a source. The applicants would deposit Rs 2,000 with the application forms. However, the civic body has clearly mentioned that money would be returned, if it does not receive 75% applications for the schemes. The applicants might face disappointment. An official, who wished not to be named and is associated with the project said, “This is a new model to lure the developers. The cash-strapped JDA is testing waters. If it receives applications in large numbers, it can always interest the developers. It’s a win-win situation for JDA, even if the scheme did not take off.” After facing rejections, the development authority compensated the developers through other incentives in EWS previous schemes, such as additional built up area for their other projects. The JDA administration is hopeful of receiving applications in large numbers. “Once we receive good numbers, it will be easier to negotiate with developers,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cash-strapped-jda-mulls-half-baked-housing-scheme/articleshow/76364819.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Deposit fire cess in centralised account, UDH tells local bodies||Jaipur: Despite repeated reminders by the urban development and housing (UDH) department and local self-government (LSG) department to the local bodies to deposit fire cess in the escrow account in the past three months, nothing has happened so far.Now, the UDH and LSG have issued final warning and asked all the municipalities and municipal corporations to deposit fire cess in the centralised account. In March 2019, the state allowed local bodies to collect fire cess in Rajasthan. Following this, the department created a centralised account for depositing fire cess which is collected from high-rises (15 metre and above).“As local bodies across the state were not depositing fire cess, reminders were issued on December 23, 2019, March 19, 2020 and May 7, 2020. Once money is collected, the department will plan to develop the firefighting system in the state,” said an official.As per the rule, the developer can deposit the money at the municipalities or municipal corporations and produce the document at the respective development authority and UIT at the time of getting layout plans approved.“The fire certificate is mandatory for buildings up to and above 15 metre. A cost of Rs 50 per square metre on the total area is been imposed on the developer. Once the building is complete, the developer has to produce the fire certificate along with the completion certificate,” a UDH official said.The decision to utilise these funds will be taken in a state-level meeting. “A state-level meeting will be organised at to guide local bodies on how to utilise the funds. Moreover, every year the corporations will carry out mock drills along with fire safety experts to test the equipment installed in the buildings. The drills will be conducted at the developers’ expense,” the official added.The local bodies had been demanding to collect fire cess since long as they were maintaining and developing the firefighting infrastructure. However due to lackadaisical approach of local bodies many fire stations in the state are waiting for upgradation.At present, in the state capital there are 11 fire stations having 50 fire tenders in the state capital. However, as the city is expanding and the population is increasing, the existing infrastructure is not sufficient to cater to the city’s needs. “As per the National Building Code of India, one fire tender should be deployed for a population of 40,000 people. There is a requirement of minimum 30 more fire tenders. Also, the city should have at least 15 fire stations,” said a fire department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deposit-fire-cess-in-centralised-account-udh-tells-local-bodies/articleshow/76364817.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC mulls doorstep banking for elderly||BHUBANESWAR: With senior citizens being the most vulnerable of catching coronavirus, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to do its bid to keep them safe. The civic body has asked banks to facilitate doorstep banking for senior citizens so that they don’t have to step out for their banking needs. The BMC has written to the regional managers of private, nationalized and rural banks to provide doorstep banking for the elderly. The banking personnel will visit them at home and help them in their banking needs. “Covid-19 is increasing and elderly citizens are the most vulnerable. Their movement outside needs to be restricted,” the BMC wrote. The letter added that banking is a significant activity for which senior citizens visit various branches. “There must be sufficient avenues available with you like net/mobile banking by using which unnecessary movement of elderly can be avoided. Further, need for bank transaction of an elderly can be managed by personal intervention of a bank executive on one-to-one basis. Some banks are practising it now. This needs to be replicated in Bhubaneswar,” the letter stated. The BMC has requested banks to send banking personnel to the homes of the elderly and educate them about net/mobile banking. Satyabrata Dash, a senior citizen and president of Khandagiri Anchalika Bikash Parishad said the elderly needs banking facilities at least twice a month, for which they have to go to the banks now. “With the staff strength having gone down to maintain social distancing norms due to the pandemic, we have to wait in the bank for a long time. This increases our chance of getting exposed to the virus when Covid cases are steadily rising. The BMC has planned a good initiative but it should be implemented in letter and spirit,” Dash said. Krupasindhu Sahu, president of the Federation of Senior Citizens’ Association (FSCA), Odisha, said the capital has 14 per cent senior citizens of the total 10 lakh population. “Taking banking service to the doorsteps of senior citizens is a welcome step. In fact, at this hour, this is the best way to protect the elderly from unnecessary exposure. This facility will ensure social distancing and keep the elderly safe,” Sahu said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-mulls-doorstep-banking-for-elderly/articleshow/76363916.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Two cops booked for taking bribe||AURANGABAD: Two constables of the Aurangabad rural sub-divisional police office were booked by the anti-corruption bureau for accepting a bribe of Rs 30,000 on Friday. One of the two suspects fled with the powdered currency notes while the other one was caught red-handed by ACB officers. According to the officers, they laid a trap from Cambridge school to Savangi Bypass. They found out that the suspects took Rs 10,000 from three three heavy vehicles for allowing them to carry stones and stone crush from quarries, from the limits of Phulambri and Chikalthana police stations. The moment of the suspects accepted the money from a truck driver, ACB officers reached the spot. However, one of the escaped the scene while the other one was caught. A local court remanded him to police custody till Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-cops-booked-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/76363911.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||RHB’s coaching hub will be built in two phases||Jaipur: The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) has completed the planning of proposed coaching hub in Pratap Nagar of the city, which would accommodate nearly 70,000 students.The project will be developed on 68,000 square metres in two phases. While, the phase-1 will be completed in September 2022, the phase-II will be developed till December 2023.An official said, “The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 231 crore. Construction will be done only on 40 % of the earmarked land and 60% land will remain open.”As per the plan, there are eight education towers proposed in the project. Construction of five towers will be undertaken in phase-1 and the remaining three towers will be developed in phase-II. “Each building in the hub will be seven-storeyed with construction area of 1 lakh square feet. To avoid congestion, underground parking will be developed in each building,” he said.For students’ accommodation inside the hub, the RHB has proposed to develop four plots measuring 1,100 square metres. An auditorium with a seating capacity of 800 will also be developed.An RHB official said, “These institutes will be eco-friendly. It would have unique features including cycle track, food court and conference hall.”Officials claimed that the work was proposed to begin in July, however, the RHB is prepared before time. The encroachments from the area were also removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhbs-coaching-hub-will-be-built-in-two-phases/articleshow/76364824.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Villagers stop girl’s cremation over Covid fears||Balangir: Police had to intervene to help cremate the body of a minor girl who died at a quarantine centre at Mayabarha, under Dunguripali block of Sonepur district, after locals allegedly refused to allow the body into the village for fear that the girl had died of Covid-19. Her last rites were conducted on Thursday by her maternal uncle far away from the village, on the Mahanadi riverbed, with police providing protection and support. The deceased belonged to Sharasmal village under the same block. She was in the quarantine centre at Kasturba Gandhi residential girl’s school at Mayabarha along with her mother and younger sister. The three had started quarantine on June 5 after returning from Telangana, where they worked in a brick kiln. Bhanu Shankar Yadav, inspector in-charge of Rampur police station, said the 14-year-old girl complained of uneasiness and fainted on Wednesday night. She died the next day. “The girl was unconscious when me and my medical team members (from Dunguripali Community Health Centre) reached the quarantine centre. There was no movement,” said Partha Sarathi Panda, the doctor who examined her. “Our personnel helped the girl’s relative to perform her last rites as per ritual. We provided wood and other material required for the cremation. Our staff were present throughout the cremation,” said Yadav, adding that they are awaiting the autopsy report. Premaraj Nag said his niece was healthy and did not have any illness before. “The villagers suspected my niece had died of Covid-19 and were apprehensive they would catch the virus if they allow her body into the village. The villagers were reluctant to allow her body to be cremated at the village cremation ground. They insisted that we perform her last rites elsewhere,” Nag said. According to the maternal uncle, the girl’s mother and another daughter are still in the quarantine centre while her father, a psychiatry patient, stays in the village. “There is nobody else in the family to perform the last rites except the villagers and community members. With police help, we took the body to the Mahanadi riverbed at Binka and conducted the last rites,” added Premraj, who has demanded an inquiry into the incident. Despite government instruction not to discriminate with migrants, returnees are facing problem in many places despite having completed the quarantine period. A Sharasmal villager said, requesting anonymity, “People are in a panic state due to the pandemic. They are not allowing outsiders to enter the village”. Sonepur district collector Monisha Banerjee, said, “Due procedure was followed while cremating the body. There was no prejudice.” EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/villagers-stop-girls-cremation-over-covid-fears/articleshow/76363925.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||SP opts for home quarantine||A day after a district collector home-quarantined himself after coming in touch with a minister who tested positive for Covid-19, the superintendent of police too has opted for home quarantine for at least a week. The SP is now the first senior officer from the Marathwada region to go for quarantine. Senior police officers privy to the development said that some policemen who were on security detail of the minister during his visit had met the SP for some official work. “A civil surgeon said that in order to get accuracy in swab reports, a person has to be tested exactly six days after getting in touch with a suspected a person,” said an officer. Accordingly, the SP will undergo a swab test on Wednesday or Thursday. Authorities said that several policemen, including jawans belonging to special protection unit (SPU) who were on security duty with the minister, have also been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sp-opts-for-home-quarantine/articleshow/76363922.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NCB to check foreigners’ role in narco business||NEW DELHI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has launched a probe into an international drug trafficking network run by cartels comprising African and Afghan-origin smugglers. DG (NCB) Rakesh Asthana is learnt to have formed a special team, which would focus on tracking over 18,000 African nationals who have violated visa norms over last three years and are overstaying in India along with around 5,000 such people from Afghanistan. The SIT is headed by additional director KPS Malhotra, who has sought assistance from the immigration and the Foreign Regional Registration Office to bust the cartels’ network in the country. A full throttle probe germinated from analysis of various operations conducted last year, in which around 100 Nigerians and 31 Afghans were arrested in various drug trafficking cases. The interrogation details and the probe revelations left the agency sleuths alarmed. “During various investigations of NDPS cases having involvement of African nationals, it was observed that in many instances they were carrying more than one legal ID. It included multiple passports too,” said an official. The investigation in these cases also revealed that most of the arrested African nationals were overstaying, entering without valid Visa and violating the terms and conditions of Visa norms. NCB officials took cognisance of the matter as there was an apprehension of their involvement in illegal activities. “Further, in various investigations it was learnt that these people had cross connections of the drug trafficking networks with cyber impersonation scams. Suspicious transaction records received from financial institutes involving African nationals amplified the suspicions,” the official added. Details were then sought from the immigration branch on the overstaying African nationals and an alarming figure of 18,000 emerged. “The data is being subjected to further analysis from financial and immigration departments. Our probe is now focusing on suspicious identities entering the country on four types of visas — tourist, medical, students and business,” the officer claimed. NCB would also collect data from the cops to find out the places where these foreigners have been staying. Their activities would be kept under a watch with help from the local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncb-to-check-foreigners-role-in-narco-biz/articleshow/76364831.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mangaluru||With SOPs not in place, elective surgeries deferred||Mysuru: All elective surgeries, including heart, ophthalmology, ENT, and orthopaedic, have either been put on hold or cancelled as the government is yet to issue guidelines on standard operating procedures (SOPs). The number of surgeries at various hospitals has reduced drastically as patients and doctors fear contracting of infection at operation theatres. With the death of a medical officer in Hassan and infection to a radiologist in Bengaluru, the health practitioners are treading cautiously, and so are patients needing surgeries. Indian Medical Association (IMA) secretary N Chandrabhan Singh told TOI that surgeries are being delayed as the government is yet to come out with the guidelines. Soon after the lockdown, the government restricted elective surgeries as a precaution. But now, it has asked the surgeons to go ahead with surgeries — but without guidelines — leaving them in dilemma. With great risk, doctors have commenced emergency surgeries. However, patients with flu symptoms are not entertained. Patients have to give an undertaking that they are free any infection. “Even patients undergoing surgeries may contract the infection at hospitals. They have to declare that they hold themselves responsible for the infection,” the secretary added. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute dean and director Dr C P Nanjaraj said they are waiting for SOPs on surgeries. “We don’t know whether all patients will be subjected to Covid test or not. If they test negative prior to surgery, and contract infection later, the entire healthcare team must be quarantined. Covid tests are being done on patients with flu-like symptoms or if they are coming from containment zones,” the dean stated. BOX Bypass heart surgeries resume at Jayadeva  Doctors at the government-run Jayadeva hospital have restricted bypass surgeries to one a day owing to Covid crisis. Since the possibility of cross-infection is high, they are treading cautiously. The other challenge is to ensure that all patients undergoing surgeries are free from infection. Dr K S Sadananda, head of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Science and Research, told STOI that all procedures resumed this month. Identifying asymptomatic Covid patients is a real challenge for the health staff, given the number of patients visiting the hospital. A separate isolation ward with 10 beds has been created to patients with flu-like symptoms having heart-related issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-sops-not-in-place-elective-surgeries-deferred/articleshow/76363924.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||‘Govt tapping phones of BJP netas in guise of SOG probe’||Jaipur: Accusing the government of targeting opposition leaders, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore on Saturday said the Congress government was tapping the phone calls of BJP leaders in the guise of a SOG probe for allegedly poaching Congress MLAs. “Gehlot government has gone to the level of tapping phone calls of the BJP leaders by misusing the government investigating agencies – ACB and SOG,” said Rathore. He asked the Congress leaders that if they had made the claim of horse-trading attempt by the BJP, they should publicly disclose all the shreds of evidence they have. Gehlot had on Friday handed over the alleged case of poaching of its MLAs to the SOG.Rathore said the ruling party should look into the fissures in their clan before accusing any party as a reason for the fortification of its MLAs. “Since the beginning, there exists two power centres in the Congress and the government. The real reason for the fortification is to hide the party’s infighting,” said Rathore. Accusing the Congress of violating its own government rules, Rathore said when the rules said that not more than 50 people can attend a marriage and 20 in the funeral, how can over a 100 MLAs be lodged in a hotel and seen sharing space together.Reacting to the allegations of Rathore, Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said the BJP is known for indulging in malpractices or poaching MLAs of other parties. “They are scared since the investigation is given to fair and transparent law enforcement bodies. All allegations levelled by the CM is true and the truth will come to the fore soon,” said Sharma. She further reminded Rathore to look into the past of incidents where their party has indulged in the toppling of democratically elected governments. Commenting on the fortification of MLAs, Sharma said Congress party MLAs are working as usual and even heading out to fulfil their commitments.Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas released a statement stating that if BJP leaders are not involved in any malpractice, why are scared of anything. “Congress doesn’t need to tap their phones and how do they know that their phones are being tapped. Their reaction proves that they are involved in the poaching of the MLAs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-tapping-phones-of-bjp-netas-in-guise-of-sog-probe/articleshow/76364828.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly woman reunites with her family||Hyderabad: An elderly woman, who went missing from Chandrayangutta in the city in 2018, was traced to Vijayawada and finally reunited with her family on Saturday. The woman, Nazeerunisa Begum, who has a mental health issue, left home without intimating anyone in December 2018. “She could not be traced and later the case was closed as ‘undetected’,” John Paul, a policeman from Chandrayangutta, said. According to police, Nazeerunisa was found by two nuns — Sister Silvina and Sister Elvin — at the Vijaywada bus stop. “The nuns arranged treatment through a charity and recently the victim was able to remember her native place,” the officer said. The nuns reached out to cops and Nazeerunisa was reunited with her family. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-woman-reunites-with-her-family/articleshow/76364839.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SDPO, IIC among 22 people who test positive in Ganjam||BERHAMPUR: Altogether 11 Covid-19 warriors were among the 22 people who have tested positive in Ganjam district in the past 24 hours ending Saturday afternoon, tweeted collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange. The frontline workers who tested positive include two senior police officers, official sources said. They are the sub-divisional officer (Chhatrapur) and inspector in-charge, Chhatrapur police station, said SP (Ganjam) Brijesh Rai. “Although both show no symptoms, as per protocol they have been placed under home quarantine. Steps are being taken to trace their contact details,” he said. With them, at least five police personnel have tested positive. Earlier, two homeguards and a jawan of Odisha Special Striking Force (OSSF) had tested positive. After being cured, the homeguards have been discharged from the Covid hospital at Sitalapalli, sources said. The Covid warriors were infected due to active contact with positive persons, sources said. The nine other infected persons are locals. Four are from Chhatrapur, two from Patrapur and one each from Aska, Bhanjanagar and Chikiti, sources added. Two persons have been detected from institutional and home quarantine in Buguda and Patrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sdpo-iic-among-22-people-who-test-positive-in-ganjam/articleshow/76363933.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Giving mask a miss? You may be fined||NEW DELHI: To strictly enforce the Covid norms notified by Delhi government, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday empowered health department officials, district magistrates, subdivisional magistrates, officers authorised by them, and Delhi Police officers of the rank of sub-inspector and above to impose fines in case of violations. Despite the Covid situation in the capital turning serious, some people are still seen roaming in the city without masks and some with their masks hanging below their lips leaving the mouth and nose unprotected. TOI had encountered several people across the city on Friday who were wearing a face mask improperly or, in cases, not wearing one at all. Even in crowded environments, many Delhiites appeared careless about a simple measure that could prevent possible infection by the novel coronavirus. For them, wearing a mask was a token gesture they seemed to be making to the grave situation, slung as the masks were around their necks like a textile necklace. A few of them were not even taking the trouble of covering their mouth and noses while interacting in close quarters with others. Amid all this, were daily-wage earners who, for financial reasons, were using a single mask over two-three months. On Saturday, the LG approved regulations called the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, (Management of Covid-19) Regulations, 2020, and empowered the officials to collect penal fines. It will help them enforce the observation of quarantine rules and maintaining of social distancing, among other norms. “The objective is to make sure that guidelines for containing the spread of Covid are followed strictly in letter and spirit. A fine will be levied for non-observance of quarantine rules, non-maintenance of social distancing, not wearing face mask in public or workplaces, spitting in public places and consumption of paan, gutka, tobacco, etc., in public places,” the LG’s Office stated in a press release. For breaking any of these norms, Rs 500 will be levied as fine for first offence and a fine of Rs 1,000 will be levied for a repeat offence. “In case any person fails to pay the penalty on the spot, action under Section 188 IPC shall be taken against the offender by the authorised police officer on receipt of a complaint from any authorised officer or on his own,” LG order stated. On Friday, Delhi reported 2,137 new Covid cases in a single day, taking the total number to 36,824. Of this, 13,398 have recovered till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/giving-mask-a-miss-you-may-be-fined/articleshow/76364835.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajya Sabha polls: ‘Unhappy’ Rajasthan minister Ramesh Meena skips Congress meet for 3rd day in a row||JAIPUR: While the Congress is claiming to have its lawmakers together, the disgruntled lot continues to ring the alarm bells. Minister of food and civil supplies Ramesh Meena didn’t turn up for the third consecutive day at a hotel where his party MLAs are lodged along with central party leaders and observers on Saturday. Meena’s rift with the senior Congress leaders in the state has reached the party high command in Delhi through an observer. T S Singh Deo, health minister of Chhattisgarh, who is also party observer for the Rajya Sabha polls in Rajasthan admitted that all is not well in the Congress clan. While talking to the mediapersons, he said, “Meena should have come. If he is not coming, it is obvious that he might be unhappy over something. I have spoken to deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot regarding the absence of Meena.” The observer didn’t stop here. He further told mediapersons that he had sent a report to the party high command. “If somebody is hurt in the family, the heartburn is obvious. I was a candidate for the post of chief minister in Chhattisgarh. However, it didn’t happen, but it doesn’t mean that I have maintained a distance with the family,” said Deo. Sources said that in the last two days, the Congress has held all party MLAs meet to prepare a strategy for the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled for June 19. The meets were attended by the central party leaders. “Congress leaders like Randeep Surjewala and Rajya Sabha nominee from the state K C Venugopal contacted the disgruntled leader (Meena) but he didn’t show up,” said a source. Meanwhile, at the hotel, a workshop was organised for the Congress MLAs to update and to educate them on the six years of BJP rule at the Centre. During the workshop, the MLAs were briefed on central government’s failure on Covid-19, migrants’ issue, the status of the economy in presently, lowest GDP since Independence, the decimation of constitutional bodies, doubling the income of farmers and inflation by the leaders. Surjewala told that as the country is entering into the seventh year of the Modi rule, the citizens of the country have been pushed to the wall by the in numerous ill-fated decisions taken by them. “They came to the power by making countless promises to the citizens but in reality, they have failed to even run the country normally,” said Surjewala. The workshop was presided over by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. RS nominee K C Venugopal, Sachin Pilot, party in-charge in Rajasthan Avinash Pandey also attended the workshop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-polls-unhappy-minister-meena-skips-cong-meet-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/76364830.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Teachers’ panel stages protest, slams education department for insensitivity||LUDHIANA: Members of Democratic Teachers’ Front on Saturday staged a protest to seek approval of their long pending demands. In their demonstration, the members of the front strongly condemned district education office’s insensitive and unscrupulous attitude towards the education process of the district. Speakers (Daljit Samrala, Hardev Singh Mullanpur, Manjinder Cheema, Gurpreet Singh, Harjit Sudhar, Amandeep Singh Raikot, Pritam Singh Barhmi, Sanjay Puri, Nirpal Singh Jalaldiwal, Charan Singh Nurpura) said that the district education officer (primary) had arbitrarily stopped the promotions of primary teachers. They added that the education officials were not shying away from acting against teachers who are advocating the rights of the people. “These officials are not at all concerned about the education system,” the speakers said. They also expressed concerns over the fact that the government too was running away from its responsibility. The gathering also slammed the negligence and bias of the government and education officials towards students, who are suffering from extreme stress due to online education. Meanwhile, the members of the front observed a two-minute silence to give condolence to the family members of Ramdeep Kaur, a student who committed suicide. The speakers warned the government that if the trend of online education continued and schools were not reopened soon, such emotional gaps and distractions could escalate.  “The entire responsibility will be of the Punjab government and the education department,” they added. Various teachers strongly condemned the district education officials who did not take any action against the employees of block education office, Jagraon, for embezzling millions of rupees. “We demand that the orders to suspend and transfer teachers of Gahour Primary School should be immediately rolled back. The Punjab government should also reverse the hike in medical and higher education fees and provide relief to the students who are facing financial crisis. Not only this, the process of unlocking school education in a planned manner should be started as soon as possible to address the growing gaps and mental stress of students. “If the aforementioned teacher-student demands are not acted upon immediately by the government and high level education officers, the teachers in the district and across Punjab will be forced to intensify their struggle under the leadership of the union,” the protesters said. A memorandum in this regard has been sent by the delegation to the Punjab government through deputy commissioner, Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/teachers-panel-stages-protest-slams-edu-dept-for-insensitivity/articleshow/76363928.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Sustained showers for Marathwada, get surplus rainfall||Aurangabad: The city and the adjoining areas witnessed heavy spells of showers on Saturday afternoon continuing the trend of good rainfall in the first half of June. The highest rainfall in the past 24 hours was recorded in Harshul area with 108 mm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that moderate rainfall for Aurangabad and other parts of the region for next at least 48-hours, which is likely to extend further. Marathwada, which has eight districts, so far has reported an average of 89 mm rainfall since June 1. It accounts for 147 per cent of expected showers and 12 per cent of total average annual rainfall received from June to October. Notably, many talukas of Osmanabad and Beed reported double the number of expected showers during the current rainy season. Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre, said more rain is expected for Marathwada in next few days. “The weather systems associated with the progress of monsoon are likely to produce more showers in Marathwada. The rainy season this year has received a head start with recent cyclone over coastal areas of Maharashtra providing impetus earlier,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sustained-showers-for-marathwada-get-surplus-rainfall/articleshow/76363208.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||MSU teacher bags award for research paper||Vadodara: Bhumit Shah, an assistant professor at the Department of Banking and Insurance of M S University’s Faculty of Commerce, has received best research paper award at the one-day virtual international conference on ‘Projection of global trends post the pandemic control’. Shah had presented the research paper titled ‘Health, healthcare and Covid-19 in the current scenario: A perspective’ at the conference jointly organised by University of Trunojoyo, Indonesia and Arihant College, Indore. Of the 97 research papers, 24 were selected for presentation at the conference. The paper suggests that collective approach by all countries is the only solution to fight against Covid-19 and emphasizes on importance of healthcare facilities in India in coming years. Shah was guided by his PhD guide Dr Madhusudan Pandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-teacher-bags-award-for-research-paper/articleshow/76363282.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mangaluru||WFH? Get your posture right, avoid aches||MANGALURU: It has been over two months since many people, especially techies, have started working from home. Now orthopaedics are being reached out with common queries related to lower back and neck pain, especially among people in 30-40 age group. Dr Piyush Vaghasiya, senior orthopaedic resident, Tejasvini Hospital and Shantharam Shetty Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology said, “While under the present condition, work from home is ideal, people have been complaining of neck pain, lower back pain and frozen shoulder. We are also surprised by this trend as the number of people complaining of headaches and not able to focus on work is also on the rise. Not everyone will rush to a hospital with their complaints, but the number of queries, we get over the phone with ergonomic issues is definitely on the rise. Smokers who are working from home are faced with a different challenge. They cannot smoke whenever they feel like now - if other family members are against it, and we have had smokers complaining of aches and pains,” he said. Online platforms are also recording a rise in such calls. “Practo has recorded a 400% growth in online queries for orthopaedic speciality since the coronavirus outbreak. The most common queries have been around lower back pain. We presume that this is due to the new working from home circumstances. Bad postures due to lack of proper ergonomic chairs or furniture at home while working could be the major cause for back and spinal problems. The other major factor contributing to orthopaedic related issues could be because of restricted physical activities and lifestyle change due to the lockdown, “ said, Dr. Alexander Kuruvilla, chief healthcare strategy officer, Practo, telemedicine platform. Dr Ishwara Keerthi C, consultant spine surgery, KMC Hospital, said, “It is important to check and keep changing posture frequently while using the laptop, smartphone or tablet. Hunching over our tablets, smartphones and laptops all day and night can cause painful neck and back strain. Being connected 24 hours a day can actually add stress to our lives. Limiting our gadget time will reduce the stress and it is important to use them in neutral posture, keeping the screen at eye level. Intermittent stretching in between will help in reducing the back and neck injuries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/wfh-get-your-posture-right-avoid-aches/articleshow/76363941.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 14, 2020||Madurai||101 cases in south, 41 in central dists; MLA’s kin test positive||MADURAI: With as many as 101 cases on Saturday, south Tamil Nadu reported more than 100 cases for the second day in a row, taking the total cases in the ten districts to 2,235. On the other hand, the central region saw 41 more cases apart from the death of a 25-year-old man who suffered a head injury in a bike accident but was found Covid-positive. Among the newly infected were the wife and daughter of a DMK MLA too. The 41 cases have taken the central region’s tally to 1,211 cases. Tuticorin district recorded the most in the region, 30, including two imported cases taking its overall count to 427 while Madurai has reached 409 with 15 new cases. The Madurai cases included three Chennai returnees, contacts of Covid-19 patients and those with Influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. Tirunelveli district reported 18 fresh cases on Saturday, including three imported ones. Sivaganga district, which continues to have the least number of Covid-19 cases in the region, has reported as many as 25 cases in just two days. On Saturday, the district saw 13 cases, taking the district’s tally to 75. Kanyakumari reported 11 more cases taking the district total to 120. Cases were also recorded in Dindigul (9), Tenkasi (3) and Virudhunagar (2) but no cases were reported in Theni and Ramanathapuram. The 25-year-old man of Pullambadi in Trichy district had sustained severe head injury in a road accident on June 8. Doctors decided to perform tracheostomy on him, but as a prerequisite, he was tested for Covid-19 which revealed his infection on June 11. The doctors performed the surgical procedure even before the test result was out. Despite being treated, the youth died at the hospital on Friday night following which the post-mortem was conducted on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/101-cases-in-south-41-in-central-dists-mlas-kin-test-positive/articleshow/76364531.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Two Nigerian men held with 15kg drug from Delhi's Nizamuddin station||NEW DELHI: Two Nigerian men were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) with 15kg of ephedrine worth crores from Nizamuddin railway station. The accused, O Kennedy and K Ekechukwu, were tracked down by a team led by NCB’s zonal director KPS Malhotra while they were on way to meet a contact to hand over the consignment. Deputy director general of NCB Rajesh Nadan Srivastava said that a manhunt was on to arrest the contacts and bust the entire cartel. The gang distributed drugs across Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Mumbai and Nigeria. The ephiderine was found packed in pouches ranging from 20gm to 500gm, to make it easier for the members of the cartel to conceal and carry the consignments in large quantities. One of the drug dealers admitted to have ferried the contraband from New Delhi to Mumbai. NCB sleuths were probing the possibility of an illegal factory producing methamphetamine in large quantities operating somewhere in Delhi or Mumbai. “The men revealed that their customers from Himachal Pradesh had also got into a barter deal with them to supply charas against other drugs. Efforts were on to bust that cartel as well,” said Malhotra. It was found that both the Nigerians had been arrested earlier too, for drug trafficking but they had managed to secure bail and had gone back to supplying contraband. Ekechukwu told the officers that he had been ferrying contraband from New Delhi to Mumbai and thereon sending the finished products to Nigeria since they did not have enough units to produce Methemphetamine there. “Ephedrine is a precursor — chemicals which can also be used to manufacture narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances — used in methamphetamine production. These substances also have a number of legitimate use,” said an NCB officer. Crystal methamphetamine, or crystal meth, is a glass-like substance that is smoked in a pipe but may also be smoked or injected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-nigerian-men-held-with-15kg-drug-fromnizamuddin-stn/articleshow/76364838.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||Facing stiff challenges, computer coaching centres trying to reinvent themselves as lockdown eases||MADURAI: While already striving hard to make profits amid stiff competition from online learning courses, private computer coaching centres face grim prospects when they reopen post lockdown relaxations. The centres are yet to receive any guidelines for reopening. “For us, it is a seasonal business. The months of April and May are when school students, especially Class X and XII, are on summer vacation and actively look out for skill development courses, including computer courses. However, this year everything has turned topsy-turvy due to Covid-19. We are facing huge losses,” said Akila AP, a trainer at a private computer coaching centre in Koodal Nagar that has branches across Tamil Nadu. Following on the heels of other coaching centres, computer training centres too are trying to shift to the online space to engage students. However, so far there has not been much success. “We already had started giving online training for working professionals, so we quickly tried to do the same for students as well. However, in a city like Madurai, infrastructure is an issue as not everyone has computers and mobile phones at home. However, right now, even schools and colleges are forced to provide coaching online, so things will change slowly for sure,” said S Gopal, a computer trainer at a private computer coaching centre in Goripalayam. Computer trainers also expressed concerns over limited job and project opportunities in the software industry which may hold back students from taking up the course. Another challenge for online classes has been the need for purchasing license for the softwares. “For online computer training, both the teacher and student must have access to a computer or laptop and the required licensed software. We can teach theory all we like but for practical training, licensed software is a must which is mainly the reason students depend on the centres. Costs may also go up for certain softwares but we can’t even increase the fees as students will likely not accept it,” said Jaikumar C, who manages a computer training centre specialising in AutoCAD courses for engineering students. However, despite the struggles, the centres remain hopeful. Trainers said that shift-based systems in schools and colleges may still make interested students take up computer classes in their leisure time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/facing-stiff-challenges-computer-coaching-centres-trying-to-reinvent-themselves-as-lockdown-eases/articleshow/76364535.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Poonia asks Gehlot to start giving 4% job quota to MBC||Jaipur: State BJP president Satish Poonia has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting him to start the process of giving 4% reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in government jobs that are pending till date. He also urged the CM to clear all backlogs in recruitments.In his letter to the CM, Poonia wrote, “As per the agreement between the government and Gurjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti, it is requested to create the posts that have been reserved and provide opportunities to youths belonging to MBC in the 2018 admissions and the admissions that are pending since 2011.”Gurjar leader Himmat Singh thanked Poonia on Twitter for writing to the chief minister in this regard. “I hope your party will become our voice in the assembly as well,” tweeted Singh.Meanwhile, an order has been issued to hold a ministerial-level review meeting of MBC reservation on June 15. Earlier, Himmat Singh had launched a social media campaign and posted tweets with hashtag ‘MBC ka arakshan lagu karo’. With over 16,000 tweets, the social media campaign was among the top 10 India trends on Twitter.He has asked CM Gehlot for the status of 15 different admissions which are under process. “We are still demanding because MBC reservation has not been implemented properly. We have been demanding that Devnarayan board should be created. Around, 1,252 contractual employees should be regularised. The FIRs registered against all those who participated in the movement for reservation must be revoked,” Singh had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poonia-asks-gehlot-to-start-giving-4-job-quota-to-mbc/articleshow/76364834.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||MKU, Alagappa University drop in NIRF 2020 rankings||MADURAI: Two of the top state universities in south Tamil Nadu, Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) and Alagappa University have dropped several ranks this year in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020 list released recently. Alagappa University, which was previously ranked 28th in the list of top 100 universities, has now dropped to 36th spot while MKU dropped from 45th to 60th position. Speaking to TOI, vice-chancellor of Alagappa University, N Rajendran said the university has retained its top position in Tamil Nadu. “We have actually improved our score this year. However, even one point can cost several positions in the ranking. We have to improve the student-teacher ratio,” said Dr Rajendran. He added that there was more competition this year and the university will try to improve next year. MKU VC M Krishna said, “For a university like MKU, diversity of students is limited. Mark-wise, we have maintained our score. However, we are not able to match with the facilities at some private universities.” Meanwhile, the Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Higher Education in Srivilliputtur broke into the top 100 for the first time by securing the 72nd rank. However, the Gandhigram Rural Institute in Dindigul dropped from 75th spot to 91st spot. Among colleges in Madurai, Thiagarajar College at 22, Lady Doak College at 52 and Fatima College at 74 improved their rankings as compared to their 2019 ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-alagappa-university-drop-in-nirf-2020-rankings/articleshow/76364538.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 14, 2020||Nashik||Odd-even plan continues to confuse Nashik city traders||NASHIK: Traders in the city have still not been able to grasp the odd-and-even system of opening shops. The traders are clueless as to which day they should be keeping their shops open and which day they should be keeping the shutters down. Police of the old city area said that every day, they were getting many calls from shopkeepers asking whether they should keep their units open or not. While traders on the main roads seem to have understood the odd-even system of keeping shops open, the situation is starkly different in the interiors where shops on either side are remaining open. Sources from Bhadrakali police station said that every day, they were getting calls in the morning. Shopkeepers are clueless fearing that they could be penalized for keeping their establishments open and not allowing the odd-even system. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Amol Tambe of zone 1 said that the police, along with officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), were spreading awareness among people about the odd-and-even system. In the city, it is on lines of the parking system of PI and P2. The same rule is applicable for operating shops. As far as the interiors are concerned, police and civic officials are spreading awareness about the same. Meanwhile, office bearers of the traders association claimed that many shopkeepers were being penalized for not following the odd-and even-system. “The P1 and P2 system is not working in the interior roads. We suggest the concerned authorities should put up boards regarding the same like O1 and O2 with O indicating open,” said Prafulla Sancheti of the Nashik city grocers’ association. However, as far as the citizens are concerned, the general sentiment is that they are quite happy that the markets have opened and they are getting the essentials on one or other side of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/odd-even-plan-continues-to-confuse-nashik-city-traders/articleshow/76363217.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Stranded Telugu students desperate to go back to Oz||Hyderabad: Several students from Telangana and AP who are studying or who have just completed their courses in Australia are at their wits’ end. Stranded as they are, many of them are in a fix with their student visas having expired and have no means to head back to the Aussie land. Rahul Reddy, who came to Hyderabad on March 19 to visit his family, said he did not anticipate the lockdown to last so long. “I was on a bridging visa, which is an interim visa, while my temporary resident (TR) visa was being processed, but this has expired.” A TR visa allows students to work for two years after completing their studies. Now, Reddy will have to apply for a tourist visa and head back to Australia for his TR visa to be processed, meaning extra costs. A TR visa can be applied and processed only on-shore. He is also worried abbout the additional quarantine costs on arrival which amount to AUS $2,500-$3,000 (Rs 1.3 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh). Reddy lost his job at a catering firm that provided food to software companies in Brisbane. Many others are going through the same predicament. Sri Raghava took a loan of Rs 25 lakh on loan to pursue Master’s at James Cook University in Brisbane. After paying that much, he may not get TR visa to work there, defeating the very purpose he had gone for. “I came to AP after I finished my course in February and got stuck. My visa has expired and I have not applied for a TR visa. If I do not go back during the grace period of six months, I may not be able to work there,” he said. He is currently in Mangalgiri in Guntur district. There are at least 50 others stuck like them. Says Abhilash Reddy Akkam, who is in Tandur in Vikarabad, “I am completing the fourth semester of my Master’s in manufacturing and technology online from Swinburne University, Melbourne. Though away, I still have to pay my bills in Australia which after some relief from my landlords amounts to Rs 15,000 a month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stranded-telugu-students-desperate-to-go-back-to-oz/articleshow/76365097.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP STF to probe Anamika mystery||Lucknow: The government on Saturday handed over the probe into the Anamika Shukla case to Uttar Pradesh special task force (STF) to uncover larger conspiracy in the use of fraudulent means to bag jobs in various Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) across the state. Confirming the development, inspector general of police, STF, Amitabh Yash told TOI that those involved in the scam would be behind the bars soon. Various units of the STF started working on the case. Police teams visited Prayagraj, Bareilly and Aligarh on Saturday night. An official privy to the investigation said, “Probe in all seven districts – Prayagraj, Aligarh, Rae Bareli, Saharanpur, Bareilly, Kasganj and Ambedkarnagar – where FIRs have been registered has been transferred to us.” STF has also collected documents related to the case, including marksheets of the real Anamika Shukla, and will interrogate Supriya (arrested in Kasganj) and Anita Devi (arrested in Mainpuri) who used the documents to get job in KGBVs. A ten-member team has been formed which has prepared questions for interrogation of arrested women. In a related development, another team has been formed to visit Kasganj and question Jaswant Singh Jatav (42) of Nagla Khar village. His younger brother, Pushpendra Singh Jatav (32) alias Nitu Raj, is absconding since June 6 and has been named by the arrested women as the one who gave them fake marksheets of Anamika Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-stf-to-probe-anamika-mystery/articleshow/76364841.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Gill road robbery: Miscreants used a jeep’s number||LUDHIANA: The robbers who fled with Rs 7 lakh from the office of an industrialist on Friday had used a jeep’s registration number on one of their bikes. The number was captured in a CCTV camera installed near the crime spot. Ludhiana police said they were still looking for clues in the case. On Friday afternoon, four masked robbers barged into the office of AH Alloys on Gill Road and escaped with Rs7 lakh. One of the accused posed as a courier delivery boy as he were aware that the office door remains locked. When he managed to get the door opened, his accomplices followed him. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II, Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, said, “Registration number of one bike was captured in a CCTV camera installed near the crime spot. The number is of a jeep. The investigation is on in the case.” “The accused who entered as a courier boy had a bag. When he entered the office, he removed the bag form his shoulders, opened it, took out some papers,” the cop added. On November 8, 2019, too, four masked miscreants had came to the office. They knocked the door, but after finding them suspicious, the workers did not respond. The same day, a robbery of Rs 7 lakh was executed at the office of a steel and rolling mill on Gill Road. Teja said it would be too early to say if the same miscreants executed this robber too. We are probing the case from all angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gill-road-robbery-miscreants-used-a-jeeps-number/articleshow/76363957.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Temp torment continues, Churu logs 43°C||Jaipur: Despite mild thundershowers in some parts of the state, mercury took an upward swing on Saturday. Majority of the places witnessed rise in its maximum and minimum temperatures. Though Jaipur Jaipur’s maximum temperature was below 40°C, the city witnessed the hottest morning of the season so far. Churu remained the hottest in the state clocking 43°C.Attributing the mild showers and rising humidity to active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said mercury would rise further in the state in the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up to hottest morning of the season at 32.3°C. It was also the hottest morning recorded by any city in the state. In the afternoon, mild clouds were seen in the city due to which mercury took a dip clocking a maximum temperature of 39.4°C, almost 1 degree below normal. In the evening, mild showers were witnessed on the outskirts of Jaipur including Bassi, Bagru, Dudu and Shahpura. Churu, Sriganganagar, Sikar and Jhunjhunu witnessed mild showers. Jaipur Met office said rising humidity was a good sign for the onset of monsoon. “Humidity makes the conditions favourable for monsoon. Presently humidity levels of 60 to 70 per cent are witnessed in the state. And when they will touch 90 per cent, the conditions would be good for the monsoon,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mild showers would be witnessed in some parts of the state, but mercury will continue to take an upward swing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/temp-torment-continues-churu-logs-43c/articleshow/76364842.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Five detained for murder bid, rioting||NASHIK: Upnagar police detained five people, including two minors, for their alleged involvement in attacking a family and damaging as many as 16 vehicles in the Sundar Nagar area of Deolaligaon early on Saturday. Senior inspector at Upnagar police station Sunil Rohokale said that a manhunt has been launched for eight other people involved in the crime. Thirteen people have been booked for rioting and attempt to murder. According to police, following an argument, the suspects marched to a person’s house in the Sundar Nagar area and ransacked it. An 11-year-old child also sustained a hand injury in the attack. On their way back, the suspects damaged the vehicles parked in front of the houses. They also pelted stones at many houses and broke window panes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-detained-for-murder-bid-rioting/articleshow/76363221.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 14, 2020||Delhi||37-year-old man stabbed to death in front of daughter in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 37-year old man was allegedly stabbed to death outside his house by three men on Thursday night in Rohini’s Karan Vihar. The murder was witnessed by the 10-year old daughter of the deceased who was standing on the terrace. By the time the child told her mother, the assailants managed to flee. The deceased has been identified as Bharat Bhushan who operated a videography business from his residence. Bhushan’s wife Sunita said that on Thursday night, a neighbour, Deepak Kaliya, had approached her husband around 11.30pm while the family was sitting outside the house. “Kaliya approached my husband to talk to him, so I and the kids went inside the house. Within minutes, my daughter started screaming about some men attacking him. I ran outside to see three men fleeing on two-wheelers and my husband bleeding on the ground. I rushed him to a hospital with a neighbour’s help but he was declared brought dead,” Sunita said. She added that her daughter has not stopped crying since witnessing the murder. “Among the three men, I could identify Kaliya and another man called Suraj but do not know the third person. I do not know why they killed him, I am unaware of any previous fight, Sunita said. Other than their daughter, the couple have an eight-year-old son. Police have registered a case of murder and are trying to nab the three accused. CCTV footage of the area shows three men talking to Bhushan who suddenly stab him in the chest and then in the leg before fleeing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/37-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-daughter/articleshow/76364843.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Madurai||6 Covid-19 deaths in a week in south TN not officially recorded||Madurai: As many as six Covid-19 deaths were reported in the southern districts in the past week, including five at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, but none of them have so far been officially declared in the daily state medical bulletin. This despite local health officials maintaining that all necessary reports have been duly sent to the state authorities. According to Saturday’s medical bulletin, the southern region has recorded only 12 deaths. However, local authorities have reported at least six more deaths within the last week. Five of these deaths were at GRH, one of the state’s largest tertiary care centres. They include three from Madurai and one case each from Sivaganga and Dindigul districts. The three cases from Madurai were a 72-year-old woman from Mela Anuppanadi who died on June 6, a 73-year-old man from Sellur who died on June 11 and a 53-year-old woman from T Vadipatti who died on June 12. All three patients had co-morbid conditions.“Reports of all deaths at Madurai GRH are being regularly sent to state authorities. We send almost all reports within three hours. If cases are from other districts, we notify the respective officials as well. We have no reason to hide any deaths because it is a pandemic situation,” said GRH dean Dr J Sangumani.Senior health officials from Sivaganga and Dindgul districts confirmed two deaths at GRH from their respective districts. A 51-year-old cancer patient from Chennai admitted to a private hospital at Karaikudi had developed complications and was referred to GRH where he tested positive and later died on June 10. Though district health officials said the case may be cross-notified to Chennai, they maintained that state authorities were given all required reports so far.According to Dindigul health officials, an elderly man admitted to Kodaikanal government hospital was referred to GRH after suffering weakness in his heart, lungs and kidney. The 70-year-old man tested Covid-19 positive and died shortly after on the same day, June 10, as the Sivaganga man. “We have to periodically update state authorities via an app all information about samples taken from Covid-19 patients. There cannot be delays of more than a few hours,” said a senior health official from Dindigul. In Tuticorin too, Thoothukudi medical college hospital authorities said a 34-year-old man had died of Covid-19 on Saturday. However, the death was yet to be recorded in Saturday’s bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6-covid-19-deaths-in-a-week-in-south-tn-not-officially-recorded/articleshow/76364540.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Gajapati extends quarantine period from 7 to 14 days||Berhampur: Worried over the spurt in Covid 19 positive cases in Gajapati district, the administration on Saturday extended the mandatory institutional quarantine period for the returnees from out of the state to 14 days from the existing seven days. The administration took this decision after some returnees tested positive for Covid-19 even after completing the seven-day institutional quarantine. Gajapati became the second district in the state after Khurda to increase the institutional quarantine period for migrants returning from outside the state. As many as 84 persons have been tested positive for Covid-19 so far in Gajapati district while 34 of them are undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital at R Sitapur. As many as 18 persons got cured on Saturday. The condition of all of the hospitalised persons is stated to be stable. “It has came to notice that in some cases the returnees, who have completed 7 to 10 days of institutional quarantine in the temporary medical centres (TMCs), showed symptoms of Covid-19 and upon testing they were found to be positive. It is felt necessary to keep the returnees even after completion of mandatory period of 7 days in TMCs to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the community,” said Gajapati collector Anupam Saha. Moreover there is no separate room and toilet available for the returnees in the households in the district for their use during home quarantine so it is difficult to isolate them from their near and dear ones in the period, he said, justifying the extension of institutional quarantine. After completing the 14-day institutional quarantine period, one will follow another seven-day home quarantine in their respective houses. During their home quarantine period, constant surveillance by the rapid response teams about the health condition of the discharged returnees would be done, he said. While around 11,590 persons have returned to the district from different states, 2,876 of them are now under in different institutional quarantine centres in the district, an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/gajapati-extends-quarantine-period-from-7-to-14-days/articleshow/76363953.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||4.3-magnitude earthquake hits Bikaner||Jaipur: A 4.3 magnitude earthquake rocked Bikaner, Churu and Sriganganagar at 10.26am on Saturday. Though there was no information on loss of life and property, people rushed out of their houses and offices as a precautionary measure soon after the quake. According to officials, the epicentre was 30° north and 69.5° east in Bikaner and originated 35km below the ground. A few kuchha houses on the outskirts of Bikaner witnessed some cracks.“No loss of life or reports of buildings collapsing have been reported so far,” said an officer with Bikaner administration. Officials said movement of tectonic plates in the Aravali region could be the cause of the quake, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-3-magnitude-earthquake-hits-bikaner/articleshow/76364840.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nashik||Game orders probe into NMC Twitter goof-up||Nashik: Nashik municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has ordered a probe into the alleged goof-up by the handler of the civic body’s official Twitter account. On Friday evening, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had tweeted that all shops in the city would remain closed on Sundays, sparking confusion and concern among traders. wNMC removed the tweet on Saturday morning. When contacted, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game avoided directly commenting on the topic, but said that the deputy municipal commissioner would clarify. He added that shops would remain open on Sundays. “The tweet about the shops remaining closed on Sundays was wrong. We will conduct a probe into the matter and take action against those responsible,” said deputy municipal commissioner Pradeep Chaudhary. “We were worried after NMC, through its official Twitter account, said that all the shops will remain closed on Sundays,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president, Nashik Jewellers’ Association. “Finally, we approached the NMC officials, who clarified that the tweet was wrong. The civic body should be more careful,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/game-orders-probe-into-nmc-twitter-goof-up/articleshow/76363230.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s in pact with Gilead for Covid-19 drug Remdesivir||Hyderabad: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has entered into an agreement with US-based Gilead Sciences Inc to manufacture and sell Gilead’s investigational anti-viral drug Remdesivir, which was initially developed for Ebola but has now emerged as a potential treatment for Covid-19. The non-exclusive licencing agreement will grant Dr Reddy’s the right to register, manufacture and sell Remdesivir in 127 countries, including India, Dr Reddy’s said on Saturday. These 127 countries include under-developed and developing markets but excludes developed markets like US, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. The Hyderabad-based drug giant said it will receive technology transfer from Gilead for manufacturing the drug and it would carry out the manufacturing scale up and obtain regulatory approval for marketing the drug in the respective countries. Along with Dr Reddy’s, Gilead also inked similar agreements with other Indian companies like Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadily and Syngene. A month ago, Gilead had licenced the drug to other companies, including Hyderabad-based Hetero Labs Ltd, Cipla, Jubilant Lifesciences, Mylan, for making and marketing Remdesivir in 127 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-in-pact-with-gilead-for-covid-19-drug-remdesivir/articleshow/76364995.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Did professor’s views on TV violate code of conduct? KGMU to probe||LUCKNOW: King George’s Medical University vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt has constituted a five-member committee to probe if comments made by Prof Surya Kant, head, pulmonary medicine department, during a live debate on Covid-19 on a private news channel on June 9 amounted to violation of Government Employees’ Code of Conduct 1956. However, Prof Surya Kant, when contacted, said “After going through the debate in entirety and not selectively, you will find that contrary to the allegations, it actually supported government policy by praising its third party audit of the pandemic situation in Kanpur, Agra and Meerut.” The committee was formed after the medical education department wrote to KGMU directing it to serve a show-cause notice on the teacher and take appropriate action as participation in the debate without government’s authorisation violated conduct rules and remarks maligned the government’s image. “I discussed the clinical scenario and advised people not to panic, but take due precautions, besides emphasising preventive measures for high risk population,” said Prof Kant, who is a nationally acclaimed pulmonary expert with over 20-year experience.  “During the debate, when the anchor asked me why some private clinics are closed, I informed him about the problems faced by the private sector and need to resolve it because I am also a member of state and national executives of Indian Medical Association and have been its Lucknow president in the past,” he said. Meanwhile, KGMU replaced Dean, medical, Prof Vinita Das, who was made head of the committee, with Dean, dental, Prof Anil Chandra, after she withdrew her name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/did-professors-views-on-tv-violate-code-of-conduct-kgmu-to-probe/articleshow/76364844.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha yet to take call on resuming inter-state buses||BHUBANESWAR: State commerce and transport minister Padmanabha Behera on Saturday said the state government is yet to take any decision on resuming inter-state bus services even as neighbouring Andhra Pradesh has requested to allow point-to-point (non-stop) bus services between the two states. “So far, we haven’t discussed the matter with any other states on resuming inter-state bus services. Only a few letters were exchanged. When there is no passenger demand, why should we initiate the process to resume services?” Behera told reporters here. Based on the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs, the state government on May 18 had allowed inter-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses with mutual consent of the states. Though the state commerce and transport department sought views of all neighbouring states to resume inter-state bus operations, it is yet to receive any response so far from any other state. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, in a recent letter to Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy, said the Andhra Pradesh government does not have any objection if point-to-point buses are operated by state transport undertakings and other authorised operators with prior intimation. The AP chief secretary also sought permission of the Odisha government for operation of inter-state bus operations at the earliest. “On the letter of Andhra Pradesh chief secretary, we have sought views of the state transport commissioner and OSRTC authorities. We will take a call based on their suggestions,” said a senior transport department official. The transport minister also expressed concern over low passenger turnout on certain routes within the state in which the state-owned Odisha State Road Transport Corporation (OSRTC) has started operations. He said the private operators are also facing similar problem of low footfall on many routes. The OSRTC recently resumed services on 66 routes across the state. “Yesterday I came to know that the passenger turnout on as many as 20 routes was negligible with a maximum of five passengers. If this would continue for next few days, we will be forced to stop the operations on those routes,” said Behera, adding it is not possible to continue bus operations with very low footfall. The OSRTC with 440 buses resumed services from June 8 on 66 routes with 96 buses connecting 22 towns with the state capital. A source in the All Odisha Private Bus Owners Association also said barring a few routes, the passenger turnout is very low on many routes. The private bus services in Odisha resumed services from May 28 after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-yet-to-take-call-on-resuming-inter-state-buses/articleshow/76363976.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris MP flays Centre, state govt||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Nilgiris MP A Raja on Saturday said both the Centre and the state government had failed to contain the spread of coronavirus. “Poor handling of the crisis shows their inefficiency,” he told reporters at Kandal area in Ooty town, where he distributed relief materials to residents. “There is no proper infrastructure to test those with symptoms. Arrangements are in place to test only those travelling to the state by air and rail. There is no proper facility to examine those travelling by road. This will eventually lead to an increase in cases,” Raja said. The former Union minister said that 56 people stranded in various countries were brought to the Nilgiris following his intervention. “As many as 28 people are waiting to return to the district.” He will meet the Nilgiris collector to discuss plight of self-help groups saddled with bad loans, Raja said. “I have done my part regarding the proposed medical college in Ooty. The state government should speed up the project in the interest of the people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-mp-flays-centre-state-govt/articleshow/76364550.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nashik||‘Expedite GMCH process in Nashik’||Nashik: State food and civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Chhagan Bhujbal has asked the officials of the department of medical education and research to expedite the process of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education in Nashik. The work on the starting of the two institutes in Nashik district was being discussed since a long time. Besides, after the state government finally decided to start the two facilities in the district, the work of completing the necessary permissions was delayed due to lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 pandemic. As per the meeting conducted on February 5, certain things required for the smooth functioning of the said institutes were incomplete. “The minister reviewed the progress of starting of the two premier institutes in Nashik – the divisional headquarters of Nashik division. The division has two government medical colleges in two districts other than Nashik and one private medical college in Nashik, but there is no government college in the district despite it being the home to Maharashtra University Health Sciences. The minister expressed the need to expedite the work and the same will be followed up with the concerned departments,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/expedite-gmch-process-in-nashik/articleshow/76363239.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||9 CMCH patients turn positive, 52 staff kept in quarantine||COIMBATORE: Nine people, including two new mothers and as many pregnant women, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday, a day after they were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). While three of them are imported cases, the remaining are indigenous ones. All of them have been shifted to the ESI Hospital. In addition, two women from the district and seven flyers from New Delhi also tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Samples were collected from the flyers when they landed in the city on Friday. The two women are primary contacts of the 25-year-old pregnant woman from Kovaipudur who tested positive for the virus earlier in the week. CMCH has asked 52 of its staff, including a few doctors, staff nurses and ward boys, to remain in home quarantine for a week and watch out for symptoms. Earlier in the week, the government hospital had sent 40 staff members in quarantine, after a throat cancer patient tested positive for the virus. “All the 40 have tested negative for the virus. The new batch of 52 will be tested for Covid-19 after four days,” said a senior epidemiologist in the city. Among the new cases are a breast cancer patient and an HIV cum tuberculosis patient. Another two had come to the hospital for gastroenterology surgery. Officials said they had begun contact tracing of indigenous cases. CMCH dean Dr P Kalidoss confirmed that nine people, who were admitted to the hospital, have tested positive for the virus. “One of them is from Virudhunagar, two from Tirupur and the remaining are from the district. We had created isolation rooms within every department, where they were kept on arrival. They were kept in isolation until the results were out to ensure that the entire ward and departments do not get contaminated.” He said they have disinfected the isolation rooms and other facilities that were used by doctors and nurses, who were in contact with the nine. Speaking about the infected women from the labour ward, he said a 19-year-old from Virudhunagar had delivered a low birth weight baby, while the baby of a 32-year-old woman from Tirupur had died during delivery as she suffered from bladder exstrophy. One of the pregnant women, who is from Tirupur, had heart disease. The remaining one is 23 years old. Public health department officials, meanwhile, said they have sent teams to Sulur, Rathinapuri, Thekkalur and other locations to screen family members and neighbours of the new indigenous Covid-19 patients. A health official said they had sent Covid-19 results of two women from Narasimanaickenpalayam and Periyanaickenpalayam for reinvestigation. They were, however, admitted to the ESI Hospital on Saturday. None of them have travel history, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/9-cmch-patients-turn-ve-52-staff-kept-in-quarantine/articleshow/76364549.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon medical college gets new dean, addl docs||Nashik: The state government has appointed Jaiprakash Ramanand, professor and HoD of pharmacology department of the Dhule-based government medical college and hospital, as the new dean of Jalgaon medical college and hospital. Ramanand, who took charge on Saturday replaced Bhaskar Khaire who was suspended by the state government after the dead body of a elderly Covid patient was found in the toilet block of the hospital ward where she was undergoing treatment. She was missing for five days before her body was found. “My initial priority will be to understand the problems of the institution regarding issues such as manpower, medical equipment, financial issues, etc. and then redress them in a planned manner,” Ramanand told TOI. According to Ramanand, the state government has provided 16 additional doctors for Jalgaon medical college and hospital. “I will interact with the stakeholders of the college and understand their problems. I would leave no stone unturned to ensure that the hospital functions smoothly and provide proper treatment to the patients,” said Ramanand. Dr. Ramanand was the dean of Kolhapur medical college for three years and is considered to be extremely competent. The Jalgaon medical college and hospital has come under severe criticism following the elderly woman’s death incident. A case against five hospital staffers, including the on-duty doctor, has been registered with the Jalgaon police. According to some doctors at the hospital, the entire staff is working under severe stress. “There is 40% staff crunch at the hospital. And, this incident has completely demoralised the doctors at the hospital. We are supposed to treat patients. It was the duty of police to trace the woman,” commented a doctor at the hospital requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-medical-college-gets-new-dean-addl-docs/articleshow/76363246.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||City police show ways to reduce traffic fatalities||COIMBATORE: Deputy general of police J K Tripathy on Saturday said the city police have topped their counterparts in the state in reducing fatalities in road accidents. As per the data available with city traffic police, only 24 people had lost their lives in road accidents in the city from January 1 to June 10 this year, compared to 60 in the corresponding period last year. Madurai and Salem city police were placed second and third, respectively, in this front. R Mutharasu, city deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said regular monitoring of traffic violations has helped them reduce fatalities in road accidents. “We have 163 CCTV cameras at traffic signals across the city to identify traffic violators. We can easily track bikers without helmets and triple riders with their vehicle registration number. We will upload the details of violators, with the photo generated by CCTV cameras and fine amount, on Parivahan website. We have Police E-Eye app which helps even the general public to send us photos of traffic violations, which would also be uploaded on Parivahan website. Such actions have helped us reduce the accident rate in the city drastically.” He said they have brought down fatalities in road accidents to 60%. In Madurai city 36 people had lost their lives in road accidents during January 1-June 10 period this year, compared to 86 in the same period last year. The Madurai city police, who brought down fatalities to 55%, was placed second among their counterparts in seven cities. The Salem city police have bagged the third place by reducing fatalities to 28 from 53 last year. The Chennai city police, who have brought down fatalities to 332 from 610 last year, were placed fourth, while the Tirupur city police, Tirunelveli city police, and Trichy police were placed in the next three positions. Police officials said the lockdown was the main reasons for the drop in fatalities in road accidents. The state government has enforced lockdown from March 24. Most of the motorists did not use their vehicles till May 3. The lockdown norms were relaxed on May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-police-show-ways-to-reduce-traffic-fatalities/articleshow/76364547.cms||A Subburaj
June 14, 2020||Pune||PCMC ready to handle 6-7 times current patient count: Civic chief||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is prepared to accommodate four to six times the current number of patients across its government and private hospitals, civic commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI. So far, until June 12, the PCMC has had 1,110 positive cases. This number is from 7,995 tested samples — a positivity rate of over 14%. “We have an overall bed capacity of about 8,000 to 10,000,” said Hardikar. “Assuming an occupancy rate of 50-60% only for Covid-19 treatment, we can use 4,000 to 6,000 general beds and about 450 ICU beds from the 800 available now.” The civic body chief said if the situation in PCMC worsens, the civic body might consider admitting only the symptomatic and the most vulnerable patients, including those with underlying conditions. Currently, hospitals within PCMC limits have also been admitting asymptomatic positive cases. “But I hope we don’t come to that situation. If numbers rise, we will have to consider admitting only symptomatic and asymptomatic co-morbid patients...others will be home quarantined,” he said. On the high positivity rate (14%), he said that is mainly because PCMC is only testing symptomatic and asymptomatic family members of a patient with confirmed Covid-19 symptoms. The state has had one of the highest positivity rates, ranging from 17.6% to 20%. But Delhi tops with highs reaching as much as 27.7%. “If I was also to check low-risk contacts (as we were doing earlier) and other asymptomatic contacts, our positivity rate would have been lower. But we have a testing infrastructure challenge; we are augmenting it,” Hardikar said. Focus is also on controlling the death rate, which in PCMC is 1.6%, against Maharashtra’s 3.68%. “The key here is early detection and treatment. In this context, the community’s role is bigger than that of the government’s. Citizens should report people entering communities so that we can monitor them or treat them, if required. The slightest of symptoms should also not be ignored. This is the time for prompt checks,” he said. Hardikar said the treatment success rate at the PCMC-run YCM Hospital has been so high that even the rich are admitting themselves there. “Of the 60 hyper-critical patients who were admitted at YCM, only six to 7 have succumbed. All were tough cases, but YCM doctors managed to salvage the situation,” the civic chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-ready-to-handle-6-7-times-current-patient-count-civic-chief/articleshow/76364846.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Traffic cops to show no mercy to rule-breakers||The city police have registered 62,461 cases against motorists for using mobile phone while driving, signal jumping and overspeeding till June 10 this year. Police referred 59,000 cases of traffic violations to regional transport officers (RTOs) for suspension of driving licences for three-month and the RTOs suspended 50,162 licences, deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. “Many of the motorists were not aware about temporary suspension of licence. As some of them carried photocopies of licences, it was difficult to verify whether they were suspended. Now, RTOs are uploading details of the suspended licences on the Parivahan website. As a result, our personnel can check the validity using mParivahan app. Those who continue to use their vehicles even after facing licence suspension will be booked and the vehicle will be seized,” Mutharasu said. The department has been instructed to get tough with traffic rule-breakers, the officer said. While 317,596 cases have been registered for not wearing helmets and seat belts till June 10, only 14,239 cases were registered last year during the same period, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traffic-cops-to-show-no-mercy-to-rule-breakers/articleshow/76364551.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain likely to replenish Siruvani reservoir||COIMBATORE: While water level in Siruvani reservoir is just three feet above the dead storage capacity, the city’s water managers heaved a sigh of relief after the catchment areas received 35mm rain on Friday night. “The catchment areas have received 230mm rainfall in the last 15 days. We hope the region will get good rain in the coming days and the level will go up,” said an official with the Tamil Nadu water and drainage (TWAD) board. “As water level has been declining in the reservoir, TWAD had reduced the quantity of water it draws from the reservoir for supply from 101 MLD to 50 MLD,” the official said. While about six MLD of water is supplied to panchayats, the rest is supplied to corporation areas. The corporation is now receiving only 44 MLD, which is only half of what it used to get during the normal days, the official said. “On a normal day, over 90 MLD of Siruvani water is supplied in the city. With the existing water, supply can be continued only for 10 days. If the Kerala government allows us to tap water from the dead storage capacity, it would last for a few more days. Now that the monsoon has arrived in the region, water level will increase gradually if it continues to rain for some more days without any dry spell.” To tackle water shortage, the corporation has been supplying water from Pillur reservoir to the Siruvani-fed areas. Siruvani water was supplied to 28 wards in the corporation limit. The civic body is now supply drinking water once in five to eight days in most of the areas, a corporation official said. “To manage the reduced quantum from Siruvani reservoir, water from Pillur is supplied to other areas through pipelines. As much as 125 MLD is drawn from Pillur reservoir to feed corporation areas.” Meanwhile, Singnallur MLA N Karthik requested the corporation to supply drinking water once in four days. In a statement on Friday, he said that some of the areas in his constituency has been receiving water only once in 12 days. “Water shortage has become severe this year. Even though several complaints were filed to rectify it, no action has been taken till date,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-likely-to-replenish-siruvani-reservoir/articleshow/76364553.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli district registers 16 fresh Covid-19 cases||Kolhapur: Sangli district registered 16 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of active patients to 222. The district has reported four deaths so far. Of the 16 new cases, five are from Mandur village of Shirala tehsil. A 44-year-old man, who had a travel history to Mumbai, tested positive for the contagion. He is a native of Khed village of Shirala tehsil. In addition, other cases were reported from tehsils such as Walva, Palus and Khanapur. Six patients, including a five-year-old boy, was discharged on Saturday, officials of Sangli district’s health department said, adding that four patients are in critical condition. Meanwhile, Satara district did not report any new case util Saturday evening. As of now, Satara district has 213 active patients. The district has reported 31 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-district-registers-16-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76363256.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two ex-employees held for duping e-tailer of Rs 50 lakh||LUCKNOW: Two ex-employees of an e-commerce giant used a flaw in the cyber security system of the company to their advantage and defrauded it of Rs 50 lakh by hacking the centralized-database of customer product delivery. The duo impersonated as employees deployed for collection of products scheduled for return before actual employee could reach the customer. The accused, Yatendra Lodhi (27) and Ankit Verma (27), were arrested from their residences in Lucknow on Saturday for cheating, impersonating as company employees using fake ID cards and illegally accessing databases of e-commerce companies. ACP, cyber cell, Vivek Ranjan Rai said, “The accused were using a link which had a password that could be used to hack into the company’s system from remote location to reset the password of any employee, including the user IDs of managers, delivery boys and others. “Lodhi left the company about three years ago while Verma quit about three months back. Since they knew each other, they joined hands in taking advantage of the loophole. Verma had the link through which he gained access of the account of delivery boys and took information of a customer in Madiaon, who had requested to return an iPhone 8 as its earphones were faulty,” said Rai. He said Lodhi reached the customer’s house at 10am on June 1 – an hour before the company’s representative and took the phone. Later, when the company received the complaint through a delivery boy, they investigated the matter and lodged a complaint with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-ex-employees-held-for-duping-e-tailer-of-rs-50l/articleshow/76364852.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 doubling rate in PMC areas slows further to 19 days||PUNE: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits has slowed to 19 days from the earlier period of 14, while the civic body of Pimpri Chinchwad is prepared to accommodate four to six times the current number of patients across the government and private hospitals. There is a silver lining in the Pune civic limits. The latest doubling of cases — from 4,107 to 8,205 — in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas happened between May 22 and June 9. An official said the authorities were reviewing the situationin the micro containment zones every 15 days The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, told TOI, “We have an overall bed capacity of about 8,000 to 10,000. Assuming an occupancy rate of 50-60% only for Covid-19 treatment, we can use 4,000 to 6,000 general beds and about 450 ICU beds from the 800 available now.” The doubling rate of coronavirus cases within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits has slowed down to 19 days from the earlier period of 14. The latest doubling of cases — from 4,107 to 8,205 — happened between May 22 to June 9. In the previous jump, which had come in the 14 days between May 7 and 21, Covid-19 case count went from 2,146 to 4,107. Data points provided by the PMC show there has been continued improvement in the doubling period. In April, cases were doubling within just four to eight days. A month later, the rate had slowed to nearly14 days. On Friday, PMC’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 9,000. Civic authorities said swift containment measures, rigorous contact tracing and strict monitoring have helped slow the spread of infectionin Pune city. “We are also isolating potential cases or those who are awaiting results of their swab tests. Patients with positive results will be moved to quarantine centres,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner. She added, “We are reviewing the situation inside micro containment zones every 15 days. There is special focus on slum pockets and densely populated neighbourhoods. A list of senior citizens with underlying conditions is also being routinely checked.” The PMC has been carrying out surveys to identify atrisk citizens with underlying conditions. On Friday, cases rose to 9,082, with 2,733 active cases being treated across hospitals and Covid care centres in the city. A senior PMC official, said, “In addition to the improvement in doubling rate to 19 days, discharges too have also gone up. The recovery rate is now at 65%. The administration working to cut the mortality rate, which is at 4.7%,” official added. One of the biggest spikes in cases was in early May when the PMC areas added 1,000 cases within just 11 days. In comparison, the first 1,000 Covid-19 cases emerged over 48 days in Pune city. The doubling rate for the country too has improved, according to data provided by the health ministry. It has gone up to 17.4 days from the 15.4 days just a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-doubling-rate-in-pmc-areas-slows-further-to-19-days/articleshow/76364850.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn sees spike in complaints||COIMBATORE: The city corporation has been seeing a spike in complaints from the public ever since the unlocking of the lockdown. During the lockdown, the city corporation had announced a separate helpline number for the public to raise their issues. However, during the period the number of complaints had drastically come down. Now that the lockdown rules have been relaxed, the public have started using the regular helpline number and grievance redressal app to register the complaints. They have also started registering complaints on the city corporation’s website. Most of the calls that the civic body received during the lockdown were related to clarifications regarding the lockdown, symptoms of the infection and movement of essential commodities. There were also complaints regarding water supply, said a corporation source. “The number of complaints was less.” After the lockdown was relaxed in May, the number of complaints received through its regular channels has increased considerably. The source said, “Now, the number of complaints related to civic issues like garbage issue, faulty streetlamps and bumpy roads has increased. In addition, people have also been calling us to inform about their neighbours, who had returned home from some other place, or new comers in their locality and asking us to spray disinfectants in their localities.” Pointing out that most of the people have been reaching out to them through WhatsApp or SMS, the source said the complaints were being classified based on their priority and steps were being taken to address them within a specific deadline.  “During April, most of the residents did not step out of their houses owing to the lockdown and they were completely worried about their health. Now, the public have started to step out of their houses. So, the complaints have started to increase,”the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-sees-spike-in-complaints/articleshow/76364552.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 14, 2020||Nashik||Sex workers get grain through PDS||Nashik: The district supply office, Nashik, conducted a survey of commercial sex workers (CSWs) residing in the old Nashik city area and provided them with grain through the public distribution system (PDS). About 60 women were provided with 5kg grain each to sustain for about two months. They were provided with the essentials without having to submit any kind of document or ration card. The CSWs from the city with no access to the PDS were provided with grain in May and June through the central government’s Atmanirbhar Yojana. Under the scheme, all people who are unable to buy essentials due to economic reasons are provided with the same. “We received a letter from the Women and Child Welfare Department about the requirement of providing grain to the CSWs who stay in Nashik city and are left without any income since the lockdown began. We sent our persons for the verification of the same and provided the grain,” district supply officer Arvind Narsikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sex-workers-get-grain-through-pds/articleshow/76363259.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Collectors asked to submit expense details of medical camps||BHUBANESWAR: The panchayati raj department has asked all collectors to submit details of the amount spent in the management of temporary medical camps (TMCs), which were used as institutional quarantine facilities for the returnees from other states in all 6,798 gram panchayats of the state. Panchayati raj secretary D K Singh, in a letter, to all collectors, asked them to submit the details by June 19. Singh said instruction was given to spend up to Rs 5 lakh out of the central finance commission and state finance commission funds available with the panchayats for setting up of TMCs in all panchayats. Also, Rs 48 crore was also sent to different districts to manage the TMCs. As many as 16,813 TMCs were set up with nearly eight lakh bed strength. More than 5 lakh returnees were put up at these TMCs by the district administrations. To maintain financial propriety and books of accounts, the civil construction work of each TMC should be measured, check measured and total expenditure incurred on all items of works like civil construction, electrification, bed, bathroom, toilet and drinking water should be assessed panchayat-wise, block-wise and district-wise), stated Singh in his letter. At the block level, a team comprising of block development officer (BDO), assistant engineer, junior engineer, panchayat executive officer and sarpanch of concerned panchayat will conduct physical verification of each TMC and quantify the works in physical terms and assess the exact expenditure incurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/collectors-asked-to-submit-expense-details-of-med-camps/articleshow/76363990.cms||Sujit Bijoy
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Math teachers to master lessons in number-crunching||COIMBATORE: The school education department plans to conduct an online training programme for PG mathematics teachers who handle Classes XI and XII in government and government-aided schools. A communication from director of school education S Kannappan to chief education officers said ‘Application of Mathematics in Different Domains’ will aim to make students understand mathematics concepts better and learn the application of math in various fields. “As the math taught in Class XI and XII is the basis for higher studies, it is important to teach students its applications,” it said. The sessions will equip teachers to make students understand math applications so that they will be able to form a career in emerging fields such as data analysis, artificial intelligence, machine learning and scientific computing. The sessions, which have been framed based on the state’s curriculum, will be held for eight hours each for 10 days from June 22. Each day will have two-hour live sessions with experts and five hours of training sessions, during which teachers will do 10 real-time exercises, applications and simulations. “By the end of the 10-day programme, the teachers would have completed 100 such hands-on activities,” the communication said. At the end of the programme, they will be given a report on their learning curve. The communication asked CEOs to direct PG mathematics teachers from government and government-aided schools to register for the programme at http://eboxcolleges.com/mathapp and get benefited during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/math-teachers-to-master-lessons-in-number-crunching/articleshow/76364556.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||12-year-old girl raped in Sawai Madhopur, accused detained||JAIPUR: In yet another case of a minor being sexually assaulted in Rajasthan, a 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped in Sawai Madhopur area on Saturday. On allegations made by the family, the accused has been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Police have confirmed that the accused has been detained and is being questioned. The accused is said to be known to the family of the rape survivor. According to the complaint, the accused approached the minor when she was near her house. He lured her to a nearby field, where he reportedly raped her on pretext of giving her sweets and money. On return, the teenager informed her family members about the crime. The family members approached Khandar police station of the district and lodged a complaint. The family demanded immediate arrest of the accused. Khandar police said the accused was caught and brought to the police station for questioning. However, police denied gangrape in the matter. “The victim told her family that one person was involved in the crime. We are working on various angles and are also questioning other residents of the area. Strict action will be taken against those found involved in the crime,” said a police officer. This was not for the first time when a minor girl has been targetted in the state. Earlier, a mentally challenged 10-year-old girl was raped and murdered by her brother and his three friends in Manoharpur area on the outskirts of the state capital. In December 2019, a 6-year-old girl was raped and murdered in Tonk. A truck driver was arrested for the alleged heinous crime targeting the class 1 student. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-yr-old-girl-raped-in-sawai-madhopur-accused-detained/articleshow/76364851.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mall management suggests lockdown rent waiver till June 15, concessions||NEW DELHI: After intense negotiations between malls and retail food outlets, DLF Shopping Malls has taken the first step to resolve the impasse and offered to waive the minimum guaranteed (MG) rent for the lockdown period till June 15 while suggesting new rent and revenue-sharing slabs meant to expedite the reopening of eateries. In a letter sent to retail tenants on the rental program while seeking to support them in restarting their businesses, DLF suggested a complete waiver of rent for the lockdown period till June 15, plus, for CyberHub tenants, a 70% waiver on MG rent in Q2, 45% in Q3 and 20% in Q4. Similarly, a 50% waiver on MG rent for Promenade Mall tenants in Q3, 25% waiver in Q3 and a 10% waiver in Q4. A company spokesperson said, “DLF believes in long-term partnerships driven by strong relationships. This gesture is in that same spirit.” In order to avail this scheme, the letter asks the outlets to reopen within seven days of the malls resuming business, a lock-in period till March 2021, and a 2% higher revenue sharing for FY 2020-21. It adds that in case sales reach 80% of 2019-20 in Q3, then the MG rent would be 100% in Q4 at Promenade, while it would similarly be 90% in CyberHub if sales touched 70% of last year’s sales. The letter also insists on clearance of all dues by September 30. Restaurateurs are enthused at this overture. Ashish Kapur of Whisky Samba and The Wine Company termed the developments as positive and a first formal communication by a mall developer showing willingness to engage with outlets and restaurants. Kapur hoped for a quick re-opening of restaurants. AD Singh of the Olive Group of Restaurants said the DLF terms were positive and progressive. He welcomed the suggestion of no rent till June 15, opining that this could have been extended till the pendency of the lockdown. Singh said it was fair that the rental would increase if business was better, but said instead of MG rent, revenue sharing was a fairer way forward based on ground realities. Other mall developers are also discussing arrangements on a case-to-case basis. The Ambience Malls management told TOI that the majority of the brands had opened their outlets at their malls, and food outlets were following suit. “Our relations with the retailers are harmonious. We are in constant touch with them and are actively working to resolve their problems,” said an Ambience group management official. Anurag Katriar, president, National Restaurant Association of India, added that most restaurateurs would request rent sharing as the best approach to the early reopening of restaurants as the MG rent was not feasible in such uncertain times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mall-mgmt-suggests-lockdown-rent-waiver-till-june-15-concessions/articleshow/76364854.cms||Amin Ali
June 14, 2020||Udaipur||Four siblings drown in Dungarpur pond||UDAIPUR: Four minor siblings drowned in a pond at Peeth village in Dungarpur district on Saturday. Divers fished out the bodies from the pond late in the evening. According to sources, the children were alone at their home while their parents who are labourers had gone out to work. When they returned home in the afternoon, they did not find the children and set out to look for them around the village. After a few hours, one of the bodies was spotted in the pond. Police and rescue team feared others too had drowned and an intense search was launched. By late evening, the police confirmed about the death of all four kids. The bodies have been shifted to Simalwada mortuary. A pall of gloom descended in the village as people gathered at the hospital after hearing about the tragedy. The children were from a Dholi family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/4-kids-drown-in-dungarpur/articleshow/76364848.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Self-financing college principals should retire at 62, says Bharathiar University||COIMBATORE: Putting to rest the confusion over the retirement age of principals of self-financing colleges affiliated to it, the Bharathiar University confirmed that it is 62. The university had last week sent a circular to the principals of all self-financing colleges under it, saying ‘No principal after the age of 62 years shall be appointed/employed or continued in any statutory/non-statutory position in self-financing colleges affiliated to the Bharathiar University’. While, as per the state’s order, the retirement age of principals of self-financing colleges is 62, the university’s syndicate had passed a resolution in September 2017 raising it to 65. Following this, the state had sent a letter to the university, asking it to stick to 62 as the retirement age. Some self-financing college principals had filed a litigation and the Madras high court had asked the state to ‘revisit’ the decision. BU vice-chancellor P Kaliraj said the state has made it clear that the retirement age is 62. While the court had asked to revisit the decision, the retirement age still stands at 62 as per the state. “We have sent a common circular to all self-financing institutions under us asking them to follow the age limit of 62 for principals. A total of 12 self-financing colleges have principals who are over 62. We will send them individual notices on Monday,” he said. Kaliraj said the university will not appoint principals above the age of 62 as exam coordinators or in other official capacities, and such colleges will also have to face issues in affiliation. Syndicate members of the university and members of university teachers’ associations said that self-financing colleges were trying to bring into the university’s syndicate principals over the age of 62. P Thirunavukkarasu, syndicate member of the university and chairman of the Association of University Teachers, Coimbatore zone, said, of the two syndicate member posts meant for college principals, one is vacant and another will fall vacant by December. “Colleges are trying to get their principals, who are above the age of 62, elected to these posts. In some cases, there are principals who are aged 67. Across the state, the retirement age of self-financing college principals is 62. Only under the Bharathiar University, colleges have been violating the state’s order,” he told TOI. Principals of self-financing colleges, meanwhile, stood their stand. President of the Principals Association of Bharathiar University, A Ponnusamy, said, as per the university’s syndicate decision, the retirement age is 65, and in some cases, they had got special permission for it to be 67 for senior people. “When the state said it should be 62, we fought it in the court and it had asked the state to revisit it,” he said. However, academicians said the court had asked the state to ‘consider it’, and the state’s stance was that the retirement age should be 62.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/self-financing-college-principals-should-retire-at-62-says-bharathiar-university/articleshow/76364558.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala to gauge wave power potential off Vizhinjam coast||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government, with the support of Union ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE), will explore the possibility of setting up a wave energy generation unit off Vizhinjam coast here. An US-based company (Oscilla Power) which claims to have developed a unique technology for harnessing energy by attenuating the waves using a floating devise. The Union power department had in early 1990s experimented the wave energy potential of sea off Vizhinjam cost. That project was decommissioned later for reasons best known to the Union government. But it did not use any floating devise, but rather a devise that was fully submerged and tethered into the seabed. “This project is in its nascent stage. The attempt is to explore the wave energy potential using technology from an US-based company whose capabilities are attested by both US and Indian governments. ANERT is coordinating the work for Kerala government. The government recently appointed Vizhinjam Seaport Project CEO Jayakumar as principal investigator of the project,” said ANERT director Amit Meena. In the pilot project, a 150KW floating plant would be set up near the proposed international container terminal station. If the technology proves to be a success in all important aspects, the state government, though ANERT, would set up a 1MW wave energy plant off Vizhinjam. “The sea here being less turbulent and less exposed to cyclones and storms makes the waters off the Vizhinjam coast ideal for the project. The modalities for setting up the pilot plant are yet to be worked out. If it proves suitable for Kerala, we might be able to set up eight to 10 wave energy plants,” said Jayakumar, managing director and CEO of Vizhinjam Internatonal Seaport Ltd. Jayakumar had served in a key position when the state and Union governments together ventured to gauge the wave energy potential off Vizhinjam coast. He was then the head of Wave Energy Group of IIT-Madras. On the new venture, Jayakumar said that the floating technology being used in Vizhinjam had undergone rigorous testings in various universities in the US. “Unlike the earlier pilot wave power plant in India, which has 150kW fixed device installed at 10metre water depth off Vizhinjam, the proposed one will be a floating one at 40 to 50metre water depth,” Jayakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-to-gauge-wave-power-potential-off-vizhinjam-coast/articleshow/76363299.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||Woman accuses SSG docs of negligence||Vadodara: State-run SSG Hospital has landed in another controversy after a woman gave birth to a stillborn child and alleged negligence by doctors on Friday at the Rukmani Chainani maternity ward. Family members of the woman have registered a complaint with the medical superintendent of the government hospital Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, seeking an explanation behind the alleged medical negligence. Twenty-seven-year-old Dharmishtha Rana was admitted at the maternity ward on Thursday and later developed labour pain on Friday night. Rana and her husband Jigar have alleged that even as the pregnant woman pleaded for help, none of the medical staff at the maternity ward provided any help to her. In the written complaint, the family has alleged that the pregnant woman was forced to climb down the stairs from the third floor to ground floor to get help. The family has sought a written explanation from the hospital management and the staff within 48 hours regarding the medicine provided to the woman, its effect, the reason behind delay in providing her emergency service. They have also sought reason behind the death of the baby in the womb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-accuses-ssg-docs-of-negligence/articleshow/76363298.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Rajasthan dist floods canal to check migrant flow||JAIPUR: In order to keep its Covid count under check, the Sri Ganganagar district administration used a “one-of-its-kind” method to stop the flow of unscreened migrants into Rajasthan from neighbouring Punjab and Haryana through an abandoned canal that winds its way into the district. The administration has simply released 450 cusecs of water into 8km stretch of the canal, which is now bursting at its seams. This 8km stretch was being used by migrants to enter the state. The move to release water in the first week of April into the Gang Link Canal proved to be “very effective”. The move to release the water into the canal ensured that Sri Ganganagar district’s corona count remained zero till May 20 as the move shut the entry gate of the migrants. To date, the district has registered only 19 positive cases, of which 17 are migrant workers (15 from Delhi and two from Mumbai). The step was taken after hundreds of migrants were found entering into Rajasthan from the neighbouring states using the abandoned canal. Even migrants from Delhi chose the route to enter the state and then move on to their native districts. An 8km stretch of the 76km canal, which borders Punjab, was being used by the migrants. People from Haryana too used the same route. “Had we not released the water, we would have ended up deploying hundreds of police personnel and other essential logistics to check the movement of migrants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-dist-floods-canal-to-check-migrant-flow/articleshow/76365168.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Folk artists find their beat online||CHENNAI: Since the coronavirus outbreak, folk artists Magizhini and Manimaran have performed 45 songs celebrating village traditions and touching upon themes like love, resilience and unity. The months of March, April and May, eaten up by the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, also happen to be the harvest season that ushers in weddings, social events and temple festivals — the time when folk artists earn their remuneration for the year. But as this year of cancelled shows, financial crisis and healthcare emergencies delivers a devastating blow to folk artists, a growing number of them are rising to the challenge by upgrading themselves in a way they never thought they would — by going digital. Sensing the resignation that had taken over artist communities, Manimaran and Magizhini — faced with cancelled tours and financial crunch themselves — decided they would use their social media handles to keep spirits up with songs that reminded musicians and the public that it was art that thrived through the worst of times. "We have shown this every time we were hit by crisis. After Cyclone Gaja, we went to the worst-hit communities to perform for them. These times are no different — except that we are reaching out through Facebook," says Magizhini. The duo is organising an online global parai festival and has put out an open call for people to send in performance clips that will be shortlisted and awarded on July 20. "Parai is a movement, not just an art form. We want to see to it that the art and its practitioners don’t lose grip during these times," says Manimaran, who, along with his son, has been holding free parai classes for people across the world since the lockdown. Chennai’s Sumanasa Foundation, of which musician T M Krishna is one of the trustees, will be extending support to the parai competition, and has been at the forefront of providing financial support to marginalised performance artists affected during Covid. It has raised `46 lakh under the Covid fund so far. The latest initiative is an Online Performing Arts Festival (ending today), showcasing traditions that fall outside the digital economy under which they’ve raised a little more than `6 lakh. Its unique model is aimed at creating an ecosystem wherein these art traditions are appreciated and paid for, and therefore opens the festival to anyone who can make a donation of their choice on the crowdfunding campaign on Milaap. This was the first time that B Muthuchandran, a sixth-generation practitioner of Tholpavai Kuthu (a form of shadow puppetry) — and among the 25 artists who are part of the festival — performed to a cell phone camera instead of a bustling crowd. "Tholpavai Kuthu is looked at as an entertainment, so it is a crowd of at least 1,000 people, their reactions and applause that I have shown to. Still, it was heartening to see people from different parts of the world watching me perform online. It gave me a new kind of high," says Muthuchandran, who recorded and sent the video from his village of Thirumalaipuram in Kanyakumari. While Covid’s sudden and severe economic implication on the country’s marginalised, traditional, occupational and nomadic artists has pushed them to explore the digital space, the transition has been nothing but easy, says Radhika Ganesh of Ek Potlee Ret Ki, an activist collective. Since the lockdown, Ek Potlee Ret Ki and Young People for Politics have engaged artists including a traditional puppeteer and Chakri dancers of Rajasthan, to give online workshops and performances to netizens in cities, but realised soon enough that they were competing with a deluge of high budget curated content and masterclasses that had also taken over social media during this time. "For most folk arts, traditional patronage is steeped in feudal practice. We wanted to dismantle this system and build a new generation of patrons in the digital space, but realised there is little awareness among the younger generation on how valuable and deep our own local cultures are and why they should spend on it," says Radhika, who had to make many of the workshops free. "The challenge has also been to equip these rural communities with the money and skill set needed to use the digital medium. For many, the money spent on data to livestream a two-hour video of a workshop can sustain the household for a month. We learned these things along the way, raised funds to give mobile recharges and are working to create a network of young people across villages to explore and find their own identity in the digital network. This is the way change will happen and sustain in the years to come."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/folk-artists-find-their-beat-online/articleshow/76364012.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: UG, PG final sem results by July 31||KOLKATA: State-run universities in Bengal will hold their terminal semester examinations — sixth for UG and fourth for PG — in a “contactless” mode, education minister Partha Chatterjee announced on Saturday following a meeting with vice-chancellors. All results for the final semester will be published by July 31. It has been unanimously decided to hold the final semester examinations in a 50-50 pattern, with 50% weightage to an average of cumulative grade points scored in the past semesters and the remaining weightage to the present semesters. Candidates will be evaluated on internal projects, viva-voce, end-semester interview and assignments, online interactions, teacher interactions and seminar presentations to be conducted online. The universities have been instructed to set up Covid grievance cell when they reopen. For other students pursuing academics in various levels of UG and PG, it has been proposed that universities will have to amalgamate or merge semesters. For UG students, second and third semesters will be held together while fourth and fifth semesters will be clubbed. Similarly, the eighth and ninth semesters will have to be combined in PG programmes. Though students will be promoted to the next semester, they will have to appear in examinations for both the semesters successively. “Students will be evaluated for each semester either together or at an interval next year after in-classroom teaching resumes. We can’t skip evaluating students since marks secured in each semester are reflected in final UG and PG marksheets,” said a VC. Sources added that three VCs has proposed to the government to begin academic session from January next year. “If the advice is approved, it will be catastrophic for the students since internationally, the fall semester will begin from August or September and our students will miss it,” added a source. However, there will be no academic classes in schools and universities in July. The decision to hold no-contact terminal semesters has, however, come as a blow for several universities who were planning to partly evaluate students based on the written examinations a month after resuming on-campus activities. “Calcutta University has around 167 affiliated colleges who run UG programmes. Some of these colleges are in the districts. How will the students prepare online assignments if there is no internet connection?” questioned a teacher. Another VC pointed out teachers who will have to conduct the evaluation will be reluctant to work from home as they may not have access to a good online infrastructure. Thus, they will have to attend college to complete the formalities that will again pose a challenge. Finally, students in the science faculty or performing arts faculties will be highly affected since a large part of their course is laboratory oriented. All the varsity authorities are also considering an online meeting of the highest administrative bodies to chalk out the exam modalities. Chatterjee, however, has refused to divulge the details and said that all proposals are subject to approval from CM Mamata Banerjee. “Classes in schools shall remain suspended in July,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ug-pg-final-sem-results-by-july-31/articleshow/76364029.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Safety rule violation lands Navyug College a notice||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow University authorities issued a show-cause notice to Navyug Girls’ Degree College after a video of heavy rush of students reaching the college and violating social distancing norms while submitting admission forms went viral on social media on Saturday. Many of the students were not even wearing masks in violation of lockdown norms. In the notice, dean of college development council, LU, Awadhesh Tripathi sought an explanation from the college as to why students were asked to reach the institution despite the university’s order that submission of the hardcopy of the examination form filled online is not required. “When the entire process is being done online why students were made to line up for the submission of forms and why the directions of the government and university regarding precautions to avoid the spread of Covid-19 were ignored,” the notice read. Principal of Navyug Girls’ Degree College Shrishti Srivastava said, “I accept that the mistake was on the part of college administration due to which students reached the college to submit their forms. The university’s directive that hard copy of the forms was not required was missed by the college and thus it was not communicated to students.” She said the college would assure that information was passed on to all students so that no one turns up to the college to submit forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/safety-rule-violation-lands-navyug-college-a-notice/articleshow/76364865.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Job loss during lockdown hits domestic helps hard in Pune||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The two-month long lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19 has adversely affected the livelihoods of domestic helps — some have lost their jobs while others stare down the barrel of inevitable financial crisis due to slashed or no salary. “I could not show up for work since March-end. I did not get my salary for two months and thus could not pay my rent or other bills. I had to finally ask my brother for financial help,” said Sehnaz Bori, mother to two teenage boys, who used to work in 4-5 houses in Hadapsar but has lost two jobs. While employers themselves had to endure pay cuts or lose their jobs, it was only consequential that their maids had to face the brunt of it as well. “I used to make chapatis for a family and cook a full meal for a group of bachelors. I lost both the jobs. The family is still scared that I might bring the virus into their home. Some of the bachelors have gone home and the rest are cooking for themselves because finances are tight for everyone at the moment,” Bori said. Some employers, on the other hand, made sure to pay their domestic helps even if they could not come to work during the lockdown. “I work in three houses in the same society, all of them transferred my salary into my son’s bank account because I could not travel and get it myself. They called me regularly to check up on me and asked if I needed anything. The society also made arrangements to call a doctor and all the domestic helps had to go through a screening process to rule out symptoms, if any. Tests were also conducted to make sure that we were fit to join work,” said Shobha Thorat, working in NIBM Road area. However, some housing societies are strictly against allowing entry to domestic helps in spite of the civic body’s orders that they could resume work if they were living in non-containment zones. “I used to work as a domestic help for five houses nearby, which was the main source of income for my family. My husband does odd-jobs. When the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave orders to allow domestic helps to go back to work, I called my employers to inform them that I would be coming but they told me that the society had banned it. I could not even ask for my salary because I could not go, and it has become difficult to look for new jobs now,” said Lanka Potghante, who lives and work in the Yerawada area. Pune Zilla Ghar Kamgar Sanghatana president Kiran Moghe feels that housing societies making their own rules is undemocratic and the labour department needs to be more proactive and look into this issue. “There is a misconception that domestic workers can cause the spread of the coronavirus. On one hand, single people, the elderly, those with physical challenges and children want domestic helps to return to work, but societies are against it. People must understand what a huge impact this will have on the economy. There are at least one lakh domestic workers in Pune municipal limits and if they go back to work it will help in revival of the economy,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/job-loss-during-lockdown-hits-domestic-helps-hard/articleshow/76364868.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||A nine-month programme to mould you into ‘artpreneur’||COIMBATORE: At a time when most of the firms are looking at freezing recruitments, layoffs and cutting down budgets, city-based artist S C D Balaji is all set to launch the next edition of his “artpreneur” programme to help people, who are skilled or interested in design, to start their own entrepreneurship venture. The nine-month programme would start in July with an objective of bridging the gap between design and management institutions. “Design institutions teach us to be creative and design things, while management institutions teach us to develop a business idea and float a startup. But artists often don’t know how to convert their skill or interest into a business idea. Similarly, businessmen or women may not come up with the creatives for their company. We want to bridge the gap by teaching them both,” says Balaji, who runs Atma Studios in the city. He said they would teach the people with a design-based business idea like chumbak, urumi, etc., the required software to create designs. The programme would also cover areas like design aesthetics for a t-shirt design and brand logo, how to market and sell a product, and how to create a brand and train interns. “People can launch their own business without much investment. Also, classes are conducted on zoom by experts in each field,” says Balaji. The next batch would start on July 5. The registrations will close on June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-nine-month-programme-to-mould-you-into-artpreneur/articleshow/76364564.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Small mills seek time to pay power bill||COIMBATORE: Representatives of micro, small, and medium spinning mills in the district requested electricity minister P Thangamani to allow them pay the power charges for March, April, and May in six equal monthly instalments. Representatives of the South India Spinners Association, in a petition, said during the lockdown, micro, small, and medium spinning units had spent funds to pay salaries and feed guest workers. After the relaxation, guest workers left for their home states. Now, the mills lack funds and manpower. “Due to various reasons, banks have also been delaying loans,” said N Murugesan, president of the association. “Yarn produced in mills in the state is marketed in Ichalkaranji, Bhiwandi, and Malegaon, in Maharashtra. Payment for the yarn sold before the lockdown has not yet been made. Amid this, the electricity board wants us to pay tariff for low-tension (LT) and low-tension commercial tariff (LT-CT) power connections, for the months of March, April, and May within June 15. We are unable to pay the tariff on June 15,” he said. The representatives also petitioned the chief minister, minister for municipal administration, minister for handlooms and textiles, chief secretary, energy secretary and the Tangedco chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-mills-seek-time-to-pay-power-bill/articleshow/76364563.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops rescue kidnapped baby boy||COIMBATORE: A childless couple from Tirupur were detained within 24 hours of kidnapping a seven-month-old boy from the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The Race Course police identified the accused as Vignesh and his wife Prabhavathi. They had befriended the boy’s parents Selvam and Selvarani, of Virudhachalam, a couple of days ago. Selvarani, an officer said, had delivered twin boys in CMCH in October 2019. Daily wage labourers, they were rendered jobless due to the lockdown. On Thursday evening, Vignesh and his wife met Selvam and his family at their rented house and spent the night there. They offered to accompany the couple to CMCH to collect copy of the boys’ birth certificates. On Friday, the four, along with the twins, reached CMCH. “Vignesh sent Selvam to the city railway station to inquire about a job and then went out to a Xerox shop. Prabhavathi, meanwhile, took one of the boys to a weighing machine in the pretext of checking his weight and disappeared,” the officer said. As Vignesh and Prabhavathi didn’t return with her child, Selvarani lodged a complaint with the Race Course police, who traced the whereabouts of the couple with the help of CCTV footage from the hospital and by tracing their mobile phone tower location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-rescue-kidnapped-baby-boy/articleshow/76364565.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||HC asks 2 Delhi University officials to help blind students||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has assigned two Delhi University officials to ensure that visually challenged students receive study materials and essential equipment before the university plans to conduct the online Open Book Exam for final year students. In a hearing on Friday, the court stated that exams are essential as the Bar Council of India has indicated that the law students passing their final semester year without examination may not be recognised by them as having completed their education in law. “Similar prejudices may arise on account of decisions taken by other professional bodies. It is therefore felt that it is in the interest of the visually impaired students of the final semester/year/term, to participate in the examination process as devised by DU,” it said But the court accepted that there is non-availability of reading material for the visually challenged students, as pointed out by the petitioner, National Federation of the Blind. It said that the NGO Saksham is capable of making the reading material available within a week or two to the students and asked DU to look into that. “We will demand from the varsity that the exams take place only a month after the study material is delivered to students,” said the petitioner SK Rungta, general secretary of the federation. Rungta also raised concerns about the non-availability of suitable scribes at the place where the students may be taking the examination. In a letter of suggestions sent on Saturday, Rungta said that the university should prepare a list of scribes proficient in different languages. This issue was also raised by the court in the hearing where the court said that the two parties can discuss the possibility of sound recording of the answers verbally given by students to the questions, to do away with the need for scribes. The court has asked the DU officials — dean of students’ welfare Rajeev Gupta and dean of examination Vinay Gupta to hold parlays with the senior counsel for the petitioner before Monday. Speaking to TOI, Rajeev Gupta said that “discussion is currently going on and DU will speak on it soon and present their stand to the court on the next hearing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-asks-2-du-officials-to-help-blind-students/articleshow/76364869.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Cases up by over 100% in PCB limits in one week||PUNE: The Covid-19 cases in the Pune Cantonment Board limits have more than doubled in the last week. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) areas had 44 active cases on June 5. The number reached 99 on Friday evening. Most of these cases have been reported from core localities such as New Modikhana, Bhimpura and Taboot Street. Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of PCB, told TOI, “These localities are congested and residents there are not following social distancing norms sincerely. The presence of high risk and low risk patients is high. We have come across the fact that those who had initially tested negative have now tested positive for the virus. As a result, we have intensified our sample collections drive. On an average we are getting six to seven cases daily.” The board has allowed opening of electronics, mobile, apparel, footwear, utensil shops among others on odd-even basis. The restaurants, hotels and sweet marts were allowed to start takeaway service on all days from June 8. “All the newly found cases in the last week are only from our containment zones. So, at the moment we can’t link them to the relaxations given June 8 onwards and the market opening,” Kumar said. On Friday, Brigadier Kuljeet Singh, the president and station commander of Pune Cantonment held a meeting with the board officials and elected members to review the situation. “The issues pertaining to the containment zones were discussed in detail. It is going to be a challenge to maintain essential services and restrict movement in the coming days. We have barricaded these zones. The police and our staffers have been deployed at the vantage point to monitor the situation properly,” Kumar said. According to the board’s records, 407 Covid-19 cases were recorded in its limit since the outbreak of the pandemic. While 299 of them have been discharged, nine patients have succumbed to the disease, so far. The board has shut all vegetable markets such as Shivaji Market, Kumbhar Bavadi, Wanowrie and Ghorpadi bazar to avoid crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-up-by-over-100-in-pcb-limits-in-one-week/articleshow/76364860.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 14, 2020||Nashik||24x7 tab on Malegaon helped flatten Covid curve: SP Singh||Nashik: “Outstanding work, Team Malegaon,” was the message that superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh received from state director general of police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal for the rural police’s successful efforts in flattening the Covid-19 curve in the textile town during the lockdown.The Nashik rural police played a mssive role in flattening the Covid-19 curve in the textile town as it had to enforce the lockdown especially in those areas which are thickly populated and where big families resided in small dwellings. As many as 186 policemen deputed on bandobast duty in Malegaon had contracted Covid-19 and three of them succumbed. Singh, who herself camped in Malegaon during the lockdown, told TOI that the rural police kept a 24X7 tab on the textile town. According to her, it was difficult to restrict people from visiting the 600-odd mosques in the town for the Friday prayers. On the occasion of Eid, police ensured people offered prayers at home instead of congregating at the Eidgah Maidan. Police teams also undertook daily flag marches to send out the message that strict action would be taken against those violating norms. Religious functionaries were roped in to reach out to people. “A well-known religious leader had succumbed to Covid-19. We were successful in convincing his followers not to attend his funeral,” said Singh adding that they also had to convince the Mangal Karyalay owners to house the policemen in their facilities. “We also had to hold counselling sessions to keep the cops’ morale high. We used to interact with the family members of the jawans as well,” said Singh.The rural police regularly provided dry ration kits and sanitizers to people free of cost. Moreover, during the month of Ramzan, police ensured that there was adequate supply of essentials, especially dry fruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/24x7-tab-on-malegaon-helped-flatten-covid-curve-sp-singh/articleshow/76363283.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Not allowed to serve liquor, restaurants may down shutters for now to avoid loss||KOLKATA: Six days after they reopened with seating capacity reduced to half and bars still shut, several city restaurants are finding it difficult to sustain, forcing some to contemplate closing down till alcohol is allowed to be served. Footfall has been abysmally low through the week, barely reaching an average of 40% of the original capacity. With overhead costs remaining unchanged, losses are mounting and it could be difficult to remain open unless sales shot up appreciably, which looked unlikely without liquor, said restaurateurs. The Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) will take a stock of the situation at the end of the first week on Monday and has called a review meeting on June 17. “While footfall has been going up marginally every day, it is still far from enough to make business feasible. At this rate, most restaurants will find it difficult to earn enough to even pay salaries to their staff. Despite the reduced capacity, overheads like air-conditioning and maintenance cost remain the same. In fact, we are having to spend more on hygiene, which is an additional cost. Without alcohol, it could be difficult to carry on through the month,” said HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar. Alcohol accounts for 60% of the total sales in 90% of Kolkata’s restaurants. Footfall has been low across Park Street restaurants, many of which are yet to open. After a dull restart, things improved marginally on Saturday — the first weekend. Peter Cat had a packed house at lunch, making it the first time that a restaurant at the city’s food hub operated at full capacity. “But it was still half of our original capacity. Also, a packed house doesn’t make a difference unless the crowd is consistently good through the day, which is yet to happen. So, tough times continue and we must wait and watch,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo. While admitting that it will be difficult to sustain unless the volume of business swelled, Kothari was hopeful that alcohol would be back in the next two-three weeks. “Even though we don’t depend on alcohol, it certainly helps especially at times like these when people are still wary of eating out. Let’s hope bars are allowed by the end of the month,” he added. The early closing time has hurt restaurants badly, pointed out some owners. As per the existing night curfew rule, all eateries must shut down by 9pm. This has taken away more than half their patrons since dinner has always been the peak footfall time, said Hrishi Bajoria, owner of restaurant-chain Chili’s. “The timings have ruled out dinner since Kolkata is not used to an early evening meal. Also, our outlets are within malls, which force us to stick to the time strictly. On the flip side, this is also an advantage since malls follow hygiene rules very strictly and people are now more confident about visiting them,” said Bajoria. He added that home delivery will have to supplement footfall till things turn normal. Some like Trincas on Park Street, Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta are yet to reopen. While Trincas is planning to open next week, the other two may open its stand-alone outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/not-allowed-to-serve-liquor-restaurants-may-down-shutters-for-now-to-avoid-loss/articleshow/76364041.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Banki receives 100 mm rainfall||BHUBANESWAR: With rainfall continuing in several parts of the state, the south-west monsoon covered entire Odisha by the third day of its onset, on Saturday. Banki in Cuttack district received 100 mm of rainfall in 24 hours ending Saturday morning. Dabugan in Nabarangpur district, Malkangiri and Paralakhemundi in Gajapati district recorded 70 mm rainfall each. Twin cities, Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, during the day also received rainfall of 20 mm and 49 mm respectively. The rainfall inundated some low-lying areas causing waterlogging. Director of IMD, regional centre, H R Biswas said state received widespread rainfall in last three days due to the influence of low pressure. He said rain could continue due to the influence of a trough line. He said the overall rainfall in the state in June increased by 15% by Saturday. The IMD forecast said light to moderate rainfall would continue at many places for next four days with chances of heavy rain at isolated places in select districts. According to the forecast, there will be light to moderate rainfall at many places over north, south coastal and few places over south interior parts of the state on Sunday. The monsoon rain has prompted farmers to start agriculture activities. “We pray to Lord Jagannath to bless us with good rainfall this year,” said Abhaya Swain, a farmer of Mendhasal village, on the outskirts of the city. Due to the rain, the maximum temperature recorded a sharp fall across the state. Sundargarh recorded the highest temperature of 36 degree Celsius and Bhubaneswar 34 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/banki-receives-100-mm-rainfall/articleshow/76364040.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra health minister bats for liquid oxygen facility at all hospitals||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday stressed on “liquid oxygen technology” at hospitals. He told TOI, “With the Covid-19 cases rising, the health department has emphasised that all the new units being set up to fight the disease should go for ‘liquid oxygen technology’, which can cater to large number of patients.” A 200-bed medical facility would need about 100 jumbo cylinders, each having a capacity of 7.25 cubic metres of oxygen. “How can one check the pressure of oxygen coming from these cylinders and will it be enough? Even for the piped oxygen, one cannot be sure about these parameters. Liquid oxygen technology will be of help because it can be stored and refilled once in a month. I have asked the authorities to talk with all stakeholders in this regard,” he said. Most of the death audit reports placed before the government stated that comorbidity with respiratory issues caused the Covid-19 patients’ deaths. Tope also said 95 labs — 53 government and 42 private were conducting Covid-19 tests in the state at present and about four-five more were in the pipeline. He had formed a four-member committee following the directive from the Indian Council of Medical Research to all states to negotiate the prices of Covid-19 tests with the authorised private laboratories after India started making the test kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-minister-bats-for-liquid-oxygen-facility-at-all-hospitals/articleshow/76364875.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 14, 2020||Business||From laundry to takeaway food, 5-star hotels explore new avenues to stay afloat||PUNE/GURUGRAM/CHENNAI: When five-star hotels line up to offer laundry services, and also have your clothes picked up and dropped at home, you know the world is changing. Across cities, these emblems of luxury and the good life have diversified in previously inconceivable directions to find new channels of revenue as the Covid-19 pandemic runs its disruptive course through businesses. In Gurugram and Pune, for instance, the Hyatt Regency is offering “crisp laundry at your doorstep”. The service covers everything from your bed sheets to pashmina shawls. Shubham Chandra, general manager of Conrad Pune, which is also offering a premium laundry service, told TOI, “In times of uncertainty and rapidly changing market conditions, it’s important for businesses to evolve with the environment. We identified a gap in the market and we had the means to deliver. When the hotel was functioning normally, we did not have the bandwidth to extend our laundry service to the local market. Fortunately, we do now. So, we decided to expand it.” Why laundry, though? Across hotel chains, executives said the market had presented an “opportunity” because of hygiene concerns in people’s minds about how their clothes were being handled as the pandemic swept across India, and five-stars felt they had the right credentials, and credibility, to put those doubts to rest. The other advantage they saw was that it allowed them to connect with new customers who might return later for other services. “The chemicals and machines we use are not something commercial washers will. Amid the Covid-19 risk, we are sanitising garments and linen,” said Adhish Poddar, executive housekeeper at Conrad Pune. Hyatt Regency Pune and Residences in Vimannagar has also started providing pickup and doorstep delivery of garments laundered at the hotel. Yogesh Deshmukh, the head of the housekeeping management at the hotel, said, “The pickup and drop service is complimentary for customers within 5km radius of the hotel. People living beyond are requested to pay a charge for doorstep delivery.” Hotel Green Park, a five-star at Chennai’s Vadapalani, has also been offering housekeeping services for the past month. Sudip Sengupta, vice-president (operations), said, “This is a new business vertical we launched along with a tie-up with apartment complexes for offering food deliveries during the lockdown. Since many offices reopening with minimal staff do not have the expertise, we offer our service in disinfection and sanitation,” he said. The Ritz-Carlton in Pune said staff had been specially trained to use disinfectants across 203 different touchpoints on the hotel premises and their hygiene protocols included workers wearing PPE. Other than laundry, this ‘new normal’ of five-star offerings includes drive-through food takeaways, home delivery of bespoke dishes, and even learning the chef’s little secret behind that unforgettable chicken masala so that you can attempt it at home. The Oberoi, Taj City Centre and Hyatt Regency in Gurugram, and the Ritz Carlton and Marriott hotels in Pune – under the Marriott on Wheels initiative -- have all started home deliveries with menus that are smaller than the elaborate fare the hotels normally offer. Ritz-Carlton general manager Vineet Mishra said, “Our hotels have taken this stance positively in the light of the current situation by introducing menu signatures and favourites for our guests. Prepared with uncompromising levels of hygiene, the delicacies are delivered contact-free.” He said, “As we navigate and adapt ourselves to the new-normal in all aspects of life, there will be a new balance in everything we do. Carving new trends in this space have included menu options such as do-it-yourself meal kits, customized menus on request, celebratory offerings, corporate meals and other variations. We are using sanitised, transport including our London Taxi at the Ritz-Carlton Pune and Delivery Truck at The Courtyard by Marriott Pune, Hinjewadi.” Ajay Kanojia, the general manager of Sayaji Hotel in Pune, which recently started food delivery from its fine dining resto, said, “We currently have minimal staff. But we have resources in terms of pulses and grain stock. Thus, we decided to use them instead of a complete shutdown of business in these tough times. We have chauffeurs and cars to deliver hygienically prepared food from our fine dining restaurant to the patron’s doorstep.” The Westin in Gurugram is offering a bouquet of select dishes as part of its “Drive-Thru” service. Customers can place their orders and collect the food after 45 minutes from a dedicated pickup junction at the driveway of the hotel. “We take pride in being a part of their dining conversations even in the comfort of their homes — through our delivery and drive-through pickup services. We are leaving no stone unturned in delivering impeccable hospitality and service standards with utmost care and precaution,” said Rahul Puri, multi-property general manager for The Westin in Gurugram and New Delhi. Chef Ramit Kohli of the Taj City Centre in Gurugram shared his recipe for chicken khubani masala on a social media platform, turning the recipe into a story. “This recipe has passed down generations… from my grandmother to my mother and I have been fortunate to recreate it! I still remember that my mum used to set aside some khubani for the dish and I used to quietly sneak in to devour some of those — the joys of childhood! I hope you try this at home and enjoy it as much as my family does,” he wrote. Krishnakumar Menon, general manager of Aloft Chennai (OMR-IT Expressway) said Covid-19 had changed the business dynamics of the hospitality sector. “Now, we deliver food to work stations. We are also under discussion to launch ‘Food on Wheels’ on international standards in the city,” he said. Restaurants that account for 10-15% of the total income for star hotels have become the significant revenue churners. Venkat Reddy, general manager, Ambassador Pallava, Egmore, said the hotel was offering takeaways to customers who use to frequent restaurants before the lockdown. “We also home-deliver food within a limited distance depending on the value of the order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/from-laundry-to-takeaway-food-5-star-hotels-explore-new-avenues-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/76365815.cms||Shubhra Pant
June 14, 2020||Nashik||‘Using radio for education workable solution’||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare said the possibility of using radio for imparting education to students could be explored till the time the schools reopen. While Karnataka has banned online courses till standard V, the state is yet to clear its stand on online courses. The plan regarding reopening of schools has also not been announced. “The idea to use FM service for education is a good one and workable solution. We have to seek the assistance of the education officer. I will speak to the radio station as well,” he said,” he said. Mandhare was speaking at an interaction with citizens on ‘Nashik and Covid-19’ through Facebook as part of a programme organized by Times Group to celebrate ninth anniversary of Nashik edition of Maharashtra Times. Admitting that online classes would not be feasible for everyone because of internet connectivity or lack of infrastructure, the use of radio could be a very good solution to ensure children get the education without any hiccups. In response to a query over allegations of private hospitals turning down requests for treatment ‘adhering to government norms and prices’, Mandhare said they would soon come up with some solution for the issue. “We did it in Malegaon through a dedicated helpline number and we will soon do it for the entire Nashik district,” he said. The collector said that it is important for all citizens to understand how the virus spreads and follow social distancing norms and personal hygiene to ensure the spread of the infection is curbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/using-radio-for-education-workable-solution/articleshow/76363302.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 14, 2020||Pune||From laundry to takeaway food, 5-star hotels explore new avenues to stay afloat||PUNE/GURUGRAM/CHENNAI: When five-star hotels line up to offer laundry services, and also have your clothes picked up and dropped at home, you know the world is changing. Across cities, these emblems of luxury and the good life have diversified in previously inconceivable directions to find new channels of revenue as the Covid-19 pandemic runs its disruptive course through businesses. In Gurugram and Pune, for instance, the Hyatt Regency is offering “crisp laundry at your doorstep”. The service covers everything from your bed sheets to pashmina shawls. Shubham Chandra, general manager of Conrad Pune, which is also offering a premium laundry service, told TOI, “In times of uncertainty and rapidly changing market conditions, it’s important for businesses to evolve with the environment. We identified a gap in the market and we had the means to deliver. When the hotel was functioning normally, we did not have the bandwidth to extend our laundry service to the local market. Fortunately, we do now. So, we decided to expand it.” Why laundry, though? Across hotel chains, executives said the market had presented an “opportunity” because of hygiene concerns in people’s minds about how their clothes were being handled as the pandemic swept across India, and five-stars felt they had the right credentials, and credibility, to put those doubts to rest. The other advantage they saw was that it allowed them to connect with new customers who might return later for other services. “The chemicals and machines we use are not something commercial washers will. Amid the Covid-19 risk, we are sanitising garments and linen,” said Adhish Poddar, executive housekeeper at Conrad Pune. Hyatt Regency Pune and Residences in Vimannagar has also started providing pickup and doorstep delivery of garments laundered at the hotel. Yogesh Deshmukh, the head of the housekeeping management at the hotel, said, “The pickup and drop service is complimentary for customers within 5km radius of the hotel. People living beyond are requested to pay a charge for doorstep delivery.” Hotel Green Park, a five-star at Chennai’s Vadapalani, has also been offering housekeeping services for the past month. Sudip Sengupta, vice-president (operations), said, “This is a new business vertical we launched along with a tie-up with apartment complexes for offering food deliveries during the lockdown. Since many offices reopening with minimal staff do not have the expertise, we offer our service in disinfection and sanitation,” he said. The Ritz-Carlton in Pune said staff had been specially trained to use disinfectants across 203 different touchpoints on the hotel premises and their hygiene protocols included workers wearing PPE. Other than laundry, this ‘new normal’ of five-star offerings includes drive-through food takeaways, home delivery of bespoke dishes, and even learning the chef’s little secret behind that unforgettable chicken masala so that you can attempt it at home. The Oberoi, Taj City Centre and Hyatt Regency in Gurugram, and the Ritz Carlton and Marriott hotels in Pune – under the Marriott on Wheels initiative -- have all started home deliveries with menus that are smaller than the elaborate fare the hotels normally offer. Ritz-Carlton general manager Vineet Mishra said, “Our hotels have taken this stance positively in the light of the current situation by introducing menu signatures and favourites for our guests. Prepared with uncompromising levels of hygiene, the delicacies are delivered contact-free.” He said, “As we navigate and adapt ourselves to the new-normal in all aspects of life, there will be a new balance in everything we do. Carving new trends in this space have included menu options such as do-it-yourself meal kits, customized menus on request, celebratory offerings, corporate meals and other variations. We are using sanitised, transport including our London Taxi at the Ritz-Carlton Pune and Delivery Truck at The Courtyard by Marriott Pune, Hinjewadi.” Ajay Kanojia, the general manager of Sayaji Hotel in Pune, which recently started food delivery from its fine dining resto, said, “We currently have minimal staff. But we have resources in terms of pulses and grain stock. Thus, we decided to use them instead of a complete shutdown of business in these tough times. We have chauffeurs and cars to deliver hygienically prepared food from our fine dining restaurant to the patron’s doorstep.” The Westin in Gurugram is offering a bouquet of select dishes as part of its “Drive-Thru” service. Customers can place their orders and collect the food after 45 minutes from a dedicated pickup junction at the driveway of the hotel. “We take pride in being a part of their dining conversations even in the comfort of their homes — through our delivery and drive-through pickup services. We are leaving no stone unturned in delivering impeccable hospitality and service standards with utmost care and precaution,” said Rahul Puri, multi-property general manager for The Westin in Gurugram and New Delhi. Chef Ramit Kohli of the Taj City Centre in Gurugram shared his recipe for chicken khubani masala on a social media platform, turning the recipe into a story. “This recipe has passed down generations… from my grandmother to my mother and I have been fortunate to recreate it! I still remember that my mum used to set aside some khubani for the dish and I used to quietly sneak in to devour some of those — the joys of childhood! I hope you try this at home and enjoy it as much as my family does,” he wrote. Krishnakumar Menon, general manager of Aloft Chennai (OMR-IT Expressway) said Covid-19 had changed the business dynamics of the hospitality sector. “Now, we deliver food to work stations. We are also under discussion to launch ‘Food on Wheels’ on international standards in the city,” he said. Restaurants that account for 10-15% of the total income for star hotels have become the significant revenue churners. Venkat Reddy, general manager, Ambassador Pallava, Egmore, said the hotel was offering takeaways to customers who use to frequent restaurants before the lockdown. “We also home-deliver food within a limited distance depending on the value of the order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-laundry-to-takeaway-food-5-star-hotels-explore-new-avenues-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/76364873.cms||Shubhra Pant
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Monk arrested for raping pregnant woman in Karauli||Jaipur: Police have recovered contraceptives and hard disks with objectionable videos from the possession of a monk who has been arrested on charges of raping a pregnant woman in Karauli district. Joint teams of Jaipur and Karauli police reached the shelter home where the accused monk was staying, they found a bag containing condoms, 33 pen drives, 19 mobile phones, four hard disks and two laptops. Objectionable videos were found in the hard disks, police said. According to the FIR, the woman along with her husband and sister-in-law had visited the shelter home in Mohannagar locality of Hindaun town to seek blessings of Jain monk Acharya Sukumal Nandi (38), on Thursday. “The rape survivor’s sister-in-law first went to the room and the monk attempted to molest her. The woman alone went to the room later and Nandi raped her. The accused threatened the woman of dire consequences if she informs about the incident to anyone,” said a police official. However, the woman shared her ordeal with her family members. The woman’s kin went to the shelter home again but the accused had locked himself in a room. The family of rape survivor called police to the spot. On the basis of complaint, an FIR was lodged against Nandi under Sections 376 (rape) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC. Following the complaint, Nandi was arrested on Friday and has been sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monk-arrested-for-raping-pregnant-woman-in-karauli/articleshow/76364861.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Cuttack||Consider using elephants to pull Puri chariots: HC to govt||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court has directed the state government to consider deploying heavy duty machineries or even elephants instead of men to pull the chariots during the June 23 Rath Yatra. The court issued the direction while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Dillip Kumar Ray in which he had pleaded for the use of heavy duty machineries to pull the chariots and avoid the involvement of men to maintain social distancing norms during the time of Covid-19. At least 600 men are needed to pull the chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra during the 3-kilometre journey from Puri Jagannath Temple to Gundicha Temple, the birthplace of the sibling deities. There they stay for a week before returning to the Jagannath Temple. “We are inclined to observe that deploying heavy duty machineries or any other means like elephants, than men power, for pulling the chariots/rath, would obviously obviate the necessity of involving large number of persons, which number could be in many hundreds,” the bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Biswajit Mohanty observed. “It is therefore directed that this aspect should be duly considered by the state government while taking a decision on holding Rath Yatra, consistent with the guidelines issued by the central government and the state government,” the bench stated in its June 9 order, a copy of which was available on Saturday. The bench issued the direction while disposing of Ray’s petition along with the one filed by Surendra Panigrahi seeking its direction to stop Rath Yatra this year in view of the Covid crisis. Regarding Panigrahi’s petition the bench observed, “This court is inclined to hold that it is up to the state government to decide whether or not to allow the Rath Yatra on June 23, depending on the situation then prevalent on the ground about the spread of coronavirus. If, however, any such decision is eventually taken, the state government shall ensure strict adherence to the directives issued by the Government of India with regard to the adherence to the lockdown measures issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/consider-using-elephants-to-pull-puri-chariots-hc-to-govt/articleshow/76364061.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
June 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Death toll rises to 485 with 14 more casualties||PUNE: Fourteen more patients, including a two-month-old baby, succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, taking the total casualty count in Pune to 485. Besides, 358 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Saturday, pushing up the Pune tally to 11,560. Among the fresh cases, 282 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 39 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 37 in the rural and Cantonment area of the district. PMC health department officials said about 163 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after they were declared Covid-free. More than 6,080 patients have been discharged in the PMC limits so far, they said. The active caseload in PMC limits has increased further to 2,810. These patients were being treated at PMC-run Naidu hospital and Covid centres, besides Sassoon and private hospitals, the officials said, adding 208 patients were at critical stage, of whom 47 were on ventilator support. Among the deceased, a twomonth baby boy of Hadapsar succumbed to the contagion at a private hospital. He had comorbid conditions. Besides, three patients died at Sassoon hospital. These included a 64-year-man from Kondhwa, a 62-year-man from Nana Peth and a 57-year-old woman from the Tadiwala Road area. The patients who succumbed at private hospitals included a 60-year-old woman from Ramtekdi, an 86-year-old man from Malwadi, a 70-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 59-year-old man from Narhe, a 64-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 40-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 59-year-old man from Tingrenagar, a 62-yearold man from Yerawada, a 76-year-old woman from Bibvewadi and a 59-year-old woman from Wadgaonsheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/death-toll-rises-to-485-with-14-more-casualties/articleshow/76364884.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Police’s mobile application an instant hit||Thiruvananthapuram: Pol-App, the mobile app launched by Kerala Police, is cruising itself as a popular app. Within two days of being launched, the number of users who downloaded the app crossed 50,000. In Google Playstore, the app has largely received positive ratings and has been rated at 4.6 on a scale of five. The app is also at the seventh slot among the trending apps in Playstore. The app is a one-stop solution to availing 27 services rendered by the police at present, and it will be increased to 42 services soon. The app has been designed as a simple app so that even a layman can use it without any confusion. The app can locate the position of the user and can indicate the nearest police station. The app also provides phone numbers and email addresses of all police officers in the force. The app provides the facility for remitting fees to the treasury for various services, download the copy of first information report and also know the status of passport verification. The app offers special care for the safety of women and children. The app will allow sending the location of the user to three pre-registered numbers, in case required, and also place an SOS to all these numbers. The app also allows to fix an appointment for women with station house officers. The app allows sending service request to the police emergency response support system, and also allows informing the nearest police station in case the user is travelling outstation after locking the house. The app also allows the user to inform the details of destitute women and children including their photographs, after geo-tagging them. All the social media accounts of the police have been linked to the app, and all information that should essentially be known to the public including traffic rules, will be available in Pol-App. The app also doubles up as a tourist guide, and places of interest and location are available through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-polices-mobile-application-an-instant-hit/articleshow/76363325.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||People queue up at ration shops but there’s no stock||Jodhpur: Even as wheat and gram are yet to reach ration shops, workers and migrants not covered under the National Food Security Act have started queueing up in hoards for free ration. In the absence of any authentic information available with ration dealers about the availability of stock, heated arguments have been taking place between them and the free ration seekers. When asked, a ration dealer said that the government has been extending the date of distribution repeatedly, so they are not in a position to give any definite reply to the people. “People are arguing with us on the basis of the information available with them. When we say that the wheat has not reached yet, they were not ready to believe it, assuming that we were lying to them,” he said. According to DSO (Jodhpur) Radheshyam Delu, the entire stock allocated to Jodhpur has not yet been lifted fully. “The stock earmarked for Jodhpur is yet to arrive. Due to this, the date has been extended till June 17,” Delu said adding that all the ration shops would have the stock available from June 17. Jodhpur has been allocated a share of 3,800 MT wheat and 113 MT gram for making it available to the beneficiaries for two months at the rate of 5kg wheat per person per month and 1kg per household per month. It may be noted that the government has decided to provide free wheat and gram to the workers and migrants not covered under the National Food Security Act for two months — May and June. For this task, district collectors had been directed to conduct a survey for the registration of eligible beneficiaries. But the task could not be completed in the stipulated time resulting in delay in distribution of the ration. Finally, with a fresh order, it was directed that the collectors claim the wheat and gram of their share by June 7 on the basis of the data available till now and ensure distribution of the same by June 15. With this information, the beneficiaries started reaching the ration shops but were asked by the dealers that the ration had not reached them. Not only the beneficiaries, but the police also had a tough time in managing these huge crowds, to ensure compliance of Covid guidelines. At many places, police were seen warning them to return to their homes in absence of stock, instead of waiting and arguing with the ration dealers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-queue-up-at-ration-shops-but-theres-no-stock/articleshow/76364872.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer woman duped of Rs 16 lakh by FB ‘friend’||AJMER: In a case of online fraud, a woman from Pragati Nagar of Kotra in the district was duped of Rs 16 lakh by a man claiming to be a doctor from Germany. Police said the woman was lured by the fraudster on Facebook who managed to get hold of her personal details. On the complaint of the woman, police have now registered a case and are investigating the matter. The woman had received a friend request on Facebook with the accused claiming to be a doctor in Germany. The friendship turned into online love and the man sent her a costly gift. One day, the fraudster sought her help claiming that he needed Rs 1.5 lakh immediately. Believing his story, the woman transferred him the money. According to the complaint, the fraudster later asked the woman about her bank account to repay the money. When the woman provided the details, he withdrew Rs 16 lakh from her account. The woman called him to confirm whether he withdrew the money, but there was no response. She waited for some days and later went to Christian Ganj police and registered a complaint. Police said as they have no mobile number to trace, they are trying to track the transfer of money to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-woman-duped-of-rs-16-lakh-by-fb-friend/articleshow/76364862.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur e-way gets finance boost||LUCKNOW: The state government received the first instalment of bank loan for Gorakhpur Link Expressway on Saturday with Punjab National Bank handing over a cheque of Rs 750 crore to chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Of Rs 5,876.68 crore for civil work for the 91.3km expressway project, Rs 2,250 crore is being sought as loan from a consortium of banks, of which PNB approved a Rs 750 crore loan. Meanwhile, Union Bank and Canara Bank have given in-principle approval for Rs 250 crore and Rs 300 crore loans respectively, while a Rs 1,000-crore loan from Indian Bank is pending approval. The construction of expressways would be a landmark in infrastructure, having potential to trigger economic activities in areas which remained neglected, said CM Yogi. The network of Purvanchal, Ganga, Gorakhpur Link and Bundelkhand expressways will prove to be a milestone in the state’s infrastructure, he added. “These expressways will help fast pace economic development in the state which has been long pending. Today, the world is competing for investments, hence providing connectivity and security play an important role,” he said. “Gorakhpur needs better connectivity for prosperity of people. We will also look at the development of an industrial corridor on along Gorakhpur Link Expressway on both sides. The Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority has taken steps to acquire land for it,” he added. The link road will start near Jaitpur village on Gorakhpur bypass and connect with Purvanchal Expressway near Salarpur village in Azamgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpur-e-way-gets-finance-boost/articleshow/76364880.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded IG stays LCB officer’s transfer||Aurangabad: Manojkumar Lohiya, the Nanded range inspector general of police, has stayed the order of Parbhani superintendent of police Krushnakant Upadhyay, who had ordered the transfer of Parbhani local crime branch inspector Pravin More. On Thursday, Upadhyay issued an exclusive order transferring More to Pathri police station that has been vacant for some time. As per the order, More was supposed to take charge of Pathri police station. Some of the police officers said that the transfer order was not in the line of recently issued transfers and postings related communications from the state police headquarters and state secretariat. Taking cognizance of the transfer order, IGP Lohiya stayed the transfer order, providing relief to More. Authorities refused to comment on the issue citing it to be an internal matter. Despite repeated attempts, Upadhyay could not be reached for his comments on the issue. More was given the charge of the local crime branch of Parbhani in June 2018. Authorities said in the last few years, More remained the top performer amongst the crime branch inspectors in Nanded range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-ig-stays-lcb-officers-transfer/articleshow/76363330.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||NREGA: Probe fudging of muster rolls in Bharatpur||Jaipur: Following the complaints received on the Twitter account of deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and at the rural development department, MGNREGA commissioner has written to Bharatpur collector and ordered a departmental inquiry into the alleged fudging of muster rolls at Gadli village of Bodoli Dahar gram panchayat under Pahadi panchayat samiti. According to the complaint, a muster roll was issued for 100 workers, but only 38 were engaged in work. MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan has directed Bharatpur district collector Nathmal Didel to inspect all the parameters under NREGA and all the works done under the scheme at Pahadi panchayat samiti on June 13. Based on this order, probe teams were set up and a surprise inspection was conducted on Saturday in the panchayat samiti. The order also directed the collector to take disciplinary action against those guilty officials if irregularities are found during the inspection. “If fudging of muster roll/attendance is found to be true, disciplinary action should be taken against the gram panchayat’s block development officer and village employment assistant,” it stated. The collector was also directed to inform the department after lodging an FIR against the mate for fudging the muster roll. The factual report will be sent to the department by Sunday or Monday. According to sources, former sarpanch of Bodoli Dahar gram panchayat, who belonged to the family of former MLA Gopi Gurjar, had registered a complaint against the present sarpanch, who is a supporter of the sitting MLA Zahida Khan. Therefore, political rivalry led to registering of the complaint, as per sources. “The inquiry will bring out all the facts. Caste discrimination may also be one of the factors in this case, but it is quite far-fetched. Difficult to conclude before the factual report comes. However, this is one of the many complaints we are receiving these days. On a daily basis, we are receiving 4-5 complaints,” said Kishan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-probe-fudging-of-muster-rolls-in-bharatpur/articleshow/76364876.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Is Covid-19 causing high sugar among patients?||MUMBAI: Could Covid-19 trigger a sugar imbalance in patients? For the past seven months, doctors across the world have said diabetic patients are at a higher risk of Covid-19 related complications, and now there is a growing school of thought that the novel coronavirus could be affecting the pancreas and causing hyperglycemia or high levels of sugar among patients. The experience in the city’s civic hospitals is that patients are brought in with “uncontrolled sugar” at around 400-500 mg/dL. Endocrinologist Shashank Joshi, dean of Indian College of Physicians, said, “Not only do patients come in with high glucose levels, they also have elevated pancreatic enzymes.” As pancreas produce insulin that regulates blood sugar, the new medical thought process is that the working of the pancreas gets affected by Covid-19. Now, an international group of diabetes researchers from across the world has set up a registry to study the link between Covid-19 and hyperglycemia. In a letter published in the ‘New England Journal of Medicine’ on Saturday, a group of 17 experts involved in this CoviDiab Registry project said, “It is still unclear how SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, impacts diabetes.” They said previous research has shown that ACE-2, the protein that binds to the coronavirus to enter human cells, is not only located in the lungs, but also in organs and tissues involved in glucose metabolism such as the pancreas, the small intestine, the fat tissue, the liver and the kidney. They believe that by entering these tissues, the virus adversely affects the glucose metabolism in the body. Dr Joshi said, “This blood sugar imbalance could be transient or it could trigger diabetes at a later date in the patient.” Physician Dr Hemant Thacker said a temporary rise in sugar levels cannot be called diabetes. “We need to follow up patients after six months or more before making such a statement,” he said, adding diabetes is in control in several Covid-19 patients admitted under his care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/is-covid-19-causing-high-sugar-among-patients/articleshow/76364915.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Magic in the mundane||CHENNAI: During the city’s various lockdown phases, sitting inside his home, Vignesh Chander decided to focus on life around him from a ‘macro’ perspective. He whipped out his phone camera and went about the house, taking a closer look at everything from his mother’s eyes to a sweet lime sitting idly in a fruit basket. The result – a lockdown macrophotography series. "Macrophotography has always been popular but has come into the spotlight during the lockdown. You cannot go outside and so start clicking everything around you," says the Chennai-based amateur photographer. Macro photography is basically close-up photography of small subjects, from insects and flowers to the tips of pencils even. Anything goes as long as it’s magnified considerably. "The lockdown gave me time to experiment," says Vignesh, who for one of his photographs, took a sweet lime, and dipped it in a hand sanitizer to make it look like it was bobbing in water. "It’s easy to get started. I bought a macro lens that I attached to my phone." For those just getting started, he suggests that one master the basics of the exposure triangle of ISO, shutter speed and aperture. Another city-based photographer, Vaishnavi Ramesh, created an isolation series called ‘Guess Who?’, where she did abstract close-ups of everything one would find in a kitchen. "I got the idea for the series when I cracked an egg, took a macro shot and looked inside the shell. As light passed through the delicate shell it made the most beautiful patterns," says Vaishnavi. Needless to say, there were several omelettes made that day and the next for family, as Vaishnavi perfected the macro shots of her eggshell. Blood red watermelon slices, kaleidoscopic okra pieces, black and whites of forks followed. Sugar and salt, being crystals also made playing with lighting fun. "The lockdown gave me a pause in life, and showed me the beauty in the mundane," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/magic-in-the-mundane/articleshow/76364048.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Vehicles from other states get nod to enter Maharashtra sans pass||AURANGABAD: The state police headquarter has issued a communication asking all units to allow movement of vehicles from neighbouring states, who have already given movement pass exemption. According to senior police officers, most states have already exempted movement pass, which was mandatory during the lockdown that started on March 23. However, most districts in Maharashtra are checking the movement pass. The communication, without mincing words, acknowledged that the vehicles starting from such states were facing hardships on entering Maharashtra, especially at borders. ‘It is hereby advised that such vehicles, which had initiated their journey from a state where no vehicular pass is required, may be allowed to access after verifying the documents indicated the details about the origin of the journey,” the communication states. When contacted, Osmanabad district superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan said, “We share several kilometer-long state border with Karnatka and as they have an exemption for movement pass, we are just checking the commuters’ credentials and allowing them to move.” The officer confirmed that earlier there were issues as there was no uniformity in enforcement as well as relaxation of certain. The views have been echoed by senior police authorities from the districts of Latur and Nanded that share state0 border with neighbouring states. The police officers also pointed out that the movement passes being issued by the district administrations as well as police in Maharashtra, are helpful only while moving in the state. “There is no point in obtaining a movement pass for travelling to other states where there is exemption to travel exemption,” said a senior police officer from Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vehicles-from-other-states-get-nod-to-enter-maha-sans-pass/articleshow/76363315.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Retailers reach out to prized customers as big spenders stay away from malls||KOLKATA: The buzz was back at food courts in city malls on the first weekend after the low-key reopening on Monday, with footfall up by 20%-30% despite intermittent rain since monsoon arrived on Friday. But the persistent rise in Covid count kept big-ticket spenders away, prompting retailers to reach out to them. At South City mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road, the customer count crossed the 10,000-mark on Saturday as people braved two sharp spells of rain to reach their favourite haunt. At Quest near Park Circus, the footfall count appeared to be heading towards the 8,000 mark in the evening, but fell short by a fair bit as showers proved a dampener. Acropolis along the Kasba connector, City Centre-I in Salt Lake and City Centre-II in New Town also recorded a 30% rise in footfall with people spending time at the food courts and café outlets. While the footfall at Acropolis was over 6,000, that at CC-I was 9,500 and at CC-II, it was 6,400. While customers have been ordering snacks at food courts throughout the week, on Saturday, several of them served lunch as people spent more time there. The food courts regained a semblance of the hangout joints they were before the lockdown. “People spending more time in the food court is a reflection of the growing confidence among shoppers and their trust in the sanitization facility at the mall,” said Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan. Quest vice-president Sanjeev Mehra, too, was upbeat about the steady rise in footfalls. “More people are coming in despite the rain. And they are all making purchases,” he said. However, the absence of big-ticket spenders rankled retailers. With Covid figures scaling new heights daily, there is palpable fear of contracting the contagion. “The top spenders aren’t coming out. There have been some high-value purchases by some individuals who have picked up goods for the entire family. But when a high net-worth individual visits a mall, it can lead to a transaction that is several times more,” said the store manager of a leading fashion label. With the high spenders not around, impulse buying has taken a backseat. “Luxury stores are the worst affected. Until the pandemic graph hits the plateau, the fear psychosis will conti-nue to keep them away,” said another mall operator. Several stores have reached out to prized customers to inform them that they have reopened. “We are telling customers that if they wish to buy something and don’t feel comfortable visiting the store, we will go over to their homes with the products,” said a storekeeper at an ethnicwear chain that has presence in multiple malls. Ambuja Neotia whole-time director Ramesh Pandey admitted the climate of fear is still looming large, but said youngsters were putting their worries behind, coming out and hanging around. “On Saturday, some youngsters sat at the kund in City Centre-I. This is an encouraging sign,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retailers-reach-out-to-prized-customers-as-big-spenders-stay-away-from-malls/articleshow/76364054.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||A heritage collapses as Telangkhedi wall caves in||Nagpur: Fear of conservationists came true on Saturday when a large part of the retaining wall around Telangkhedi (Futala) Lake, a Grade-1 heritage structure, collapsed. Activists have demanded urgent structural audit of the lake. On Friday, the city witnessed heavy winds along with rainfall and it is likely that the wall came down as it was already weak. Futala is listed as a Grade-I heritage structure in the gazette notification issued by the state government on October 18, 2003. The Grade-I category is the highest level of protection given to buildings and precincts of national or historic importance. While the local administration has ambitious plans for giving a facelift to the lake precincts, activists warned that focusing on improving the aesthetics rather than assessing the structural value will prove to be detrimental. According to them, the wall was constructed few years back. “It hardly lasted for two-to-three years. This shows that no structural audit has been carried out by the administration,” said Jaydeep Das, honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur. In an interview with TOI, Union minister Nitin Gadkari had stated that the musical fountain at Futala lake was his dream project. Under this, MahaMetro will be building an elevated viewing gallery which will stretch across the a good part of the Futala waterfront. The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has also warned that the facelift could cause permanent damage to the water body. Activists further stated that the permission given by the heritage conservation committee to Futala redevelopment project was questionable and need to be revisited. As per heritage laws, any development around a Grade-1 structure should not destroy its grandeur and view. “The collapse of the wall shows that the lake is not secure,” said Das. Two years back too the wall along Air Force gate side had also collapsed, pointed out Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil. “The wall surrounding Futala lake is in a shambles since last two years. The collapsed portion was barricaded during Ganpati Visarjan. A structural audit needs to be done urgently as many portions of the wall have collapsed. Ganpati festival will be here within three months and for safety purposes, measures need to be taken as Futala is the only lake where visarjan is being allowed.” He added that collapsed wall should be barricaded with tin sheets immediately. As reported by TOI earlier, most of the construction is being planned in the lake’s catchment area, which according to Neeri can have adverse impacts. “Construction activities in the catchment area can reduce the flow of water into the lake,” Neeri had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-heritage-collapses-as-telangkhedi-wall-caves-in/articleshow/76364569.cms||Manka Behl
June 14, 2020||Trichy||Repatriates complain of fleecing for transport||TRICHY: The collection of transportation charge from stranded foreign returnees who arrived on repatriation flights at Trichy to their native districts from June 10 has kicked up a controversy. The revenue department has charged up to Rs 2,000 per ticket to transport the returnees to their native districts on special buses operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). The airport has received 10 repatriation flights from seven countries including Kuwait, Qatar and Ethiopia after the lockdown began. The returnees who were stuck at their workplace due to the pandemic were earlier transported on TNSTC buses to the quarantine facilities in their native districts free of cost. However, from June 10, those who arrived from countries including Qatar were instructed to pay a travel charge by Trichy district administration to be transported to various districts including Cuddalore and Kanyakumari. Arguments broke out between the officials and returnees at Trichy airport as some were not allowed to board the special buses without paying up. The ticket fare varied from Rs 400 to Rs 2,000, which was exorbitant compared to the normal bus fare between the destinations. One such returnee who did not want to be named said that passengers were treated rudely and allowed to board the bus only after paying the fee. “We were transported from Chennai to Thanjavur free of cost but some inmates in our quarantine facility who landed at Trichy were charged Rs 400 to reach Thanjavur,” he told TOI. Most of the returnees had no cash but only ATM cards to pay the exorbitant fare. As the returnees had already undergone mental stress after losing their job, the fleecing in the name of transport made matters worse. “Most of the returnees to Trichy were blue-collar workers. With money exchange centres closed, they had only foreign currencies. The ill-treatment could have been avoided,” H Ubaidullah, an aviation analyst added. “TNSTC did not collect fare from the foreign returnees. We would like to clarify that it was the revenue department which collected it,” said, a TNSTC official. Video recording of an argument in which a foreign returnee points out that he had no cash in hand went viral on social media. “Ticket fare was collected only from affordable passengers. Labourers were not charged the travel fee,” a senior official with the revenue department in Trichy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/repatriates-complain-of-fleecing-for-transport/articleshow/76364898.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath for a branding plan to promote Uttar Pradesh’s mango||LUCKNOW: To increase the export and sale of mangoes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has given directions to prepare a branding plan for the state’s most popular fruit. In a meeting with mango growers and exporters on Saturday, the CM said that to promote the export of mangoes, it was necessary to revive old plantations, create cold storage facilities and packing centres. He said mango-centric industries should be promoted while increasing sales of mangoes in other states, agencies like NAFED and mandi parishad should prepare a plan and contact dealers in other states. City’s mango exporter, SC Shukla said it was for the first time that a concerted effort was being made to promote the fruit. “In the previous meeting with the CM, we had demanded an effective policy for marketing and export of mangoes, besides construction of a road to link the Mother Dussehri tree with the Agra Expressway. We also requested for the construction of a Dussehri lake. All our demands have been accepted,” he said. The CM also asked officials to explore the possibility of giving the benefits of the special financial package announced by the PM recently to the mango industry. He said that the various varieties of the fruit can be promoted through buyers and sellers meets while cooperation will be increased between growers and exporters to push the export potential of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-a-branding-plan-to-promote-states-mango/articleshow/76364892.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro gets Covid-19 marshals for safe construction sites||NEW DELHI: Among the 14,500 people employed by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, apart from the thousands of workers deployed at its construction sites, some of the most crucial jobs are those of train operators, station controllers etc. However, the role of a Covid marshal might become more crucial in the coming days. At present, Covid marshals have been deployed at different construction sites of DMRC, which include the extension of the Airport Express Line in Dwarka, extension of the Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh) in Dhansa and Phase-IV project. “In order to ensure complete compliance of all the guidelines issued to workers to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic at DMRC’s construction sites, dedicated Covid marshals have been nominated for all the sites,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC. Dayal said these marshals are generally labour welfare or human resource officers from the contractor’s end who are well-versed with the various guidelines and directions, which have been issued to combat the spread of Covid-19. “At least one such official has been appointed for each site,” said an official. Each site has one Covid marshal, who is assisted by a deputy Covid marshal and Covid stewards. “The responsibility of this team is to ensure that all guidelines are stringently followed by the workers as well as engineers at the sites. Non-conformances, if any, are immediately reported to DMRC officials and action is taken as per the standard operating procedures,” he said. The Covid marshals have been provided with a different high-visibility jacket so that they can be recognised easily at the sites. They have been designated as the single point of contact for issues related to Covid-19 at the sites. “Apart from checking any violation of the guidelines, they may also be contacted for issues such as medical checks, availability of masks, sanitisers etc.,” Dayal said. When Delhi Metro resumes operations, a similar role would be performed by customer facilitation agents at stations. However, it is not sure if any of these agents will be wearing such a jacket, the way marshals at sites are wearing. One of the major responsibilities of these agents at stations would be to ensure social distancing. DMRC has taken a host of safety measures at its construction sites, which includes around 100 hands-free hand washing as well as sanitiser facilities that are ‘foot operated’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-gets-covid-marshals-for-safe-construction-sites/articleshow/76364897.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||‘Stem cells could benefit patients in persistent vegetative state’||Dr Dileep Yavagal is an interventional stroke neurologist at University of Miami. Hailing from Nagpur, he is also a physician scientist engaged in clinical practice as well as research. Dr Yavagal is experimenting on injecting stem cells into the brain using the same catheters he uses for regular brain surgeries. Stem cells hold promise for significantly helping persistent vegetative state (PVS) patients, he says after using them in first-ever case with direct injection of cells into the brain arteries. Excerpts from an interview... Q. How did the first human experiment go? A. The US FDA permits treatment, not research, on compassionate basis. This was a one-time approval to give stem cells in this PVS woman patient. She had tried to commit suicide and had a cardiac arrest. She was saved but both sides of her brain were damaged. The degree of recovery varies for such patients. Some can regain a lot of functions such as recognition of everybody, even walking and talking. If the brain damage is extensive, then some of these patients remain in PVS. There are many well-known publicized examples of PVS such as nurse Aruna Shanbhag who lived for 42 years in this state. It is a sad state to be in. Q. How did the FDA agree to this treatment? A. This family from Panama had heard of my stem cell stroke research in Miami and brought the patient to Miami for treatment. As she had not improved for two years despite rehabilitation therapy, my team felt FDA would approve it which they did. Q. Whose stem cells were injected and how? A. Children more than adults and even adults up to 80s or more are now known to have own stem cells in their body. These are called adult stem cells (as opposed to the controversial embryonic or fetal stem cells). They are of different types but all are still primitive cells that are building blocks and they are often used by our body for repair of injuries. One type is found in bone marrow. These don’t make blood cells. They are actually called non-blood cell stem cells. They are tissues and can be separated from bone marrow. They are called ALD 401, named like that because it has an enzyme Aldehye dehydrogenase. It gives them stem cell properties to form all three types of primary tissues. That technology was already known. For this patient, we took out 150cc of her bone marrow and got the separated stem cells back in 72 hours from company’s facility. These separated cells were suspended in 6ml of phosphates buffer saline. We took the patient to the catheterization lab and I threaded a micro-catheter from her groin artery to each of her internal carotid arteries in the brain. Once I was in the internal carotid, I released 3 million ALD-401 cells suspended in 3ml of the special saline on each side of the brain. Q. How did the patient respond? A. We followed the patient every 3-4 months for a year and a half. We had done an MRI before the treatment and repeated it at every follow up. We gave only one dose of stem cells as research from before had indicated these cells could help recovery over time. At four-month mark, the family was clear the patient was paying more attention to them and her physical therapist. On PVS scale, we saw only one-point improvement but, on MRI, we saw dramatic improvement in brain fibre tracts on both sides of the brain. These are the electrical cables connecting the brain to the spinal cord and one side of the brain to the other carrying signal from the brain to the rest of the nervous system. At seven months, the patient was starting to get some central tone. She had been completely flaccid. Family reported the patient was able to hold her tone in the wheelchair. It was not part of PVS scale. The brain fibre tracts on MRI were showing a further increase in size and organization on both sides as compared to four-month MRI. At one year mark, the patient was sitting with minimal support and she improved one more point on PVS scale. She was not able to communicate or move limbs. But the family found her attention increased and participating with physical therapists. The brain fibre tracts showed a further increase in size and organization on both sides. Q. Has the patient recovered now? A. At 15-month mark, the patient was stable clinically but the brain tracts showed some worsening. They were no longer improving. At this point, the family and my team decided to give a second dose of stem cells. But the company developing it shut and the patient developed some other complications. She is alive but we couldn’t get to the second dose. The family has taken her back to Panama. Q. Are there any more such cases? A. This is the very first well-documented PVS patient who received her stem cell from bone marrow and showed improvement in brain tracts. With higher and more doses, there may be chance of some positive impact. Based on their experience, it is worth doing a larger study with 10 to 20 patients where we could gather more data and take it to a larger number of patients based on those results. Q. Would it be an affordable treatment? A. Because of patient’s own bone marrow is used and technology is well-established, the cost is $3,000 dollars for the cells. Catheterization in the US costs about anywhere between $20,000 to $30,000. My colleagues in India tell the cost is 1/10th of that here. Cell may cost the same. I would put it in affordable range. Q. Do you consider it a major breakthrough? A. We can call it an exciting initial breakthrough though it is not established by any means at this point. We need to see more robust clinical improvement. This patient was not talking or communicating but did regain central tone to a good extent and seem to pay more attention to her family and therapist as per their report. Also, we know MRI can show improvement before we see clinical improvement. This improvement on MRI would be highly unexpected if the cells did not have any beneficial effect. Three million cells could be very low dose. We need 10 or 20 million cells spanning over two or three doses. If we had seen no impact at all on the MRI or the patient, we would have said it is of no use. Q. By when do you see this happening on larger scale? A. In the next one to two years, we intend to run trials on 10 to 20 patients. Based on the results, we would like to do randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in following couple of years so we could have a more definitive answer. To convince ourselves and the regulatory authorities that what we have seen in one patient is truly beneficial across a range of PVS patients, we need to do RCTs where half the patients are just given saline and half the cells in a blinded-manner. That is the gold standard for proving a new treatment in medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stem-cells-could-benefit-patients-in-persistent-vegetative-state/articleshow/76364577.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 14, 2020||Bareilly||Sugar mill president booked for trying to molest 23-year-old girl||PILIBHIT: Following a court order passed by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) in April, police on June 10 registered an FIR against the president of a Pilibhit-based sugar mill, Joginder Singh (50), for allegedly attempting to outrage the modesty of a 23-year-old girl. On January 3, the girl – along with her friend – had gone to meet the accused to seek his approval on a fashion show that was to be sponsored by the sugar mill. She alleged that Singh held her hand and started touching her inappropriately. Her friend tried to rescue her but in vain. Singh allegedly let go of her after she started screaming for help and threatened to kill her if she took the matter to the police or talked about the incident to anyone. Immediately after the incident, she approached Sungarhi police station to file a written complaint. However, the police neither lodged any FIR nor enforced any action against the accused. She further alleged that she was constantly receiving threats from the accused due to police inaction. She also sent a written complaint to the superintendent of police (SP) on February 19 but did not get any response. Ultimately, she requested justice from the CJM court on March 4, following which the court ordered the Sungarhi police to register an FIR and to investigate the matter. Station house officer (SHO) Atar Singh said that an FIR was registered against Joginder Singh under sections 354 A (assault or use of criminal force to any woman with intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sugar-mill-president-booked-for-trying-to-molest-23-year-old-girl/articleshow/76364094.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man arrested for killing stepbrother||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old man was arrested by Dundigal police on Saturday on the charges of killing his stepbrother and trying to portray it as a suicide. During police questioning, the accused confessed to his crime and was booked for murder. Ajjam smothered his stepbrother Sabair with a shawl on the intervening night of June 6 and 7 after a quarrel. “Sabair was addicted to alcohol and would often pick up arguments with Ajjam. On that night, they and Ajjam, using his brother’s shawl, smothered him to death,” said Petbasheerabad ACP AVR Narasimha Rao. Unaware that his brother had died, Ajjam left the house to go his parents’ house. He came back to check on Sabair the next day and found him dead. “He found his brother lying in the same position with the shawl on his face. He was convinced he had killed his brother. He then tried to convince neighbours that Sabair had committed suicide,” added the officer. The accused was sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-killing-stepbrother/articleshow/76364644.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||To hell & back: Indian embassy evacuates 3 UP men forced into bonded labour in Malaysia||FAIZABAD: Four months before the lockdown was clamped, three youths from Uttar Pradesh were lured by an illegal overseas recruitment agency with a network straddling Mumbai and Hyderabad and flown to Malaysia, where they were starved and brutally tortured by a Pakistani contractor till they send an SOS to the Indian embassy in Kuala Lumpur. They wriggled out of their hellhole and took shelter in the Indian embassy premises to be finally evacuated by a Vande Bharat flight four days ago. The trio took a bus home after touching down in Delhi on June 9. This was possible only after the intervention of the Indian embassy officials, ministry of external affairs and social activist Sayyad Abid Hussain, who works relentlessly for release of Indian citizens trapped abroad. This traumatic story is about three men from Ambedkarnagar district, Mahmood Aalam, Jaane Alam and Ainul Huda, who were sent on a tourist visa and then forced into bonded labour in a plywood factory in Malaysia. Their passports were seized by a Pakistani contractor, Abdul Qadir, repeatedly thrashed with hot iron rods, denied salary and often left to starve. The torture would increase whenever they spoke about returning to India or demanded their passports. Their bodies bear telltale sign of physical assault. Narrating his ordeal to TOI, Mahmood Aalam, resident of Lolpur village in Akbarpur tehsil of Ambedkar Nagar district said, “A manpower agent in Mumbai, Shamshaad Ansari, took Rs 70,000 each from us with promise of a work permit and job in Malaysia. After we paid up, he sent us on a 15-day tourist visa with an assurance that when we reached Malaysia, their Hyderabadi agent would hand over a work permit. But when we reached Malaysia on December 16 last year, we were handed over to a Pakistani agent, Abdul Qadir. He took our passports for a visa stamp. Neither did he return our passports nor did we get a work permit. Instead he inflicted inhuman torture.” It was gruelling work at the factory and when one of them, Ainul Haq, 50, suffered a heart attack and collapsed in the premises, he was sacked and not provided medical aid. Seeing their plight, another Indian worker secretly gave them the number of social activist, Abid Hussain. Talking to TOI, Sayyad Abid Hussain, said, “When I received a call from them, I contacted the ministry of external affairs and Indian embassy in Malaysia, who acted promptly and traced them. The Pakistani agent was promised more money in lieu of the passports. He relented with threats of burning them alive if they didn’t pay up Rs 80,000 extra. A day later, they took shelter in the embassy. But by then flights were cancelled due to the pandemic-triggered lockdown.” They spend two months at the embassy campus and were provided food, medical aid and finally sent back to India on June 9. “This is not just our story. There are hundreds of Indian youths trapped in Malaysia for ten years and facing starvation and torture,” said Mahmood. Watch Indian embassy evacuates 3 UP men forced into bonded labour in Malaysia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/india-evacuates-three-up-men-trapped-in-malaysia/articleshow/76364904.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 14, 2020||Kochi||Devaswom to move legally against Maneka||Thrissur: Even as BJP MP Maneka Gandhi’s statement over elephant death has sparked a controversy in Malappuram, Koodalmanikyam temple Devaswom is planning to take legal action against the MP for her complaint against devaswom tusker Koodalmanikyam Megharjunan. In her complaint, Gandhi alleged, “Currently there is a young elephant being beaten in Koodalmanikyam temple in Irinjalakkuda in Thrissur. His legs have been stretched out and tied in four directions. It has been one month since I have complained and no action has been taken. He will die soon.” The complaint was also submitted to the head of forest department and additional chief secretary. Based on the complaint, chief wildlife warden sought a report from Thrissur assistant conservator of forest (ACF) P M Prabhu about the condition of the elephant. The report stated that the complaint was baseless. Besides, additional chief secretary Asha Thomas and chief wildlife warden Surendrakumar and other officials visited the temple and inspected the condition of the elephant. Chief wildlife warden Surendrakumar said, “The complaint by Maneka Gandhi about tusker Megharjunan was baseless. The elephant is healthy and there is no sign of torture.” Koodalmanikayam Devaswom chairman U Pradeep Menon said, “The devaswom board decided to take legal action against Gandhi, including people who make false allegations against the devaswom tusker. The statement by Gandhi tarnished the image of the temple and the tusker and we cannot allow it.” “We suspect that some people are aiming to tarnish the image of the temple and the tusker. 26-year-old Megharjunan is the pride of the devaswam,” he added. Thrissur ACF Prabhu said that as per direction, the forest veterinary surgeon Dr David Abraham inspected the tusker and found that there were no health issues nor was it facing any torture. “My report clearly stated that the complaint was baseless. Now the tusker is going into the musth period,” said Prabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/devaswom-to-move-legally-against-maneka/articleshow/76363370.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nashik||Barricades, warning boards welcome tourists travelling to countryside||Nashik: With the monsoon season starting, a number of people will flock to the tourist spots in the countryside. However, this year, villagers have decided not to allow trekkers and tourists to enter their villages until and unless the Covid-19 infection subsides. The monsoon has breathed life into the springs and mountains, and the water bodies across Nashik district — especially in Igatpuri, Trimbakeshwar, Surgana, Peth, Kalwan and Dindori talukas which are known for heavy rainfall, hilly areas and forts and waterfalls, besides continuing to remain tourist spots untouched by commercialization. “We had gone to Ramshej Fort for trekking in May. The villagers there have already barricaded the entry to the parking area. As soon as we got down from our car, we were asked to return home,” said Pramod Ahire. Ahire and his friend are ardent trekkers who have decided to honour the villagers for taking steps to safeguard their village from the infection that could find a way through the tourists from various destinations. In other villages, people have set up boards warning visitors that the tyres of their vehicles would be deflated in case they came to their villages for adventure. In the villages around Kalsubai Peak that falls in Ahmednagar district, boards have been installed warning tourists and trekkers from entering the vicinity. The situation is no different at many places in Nashik district. The district administration has warned people against travelling to the rural areas or any of the tourist spots. “As per government guidelines, places of religious as well as tourist importance have been closed. This means the nature trails and treks will not be allowed. There is no exception to outdoor trekking as well as people would come in contact with the local villagers there,” said officials from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/barricades-warning-boards-welcome-tourists-travelling-to-countryside/articleshow/76363357.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrant workers cheated by fraudsters at Secunderabad station||HYDERABAD: Already struggling to make ends meet due to the lockdown, migrants who are anxious to go to their home states are now allegedly being looted by brokers outside the Secunderabad railway station. It has been noted that seats have been limited in most Shramik special trains with many running at full capacity till June 20. Due to a lack of food and shelter, many migrants can be seen waiting on the pavement outside the station. Despite the Telangana high court directing the state to ensure the welfare of migrant workers on a PIL filed by advocate Vasudha Nagaraj, migrants are said to have been receiving very little help. Meanwhile, many have lost their money to touts selling fraudulent tickets. In one such incident, 24-year-old Subash Mondal paid Rs 2000 to two people, who approached him outside Secunderabad railway station claiming that they could buy him a ticket for the next day. Mondal, who paid the money to board the train three days ago, is still waiting outside the station. “The people who approached us said that they are travel agents and they will book tickets for us. We gave them Rs 2000 after they took photos of our Aadhaar cards. They told us that we will get a message on our phone once the ticket is confirmed. But so far we have not received anything. When we tried to enter the station to enquire, the officials told us that all trains are booked for a week,” said Mondal, a worker from Bihar’s Dhanapur,. Another migrant from Sarsa district in Bihar, Raju Kumar, who was part of a contingent of 15 rice mill workers said: “Someone took Rs 8,000 and gave us tickets. When we tried to board the train on June 9, they sent us back saying our names were not in the list. These people who took money from us said we will be able to board the train the very next day. The money we gave for the tickets was all that we had. They cheated us because we are not educated,” he lamented. Since trains and state-run buses are in short supply, a few individuals and activists, who are providing food to the migrant workers outside the station confirmed that many have indeed been cheated by agents. “All this is happening because there are not enough trains or inter-state buses to transport the migrants. Each day there are 500 people and a majority of them are without tickets. Even with all our contacts, we are not able get more than 30 tickets cleared through the emergency quota each day. Taking that as an advantage, the brokers are cheating these migrants,” said advocate Vasudha Nagaraj, who is part of the Covid Advocacy Lockdown Collective. Meanwhile, Railway Protection Force (RPF) officials who conduct regular raids on agents operating in the twin cities, said they will conduct a decoy operation to find those responsible. “Since there is no tatkal facility now, there is no access for touting but if there is any such activity going on outside the station, we will definitely conduct raids to nab these people,” said inspector K Benaiah of RPF, Secunderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrant-workers-cheated-by-fraudsters-at-secbad-station/articleshow/76364625.cms||Moulika.KV
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors claim witnessing unusual viral infections since November 2019||HYDERABAD: Amid a scientific debate whether the novel coronavirus had entered India from China during November-December 2019, a few ENT specialists and general physicians claim that they had come across several patients with symptoms of dry cough and unusual throat infections before the first official Covid-19 case was detected in Kerala on January 30, 2020. They point out that the unusual symptoms among common ENT patients were never seen earlier. An ENT doctor, who collected information from other physicians through Google forms, told STOI that the pandemic virus may have infected people long before Covid-19 cases were officially identified. Senior ENT specialist Dr Jagdish Chaturvedi, who has invented 18 medical devices, said he had noticed a peak in cases with symptoms similar to that of Covid-19 in the last quarter of 2019. “Every second patient had severe throat pain, dry cough that lasted for weeks, fever, tiredness, and breathlessness. We are used to noticing patterns of these viral infections which come in bursts. But, between the last week of November 2019 and last week of January 2020, when coronavirus awareness was very limited, other doctors and I had noticed a very bad strain of viral upper respiratory tract infection (URTI),” he said. Dr Suneel Dhand, co-founder of DocsDox, told STOI that a couple of weeks before people know about Covid-19 or testing facility was available, he had symptoms of dry cough and sore throat. “The cough was weird and persistent and there was not a drop of phlegm. It never happened to me before. Most of us who work in medicine have come to the realisation that this virus has been spreading like a wildfire since December 2019 all over the world. Lots of our patients likely had it and we just didn’t know,” he said. Dr Ajay Mishra, senior general physician, said he suspected that the coronavirus was present in Delhi prior to January 30. “Unusual in practice a large number of patients were seen in January, February and till March 2020 with fever, dry cough, cold and or laboured breathing. It was very difficult to treat, and suffering continued for longer periods. Loss of taste and smell along with intense lethargy was the main clinical features seen in these patients,” he said. Recently, city researchers have estimated the time to the most recent common ancestor of different viral strains now present in India to November-December 2019 for the Wuhan ancestor and February-March 2020 to the strain (cluster) from southeast Asia, probably Singapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-claim-witnessing-unusual-viral-infections-since-nov-2019/articleshow/76364653.cms||Syed Akbar
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||Three of scrap trading firm held after 8 months||Vadodara: Almost eight months after a building on Larsen & Toubro (L&T) campus on Old Chhani Road collapsed during demolition, police arrested three partners of a scrap trading company, which was contracted by the engineering conglomerate to bring down the building. Fatehgunj police had registered a case against the three partners – Shivpujan Giri, Aslam Khan Pathan, Farmaan Saiyed – and an administrator Ejaz Pathan on June 11 for negligence and not following the norms laid down by L&T during demolition. Two persons had died in the building collapse. Police said that during investigation in the accidental death case, it was revealed that L&T had laid down safety norms while handing over the contract to the scrap trading company. “The company had asked them to keep all safety equipment handy for the workers and conduct demolition only in the presence of an expert. Neither of these instructions was followed,” said sub-inspector D V Chaudhary, who became the complainant in the case. On October 19 last year, the administrator Ejaz had told the demolition machine operator to start breaking the pillars on the ground floor due to which the building came down. “We have arrested all three partners of the scrap trading company, but the administrator is still on the run,” said investigating officer D M Rabari, sub-inspector at Fatehgunj police station. Two labourers Kaiful Pathan and Abdul Wahid had died and around 11 persons were injured in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-of-scrap-trading-firm-held-after-8-months/articleshow/76363313.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bareilly||14-year-old girl gangraped in Uttar Pradesh, two youths booked||BAREILLY: A 14-year-old girl, a student of Class VII, was allegedly gangraped by two youths in a village in Lakhimpur Kheri district late on Thursday night. According to police, the girl had gone to see her cattle tied outside the house when the accused — residents of the same village and reportedly known to the girl — forcefully took her to an isolated place and gangraped her. Police said an FIR was registered at Kheri police station on Friday and the girl was sent for medical examination on Saturday. The accused are absconding. Kheri station house officer (SHO) CK Singh told TOI, “The youths have been identified and booked under section 376D (gang rape) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. We have recorded the girl’s statement under section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and she stated that she had gone outside her house to see her livestock when the accused gangraped her. The girl is still in trauma. We have assured her that police will take strict action against the accused. We have also alerted nearby police stations about the accused and have been conducting raids to nab them.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/14-year-old-girl-gangraped-in-kheri-two-youths-booked/articleshow/76364081.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 14, 2020||Trichy||2 sanitary workers in Trichy test Covid positive||TRICHY: After a bill collector with the Trichy Corporation tested positive for Covid-19, two permanent sanitary workers with the urban local body tested positive on Saturday. A 44-year-old female sanitary worker residing near East Boulevard in Ariyamangalam zone and a 52-year-old male sanitary worker residing at Moolathoppu in Srirangam zone have contracted the virus. Both the sanitary workers had no travel history and were only commuting between their houses and their work locations in Trichy. The duo attached to the Srirangam zone of the corporation were involved in street sweeping activities. On June 10, the corporation had conducted a mass screening for nearly 150 sanitary workers in the zone in which the two sanitary workers were found positive. Both the sanitary workers were asymptomatic, the health officials added. “Both the sanitary workers did not travel outside the city and were involved in cleaning activities in their assigned wards. They did not work in any of the containment zones,” a corporation official added. They workers were not involved in door-to-door waste collection as well, eliminating the possibility of them contracting the virus from visiting houses of Covid-19 positive patients. A disinfection drive was carried out at Moolathoppu (ward number 1) and EB road (ward number 15) on Saturday. The female sanitary worker is said to have frequented a spot near her house where inter-state trucks were parked. The male sanitary worker was employed in cleaning activities at a place within 5-km radius of his house. Sources said that the two sanitary workers did not belong to the same team. Officials are tracing the civic body employees who came in contact with two workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-sanitary-workers-in-trichy-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76364901.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress decides to take cops to court over arrests||Hyderabad: The Telangana Congress leadership has decided to take legal action and also lodge a complaint with the governor and Centre against the police for continuing to arrest party workers ahead of protest programmes. The move comes as several party workers were arrested on Saturday even as TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy is said to have written to Telangana DGP Mahendar Reddy asking him to allow them to visit project sites on Godavari river. On June 2, Congress workers were taken into custondy on June 2 — ahead of their visit to irrigation project sites on Krishna river; On June 4 — before their visit to Manjira dam and on June 11 after they had issued for a ‘Chalo Secretariat’ march. “The saga of our arrests is continuing despite following all Covid-19 norms. I want to ask DGP Mahendar Reddy and Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar whether the Covid-19 restrictions are applicable only to opposition parties. Telangana police are acting in a partisan manner,” said Uttam. “As many as 33 irrigation projects are pending since 2014 and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is not completing the projects started by previous Congress governments. TRS government is spending crores of public money by redesigning irrigation projects only to get 8% commission and kickbags. The voice of the Congress is being suppressed to prevent it from exposing huge corruption and irregularities in these projects,” Uttam alleged. Former minister, Mohd Ali Shabbir urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to invoke Section-8 of Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act and seek an explanation from the DGP over the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-decides-to-take-cops-to-court-over-arrests/articleshow/76364632.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Congress dig at Modi for bid to befriend the Dragon||NEW DELHI: Amid the India-China standoff in eastern Ladakh, Congress on Saturday targeted Prime MInister Narendra Modi by pointing out that he had spent the most time than any of his predecessors in befriending the dragon nation. AICC member Ahmed Patel said PM Modi has visited China more than all the past PMs put together, if his visits as Gujarat CM are also included. He tweeted: "While Chinese have again occupied our territory, important to remember list of official visits to China: Pt Nehru: 1; Shastriji:0; Indira ji:0; Morarji Bhai:0; Rajiv ji: 1; Narsimha Rao ji: 1; Gujral ji:0; Vajpayeeji: 1; Dr Singh:2; Modi ji: 9 (5 times as PM, 4 times as CM)." In another tweet, Patel said: “One of the most decisive victories ever against the Chinese happened in 1967 at Sikkim border, under a Congress government. India had successfully inflicted huge casualties on the enemy, drove them back and won the confidence of Sikkimese people. It was a befitting reply to 1962.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congres-dig-at-modi-for-bid-to-befriend-the-dragon/articleshow/76365170.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur divisional board wraps up evaluation work||Nagpur: Evaluation work for SSC and HSC exams has been completed in Nagpur division with all six districts finishing the paperwork. The process had been delayed already due to teachers’ movements getting restricted because of the lockdown. Once all divisional boards complete evaluations and submit marks to board headquarters in Pune, results can be declared. Secretary of Nagpur divisional board, Ravikant Deshpande, said his staff has now moved on to the second phase of work. “The entire evaluation work is done and the counter-foil, where details of the marks are mentioned, has been sent. We are now in the last phase of collecting the leftover material from all custodians,” said Deshpande. These leftover materials include unused answersheets, question papers etc. Even this work has been completed in Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Nagpur (rural). “On June 15, we will collect the leftover materials from custodians in Nagpur city after which the board season wraps up for us completely,” said Deshpande. The Covid-19 pandemic forced the Maharashtra state education board to reinvent its manner of working. Special permission was given to evaluators to travel during lockdown and collect answersheets for evaluation and then again for submission. Also, for the first time ever, answersheets were not brought directly from all districts to the Nagpur board office. Collection was done at the district level and then, all evaluated answersheets were transported through trucks to the Nagpur divisional board’s office in Civil Lines. Collection of leftover materials from custodians was a crucial factor this time around. Last year, a major cheating racket was exposed in Nagpur which operated on the basis of unaccounted blank answersheets. This time, the board ensured that there was no slip up and all material was accounted for. STUDENT COUNT Std X — 1,87,797 Std XII — 1,68,508 STD XII Science — 72,718 Commerce — 22,346 Arts — 65,126 MCVC — 8,318 Results date not announced yet: State board Quashing rumours on social media about results date for SSC and HSC, state board officials said no decision has been taken yet. State board secretary Ashok Bhonsale issued a statement that students must not believe messages on social media. He added that the board will announce the date in advance to all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-divisional-board-wraps-up-evaluation-work/articleshow/76364585.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 14, 2020||Trichy||Allotment of 288 shops in Kallikudi market revoked||TRICHY: The agricultural marketing and agriculture business department has revoked the allotment of 288 shops in Kallikudi integrated vegetable market, and is planning to go a fresh round of allotment process. The shops were allotted to wholesale vegetable traders in Gandhi market. However, as there was a delay in occupying the shops and non-payment of rent for two years now, the agreements were cancelled. Keys in possession with the traders will be collected. “We will go for a fresh round of selection process to identify traders to occupy the 288 shops. Traders from various parts of the state will be invited to use the market space furnished with cold storage,” an official source said. Meanwhile, as more than 100 farmer producer organisations (FPO) and farmer producer groups (FPG) including from The Nilgiris and Dindigul have applied for shops earmarked for them in Kallikudi, authorities are finalising the allotment. Once the 207 shops out of the total 830 are allotted to the FPOs, a new batch of traders will be invited to apply for the 288 shops. “The district administration should not delay identifying the traders keen to occupy the market. The process should be expedited,” K Shyam Sundar, a resident of Thiruverumbur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/allotment-of-288-shops-in-kallikudi-market-revoked/articleshow/76364909.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Solapur civic body issues notice to hospital||KOLHAPUR: The Solapur Municipal Corporation has served a notice to a private hospital for not providing its medical services despite being ordered to start the operations under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Civic administration has also registered a formal complaint against Yugandhar Hospital. The action was taken following a complaint that the hospital was closed, and medical services were not available. An official press communication from the civic body says that the hospital, earlier, was given a notice of seven days to resume its operations but it continued to be closed. The civic team found that OPD and other services were closed. Doctors and other staff were also not present in the hospital. In the notice, the civic body asked asked why the hospital registration should not be cancelled. Municipal commissioner P Sivsankar said that it was mandatory for private hospitals to offer primary treatment to the patients and refer them to hospital concerned in case of Covid-19 symptoms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-civic-body-issues-notice-to-hosp/articleshow/76363361.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bareilly||Women SHGs to be trained to set up cane nurseries in UP||PILIBHIT: Sugarcane Development Council has launched a scheme to train more than 15,000 women members of self-help groups (SHG) in 44 cane-producing districts in the state to develop sugarcane nurseries to grow cane seedlings, which they can sell to farmers. Giving details, principal secretary, of sugarcane and sugar industry, government of UP, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said “The plan envisages training of women in scientific methods of sugarcane seedling production, giving logistic and technical support to them besides quality seeds and assisting them in finding buyers." Training has begun for SHGs that have registered. Once the SHGs set up a cane nursery through ‘single bud’ or ‘bud chip’ method, the beneficiaries willl be provided with a grant worth Rs 3.50 per seedling by the cane department. Bhoosreddy said the seedlings will play crucial role in increasing cane productivity as these will be transplanted in cropped fields where the cane plants have decayed, dried or simply not germinated properly. Pilibhit district cane officer Jitendra Kumar Mishra, said, "Each nursery will require a small plot of land measuring 600 sq meters. The seedlings will take 30 to 45 days to grow to the needed height. The SHGs will replicate this process twice a year to supply seedlings for spring and the autumn sowing of sugarcane.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/women-shgs-to-be-trained-to-set-up-cane-nurseries-in-up/articleshow/76364104.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board readies alternative plan for essential services||NEW DELHI: With the number of Covid cases rising steeply in the city, departments providing essential services are starting to prepare themselves to keep the services running under any circumstances. Delhi Jal Board has asked all its chief engineers to prepare “contingency plans” at circle, division and sub-division levels “to keep the critical operations running even if a significant number of employees become ill.” A senior DJB official said that instructions keeping in mind the eventuality of suppliers and contractors not being able to cater to the board’s services. “The zonal heads have been made responsible for contacting their employees and contractors and making them aware of their roles in case of such an eventuality,” the official added. The official said that the format of meetings has already been changed. “Before every meeting we consider whether a face to face meeting is actually needed. If it can be held through teleconference we change the format. The board meeting on Friday was also held in separate chunks — with different departments discussing their agenda separately. Earlier, everyone used to be present in the meeting room,” he added. “It is the right time to take stock of safety equipment and protective gear. If there is a shortfall it should be purchased and kept in stock,” the DJB direction read. Though there are only a few global instances of novel coronavirus being detected in sewage, the staff members working in sewage treatment plants have been told to take proper precautions and use protective outerwear, goggles, rubber boots and waterproof gloves, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jal-board-readies-alternative-plan-for-essential-services/articleshow/76364918.cms||Paras Singh
June 14, 2020||Meerut||Anamika Shukla scam: Saharanpur KGBV's warden suspended, inquiry against DC||Meerut: Lalita Sharma, a warden of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), was shown the door after her contract was abruptly ended by the education department in Saharanpur. The department has also proposed to the state government for action against district coordinator (DC), girls' education, after an inquiry into the teacher "Anamika Shukla" scam. A science teacher in the name of "Anamika Shukla" was appointed to KGBV Saharanpur in August last year. According to sources, her real name was "Bhavna" and has gone missing ever since the media blew lid off the scam. The contract of the warden was "terminated for her negligence". "There was sheer negligence on the part of the warden. She did not examine the documents properly. Students used to complain about the said teacher over lack of knowledge and skills about the subject, but the warden never brought this to our notice," RP Singh, Saharanpur's basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) said. In a startling revelation earlier this month, it was unearthed that salaries were drawn in the name of "Anamika Shukla" from 25 different KGBVs across the state, including the one in Saharanpur. A teacher named "Bhavna" was the beneficiary of the scam in Saharanpur who has been underground ever since the revelation came to the fore. A case of cheating against an unidentified suspect has also been registered at Janakpuri police station in Saharanpur. "In the 'Anamika Shukla' case, we are trying to gather details of the woman who was working in the name of Anamika Shukla and people who helped her in faking credentials," Vineet Bhatnagar, superintendent of police (city) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/anamika-shukla-scam-saharanpur-kgbvs-warden-suspended-inquiry-against-dc/articleshow/76364129.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Unlock 1.0 sees 6 new areas in Jaipur reporting Covid cases||JAIPUR: With the start of almost ‘normal’ routine in markets and people stepping out of homes to resume work, there has been an increase in the number of places reporting Covid-19 cases. In the past 13 days, the Unlock 1.0 stage, at least six new places in Jaipur have reported positive cases. With social distancing and preventive measures that people were supposed to follow having taken a back seat, number of cases have been on the rise. Covid deaths in Jaipur are being reported without break. In just 13 days, 36 people in Jaipur alone have died, while as many as 76 areas in the city have reported virus cases. The new areas to have reported Covid-19 cases in the city in Unlock 1.0 phase are Jhalana, Vidhyakpuri, Harmada, Riddhi Siddhi Chauraha, Goner Road and Sikar Road. On Saturday, the number of active cases reported from city stood at 402, which was 285 on May 31. The increase in cases in the fisrt 13 days accounts for 20% of the total cases reported from city so far. Also, as many as 36 deaths reported from the city in June make for 28% of total fatalities reported from Jaipur so far. With the number of areas with Covid cases having increased to 76, while some have been reporting sporadic cases, others account for frequent infections. On Saturday, 27 new cases were reported from 21 different areas of the city. The 27 areas which reported new cases are Hathroi Fort (4), Jyoti Nagar (2), SMS Hospital (2), while one case each was reported from Sodala, Shastri Nagar, Jobner House, Adarsh Nagar, Jaisinghpura, Barkat Nagar, Brahampuri, Pratap Nagar, Jamwaramgarh, Chandpole, Khonagauriyan, Jyanti Market, Sanjay Nagar Bhatta Basti, Vivek Vihar, SB Vihar Colony, Kishanpole, Mohalla Bilochiyan at Delhi bypass. Areas of two other persons among the infected are not clear. Kalicharan Saraf, BJP leader and former health minister, alleged that the Congress party is flouting norms of social distancing. At a time when only 50 guests are allowed in marriages, 200 MLAs have gathered at a hotel, which is quite unfortunate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unlock-1-0-sees-6-new-areas-in-city-reporting-covid-cases/articleshow/76364916.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Govt aims to set up ‘Group of Ramayana’ nations for soft-power diplomacy push||LUCKNOW: There are around 1,200 temples of Lord Ram in the US and economies of countries like Thailand and Malaysia are pivoted around Ramlilas and its paraphernalia of masks, dresses, props and stage set-up. These findings came up during data collection for state government’s ambitious ‘Encyclopaedia of Ramayana’ project, which has begun video-conference sessions with experts from across India, including Mumbai, Raipur, Varanasi, Bhopal, Bengaluru and Ayodhya to record presence of idols, temples, literature, paintings, Ramlilas and even ideologies linking Ram and Ramayana. Experts from US, UK, Russia, Indonesia, Poland and Malaysia have also been roped in for the project. “In the Amritsar session, we may also have participants from Pakistan,” said director, Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, YP Singh. The government’s objective is to create ‘Group of Ramayan’ nations for soft-power diplomacy while presenting well-researched and documented facts on Lord Ram to the younger generation, he said. Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan will document every “tangible and intangible” legacy of Ramayan from across the world and also seek assistance from ministries of culture, external affairs and human resource development for the project. The encyclopedia could run into 100 volumes will take five years to complete. It will be published in various languages for global readership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-aims-to-set-up-group-of-ramayana-nations-for-soft-power-diplomacy-push/articleshow/76364917.cms||Neha Shukla
June 14, 2020||Trichy||Farmers urge PWD to release water in 17 channels for kuruvai||TRICHY: Farmers from ayacut areas in Trichy district have appealed to the public works department (PWD) to release water earlier, so that it reaches the tail-end areas for kuruvai paddy cultivation. Water from the Mettur reservoir in Cauvery reaches Kallanai, following which irrigation water would be channelized to Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts via Cauvery, Vennaru, GA canal (Grand Anaicut) and Kollidam river, farmers said. Only after water is released from Kallanai, PWD releases it into 17 channels, including new high-level Kattalai, Krishnarayapuram, old high-level Kattalai, Thenkarai, Uyyakondan, new Ayyan, Ramavathalai and new Ramavathalai. The water takes its course from the Cauvery river at Mayanur barrage in Karur district. So, it would take at least one week to get water to commence preparatory works for the crop, state organizer of farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress, Puliyur A Nagarajan said. These canals irrigate around 86,000 acres in Trichy district. “Farmers of these 17 canals fully rely on the water released from the canals to commence kuruvai cultivation. So, if the water is released simultaneously with the opening of the sluices in Kallanai, they can raise the crops on time,” Nagarajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-urge-pwd-to-release-water-in-17-channels-for-kuruvai/articleshow/76364919.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 14, 2020||Meerut||Another video of ‘pathetic condition’ of Covid ward at LLRM goes viral, staff claim clip doctored||Meerut: Yet another set of series of videos depicting unhygienic conditions at the Covid ward of the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College have come to the fore. A man, claiming to be a coronavirus positive patient and undergoing treatment at the LLRM hospital, made the video viral. In the clip, the patients claimed that they are not even being allowed to take their phones inside the ward. The video then purportedly showed dirty linen lying on the floor with human faeces, as is being claimed by one of the patients. Afterwards in the video, another man was seen making allegations that a patient had died earlier “for want of oxygen mask.” Responding to the videos, the LLRM authorities termed the clip “doctored”. “We have not admitted any youth by the name he introduced himself in the video. This is being circulated just to malign the name of the institution." said principal of LLRM Dr SK Garg. This comes days after a video had gone viral showing a similar situation. Such repeated revelations led to the transfer of previous principal. Interestingly, the UP government had to retract its earlier order of prohibiting phones inside the quarantine wards after its decision drew flak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/another-video-of-pathetic-condition-of-covid-ward-at-llrm-goes-viral-staff-claim-clip-doctored/articleshow/76364136.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Spas and club houses go from meeting places to isolation hubs in complexes||MUMBAI: The spa was a place to meet and network. Today, ironically, it is the new isolation facility. Common facilities of housing complexes such as club houses, gymnasiums and racquet courts, all with attached bath and washrooms, have now reopened in a new avatar, complete with beds, pulse oximeters and oxygen concentrators. As the city limps back to normalcy, attending office, stepping out for emergency travel, and trips to factories are inevitable for many. Housing complexes offer isolation facilities to such residents when they return “home” without having to come in contact with others, not even their own families. They do not enter lifts or common lobbies and can self-quarantine themselves in these facilities. In Goregaon, D B Woods has converted its spa into an isolation ward and tied up with a home healthcare provider, and while two beds have been set up, they can be ramped up to 10. “This is much needed now in residential complexes. It is quite difficult to get a bed in a hospital,” said Dr Vivek Desai, a resident. Not far away, Romell Group has arranged two-bed isolation centres in four of its properties in Goregaon, Malad and Borivli, as a part of corporate social responsibility. The isolation centres have been provided with a resident doctor to monitor the patients’ medical condition and are equipped with two oxygenated beds along with oximeters and temperature screening devices, said managing director Romell Domnic. Mahakali Model Town CHS at Mahakali, Andheri East, too, has created a two-bed isolation centre in its health club. “The managing committee took inputs from senior doctors who are residents of this society. Budding young doctors in our society also agreed to help in an eventuality,” said building secretary Dinesh Shetty. There is an isolation facility at Ashoka Towers and one just across the road too. Four guest suites attached to the club house of One Avighna Park have been converted into quarantine rooms and if the situation demands, the arrangement can be extended to the banquet facility. One Avighna Park has tied up with doctors to provide round-the-clock care. “The initiative to set up a full-fledged Covid care facility in-house is to ensure residents get immediate care and medical attention should the need arise. Moreover, this is our way of easing the burden on the official machinery,” said Nishant Agarwal, managing director, Avighna Group. In Navi Mumbai, Seawoods residents have formed a Seawoods corona service committee and plan to set up a 100-bed isolation centre at a municipal school to accommodate Covid patients. The committee has sought suggestions and objections from local residents as expenses for an isolation centre’s setup and basic arrangements will have to be borne collectively by the residents. Thereafter, the committee will submit a proposal to the NMMC commissioner. Ramesh Prabhu, president of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association, an apex body of all housing societies in the state, said the residents’ associations, ALMs and corporators were proactively taking part in awareness programmes to ensure better management of the pandemic. He said recently the residents’ welfare associations and corporators in A Ward (that includes areas such as Fort, Colaba, Nariman Point and Cuffe Parade) held an informal meeting to discuss as to how to tackle the outbreak at the housing societies level by arranging for thermometers, sanitizers and well-equipped isolation facilities with basic medication in the absence of guidelines from the government. While there is no official count of societies that have set up such facilities, the trend is picking up. With shortage of ICU beds and ventilators in the hospitals in the wake of the pandemic, housing societies and even individuals are leasing oxygen cylinders. Several societies in the city, Thane and Mumbra have brought oxygen cylinders and have beds in their housing societies as a precaution. The trend started when a resident of Orchid Towers in Byculla tested positive and had breathing problems. “It was in May-end that we tried to reserve a bed in hospital for three days but we did not find one. My sister-in-law’s oxygen level was getting affected and hence I procured an oxygen cylinder from Saifee Ambulance and within two days of medicines and oxygen she fully recovered. Thereafter we brought oxygen cylindersfor our society.’’ said resident Salim Motorwala. “Another housing society, Orchid Enclave, too, had one patient and thus it became a trend in the area. Now we are getting many calls from housing societies for the oxygen cylinders,” said MLA Amin Patel. More than 20 housing societies in south Mumbai have taken oxygen cylinders. Saifee Ambulance along with social groupd No One Ever Sleep Hungry (NESH) and Gaint Group of Byculla and Mumbadevi, have now set up an oxygen bank and have brought around 200 cylinders, and those who need it have to just deposit Rs 4,000. “Every day, people from various parts of city are calling us and are taking these cylinders. Everyday around 20 to 25 cylinders are lease out,” said Shabbir Bharmal, a member of Saifee Ambulance. (Inputs by George Mendonca)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spas-club-houses-go-from-meeting-places-to-isolation-hubs-in-complexes/articleshow/76364921.cms||Ahmed Ali
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Ward secretaries to decide on home or institutional quarantine||Kolhapur: The decision to quarantine the returnees from outside the district will now be taken by ward secretaries. The call to put them in-home or institutional quarantine would also be taken by the respective officials. The corporators on Friday urged civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti to release from this responsibility as the local returnees are forcing them to grant home quarantine in cases even when the locals are returned from the red zone areas. "To ensure strict monitoring of quarantining rules, we have now decided to authorise our officials to check all the documents of travel and medical check-up before granting institutional or home quarantine,” said a senior KMC official on condition of anonymity. So far, 847 people have been put in 18 institutional quarantine centres and 527 granted home quarantine for 14 days. Around 3,300 people have been discharged from institutional quarantine facilities after May 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ward-secretaries-to-decide-on-home-or-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/76363382.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Kothawal Chavadi market trucks encroach roads||CHENNAI: Broadway area has been encroached upon by trucks ferrying stocks for the Kothawal Chavadi wholesale market and the roads surrounding the Madras high court are witnessing bumper to bumper traffic, even during the lockdown. Part of the issue is improper planning by authorities, say stakeholders. Last Saturday, police and corporation had asked the traders to shut shop for a week until Sunday, but the decision was called off within a couple of days. The market was earlier shut from May 19 until May 24 and shops had been functioning on alternate days since May 25. The wholesale market consists of about 1,000-odd shops that deal in pulses, chillies, food grains, jaggery and kirana items. “We had requested shops to function for half a day. Then, every independent association too started requesting it and so the shut down was called off,” said a Kothawal Chavadi trader and an office bearer of one of the larger associations. On the issue of encroachment by trucks, the office bearer said police are not allowing small or large trucks into the streets and the items have to be shifted from the vehicles on the main road to the local shops. “There is hassle. I am not denying it. But, before the pandemic, oversized trucks would be entering the city late at night and drop the items in front of shops before sunrise. Now, trucks are not allowed inside the city and hence the chaos as smaller trucks and load vans have to distribute the items,” said a representative of Madras chillies merchants association. Traders say, the load from vehicles from north Indian states are stranded in Madhavaram and they have to arrange for smaller trucks to transfer the stock. According to K R Suresh, a member of the Madras Chillies merchants association, the situation can be avoided by proper planning. “The association should be informed at least a week in advance so that we can co-ordinate with our major buyers and inform them to buy additional stock. If we are informed on a Friday night about a shutdown from Saturday, there is definitely going to be chaos. There are 11,000 outletss in Chennai. Pre-planning at the vendor-level is important,” Suresh said. City police, meanwhile, are initiating action against the truck drivers. “We have registered about 28 violations against the trucks in the past week in Sowcarpet and Kothawal Chavadi areas. We are taking action whenever we receive complaints from residents and also patrolling the area” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kothawal-chavadi-market-trucks-encroach-roads/articleshow/76364144.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhopal||Higher Covid-19 count due to accurate sampling: Bhopal administration||BHOPAL: District administration officials in Bhopal claim there are more positive cases reported in the city as administration has already identified vulnerable areas and targeting those areas to ensure that disease is detected early and proper treatment is provided. District collector Tarun Pithode urged people to adhere to social distancing norms and all other safety guidelines. Talking to TOI, Pithode said, “We have done highest sampling when it comes to per million population. We are more focused in areas which are more prone to positive cases, and are taking samples from those areas. Thus in case we know that in particular area there could be 10 positive cases and we take 20 samples from that area, our positive rate would be 50 per cent. Our priority is to identify patients early and ensure appropriate, timely treatment.” “If samples are taken from non-prone areas, then positive rate would be low. But that is not important; it is more important to identify suspects and provide treatment on time. People should only do two things - wear mask and keep social distance”, he said and added, “We are following protocols in totality. We are carrying out a lot of awareness campaigns. In areas such as Jehangirabad which was a hotspot, we cleared it and controlled it.”  Urging the people, Pithode said, “Markets are open, people need to be cautious. We are very focused on vulnerable areas, we have done more than 70000 samples, our contact tracing is best.”  Sources said that as the local markets have opened and movement of people has been allowed, it is important for everyone to follow strict safety protocols. An official wishing anonymity said, “There is no miracle that could prevent or cure Covid-19, it is just social distancing, wearing mask, washing hands and avoiding touch as much as possible that will keep us safe”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/higher-covid-cases-because-of-prompt-response-admin/articleshow/76364141.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 14, 2020||Meerut||Saharanpur lawyer files petition in SC demanding probe in ‘foreign funding’ to Darul Uloom||Muzaffarnagar: A Saharanpur-based lawyer has filed a petition in the Supreme Court (SC) demanding a probe into the funding to renowned Islamic seminary Darul Uloom.The petitioner, Farah Faiz, has claimed that the activities of Darul Uloom and Tablighi Jamaat are “suspicious” and a probe should be initiated of the foreign funding to these organisations.Faiz, who is also a lawyer practising in the apex court, urged in her petition, filed on Friday, “Direct the Union of India to pass an order to set up an inquiry against Daul Uloom Deoband in Saharanpur and its activities and its funding from abroad (of which Markaz Nizamuddin is a part, to propagate the Deobandi movement through the Tablighi Jamat)." Notably, Faiz runs an NGO called “Muslim women’s quest for equality” in Uttar Pradesh and it was one of the petitioners in the triple talaq case in the SC.Speaking to TOI, Faiz said, “Funding from abroad and all over the country was being taken in the name Muslim community and Darul Uloom never disclosed its funding before the government. I have filed a petition regarding this. I hope it is accepted by the SC soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/saharanpur-lawyer-files-petition-in-sc-demanding-probe-in-foreign-funding-to-darul-uloom/articleshow/76364142.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 14, 2020||Meerut||Village sealed after farmer dies of Covid-19, family members isolated||Bijnor: An Amroha-based farmer, who was admitted to a private hospital in Moradabad for liver ailment, died on Saturday. While the family of the deceased has been isolated, his village has been sealed as per protocol. The farmer, resident of Mithanpur village under Joya area of Amroha, was suffering from liver disease for the last few years. When his condition started deteriorating, his family members admitted him to a Moradabad hospital on June 9. His samples tested positive for coronavirus on June 11, following which he was shifted to another dedicated Covid-19 hospital. He died on Friday night and his body was cremated on Saturday here at Mithanpur village. The death of the farmer has created panic among officials. The administration has sealed the village and the deceased’s family members have been quarantined. Amroha chief medical officer Dr Megh Singh said, "Till now, 77 persons have tested positive for coronavirus. We have quarantined family members of all patients. The virus has claimed two lives here in Amroha district. They were suffering from comorbidities as well."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/village-sealed-after-farmer-dies-of-covid-19-family-members-isolated/articleshow/76364147.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Trichy||Oxygen supply for all beds at multi-speciality block of MGMGH to admit more Covid cases||TRICHY: All the 350 beds in the multi-speciality block at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital will be equipped with oxygen supply, in anticipation of another spell of Covid-19 outbreak. However, even though oxygen supply pipeline was installed in the old buildings on the campus and Covid-19 patients were shifted to reopen outpatient facility, the hospital administration said it will be difficult to reopen it fully considering the rising number of cases. The six-storey multi-specialty and trauma care building on MGM campus was converted for Covid-19 care since the last week of March. Since then entry to the hospital was restricted with security guards preventing entry of attendants to the campus. As the outpatient treatment for several ailments including non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension etc came to a halt, patients were given with medicines for two months to prevent their visit to the hospital. On Saturday, dean K Vanitha and medical superintendent R Yeganathan were inspected the oxygen pipe installation work. “Our hospital has four high-flow nasal oxygen equipment that can be moved for oxygen supply from the pipeline that is being laid in the hospital now,” said Dr Yeganathan. Intensive care units of the hospital have already been equipped with 82 ventilators. “Keeping Covid-19 patients at the six-storey building and allowing other patients for treatment would lead to infection. Hence, the hospital administration in consultation with Trichy district administration decided to shift the Covid-19 patients to other buildings on the campus last week to allow other departments to resume treatment,” said a source. The sudden spike in cases has prompted the hospital administration to equip the hospital with more facilities like oxygen supply which is usually installed in ICUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/oxygen-supply-for-all-beds-at-multi-speciality-block-of-mgmgh-to-admit-more-covid-cases/articleshow/76364923.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||RTU introduces courses on cyber security and artificial intelligence||Jaipur: Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) is introducing four new courses related to computer science, including the most sought-after course globally – Computer Science and Engineering with Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security, Data Science, and Machine Learning. The AICTE has approved the courses after inspecting the facilities and infrastructure of the university. The absence of modern-day courses has been forcing meritorious students to head to other states to pursue these courses. “These are among the most important and preferred course in the country. I am hoping that these courses would attract deserving and meritorious students from across the state. It is going to lay a foundation of modern courses in the state and help in reviving engineering education,” said R A Gupta, vice-chancellor of RTU. The new courses will be available for the upcoming session. The subject expertise in artificial intelligence will allow students explore different avenues related to human intelligence using computers. While the course in cyber security is among the most employable. Mukesh Choudhary, an official cyber-crime consultant to Jaipur Police Commissionerate, said cybersecurity has become a need for everyone: from a corporation to the government and from an institute to all law enforcement agencies. “Cybersecurity experts have huge opportunities even during the time of Covid-19. It is among the highest paid jobs in the engineering stream,” Choudhary said. All the four courses would have 60 seats each and it will be available in the maiden year at the RTU and in some affiliated colleges. The courses have been finally inducted into the university after it was approved by the academic council on Saturday. BOX RTU sets up computer labs in adopted villages Leading by an example, RTU is establishing a computer lab at its two adopted villages for the school and college students so that they can attend online classes due to Covid-19 comfortably. The lab will include one studio, which will have a big screen for accommodating 20 students at a time. The teachers of RTU are also preparing content in science and maths for these students. R A Gupta, vice-chancellor, RTU, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtu-introduces-courses-on-cyber-security-and-artificial-intelligence/articleshow/76364922.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||E-filing facility launched at Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Saturday inaugurated the e-filing facility allowing advocates and litigants to file court documents online from anywhere and at any time. The facility was inaugurated by Chief Justice DN Patel via a webinar. “The online e-filing is a part of the high court’s ongoing effort to quickly adapt itself to a difficult situation that has arisen because of Covid-19. This facility will enable lawyers and litigants to file their cases round the clock. It will also reduce the footfall in court premises, which is the need of the hour,” a release from the court said. The software installed makes provision for e-filing of not only the main case, but also for filing of applications, documents, rejoinders, affidavits, etc. It allows the registry to scrutinise filings, point out defects, mark and list matters via e-mode. Speaking at the event via videoconferencing, Chief Justice Patel said the restricted functioning of the courts would be extended. “Tentatively, for 15 days this system (of functioning) will continue from home, but subject to certain changes,” Chief Justice Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-filing-facility-launched-at-high-court/articleshow/76364924.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Four former KMC staffers booked for alleged fraud||KOLHAPUR: Four former staffers of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) have been booked under various sections of the IPC for their alleged involvment in Rs 3.14 crore fraud after a complaint in this regard was registered by property tax superintendent Sanjay Bhosale. The complaint has been lodged against former property tax superintendent, tax officials and junior clerk. An inquiry into the same was being conducted since the last eight months. The inquiry found that the staffers, who were terminated, had made changes in the tax assessment leading to financial loss of the municipal corporation. Speaking to TOI, Bhosale said, “The former staffers had changed the category of properties, thus collecting tax much lesser than that was actually assessed. We have found 14 such properties for which the tax paid was much less. It was happening since the last six years. We are also going to take action against property owners for causing financial loss to the civic body.” The suspects have been booked under section 409, 420, 464, 465 and 468 of the Indian Penal Code. These charges refer to cheating and deliberate cause of revenue loss to public body. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti had taken serious cognisance of the complaints filed by activists regarding alleged fraud in the property tax department. Kalshetti himself had visited some properties and had found that the tax calculated was much lesser than the actual assessment. He had also set up three-member panel to carry out investigation in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-former-kmc-staffers-booked-for-alleged-fraud/articleshow/76363396.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||46% corona fatalities in Uttar Pradesh belong to ‘productive’ age||LUCKNOW: Coronavirus has snuffed out more lives in the ‘productive age-group’ in Uttar Pradesh, according to data analysis by state health department. Over 46% of those who died in the state belonged to the 41-60 age-group, seen as the most productive age of a person’s life by economists and demographers. “Of 365 deaths in the state, 172 victims or 46.8% were in the 41-60 age bracket,” according to the report, ‘Age-wise Distribution of Cases & Deaths in UP’. The census, which describes 24-54 age-group as the prime working age and 55-64 as mature working age, also suggests 41-60 years as the most productive part of one’s life. In fact, sociologists see this age-bracket as ‘time of maximum socio-economic responsibility’ as well. The infection fatality rate for productive age-group (172 deaths against the 2952 infected persons) was found to be 5.82%. This means over 5% patients in this age-group have succumbed to the virus. Experts feel that higher proportion of deaths was because the proportion of patients in this category was high. Patients in the 21-40 age-group formed the biggest chunk of 52.23%, while those in the 41-60 bracket comprised 23.4% of total cases. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, also pointed out rising fatalities in this age group. “It has been observed that many younger persons in their 40s and 50s, died mainly because they reported late for treatment,” he said highlighting the need to be aware about early symptoms. The report showed the second big chunk of deaths on an overall scale — 31% — comprised 60-plus citizens even though fatalities among elderly was as low as 6% when compared to other age-groups. “Of total cases reported so far, only 6.2% were above 60 years, but of total deaths, 31% were 60-plus,” said state surveillance officer, Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, adding, “Of total number of inflected elderly in hospitals, 85% survived.” Health officials revealed even though co-morbidity assessment vis-à-vis Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh was still underway, broadly 80% deaths are linked to pre-existing medical conditions. Global literature suggests while pneumonia is the main condition that accelerates progression of coronavirus infection in humans, lifestyle diseases like uncontrolled hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular ailments acted as a precipitating factor in 30% deaths. Dr D Himanshu, in charge of Covid unit at King George’s Medical University, said: “Pneumonia was seen in 91% patients while uncontrolled hypertension was the co-morbid condition in up to 30% casualties. Diabetes was the underlying medical condition that led to deaths in 15-30% patients while CVD was seen in 12.5-15% of the patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/46-corona-fatalities-in-state-belong-to-productive-age/articleshow/76364927.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 14, 2020||Bareilly||UPPCB slaps Rs 3.16 crore fine on Moradabad sugar mill for flouting pollution norms||BAREILLY: Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has imposed a fine of Rs 3.16 crore on a sugar mill in Moradabad for allegedly not meeting pollution-related parameters and also served a closure notice to the unit. According to sources, the mill was “discharging effluents released from distillery in the open instead of disposing it properly as per the guidelines of the pollution board”. UPPCB’s Moradabad regional officer Ajay Sharma said, “We have slapped a penalty of Rs 3.16 crore on the sugar mill in Moradabad’s Balvara for flouting pollution-related parameters. We have also asked the mill management to shutdown the unit after a team of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) visited the mill a few months ago and had found some discrepancies. The effluent was voluntarily discharged by the unit in the open which may pollute Dela river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/uppcb-slaps-rs-3-16-cr-fine-on-mbad-sugar-mill-for-flouting-pollution-norms/articleshow/76364170.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain in Kolhapur, Satara ghats||Kolhapur: The ghat sections of Kolhapur and Satara districts had consistent heavy rainfall on Saturday, receiving 60 mm to 180 mm rain, respectively. along ghat section. In the hinterlands the rainfall was intermittent. Gaganbawda in Kolhapur recorded 160 mm rain, while and Mahabaleshwar in Satara got around 90 mm. Water wasdischarged from some of the dams, including Koyna, which discharged 2,100 cusecs. The IMD in Mumbai had predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall along ghat section for two consecutive days. Now, for Kolhapur, heavy rainfall has been predicted for one more day. Satara is likely to get two more days of heavy rain. The Agromet division of the IMD has advised farmers to complete tilling and prepare land for sowing of kharif crops like groundnut, soybean and pigeon pea, and keep the seeds ready. Farmers have been to continue with nursery sowing of rice and finger millets. District agriculture superintendent Dyandeo Wakure said, “We are providing timely advice to the farmers about when to take up sowing activities. The rains are as expected till now.” Complete road repairs Municipal chief Mallinath Kalshetti has directed the divisional ward offices to initiate road repair works and plug the potholes. Kalshetti said he has asked officials to ensure patchwork immediately so that commuters are not inconvenienced. In the budget presented on Friday, around Rs 35 lakh was allotted for this. Moreover, the state government has assured funds of Rs 25 crore for the road restoration works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-in-kolhapur-satara-ghats/articleshow/76363404.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhopal||BMC focussed on sanitation, awareness: BMC chief||BHOPAL: As the lockdown opens up, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) is focussing on awareness and enforcement, according to BMC commissioner, KVS Chodhary, here on Saturday. “Our focus is on maintaining food, sanitation and hygiene at the quarantine centres. They are by large not full to capacity. However, given some complaints we have doubled our efforts,” said Choudhary. Sanitisation with ICMR mandated disinfections is another role of the BMC. Many of the community halls, colleges, hotels and other public building were converted into quarantine centres by the administration to decongest the densely-populated areas of the city, which were deemed as hotspots. At the peak of the crisis, BMC started dispensing free food and ration. Given the opening up of the economy, the civic body plans to completely move away from the measure, he added. “Food distribution is very less at the moment, compared to the beginning of the crisis,” he said. A number of quarantine centres have been red flagged for spurt in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks in Bhopal. A number of BMC volunteers in distribution of food and other essentials have tested positive since the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-focussed-on-sanitation-sanitisation-bmc-chief/articleshow/76364168.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh fixes testing fee for five private diagnostic centres approved by ICMR||VISAKHAPATNAM: As Andhra Pradesh continues to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases, private diagnostic centres have entered the fray to test Covid-19 samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has till date given its approval to five private laboratories in the state. The private labs include Manipal Hospital, Tadepalli; PathGene Health Care Private Limited, Tirupati; Apollo Health and Lifestyle Limited, Vijayawada; Vijaya Diagnostic Centre, Kurnool and Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences, Vizianagaram. However, the viral diagnostic and research laboratory (VRDL) at the Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences, Vizianagaram, has been set up by the state government under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode to address the absence of a government medical college in Vizianagaram district. The state government on Friday fixed Rs 2,900 as the Covid-19 testing fee for individuals approaching the ICMR-approved private labs, while the fee will be Rs 2,400 for samples sent by the state government, including pooled samples. Even after getting the approval of the ICMR, private labs may only start testing after obtaining permission from the state government. The state has close to 65 RT-PCR and Truenat testing labs set up by the government, and which conduct tests free of cost. According to ICMR guidelines, only National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited private labs can apply for approval. To be eligible, the lab should have a calibrated and functional real time RT-PCR machine and biosafety level 2 cabinet, cold centrifuge, autoclave for sterilising the waste, staff having hands-on experience in using the RT-PCR machine, among other requirements. A representative of the private laboratory in Vijayawada said the lab will also deploy technicians to collect swab samples from the homes of suspected Covid-19 cases. “As per the state government’s order, Rs 2,900 will be collected for testing a sample. However, additional charges will be applicable for at-home testing,” he added. Andhra Pradesh, which collected its first sample on February 1, had to send it to Pune as the state did not have any Covid-19 testing centre. At present, Andhra Pradesh has the highest number of Covid-19 testing centres set up by the state government in the country. The state has conducted more than 5.36 lakh tests as of Saturday morning, or, at least one in every 100 persons has been tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-fixes-testing-fee-for-five-private-diagnostic-centres-approved-by-icmr/articleshow/76364159.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 14, 2020||Trichy||Cops probe ‘suicide’ of young woman separated from lover||PUDUKOTTAI: Police on Saturday launched an inquiry into the unexplained death of a 19-year-old woman who was forcibly separated from her lover, and the secret manner in which her body was cremated in a village near Alangudi in Pudukottai district. A case has been filed against seven members of the woman’s family in this connection. N Savithiri of Idaiyanvalasai village was said to have committed suicide by hanging herself at her house on June 11. Her body was cremated at the village crematorium the same night by the family without informing the police. On Saturday, her lover R Vivek, 20, of Thoppukollai village, raked up the issue with the support of All Indian Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA). A wall-painter by profession, he and Savithiri, a final year college student, were in love for the past eight years and both belonged to different communities. With the woman’s family opposing the relation, Vivek and Savithiri decided to tie the knot and left their houses on June 7 for Coimbatore by car. Police at Kulithalai check post in Karur intercepted their vehicle and enquired with them. “As they revealed their proposal for marriage, police verified their age and found Vivek to be below 21 years, the minimum age limit of marriage for men,” said AIDWA Pudukottai district secretary D Salomi. The issue was moved to the all-women police station (AWPS) in Karur where the family members of both sides were summoned. The police sent the couple home separately with their families. “Savithiri pleaded with the police not to send her with her family citing threat to her life. Yet, the police sent her with them instead of keeping her at a government home,” said Salomi. On receiving the petition from Vivek and AIDWA, Pudukottai superintendent of police P Ve Arun Sakthikumar has ordered a thorough inquiry into the death of Savithri. Forensic experts collected the mortal remains, particularly her bones, from the crematorium. “Probe is on and we have booked the family members of the woman for concealing the news about her death and cremating her body,” the SP told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-probe-suicide-of-young-woman-separated-from-lover/articleshow/76364926.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||IIT-Kharagpur to offer scientific rationale for Ramayana incidents||Global footprints of Lord Ram buttressed with scientific and historic interpretation of events that link continents and ancient civilisations and replete with present-day anecdotes will be part of the ‘Encyclopaedia of Ramayana’ being prepared by the state cultural department. Adding logical temper to what is often termed mythology, IIT-Kharagpur has offered to contribute to the scientific interpretation of the turn of events in Lord Ram’s journey. This was confirmed to TOI by principal secretary, culture, Jitendra Kumar, who wants to take the encyclopaedia to Gen Y Indians. IIT-Kharagpur recently drew global attention through its scientific interpretation of the divine symbol, Swastika, and its imprint in over 16 countries. Most Indians are unaware King of Thailand still takes oath of office in Ram’s name and the epic has footprints over seven southeast Asian countries with even urban landscapes dotted with the deity’s statues. Though 95% Thailand is Buddhist, Ramayana is compulsory in state schools and an annual month-long Ramayana festival is held. Cambodian peasants too recite ‘Rama Kerti’ for a good harvest and Malayasia has its own Ramayana ‘Hikayat Seri Rama’. A Ramayan ballet, Purawisata, is also performed in Muslim-dominated Indonesia’s Yogaykarta City. These facts and revelations will form part of the compilation, said Kumar. Speaking to TOI, Dr Joy Sen, head of architecture and planning, IIT Kharagpur, said, “We want to instil confidence in our history and heritage. Exchanges between Sage Augusta and Lord Rama created the divine weapon, Aditya Hridayam, which means divine altruism as Godhead in your heart. This weapon was used by Ram to destroy Ravan. We traced Augusta and Rama’s name in ancient Egypt and are now ready to rewrite history.” Sapta Rishis or seven famous sages have a deep connection with turn of events in Ramanaya, claimed Dr Sen, whose research on ‘Swastika’ created ripples at international levels. “Sage Rishi Shringa (the uniforn sage) who performed yagna to bring Ram Chandra on earth, is the symbol that links the Indus Valley unicorn seal (Chi Lin), which is also symbolises Virgin Mary in the west and Autumnal resurrection in far-east nations and IIT-Kharagpur will re-explore Ramayana in this light,” said Dr Joy Sen. Dr Anita Bose, global convenor of the encyclopaedia of Ramayana, has conducted six webinars to get inputs from different parts of the world during the lockdown. She has authored a book — Ramayana: Footprints in South-East Asian culture and heritage — which was launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath at 2019 Deepotsav in Ayodhya. In her words, “in most countries in South-East Asia, Europe and the US, Lord Ram epitomises moral values and is popular. When I researched on the popularity and access of Ramayana in south-east Asia, I was taken aback that Ram is ubiquitous from popular folklore to curriculum to culture and heritage, irrespective of whether the country is Muslim or Buddhist.” In India too, tribals of the North-East have their own Ramayana, which is different from that authored by Valmiki or Tulsidas, said Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iit-kharagpur-to-offer-scientific-rationale-for-ramayana-incidents/articleshow/76364933.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 250 drivers & cleaners screened regularly at Kolhapur market||Kolhapur: Over 250 truck drivers and helpers, who arrive at Shahu Market Yard from outside the district, are screened for Covid-19 symptoms every day in order to contain the spread of the infection. The facility for collecting throat swabs of those with symptoms of Covid-19 will begin soon. District collector Daulat Desai said that a large number of trucks arrive at various markets in Kolhapur city. Some of the trucks arrive from the red zones of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, and some from other states as well. Desai said, “We have started a screening facility for all drivers and cleaners arriving from outside the district. We will start collecting the throat swab samples as and when needed. A team of doctors is deployed to carry out the medical check-up. As per the Arogya Setu app, the markets are a place of potential high-risk zones.” In some cities in state, many markets had to be shut after Covid-19 cases were reported among vendors and truck drivers. The markets in the city remains crowded as local traders, vendors and citizens throng to buy essentials. The police administration has stopped the local vegetable markets outside the main Shahu Market Yard. Similar to Shahu Market Yard, the mobile app has shown seven other market places in the city as 'potential high-risk zones'. The civic body has restricted vending activities at those markets. Mohan Salpe, secretary of Agriculture Produce Market Committee, said, “The spraying of disinfectants is carried out regularly. Those drivers, cleaners, head loaders and traders who need further check-up are referred to covid care centres.”  Salpe said that so far nobody who arrived here has tested positive, however, all precautions has to be taken since the big cities are witnessing a surge in the Covid cases among drivers, cleaners, local trader or head loaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-250-drivers-cleaners-screened-regularly-at-kolhapur-market/articleshow/76363412.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan district floods canal to check migrant flow||JAIPUR: Sri Ganganangar district authorities’ move of releasing water in the abandoned Gang Link Canal to stop migration from Punjab and Haryana from the beginning of lockdown prevented even a single Covid case in the district till May 20. Over the next 24 days, the disgtrict registered 19 positive cases till date which includes 17 migrants (16 from Delhi and two from Mumbai). The unusual step of releasing water was taken after hundreds of migrants started entering the state from Punjab and Haryana via the abandoned canal having a length of 76 km. The lockdown in March prompted the migrants to turn to the abandoned canal until water was released in the first week of April. Even migrants from Delhi chose the route to reach districts like Bikaner, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Jodhpur. “The link canal was being conveniently used by migrants entering the state via Sri Ganganagar. They were coming on bicycles, scooters and even on four-wheelers. It was causing a big worry for the administration as the borders were sealed, but the canal was being used as an effective travel route, making the lockdown ineffective,” said Shiv Prasad Madan Nakate, Ganganagar collector. The administration tried to field police to guard the canal, but it turned out to be ineffective. Nakate suggested the idea to fill a stretch of around 8 km along the border with water by his office to prevent movement. “Hadn’t we released water, we would have ended up deploying hundreds of police personnel and other logistics to check them. The effort had prevented our human resource which we had utilised in monitoring our border,” said Nakate. The administration convinced the state for such an unusual move by stating that those entering from the canal are neither getting registered nor screened making the state and the district vulnerable to the virus. Since the state government has regulated the entry of vehicles and people on the interstate border for seven days, the local administration is rest assured that no movement will take place via the link canal “The authorities directed us to fill the 8 km area with water in the first week of April. We released 450 cusecs which was sufficient to fill the stretch, making it impossible for any movement unless a boat was used,” said Pradeep Rustogi, executive engineer, water resources, Sri Ganganagar. The water was drawn from Gang Canal. The link canal was abandoned 16 years ago by the district authorities as it lived its purpose. The authorities have noticed that area around the stretch has turned into a green zone with the presence of fauna back after decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-in-abandoned-canal-slows-down-virus-cases/articleshow/76364928.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt masks yet to reach us, say locals||VISAKHAPATNAM: Although the state government has initiated a scheme of distributing three masks for each resident in the state, several locals in Vizag city claim they are yet to receive the masks. Countering allegations that a section of ward volunteers are not distributing masks, staff at the secretariats said the distribution process is underway. Further, manpower at each secretariat is less compared to the area it has to cover, staff said. “Number of masks we have received from the government is less than what we have to distribute. Under such circumstances, we are convincing the residents and giving them one or two, instead of three, so that there is at least one mask for all residents,” a sachivalayam secretary told STOI. In mid-April, the state government had decided to distribute masks to contain the spread of coronavirus. In a review meeting on April 20, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed officials to make arrangements for the supply of 16 crore masks for a population of 5.3 crore. Mask distribution in Vizag city started in mid-May, but on Saturday, when STOI randomly asked several residents of the city if they had received masks, almost all replied in the negative. “I have not received masks. I had asked the volunteer who said they are yet to get the stocks from the government,” Madhurawada resident P Sidharth told STOI. Sidharth who stays in a residential complex confirmed that most residents there are yet to receive the masks. When contacted, ward secretariat officials claimed they had received stocks as late as last week but have started to distribute them. “We would be completing the process by Monday or Tuesday,” said Sai Meera Mogal, a ward volunteer. A senior official of the district administration said they have not received any complaints about irregularities in the distribution process. “It is unfortunate that residents are not receiving the masks. We would definitely look into the issue,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-masks-yet-to-reach-us-say-locals/articleshow/76364171.cms||Arpit Basu
June 14, 2020||Trichy||Resume trains on Karaikudi, Tiruvarur route||TRICHY: Rail users have appealed to the Trichy railway division to resume train services on the Karaikudi – Pattukottai - Tiruvarur section, immediately. DEMU (diesel electric multiple unit) train services commenced on this section last year after the entire meter gauge section between Karaikudi and Tiruvarur was converted into broad gauge. However, due to shortage of staff, particularly gatekeepers, railways operated the services by carrying gatekeepers on board (travelling gatekeepers) to operate level crossing gates. As the process took more time, the train services witnessed poor patronage and were withdrawn. Meanwhile, the Thanjavur District Rail Users raised apprehensions whether train services between Karaikudi and Tiruvarur would continue, as the railway board chairman had recently stated that poor revenue-making sections would be shut. “If all the vacant gatekeeper posts are filled along the section, DEMU trains can be operated within the stipulated schedule time which would eventually attract more number of passengers,” president of the association, P K T Shanmugam said. tn n||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/resume-trains-on-karaikudi-tiruvarur-route/articleshow/76364929.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: CCTV cameras, AI-based lights to control traffic, issue e-challan||LUCKNOW: The work to install the integrated traffic management system (ITMS) in the city has resumed following relaxation in the lockdown. The project, already delayed by a year, is expected to be completed by June 30. Artificial intelligence-based lights will regulate traffic flow at 155 crossings. The project includes a network of CCTV cameras at 20 major crossings and speed violation detection at 10. The cameras will capture images of traffic violators and transmit it to the command centre for issuing e-challan. Violations which cameras can capture include jumping red light, riding without helmet and tripling, among others. The major tasks still pending include connecting the system with the command centre at Lalbagh and integrating ITMS with centralised databases of all-India vehicle registration numbers required to identify vehicles of other districts and states. “Traffic lights have been installed at 89 crossings and red light violation detection systems at five. We have written to authorities to expedite the process as the project is already delayed,” said DCP traffic Charu Nigam. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi, nodal officer of the project, said, “The deadline given to the vendor to complete work is June 30.” Conceptualised in 2016, the Rs 110-crore project was expected to start in 2018, but got delayed owing to several bottlenecks. A part of it was launched on August 15, 2019 and the project was supposed to be fully launched by March 20 this year, but was delayed again due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cctv-cameras-ai-based-lights-to-control-traffic-issue-e-challan/articleshow/76364943.cms||Rahul Tripathi
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Private schools ask govt to compel parents to pay fees||Ajmer: Rajasthan Private School Association has said it is impossible to run private schools as parents working even in government departments are not depositing fees of their children nor the government has released amount due under the Right to Education to schools. The association has decided to launch a protest through a campaign from June 15 to 30. Association president Kailash Sharma said it is a question of survival of private schools and therefore schools are writing memorandums to prime minister and chief minister. It said schools were conducting online classes and paying fees to teachers but parents were denying fees. In such a condition, schools have no option but to close down. The association alleged that parents working in government department and getting full salary are denying fees claiming that schools remained close from March. There is opposition from many parents associations urging not to pay fees though schools are paying salary to their teachers. The association also claimed that the state government has not reimbursed the fees under Right to Education and therefore private schools were facing financial crisis. The association demanded that the state government should immediately reimburse the fees under RTE and ask government employees to pay fees of their wards as well as increase the CC limit without interest to schools. If private schools do not get any relief from state government, then schools will be forced to remove their staff. THe association also asked the state government to ask parents to submit fees of their children so that schools do not face economical crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/private-schools-ask-govt-to-compel-parents-to-pay-fees/articleshow/76364937.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||41 new Covid cases in Solapur city||Kolhapur: Solapur city has reported 41 new Covid-19 cases and six more deaths on Saturday. Six patients were discharged on Saturday. The total number of cases in the city is 1544, with 802 patients discharged and 133 casualties Solapur six new Covid-19 patients were found in Solapur rural on Saturday..Solapur rural has recorded four deaths on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/41-new-covid-cases-in-solapur-city/articleshow/76363419.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhopal||Seek community help to prevent Corona spread: CM||Bhopal: The chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that full help of community should be taken to prevent spread of coronavirus infection in the state. He directed the health department to prepare an effective system in this matter. A presentation on Community based Surveillance System was made by the heath department, under which ‘Sarthak Light App’ and ‘Covid Mitra’ can be made for the convenience of the citizens. Chouhan was reviewing the situation of Corona and arrangements in the state through video conferencing at Mantralaya on Saturday. During the review of Jabalpur district, Chouhan instructed that better coordination should be maintained with private hospitals. In case of any negligence on their part, action should be taken against them after serving notice. It was found during the review of Gwalior district that there is less mortality rate because of high testing. Out of the 251 positive cases, 163 patients went back home after the recovery. There are 86 active cases and 2 patients have succumbed to corona. Mortality rate is 0.8% and positivity rate is about 1%. The chief minister directed that efforts should be made in future too to prevent spread of infection. On demand of the collector, permission was granted to shut down market for a day. ACS health Mohammad Suleman informed that the situation of Indore is continuously improving. Indore stood at 7th place among the most infected cities of the country. Indore’s national share of Corona has become 1.30 percent, which was very high in the past. The ACS informed that there are less than 10 corona patients in 20 districts of the state. At the same time, 5 districts namely Alirajpur, Hoshangabad, Seoni, Sehore and Sidhi are Corona free districts. The chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri and other officers were present on the occasion. BOX… GFX… TECH IT EASY SARTHAK LIGHT APP Any citizen can register with mobile number and address. Information about nearest Covid treatment and sample collection centre will be given High risk patient (Sari/ILI) on registration will get an SMS where to go for checkup/test. Ambulance services will be provided from 104 helpline COVID MITRA To be started in urban areas of state, first Any healthy individual up to 45 rys, social organization and NGO can become Covid Mitra. They will be provided with oxymeter to check oxygen level of people||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seek-community-help-to-prevent-corona-spread-cm/articleshow/76364188.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: At 10,000 per million, Visakhapatnam tops test ratio in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Since testing began in Visakhapatnam’s labs in early April, the district has conducted the most number of Covid-19 tests (42,000 samples) per million population in the state. Testing stands at around 10,000 tests per million population (the district has a population of 4.2 million or 42 lakh), higher than the state average of 9,500 tests per million (AP’s population is nearly 90 million in 2020). Speaking to TOI, special officer for Covid-19 (Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts) Dr PV Sudhakar said, “Whenever we come across a positive case, we are testing anybody directly or indirectly associated with the patient, even if the primary and secondary contacts have no symptoms. In fact, over 80% of those testing positive are asymptomatic. We are now focusing on everyone in containment zones and are not scared about the increasing number of positives daily because it is a result of enhanced testing.” As per officials, of the total 252 cases so far (till June 12), apart from the 164 local residents, there are 81 returnees to Vizag from various states, districts and countries who have also tested positive. As per district health officials, 1,000-1,500 samples are tested on a daily basis, up from 400-500 samples in April. Prior to April 11, samples were sent and tests conducted at Kakinada. “At present, tests are being conducted by five RT-PCR machines located at the test lab and Naco lab at King George Hospital. Truenat tests are being held in DST lab of Government Hospital for Chest and Infectious Diseases. However, in Vizag, private labs may not be roped in as they do not have NABL accreditation specifically for Covid-19 test and applying for and getting accreditation is a time-consuming process,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-10k-per-million-vizag-tops-test-ratio/articleshow/76364195.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Two private dentists collect 1,800 swab samples from c-zones||NAGPUR: Though not their cup of tea, two dentists alone have voluntarily helped Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) collect over 1,800 swab samples for Covid-19 test from containment zones. The duo, who run private clinics, made themselves available during the special camps organized by the civic body for pregnant women, elderly and people with comorbidities in these high risk zones since around mid-May. Generally, the sample collection teams have ENT specialist who are qualified for the job. Three teams from the Government Dental College and Hospital (GDCH) too joined the sample collection work at quarantine centres after spike in number of suspected cases, as per institutional nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ashita Kalaskar. So far, the teams have collected 1,748 samples. While new teams of GDCH would replace the first ones which will go in quarantine as per norms, the dentist duo of Dr Sagar Naidu and Dr Shubham Mangate continue to work without a break. Dr Naidu, a PG in oral and maxillofacial surgery, said, “When the pandemic started, we wanted to coordinate screening programmes. But it didn’t’ work out. Luckily, we approached NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai who suggested us how to go about it.” Both underwent training in swab collection at IGGMCH and were later deputed at Covid ward. “After hands on training, we started visiting containment zones at Manewada, Chhaoni, Pachpaoli, Mominpura, Hill Top, Bande Nawaz Nagar, Rameshwari and Naik Talao,” said Dr Mangate. He said as compared to other doctors, they found the task easy. “It’s difficult for a person to control tongue movement when swab sample is being taken. Saliva shouldn’t touch the swab. We need only virus load. Being dentist, we know how to deal with it,” he said. GDCH dean Dr Mangesh Phadnaik said each of the three teams included two to three assistant professors, postgraduate students and paramedical staff members. “These teams were trained by ENT department of GMCH. After this, the teams were independently deputed on regular basis for swab collection,” said the dean. As on date, teams from IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital and Government Ayurveda College, GDCH and NMC have collected 17,834 swab samples. Dr Sachin Khatri, Dr Kalpak Peter and Dr Yogesh Ingole led the GDCH teams. Other members are Dr Yogesh Rathod, Dr Sweta Gangotri, Dr Vaishali Sarve, Dr Benita Fernandis, Dr Neha Gupta, Dr Vaishnavi Chodankar, Dr Niyati Mehta, Dr Challang Mark, Dr Niharika Mistri, Dr Rajesh Ijalker and Dr Subodh Purohit. Asha Rathod, Rajesh Raut, Ashwin Khandekar, Yuvraj Ramteke, Mayur Temburne, Nitin Gedam, Sunil Pant, Dhanraj Surpam and Jayalaxmi Naidu were paramedics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-pvt-dentists-collect-1-8k-swab-samples-from-c-zones/articleshow/76364609.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid-19 hospital’s ICU put to use only last week||PANAJI: Although the state has seen over 450 Covid-19 cases, several of them with comorbidities, none have had to be put on ventilator until Saturday. The ICU was not even required till last week when a case from Mangor Hill became the first to need intensive care. The man, involved in the fishing business, was the first local case to be detected from Mangor Hill. His family was also admitted to the hospital. Brought in as highly symptomatic, he was put on oxygen as his levels were low. “He was monitored to see whether he required to be put on a ventilator, but he didn’t require one,” a doctor said. The rest of the nearly 250 patients, who tested positive from Mangor Hill, weren’t as symptomatic as this first family that was brought in. The second-high risk patient, who was admitted to the ICU was a man from Baina, admitted last week. His was a case of chronic renal disease and has been put on dialysis. The Covid-19 hospital in Margao has one dialysis bed. “He had a chronic kidney ailment and was put on dialysis. He had a history of fever and was admitted in the isolation ward at Chicalim hospital. When his test came positive, he was shifted to the Covid-19 hospital,” the doctor said. When the state’s active Covid cases were in double digits, the symptomatic and asymptomatic were placed in different wards of the 220-bed Covid-19 hospital. With active cases now touching 453, the asymptomatic once tested positive are shifted directly to the Covid care centres in Shiroda and Colva. Children, pregnant women and seniors with comorbidities, however, aren’t shifted out of the Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hospitals-icu-put-to-use-only-last-week/articleshow/76364948.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Govt focused on improving health infra’||Tirupati: Deputy chief minister Kali Krishna Srinivas inspected the site for the proposed medical college to come up at Madanapalli, in Chittoor district, on Saturday. Srinivas, who is also holds the health portfolio, was accompanied by his cabinet colleagues K Narayana Swamy and Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. The minister said improving the state’s health infrastructure is one of the major focus areas of the government. “The chief minister has been aggressively taking forward his commitment of upgrading state hospitals, primary health centres and teaching hospitals in the state. Over Rs 16,000 crore would be spent on developing the health infrastructure. Many hospital buildings that were in a dilapidated state are being refurbished,” Srinivas said. “Towards our goal to ensure medical education no longer remains a remote dream for the poor, the government will establish one medical college in every parliamentary constituency. One such medical college will come up at Madanapalle, for which tenders would be issued soon. We expect the construction work to start in August,” the health minister said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-focused-on-improving-health-infra/articleshow/76364186.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records 222 new cases, two deaths; tally rises to 5,858||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh witnessed the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 222 people, including 22 police personnel, testing positive. The stae also recorded two more deaths taking the Covid-19 toll to 82. The fresh cases pushed the state’s cumulative Covid-19 tally to 5,858. As many as 94 people were recovered and were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. There are currently 2,591 active cases in the state with 3,185 cumulative recoveries and 82 casualties. Nearly 1,300 foreign returnees and people arriving from other states have tested positive in AP till now. Of the 36 Covid-19 cases reported in East Godavari on Saturday evening, 22 police personnel from 3rd battalion, APSP, Kakinada, and two of their family members were diagnosed with the disease. The district officials suspect that the police personnel might have contracted the virus when they were deployed to other cities as part of their duties. A few constables of the battalion recently returned to Kakinada after concluding their duties in Vijayawada. The fresh cases took the 3rd battalion-related cases to 38. After a tea vendor was diagnosed with the disease on Friday from Appu Ghar area in Vizag city, a roadside toy vendor from zoo park area was found positive for the virus on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-222-new-cases-2-deaths-tally-rises-to-5858/articleshow/76364605.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district registers 3 fresh cases||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district registered three fresh cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 713, of which, 89 are active and the rest have been discharged from various hospitals. Among three new patients, one is a resident of the city while the other two belong to Karveer taluka. Five patients were discharged on Saturday, officials of the district administration’s health department said on Saturday. A senior health official requesting anonymity said, “We have increased the scope of testings. For the last week or so, around 125 swabs were tested. Now, the testings have been increased to 210. The swabs of senior citizens, especially those with co-morbid conditions, are being tested now. Early detection of the infection among senior citizens and co-morbid people can help reduce death rates.” So far, eight people have sucuumbed to the infection in the district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-registers-3-fresh-cases/articleshow/76363425.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Supply chain issues continue even after easing of lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: Disruptions in supply chain caused by the Covid-19 lockdown are yet to settle down as many products are still not available in the city. While the issue has caused unavailability of some items, changes in food habits have resulted in shortage of many essential products. City merchants say they witnessed an unprecedented demand for ready-to-eat products and wheat flour (atta) during the lockdown. The high demand for atta during summer was unusual, they said. M Sambasivarao, who runs a kirana store in Poranki, said people normally but more atta in winter as many do not prefer chapati or other food items made from atta during summer. “We ran out of atta stock within a few days, but could not get atta stocks as per the demand due to supply chain issues during the lockdown. Even now we are getting atta in limited quantities from suppliers while the demand is still high from consumers,” he said. Ready-to-eat items like instant noodles and pasta have seen a spike in demand, so too have biscuits and other snacks. J Karteek, who runs a general store, said the racks of ready-to-eat products became empty within one week of the lockdown. “As supply chain issues still persist, we are yet to get all the products,” he said. Some FMCG products like a noted brand of quick adhesive, tea powder, cosmetics, hair colours and soaps are still not available as per demand and are selling at a premium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/supply-chain-issues-continue-even-after-easing-of-lockdown/articleshow/76364200.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Coronavirus hits coolies as fewer trains choke their earnings||JAIPUR: Operation of fewer trains has badly hit the income of coolies at Jaipur station. Since resumption of rail traffic, 178 coolies of Jaipur station have not been able to earn proper wages to feed their families. While passengers don’t find it safe to carry extra luggage, coolies are carrying sanitizers and wearing masks to build confidence. “Usually April, May and June are the months when we witness crowded trains. This is mainly due to school and college vacations and summer wedding season. This is the time when each coolie earns Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per day. However, after Covid outbreak, we started sitting idle and the condition has not changed much even after resumption of rail traffic,” said Abdul Salam, a coolie who has a family of four sons, three daughters and wife. Salam said either passengers are carrying very less luggage or are reluctant to hire a coolie. “Today, I earned merely Rs 200 when I had gone to serve on Jaipur-Mumbai superfast. In the evening, I will check Aashram Express and Jodhpur-Howarh Express at night to see if I get a few customers,” he added. “Iss time to fursat nahin hoti thee ab khaali baithey hain (Earlier, during this period we had no time, and this time we are sitting idle),” said Shafi Mohammad. Despite all odds, the coolies are sensible enough to help their colleagues. “We try to help those who have large family and are old. As a precaution the railway authorties have stopped the coolie who are above 55 years of age,” said Rudmal Saini, another coolie. Coolies praised railway authorities for providing them ration packets. “During lockdown, railway authorities arranged grocery packets containing wheat, edible oil and pulses for daily use which helped our families. We are also taking every precaution. Some NGOs and social groups also distributed sanitizers,” said Abdul Salaam, another coolie. Coolies hope gradually passengers movement will increase and life will limp back to normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-hits-coolies-fewer-trains-mean-meagre-earnings/articleshow/76364947.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Passenger load in domestic flights tripled within 19 days||JAIPUR: Since the resumption of domestic flights from Jaipur airport on May 25, the passenger load has tripled within 19 days. However, officials said that this number can’t be termed as normal. The airport witnessed around 1,000 passengers (arrivals and departures) per day during the initial period. Now, it has now gone up to 3,000. “People who have emergency are only travelling now. But as passengers are going through standard operating procedures, precautions and other things, they are showing confidence in air travel. The number is gradually increasing. But, it will take some more time to reach a higher load of passengers,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Airport authority of India (AAI), Jaipur. Passengers said that they are satisfied with the precautions taken by their respective airlines and the airport authorities; still they have some fear in their minds. “I have got face shield and mask and keeping a sanitizer. I have ensured I should not touch anything inside the aircraft and at the airport, still there is a fear,” said Aniket Solanki, a traveller from Delhi. Though Jaipur airport has got nearly 22 scheduled flights, yet everyday it is witnessing cancelation of at least eight to 10 flights. “In every flight, the number of passengers is increasing except in Jaipur to Agra route. Some days ago, there were just two passengers on board, still it left for Agra,” said an officer at the Jaipur airport. Jaipur airport has been handling at least 12 flights per day on an average in which the number of passengers is gradually increasing. The authorities said that passengers are even reluctant to purchase tea and coffee at the only eatery shop at the airport. The Covid-19 scare has also forced the passengers to avoid eating or purchasing from the eatery of the airport. “They are having tea or coffee. Some passengers bring packaged food, including soft drinks or chips. But the sale is poor,” an officer added. Despite all odds, there is a possibility of resumption of flight to Chennai, Surat, Chandigarh and Jalandhar. “The final schedule is yet to come. Hopefully these flights would be resumed,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passenger-load-in-domestic-flights-tripled-within-19-days/articleshow/76364949.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Meet Yadi Reddy, the beggar who donated Rs 8 lakh to a temple||VIJAYAWADA: At the Sai Baba temple in Mutyalampadu, devotees stop before the well-known figure of Yadla Yadi Reddy dressed in orange robes and place their contributions in a ‘kamandal’ in front of him and seek his blessings. Photographs of Yadi Reddy deck the walls of the temple gaushala, the food donation centre and other places in the temple complex. Yadi Reddy, who seeks alms at the entrance of the Sai Baba temple, has over the years donated close to Rs 8 lakh for various developmental activities at the temple besides inspiring others to donate their earnings to devotional activities. Born and brought up in Chintapalli village in Nalgonda district in Telangana, Yadi Reddy moved to Vijayawada when he was ten years old. He worked as a rickshaw puller for 30 years and took to begging outside the Mutyalampadu Rama temple when he fell sick. “I prayed to Sai Baba and vowed that I would donate Rs one lakh after recovering. After I recovered, I donated the amount to the temple. The temple management was initially shocked with my donation, but it was possible only with the support of the devotees,” Yadi Reddy said. P Gowtham Reddy, honorable president of Mutyalampadu Sai Baba temple, said, “Yadi Reddy made a donation of Rs three lakhs for the temple gaushala, he supported the construction of the Dattatreya temple and donated silver ornaments. He donates all his earnings to the temple as he has no family. He is an inspiration to many others.” Speaking about his donations, Yadi Reddy asked that others would think of extending a helping hand with the little they had. “I always wished to live serving Lord Sai Baba. I’ll spend my earnings as part of my contribution to any welfare and development activity taken up by the temple. It is my wish.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/meet-yadi-reddy-the-beggar-who-donated-rs-8l-to-a-temple/articleshow/76364228.cms||Venu Lanka
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP asks varsity to postpone exams||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar wrote a letter to vice chancellor of KNR University of Health Services requesting him to postpone dental PG exams to be conducted from June 23. Sanjay said that he had received several requests from students about difficulty in appearing for the exmas during the current crisis. Many hostels were closed during lockdown and that has also affected preparation for exams, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-asks-varsity-to-postpone-exams/articleshow/76364626.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Aldona isolates for 3 days, Nachinola for 7||By: Denver D’Souza SALIGAO: Aldona, the largest village of Bardez taluka, decided on Saturday to observe a three-day lockdown from June 14 to 16 after a resident tested positive for Covid-19. Later, the panchayat of the neighbouring village of Nachinola also issued a public notice to close down all shops, outlets, businesses, etc, from June 15 to 21 on account of the coronavirus case detected in Aldona. “In light of one person in Aldona having tested positive for Covid-19, the decision to implement a complete lockdown across the village was taken at an emergency panchayat meeting. We have also informed the deputy collector, our MLA Glen Ticlo and all relevant authorities about the same. Essential services such as grocery shops will be allowed to operate from 6.30am to 10.30am, while medical stores and banks will operate as per their regular timing,” deputy sarpanch Shukradini Vallabh Polle told TOI. “As per our information, the person who tested positive, has roamed around extensively in the village the day before he received his test report. Hence, we needed to take this emergency measure,” Polle added. However, not all residents agreed with the decision for a lockdown in Aldona. “This is disgusting. Another imported case shutting down law abiding citizens. While Covid-free people were asked to self-quarantine, the affected ones move around freely. We need to implement the rules seriously or we are heading for disaster. Also, panchayats should not be granted powers of declaring lockdowns. They aren’t experts. It should be done only by government authorities to ensure proper implementation. Or else we will have lockdown each time cases surface due to failure in border checks and home quarantine,” Jonas Correia, an Aldona resident said, Meanwhile, in Nachinola, stores selling essential commodities will remain open from 8am to 10am on June 16, 18 and 20 for the benefit of villagers in view of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-aldona-isolates-for-3-days-nachinola-for-7/articleshow/76364955.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Consider using ready government flats to house patients: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases spiking in the city, the Delhi high court has directed the AAP government and the Centre to increase the number of beds and ventilators in hospitals. It has asked the state to consider if ready-to-move-in government flats can be used by Covid hospitals to accommodate additional patients. The bench of Justices D N Patel and Prateek Jalan also said it expects the state government to “scrupulously” follow directions issued by the Centre, while iterating that all hospitals in Delhi will have to correctly upload the availability of “real-time bed capacity data” so that the public may know where to go if suffering from coronavirus. HC directs govt to arrange for more beds, ventilatorsConsidering the gravity of the situation, we hereby direct the respondents to increase the number of the beds for Covid-19 patients and also try to increase the number of ventilators so that all patients in need can get this facility,” the high court said while disposing of a PIL. The court was informed by Delhi government that till June 9, there were 9,179 beds for coronavirus patients in the city, out of which 4,914 were occupied. Out of 569 ventilators, 315 were being used, the court was told. “We also direct the concerned authorities to look into the suggestions given by the Delhi Medical Association (DMA)...these may also be kept in mind whenever the respondents are formulating their policy decisions,” the order said referring to a recent statement by the DMA. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed through advocate Mridul Chakravarty, seeking directions to the Delhi government ensuring the availability of an adequate number of beds in private as well as government hospitals and provide the adequate facility for admission of persons requiring treatment for Covid-19. It also sought proper implementation of containment guidelines, saying Defence Colony in South Delhi had several cases but was not declared a containment zone. In response, the state government pointed out that lanes where the infection had been found in Defence Colony were declared containment zone but there was no policy to seal off the entire colony. The court agreed with the government’s stand and refused to issue any order in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/consider-using-ready-government-flats-to-house-patients-delhi-hc/articleshow/76365176.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 14, 2020||Goa||Covid +ve mom’s baby to be retested||Panaji: The first baby born to a Covid+ mother at the Covid-19 hospital on Friday will be retested on Sunday. Although the baby tested negative at birth, doctors say this doesn’t mean anything and that the new born will be tested between 45-72 hours. The baby is presently under the care of the paediatric team at GMC, away from her mother who is admitted at the Covid hospital in Margao. The baby will be taken near her mother if she tests positive. The baby has developed jaundice due to ABO incompatibility (incompatibility between the mother’s and baby’s blood groups) and is being treated at the GMC. “The baby is receiving phototherapy for the jaundice and is stable,” a doctor said. The woman from Vasco’s Mangor Hill was admitted at the Covid-19 hospital on Friday afternoon and gave birth to a baby girl within a few hours. Doctors wore full PPE while performing the C-section and shifted the baby out of the Covid hospital to GMC’s paediatric ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-ve-moms-baby-to-be-retested/articleshow/76364958.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Body of boy bitten by rat in mortuary||WARDHA: The body of the two-and-half-years old boy, who drowned in a water tank at Renkapur village in Samudrapur taluka on Friday evening, was bitten by a rat in the postmortem room at the rural hospital on Saturday. The negligence of the authorities irked the deceased’s family because of which the atmosphere at the hospital was tense. According to the police, Pratham alias Ganesh Raju Nikhade fell into the water tank in the backyard of his house while playing with his 7-year-old sister. The father and some locals rushed the boy to the rural hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The authorities refused to hand over the boy’s body to his family without an autopsy. The body was kept in the postmortem room overnight. When the body was taken out for the autopsy on Saturday morning, it had marks of rat bites. As the atmosphere was tense, the police, along with tehsildar Raju Ranveer, reached the hospital. The family of the deceased boy demanded action against those responsible for the negligence. Civil surgeon P Madavi said an inquiry committee has been constituted and that stringent action will be taken against the guilty. After an assurance from the tehsildar, villagers allowed the autopsy to be performed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/body-of-boy-bitten-by-rat-in-mortuary/articleshow/76364662.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 198 more test positive for Covid-19||BHOPAL: With 198 positive cases reported on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 10,641. Apart from these new cases, seven casualties were also reported in the state. The districts where these cases were reported include, Indore (2), Jabalpur (2), and 1 death each in Neemuch, Khargone and Sagar districts. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 447. Of the 51 districts where infections have been reported new cases were reported from 25 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures include Bhopal (63 new cases), Indore (57 new cases) and Neemuch (12 new cases). On the brighter side, 176 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 7,377. Thus, 69.3% of the total people who have been tested positive so far have recovered from the disease. Currently, there are only 2,817 active patients in the state. Reports of more than 2.46 lakh samples have been received in the state so far. Meanwhile, administration has announced 1,041 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones where any kind of movement is strictly prohibited. Besides, Madhya Pradesh government has established 1,197 fever clinics in the state where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/198-more-test-positive-for-corona/articleshow/76364237.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Migrants from Pune help fix furniture of school in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A group of migrant workers from Pune with expertise in carpentry work has fixed the furniture of a government school while spending the quarantine time in their native Khajwana village in Mundwa tehsil in Nagaur district. These workers have fixed chairs, tables, almirah and blackboards without any charges. Earlier, another group of migrant workers under quarantine had painted a government school building in Sikar district. A group of 11 villagers under the leadership of Bansilal Jangid working as carpenters in the real estate sector in Pune for years returned on May 6 after they lost all hopes of any revival from the epidemic in the near future. They were sent to a school for 14 days of the quarantine period in their native village by the authorities. “After spending 3-4 days, we learnt that the furniture in the school is very old and not in a usable condition. I discussed with my team that if we can fix these as a token of thanks to the school staff and the local administration for providing us shelter, care and food,” said Jangid. The team expressed its desire which was readily accepted by the school authorities. The team was given access to the hall for changing the shape of the furniture. They made an assessment of tools and raw material required for fixing the furniture. “Most of us came with our tools so what was required is adhesives, screws, wood and paint. It was provided to us within two days,” said Jangid. The team started its operation while follows social distancing guidelines and fixed furniture which is sufficient for grade 5 of this senior secondary school. For the team, they cherished each and every moment as for the first time they did something for their village and able to do any work since lockdown. The quality of work has impressed the school authorities who have recommended the district education authorities to employ them for fixing furniture in nearby schools. “They have done the work for free out of gratitude, but now it has become our duty to provide these highly skilled workers with the economic opportunity so that they can survive with dignity and should contribute with their skill in their native village and district,” said Bhanwar Lal Jat, principal of government senior secondary school, Khajwana. They have released from the quarantine on May 1 and serving another 14 days of home isolation in the village. Jangid says that once they are done with the home isolation, they would return to complete the unfinished job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrants-fix-furniture-of-school-during-quarantine/articleshow/76364956.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 14, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal reports 63 cases for second day||Bhopal: 63 cases were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital including MLA from Kalapipal and youth Congress state president Kunal Choudhary, here on Saturday. Number of cases in the state capital since the pandemic began has touched 2,145. Choudhary approached the district hospital in Bhopal. He had fever, one of the symptoms of the infection. On Friday, a team from JP hospital collected swab samples from the MLA’s residence at Link Road one. He tested positive for the infection after test was conducted at AIIMS Bhopal laboratory. Since then, teams from health department and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) have carried out Covid-19 interventions as per protocol. The MLA’s family and close contact would also be tested for Covid-19, said a health department official. The MLA’s testing positive for Covid-19 could have a bearing on upcoming Rajya Sabha polls scheduled for June 19. Meanwhile, quarantine centre at Bhauri, reported 11 more positive cases, here on Saturday. Eight people had tested positive in the centre earlier in June. Mother of a 108 call centre employee was reported with Covid-19 infection. The family resides in Shahjehanabad area. Over in the area 15 people tested positive with the infection. It includes Tilajamalpura, which reported four cases. Four more people were hospitalised after getting infected with Covid-19 in Bairagarh, said a district administration official. Towards TT Nagar, four more cases were reported from Nehru Nagar. Banganga slum continues to report more infections. The total in the area has reached 55.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-reports-63-cases-for-second-day/articleshow/76364256.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Civic body starts random tests at high-rises to check Covid spread||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started conducting random tests on residents living in high-rises and apartment buildings. The decision was taken after several Covid-19 cases were reported from such residential complexes in the past 10 days. A KMC anti-Covid squad on Thursday communicated to the residents of Arvind Tower, a high-rise on Arabindo Sarani, that they would conduct a random test there after one of the residents tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Besides conducting the test on a section of residents of the 14-storey housing complex, visitors, who had come in contact with the infected person, will also go through this test. Chandana Mitra, an advocate and a resident of Arvind Tower, said: “I strongly feel that such a test may prove to be effective for many of us after one of the residents tested positive. I hope the KMC will conduct such a test at the earliest.” According to a KMC official, merely sanitizing any housing complex or apartment building, where positive cases are being found, won’t dispel the fear from the minds of the people. “We have started random tests to determine whether others in the housing complexes are carrying the virus,” the official added. The KMC health department special team has already conducted random tests in several high-rises or housing complexes in areas of south Kolkata, including Ballygunge, Dhakuria, Lake Gardens, Golf Club Road, Behala, Baghajatin, Garia and large areas off EM Bypass. According to a KMC official, apart from conducting swab tests at different market places and slums, such random tests at high-rises will help the civic body identify the number of infected persons from neighbourhoods which have several high-rises and housing complexes. Meanwhile, Jawahar Dutta slum in Muchibazar — located near Ultadanga station — has reported six Civid positive cases in the past 48 hours. Police said what has worried them is the fact that at least two of the infected people are vegetable and fruit sellers at the busy Muchibazar market and were a regular there. “There is a possibility that several brought food from them. We are trying to prepare a list of all those who had longer exposure periods with these six patients,” said an officer. So far, 16 such individuals have been identified. A joint team of KMC, six doctors from SSKM and the police on Saturday collected 100 random samples from Ward 13 in Muchibazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-starts-random-tests-at-high-rises-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/76364255.cms||Saikat Ray
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Guv address to be live telecast before session||Vijayawada: With Covid-19 guidelines in force, governor Biswabhushan Harichandan will address the joint session of AP assembly and legislative council live on June 16. The business advisory committee (BAC), which will meet after the governor’s live address, will decide on the number of days of the session. Assembly speaker Thammineni Sitharam will chair the BAC meeting, which is likely to be attended by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, legislative affairs minister Buggana Rajendranath and deputy speaker Kona Raghupathi, besides a representative from the TDP. As TDP’s deputy floor leader K Atchannaidu has been arrested in the ESI scam, it is to be seen who would represent the TDP in the BAC meeting. The government is planning to table the 2020-21 budget during the session and the decision would be taken at the BAC meeting. The chief minister will chair the cabinet meeting on the morning of June 16, after which the assembly session would commence. Assembly speaker Sitharam said he was informed about the arrest of former minister Atchannaidu. Discounting allegations that the MLA was arrested against the procedures and the speaker was not informed about the arrest, he said the ACB officials have sent a communication to his office about the arrest. Jail authorities too have sent a communication about his admission in the jail following judicial remand, Sitharam added. Meanwhile, the Rajya Sabha election would be held on June 19. Assembly officials have made all arrangements for the election to be held from 9 am to 4 pm, followed by the counting of votes from 5 pm. There are five candidates — four from ruling YSRC and one from opposition TDP — in fray for four Rajya Sabha seats from AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guv-address-to-be-live-telecast-before-session/articleshow/76364260.cms||Gopi Dara
June 14, 2020||Goa||Video of Maha tourists puts SOP implementation under lens||Panaji: A video of two tourists from Maharashtra searching for a hotel in Goa went viral on social media on Saturday, raising questions on the implementation of the latest standard operating procedure (SOP) for people entering the state. Goa police said that the two youth entered the state via the Patradevi checkpost on Friday at 7pm. They were then escorted to the Mapusa district hospital for Covid-19 test swab collection. After this, the two, who travelled by an SUV, were escorted to Calangute residency for facility quarantine, but there were no rooms available. In the video, one of the two said that since there was no room available, they had to stay on the streets. “First they said they would keep us for two days,” he said. “Now they have left us (without accommodation). If we are now found positive, it’s the fault of the Goa administration. What is our fault?” They said that on Friday, they waited in queue till 11pm to give their swabs, and at around 2am on Saturday, they reached the hotel without food. He said that the magistrate told them that they have to stay in paid quarantine, but they said they should be allowed to stay at a private hotel. At around 8.30am on Saturday, they reached Sangolda in search of a hotel. Locals who saw the Maharashtra-registered vehicle called the police. A senior officer said that when they reached the spot, the two tourists narrated their story, and were told to go to Mapusa Residency for paid quarantine. The new SOP, that did away with compulsory testing for domestic arrivals, led to a huge uproar when it was announced. From Thursday onwards, persons arriving in Goa from within India have three options — 14-day home quarantine, get tested by paying Rs 2,000 and wait at facility quarantine till the result is out, or produce a Covid certificate from an ICMR-approved lab that was issued less than 48 hours prior to arrival. Later, a senior police officer said that the two were allowed to leave Calangute residency after their report returned negative. Police claim the two work as contractors for a construction company in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/video-of-maha-tourists-puts-sop-implementation-under-lens/articleshow/76364963.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Care centre at Quepem college||Quepem: To ensure daily functioning of the Curchorem health centre, the authorities have decided to open a 400-bed Covid care centre in the auditorium of the government college at Quepem to treat asymptomatic patients. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/care-centre-at-quepem-college/articleshow/76364970.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||State gears for extensive testing in Ghodemol||Panaji: The directorate of health services (DHS) has come out with an action plan for the containment zone in Ghodemol, Sattari. It includes screening, testing of suspected cases, isolation and quarantine measures. The notification declaring Ghodemol as a containment zone and villages of Deulwada and Kasarwada as buffer zones was issued on Saturday. A statement issued by the DHS said that the rapid response team headed by deputy collector and SDM, Sattari and consisting of other members, including deputy superintendent of police, Bicholim, health officer, community health centre, Sakhali, mamletdar of Sattari, station fire officer and inspector of civil supplies from Valpoi and executive engineer, PWD, will investigate the outbreak and initiate control measure by assessing the situation. The health officer has deployed teams to conduct door-to-door thermal screening of every person in the containment zone. All staff on duty will be provided with personal protective equipment. The entire areas of the containment zone will be fully sanitised by the village panchayat Morlem, Sattari, with assistance of the Valpoi station fire officer. Instructions are issued to ensure that personnel on duty are provided with face masks, gloves, caps, sanitisers, shoes and also follow social distancing norms. No sweeping of the area will be done. Essential goods commodities such as raw dry ration milk, grocery, medicine, vegetables will be delivered at the door step by deploying adequate staff. The horticultural department through their initiative called ‘Ration on Wheels’ will ensure the availability of dry ration and groceries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-gears-for-extensive-testing-in-ghodemol/articleshow/76364971.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||In testing times, Brigade Chalo... to donate blood||KOLKATA: Amid the pandemic that has gripped the entire city, the College Street Coffee House Social Service Association has arranged for a blood donation camp at Brigade on Sunday (June 14) — World Blood Donor Day. According to a spokesperson of the association, representatives of all political parties had consented to be present at Brigade. They will donate blood in an air-conditioned bus specially designed for such a purpose. It is a different year for the association which has been organizing special blood donation drives at College Street every year with participation from from people of all walks of life especially those who are regulars at Coffee House adda. This year, the association has decided to shift the venue with a purpose. “We are passing through a difficult time when committed blood donors are also scared of the virus and thus are not inclined to such a social cause. But scarcity of blood is being felt everywhere. We have chosen Brigade to attract the attention of people, especially the youths to come forward to such a great cause without fear,” said Achintya Laha, general secretary of the association. Laha said they were particularly worried over the thalassaemia patients who need regular blood transfusion. But the lockdown has made it impossible for different blood donor associations or social welfare organizations to organize donation camps as no permission was being granted for such camps. According to Bhaskar Sinha, a blood donor who has been associated with the initiative for the past one decade, they are expecting over 100 donors at Brigade. “We are organizing the blood donation camp amid several restrictions. The administration has restricted the number of gathering at the ground and hence we need to wrap up the programme as fast as we can,” Sinha said. According to association sources, though they get 400-500 donors every year, this year they need to organize multiple blood donation camps to keep the supply of blood unhindered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-testing-times-brigade-chalo-to-donate-blood/articleshow/76364265.cms||Saikat Ray
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Home delivery, release of e-books high on Boipara’s biz-recovery plan||Kolkata: A new chapter has begun in Kolkata’s Boipara as booksellers and publishers are working out ways to continue their business in the ‘new normal’ situation. From home delivery of books, giving a virtual tour of the stores to the release of e-books and audio books, College Street’s Boipara — the largest book market in India — is set to get modernized and go digital to cater to the needs of the book lovers. Dev Sahitya Kutir, which has been in the publishing business since 1860, has started home delivery of books for the first time. Readers can place their orders over WhatsApp and the books would be delivered without any extra charge. A minimum order of Rs 600 is expected. Editor and director of the publishing house, Rupa Majumdar, said, “Sales through home delivery have been more than over-the-counter sales.” It is also planning to launch e-versions of its two iconic children’s magazines — ‘Shuktara’ and ‘Nabakallol’.The century-old D M Library on Bidhan Sarani, which is also delivering books to homes for the first time, has been getting 20 orders daily on an average. Aritra Gopal Mazumdar of D M Library said “To tide over the crisis, every bookseller and publisher needs to explore digital platforms.” The process of buying a book has undergone a change, said Sudipto Dey of Dey’s Publishing House. He has taken to sending pictures of books, video calls and virtual tours of the shelves. The publishing house will release e-books in July for the first time.Iti Katha, a publishing house on Bankim Chatterjee Street, used the lockdown period to create and sell e-books for the first time. Shudrak Upadhyay from the firm said, “The pandemic has forced us to use technology, digital spaces for survival. It is necessary to break away from convention,but a balance between tradition and technology must be struck. We will soon release audio books too.”.The stalls on College Street are also thinking of home delivery since footfall has been very low. Sharip Mullick of P T Book Stall beside Presidency University said, “During the lockdown, many students and teachers called me to ask if I was delivering books to doorsteps. Now that I have opened my stall, I am thinking of doing that.”Akash Gangopadhyay from e-commerce platform Boighar.in, which is dedicated to Bengali books, said, “Online delivery has risen. Many textbook publishers have also approached us for delivery via our platform.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-delivery-release-of-e-books-high-on-boiparas-biz-recovery-plan/articleshow/76364269.cms||Dipawali Mitra
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra patients prefer natives to A’bad hospitals||Rajkot: Not being able to get a bed in any hospital in Ahmedabad for his 61-year-old father Pravin Bhat, Nirav, a resident of Naroda area in Ahmedabad, brought him to the family’s native city Rajkot for treatment on June 10. “My father developed symptoms and we advised to get his tests done. I tried to everywhere possible in Ahmedabad but couldn’t find my father a vacant bed. As my father’s native is Rajkot, we were advised to move to Rajkot. He is responding well to the treatment now,” said Nirav. Like the Bhatts, several families having roots in Saurashtra but are settled in Ahmedabad for years, are now preferring to get Covid-19 diagnosis and treatment in their native towns and cities. After unlock 1.0, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, Jamnagar and other smaller towns have witnessed natives straight driving into the respective civil hospitals there. The reverse trend is being attributed to the deteriorating Covid-19 situation in Ahmedabad, unavailability of beds for hospitalization and complaints about mismanagement in the civil hospital, doctors and patients’ relatives whom TOI spoke with said. The civil hospitals in these three cities have comparatively better medical facility and at least 22 patients have come from Ahmedabad since June 1 to get their Covid tests done. Jamnagar collector Ravi Shankar told TOI: “Recently, a patient drove in to the Covid OPD in GG Hospital from Ahmedabad and tested positive. As the line of treatment is the same, it doesn’t matter whether you are getting treated in Ahmedabad, Surat or in Jamnagar.” Administrator of Sir T hospital in Bhavnagar, Hardik Gathani said, “There are people who are residents of Ahmedabad but native of Bhavnagar who feel that they will get good facility in our Covid hospitals.” Dr Manish Bhanderi, district medical officer, Rajkot said, “We are getting cases where relatives in Rajkot have asked their kin from Ahmedabad to get treatment at Rajkot if they have symptoms or tested Covid positive, thinking that the facility here is better.” Echoing Bhanderi, the municipal health officer of Rajkot, Dr Pankaj Rathod said, “After speaking with the patients from Ahmedabad, we got a feeling that they had panicked thinking they won’t get good treatment there. We also have two patients who recently got admitted in Rajkot but don’t have any relatives here. They had come specifically to our Covid facility created in the private hospital and after testing positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-patients-prefer-natives-to-abad-hospitals/articleshow/76363482.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Bonalu prayers to be telecast live||Hyderabad: Telangana endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy on Saturday said arrangements will be made for live telecast of Bonalu prayers and bonam offering by archakas in major temples of Greater Hyderabad for devotees. Reiterating government guidelines on not allowing congregations and gatherings, he appealed the people to celebrate Bonalu in their residences. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bonalu-prayers-to-be-telecast-live/articleshow/76364634.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad records 2nd Covid death, 20 +ve cases||Dharwad: Dharwad district on Saturday registered the second Covid-19 death with a 70-year-old man succumbing to the virus. According to officials, the septagenerian (P-6258) is a native of Shantiniketan Colony in Bhairidevarkoppa of Hubballi. He had returned from Mumbai (where he lived), and was admitted to KIMS Hospital in Hubballi as he was suffering from cardiac problems and died of cardiac arrest. He was also tested positive for coronavirus. Meanwhile, 20 more persons (11 male and nine female, including five children) have tested positive in the district for Covid-19, taking the total number of such cases to 111. The spike in the number of positive cases has triggered fears of cluster spread in Hubballi. Of the 20 positive cases, 18 are the family members of those who have already tested positive. This includes two patients: 29-year-old woman (P-6522) who has returned from Delhi, and 27-year-old man (P-6532) who has returned from Maharastra. Of the 111 positive cases, 50 have been cured and discharged (including two on Saturday), leaving the district with 61 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-records-2nd-covid-death-20-ve-cases/articleshow/76363469.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||This year, fogging to be started in humid July||LUDHIANA: With the monsoon reaching the city by end of this month, civic officials have been directed to make arrangements to tackle vector-borne diseases. The officials have been told to keep the fogging machines ready for the purpose. Last year, fogging was started in the last week of May in the high-risk areas or slums but this time officials are claiming that they will start it in July when the weather will become humid. For conducting fogging there are 95 small machines with councillors while 14 big machines remain with MC officials, who conduct the fogging in the city as per schedule. Morever, the civic body officials have remained under scanner for fogging operations as residents have always alleged that in their areas fogging did not take place even when it was required. Zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, “The officials have been told to prepare the fogging schedule and select the areas where fogging should be done on priority. Next week again MC Commissioner K P Brar will hold a meeting with the officials to check whether all arrangements have been done or not.” Meanwhile, while requesting anonymity one of the civic officials claimed that already teams have been formed by the health department for checking areas and next week they would submit their plan. He said they had received a letter from the government that fogging should take place from 9am to 11am and then from 4pm to 7pm. He added that whenever they would start the operation they would be following the schedule. A resident of Haibowal, Sunil Puri said, “This year, the temperature kept on changing as in May there was moderate weather while in June it has become hot. Now, even monsoon is not far, so the authorities should ensure that at least fogging was done on time.” He said last year fogging was conducted only twice in the entire season, which was not enough. Another resident from Model Town, Pawan Sharma, said fogging had remained a controversial subject as first of all it was not being done in the entire city and then there it was not known whether it was effective in controlling mosquito breeding or not. He said there should be some other effective measure to check mosquitoe breeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-year-fogging-to-be-started-in-humid-july/articleshow/76364267.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Reverse tendering helped save over 2K crore’||Vijayawada: The YSRC government has saved Rs 2,072 crore of taxpayers’ money through reverse tendering in power projects handled by the TDP government, said Ajeya Kallam, chief advisor to the state government, recently. The government plans to utilise the money for more welfare projects, which would empower the people of the state, he said. Elaborating on the details, Kallam said, “The government, through reverse tendering, saved around Rs 1,130 crore in the irrigation department, Rs 200 crore in the panchayati raj department and Rs 181 crore in the education department projects. Speaking about the Bhogapuram airport, Kallam said, the airport would be built in an area of 2,200 acres as opposed to the previous plan of 2,700 acres. The remaining 500 acres would be used for other purposes and save around Rs 1,500 crore in revenue. Speaking further, Kallam said that the YSRC government has brought in a judicial preview commission headed by a retired judge to scrutinise the conditions in a tender so that there is no scope for corruption. “The government is ensuring that the benefits of welfare programmes like Amma Vodi, Rythu Bharosa, and Pension Kanuka reach the people on time,” Kallam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/reverse-tendering-helped-save-over-2k-crore/articleshow/76364276.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||‘Govt must install statues of all dewans, engineers’||Mandya: Historian Nanjaraj Urs has opposed the installation of Sir M Visvesvaraya’s statute along with that of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar at the entrance to KRS reservoir here. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Urs said that glorifying Visvesvarya as the sole person behind the construction of Krishnarajasagar (KRS) reservoir is akin to meting out injustice to Wadiyar, and scores of dewans and chief engineers who had strived hard to build it. “KRS was built under the leadership of five dewans, including Visvesvaraya, and many chief engineers. How can only Visvesvaraya be considered as the sole architect of KRS? How can Mysuru history forget the dedication of Wadiyar and his wife Pratapa Kumari Ammanni, who had given away her jewellery in the crisis hour to complete the reservoir project?” Urs asked. “So the government must install the statutes of all dewans and chief engineers who have worked for KRS, as also Pratapa Kumari Ammanni,” he said. Urs also clarified that they are aware of the immense contribution by Visvesvaraya in making prosperous the erstwhile Mysore Princely State. “But we don’t want Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar’s contribution be eclipsed with the glorification of Visvesvaraya as the sole person behind building the dam,” he said, adding that they would launch an agitation if the government goes ahead with installing the statue of only Visvesvaraya alongside Waidyear’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-must-install-statues-of-all-dewans-engineers/articleshow/76364598.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||Universities want Karnataka govt to reverse decision||MYSURU: The management of several varsities in the state have appealed to the Karnataka government cabinet to reverse the decision to allow only KSOU to offer distance education courses. Other varsities have pointed out that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has authorised them to offer distance education courses. Sources in the Karnataka higher education department said that the government had been contemplating offering KSOU exclusive rights to offer correspondence programmes for the past few years. “In December 2019, it was discussed at the general state higher education council general body meeting. Teaching and non-teaching staff of the KSOU submitted a memorandum to deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, and the state cabinet finally approved the proposal,” said an official in the department. KSOU vice-chancellor Vidyashankar S welcomed the government’s decision, but added that they did not plead to the cabinet for the exclusive rights. Among other varsities, the University of Mysore (UoM) is offering distance education courses, and is not very happy with the cabinet’s decision. “We have the UGC nod to offer distance education courses till 2022-23. Many students who have applied for various courses will complete their programmes by 2022-23,” said R Shivappa, UoM registrar. Former Bangalore University VC MS Thimmappa opined that the move deprived students of a chance of choosing the varsity they wished to pursue higher education courses in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/universities-want-karnataka-govt-to-reverse-decision/articleshow/76364517.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to develop tree parks in all municipalities||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday said the government is planning to develop an exclusive tree park in every municipality and municipal corporation, including GHMC, in the state. In a video conference with municipal commissioners, additional district collectors and elected representatives, KTR directed the officials to prepare plans for improving greenery and create urban lung spaces as part of the sixth phase of Haritha Haram programme scheduled to commence on June 20. Urban forest blocks will also be developed in the vicinity of about 90 urban local bodies in the state. KTR asked the officials and the elected representatives to actively participate in Haritha Haram and take up the responsibility of safeguarding the saplings to ensure at least 85% survival rate. The minister said that all the municipalities and municipal corporations should spend 10% of their annual budget for increasing green cover .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-develop-tree-parks-in-all-municipalities/articleshow/76364650.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||Police sniffer dog laid to rest with state honours||HAVERI: The district additional superintendent of police, dog trainers and others bid a tearful adieu and gave a guard of honour to Johny, an eight-year-old sniffer dog, that died on Saturday. Johny, a doberman, had joined the police department eight years back. Johnny’s trainer K S Nemigouda and his fellow canines in the squad—Kanaka, Rani, and Julie—could not hold back their tears during the funeral. Johny died due to illness. He was laid to rest in the Police Parade grounds with state honours. Johny had been involved in the investigation of high-profile theft and murder cases. All those who attended the funeral, placed a wreath and paid their last respects to Johny. Nemigouda said that Johny was a humble animal, and that they shared a special bond. He said that Johny was a very clever animal, and that he had tracked down many notorious criminals involved in sensational murder cases, as well as various complicated cases, and that he had helped the department nab criminals quickly. Johny was ailing for the past eight months, and was not working during that duration. “He was very attached to me for the last eight years,” he added. “Johny had tracked down the accused in connection with the murder of an elderly woman in Shiggavi. The accused was arrested within three hours of committing the murder, due to Johny’s efforts. Johny also helped solve many inter-state theft cases. Johny was sensitive and clever, and we will never forget his service to the department,” said additional superintendent of police Mallikarjun Baladandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-sniffer-dog-laid-to-rest-with-state-honours/articleshow/76364445.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Storm sewerage proposal rejected; residents to see water-logged this monsoon also||LUDHIANA: City residents will be witnessing water-logging even this rainy season while commuting on railway station road near Raikhy Cinema chowk as the proposal to install storm sewerage has been rejected under the smart city mission project by senior officials in Chandigarh. However, councillor Rakesh Prashar is claiming to making efforts to bring this project under MC funding now, but it will take time and during the rainy season, which is around the corner, the shopkeepers will also bear the brunt as rainwater enters the shops as well. In the proposal, it was suggested that storm sewerage line should be laid from Raikhy Cinema chowk till Clock Tower, from where the rainwater would be thrown into the Buddha Nullah. The proposal was sent for approval under smart city mission project but the authorities denied by saying that instead of catering to just one stretch, it would have been better if the entire road was taken up for this purpose. Congress councillor Rakesh Prashar said, “I had taken up this proposal because people have been demanding the storm sewerage at this location. Thousands of commuters pass through this stretch and many shopkeepers are running their business here and whenever there is rainfall, the entire stretch gets submerged.” He further said now when the proposal had been rejected under the smart city mission project he had asked the officials of the civic body to prepare the estimates, so that they could go ahead with the project. Meanwhile, a shopkeeper, Akash Kumar, said, “Every rainy season becomes a nightmare when the area gets submerged in rainwater. The authorities should seriously think about a solution to the problem, so that we should get relief.” A resident of Civil Lines, Manoj Sharma, who takes this route on a daily basis, said, “When there is heavy rainfall, water-logging takes place to such an extent that vehicles develop technical snags after passing through the stretch.” He said there were many other locations in the city, where similar scenes can be seen but the authorities are not serious about the same. The city has 18% storm sewerage coverage The industrial town has only 18% coverage as far as storm sewerage is concerned and even that has been connected with the main sewerage line. The officials claimed that the main sewerage line is not meant to take the load of rainwater and this is the major reason for water-logging during the rainy season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/storm-sewerage-proposal-rejected-residents-to-see-water-logged-this-monsoon-also/articleshow/76364271.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||‘Test those in vicinity of hosp’||Panaji: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, who is also the Margao legislator, has demanded swab testing of the residents in the nearby areas of the ESI hospital as the number of positive cases are on the rise. He said the government should decide on it by Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/test-those-in-vicinity-of-hosp/articleshow/76364976.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 60% quota in PWD & bridge corporation contracts below Rs 40 lakh||LUCKNOW: Re-initiating its outreach to dalits and OBCs after the 2019 general elections, the BJP-led UP government on Saturday announced reservation for SC/ST and backward classes in contracts of Rs 40 lakh or less by PWD, Bridge Corporation and UP State Construction And Infrastructure Development Corporation. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, who heads these departments, has indicated that 60% of the contracts of Rs 40 lakh or less will be reserved and has asked officials to prepare a proposal for this at the earliest, adding that this rule should be implemented without delay. The move comes in the wake of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath invoking the stringent National Security Act against the accused in two cases of attacks on dalits this week, the first where homes of Dalits were burnt after an altercation between Dalit and Muslim youth and the second in which a Dalit girl was harassed and later, people from her community beaten up by the culprits. Sources in the government said that the move was a signal that no caste violence would be tolerated in the state. On Saturday, Maurya said that the plan will work around providing 21% reservation to contractors from scheduled castes, 2% to those from schedule tribes, 27% to those from backward classes while another 10% will be reserved for financially poor contractors in general category. “This move will ensure that contractors from all backgrounds get equitable representation in government works. While this will give an opportunity to those from backward classes and SC/ST backgrounds to get work opportunities, it will also encourage competition which will lead to improved quality of work at reasonable rates,” Maurya said. The minister added that if all departments which contract work were to add a similar clause, it would be highly beneficial at all levels. Maurya has also proposed employing BTech and diploma holders unemployed civil engineers in contacts of up to Rs 10 lakh. “This will help in gainfully employing young engineers who are without jobs. The government will also link them with banks for easy loans,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/60-quota-in-pwd-bridge-corporation-contracts-below-rs-40l/articleshow/76364978.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 14, 2020||Vadodara||19-year-old ends life in Mahisagar river||Vadodara: A 19-year-old youth ended his life by jumping into the Mahisagar river at Savli taluka on Saturday morning. Identified as Shaileshkumar Gohil, the police said that he had reached Mahisagar river bridge near Poicha Kanoda village around 9.30 am. After parking his bike on the side of the road, he jumped off surprising passers-by and locals who immediately informed the police. “We took the help of fire brigade from Vadodara to find the youth. Around noon, firemen fished out his body,” said a police official. On learning about the youth taking the extreme step, Savli MLA Ketan Inamdar also reached the spot. Police said that Gohil, who assisted his father in farming, had left home at around 8 am saying that he is going for his friend’s birthday celebration. Cops are yet to know the exact reason behind Gohil’s suicide bid. His body was handed over to the family in the afternoon after post-mortem tests. A case of accidental death was registered at Savli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/19-year-old-ends-life-in-mahisagar-river/articleshow/76363335.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK, MDMK too move HC for OBC quota in medical courses||CHENNAI: Following the DMK’s petition in the Madras high court questioning the Centre’s denial of 50% quota for OBC students in All-India quota seats for admission to medical courses, the ruling AIADMK and MDMK too have moved the high court. Tamil Nadu law minister C Ve Shanmugam has moved the plea on behalf of the AIADMK. MDMK founder Vaiko has also moved a similar petition on behalf of his party challenging the decision of the Centre in not providing the reservation. According to the AIADMK, even under the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admissions) Act, 2006, OBCs must be provided 27% reservation. But even this has been denied in the admissions to medical courses, it said. “Under All India Quota, 8,137 post-graduate medical seats were available in 2019. If the 27% reservation rule is applied, OBCs should have got 2,197 seats but only 224 seats were allotted in non-central institutions,” the petition said. “The Centre is following neither its own Act which mandates 27% OBC reservation, nor that of the state to provide 50% reservation. This has resulted in OBCs being robbed of 10,000 seats in the past three years and many more during the preceding years,” the petition said. Claiming that it was the party’s founder and former chief minister MGR who increased the reservation for OBCs from 31% to 50% in Tamil Nadu, and that former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was instrumental in enacting the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, the petitioner wanted the court to direct the Centre to provide 50% reservation for OBCs in All India Quota for the academic year 2020-21. The parties have moved HC since the Supreme Court refused hearing pleas moved by them. It had, however, granted liberty to approach the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-mdmk-too-move-hc-for-obc-quota-in-med-courses/articleshow/76364281.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Activists who fed migrants are now quiet saviours of jobless middle class||BHOPAL: Lockdown heroes, who fed migrant labourers and slum dwellers earlier, are now helping out middle-class families who have lost their jobs and are too embarrassed to ask for help. Volunteers are going around, gathering information on those unable to buy groceries and medicines, and helping them out quietly. Others are finding small-time jobs for them as well. “Middle-class families, who dipped into their meagre savings after their sole earning member lost his job, are now facing a lot of problems. They can’t bring themselves to ask for grocery kits (handed out by the administration). It’s understandable. No hardworking person wants to have free food. This is the time when we need to understand their needs without them having to ask for favours,” said Sachin Shrivastav, a social activist. Lockdown hurt many in the middle-class as wellShrivastav recalls the moment he realized it’s not just migrants who need help in these tough times. “A friend’s wife makes delicious poha. One day, I called her up and said I’m coming over for breakfast. She told me not to because she did not have poha left at home, and as her husband had been laid off in April, they did not have the money to buy it, either. It was very painful for me to hear that my friend was going through such a crisis but he could not tell anyone just because he was middle-class and has a status to maintain. I was deeply saddened and forced him to accept some groceries I bought for his family,” he said. Shrivastav realised there would be other such families too embarrassed to ask for help. Discreetly, he and some friends started gathering information. Once they identify a family, they find out what exactly they need – groceries, medicines or other essentials. “Usually, it’s their friends or relatives who pass on the information. We take them along to deliver the supplies without hurting their self-esteem. If someone is too embarrassed, we tell them that they can pay us back when their condition improves,” he added. Another social activist, Seema Kurup, who has been distributing groceries and medicines among slum dwellers in the lockdown, told TOI that she has realized of late that the middle-class too needs help. Many of them started quietly approaching her for “work”, she says. “They did not want donations. They wanted to earn their bread to tide over these hard days,” she said. “It is painful to see people looking for odd jobs they are over-qualified for,. just so their families won’t go hungry. But the employment and economic chain has broken, so we are unable to help find work for all of them. We are trying to counsel them into taking the groceries for the time being without hurting their pride,” she said. Sachin Jain, a right-to-food activist, said NGOs are chalking out plans with the help of the government to provide some form of employment to those who were laid off in the lockdown and freelance artistes who have no source of income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/activists-who-fed-migrants-are-now-quiet-saviours-of-jobless-middle-class/articleshow/76364277.cms||Shuchita Jha
June 14, 2020||Mysuru||Woman protests outside Ch’nagar police station in rain||Chamarajanagar: A video of a woman protesting despite heavy rain outside the Chamarajanagar East Police Station demanding protection has gone viral. The incident took place on June 10 and came to light on Saturday. People have condemned police on social media for failing to offer protection to the woman. There was a land dispute between Susheela Shivanna and her neighbour Doreswamy, a landlord, at Chandakawadi HD Forested area. Susheela had approached the local revenue department claiming the land rights and settled her land dispute after possessing khatha and other records in her name. The woman had also filed a police complaint at Chamarajnagar East Police Station seeking police protection for her and family to take possession of her disputed land from Doreswamy. She had completed all formalities to get police protection. When the woman went to claim the land from Doreswamy, police failed to provide her protection. She then held a day-long protest alone outside the police station. Yet, police refused to hear her plea. A police officer denied the allegations of the woman and claimed police had made all bandobust for her protection. “As it is a civil dispute and the woman should get her problems solved with support of revenue officials,” the officer said. Chamarajanagar tahsildar Mahesh told TOI that it is the duty of police to provide protection to the lone woman who has genuine land records of the disputed land. Superintendent of police HD Ananda Kumar didn’t respond to calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-protests-outside-chnagar-police-station-in-rain/articleshow/76364555.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli court rejects ‘Naxalite’ Varavara Rao’s bail plea||Nagpur: The Gadchiroli sessions court has rejected the bail application of alleged Maoist Varavara Rao in the case of 39 trucks being burned by Naxalites on December 23, 2016. The 81-year-old applied for bail on the grounds of old age due to which he was a high risk for Covid-19 virus. He is currently in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. Citing the May 11 guidelines of a government's high power committee (HPC), Rao, who is from Telangana, contended that he should be released on a temporary bail. The guidelines mentioned that any prisoner over 60 years of age and/or those suffering from medical conditions, which puts them at high risk from the coronavirus, should be put under isolation. Opposing his plea, district government pleader (DGP) Anil Pradhan pointed out that the HPC’s guidelines were for undertrial prisoners only and that makes Rao ineligible. Moreover, the accused was admitted to prison hospital and later taken to JJ Hospital in Mumbai after he complained of vomiting with pain in abdomen. He was examined by the medical officer there and was admitted from May 28 to June 1. After discharge, Rao’s condition was found to be stable, X-ray report normal and Covid-19 swab test negative. He was provided with medicines as per the directives of JJ Hospital doctors. Pradhan argued that there was ample evidence for connecting Rao with the crime along with co-accused Surendra Gadling, both active members of CPI (Maoist). They allegedly hatched conspiracy and directed other accused to set trucks on fire and cause big loss to the property. The investigating officer received a proposal to prosecute Rao and Gadling under stringent UAPA from the home department’s additional secretary. Quoting Rao’s medical reports from Taloja Central Prison, judge SC Khati rejected his application holding that it’s “devoid of merits”. “The HPC specifically excluded prisoners against whom offences lodged are under the special Acts like MCOCA, TADA and UAPA. Taking into consideration the gravity of an offence, asseveration of the jail authorities, and his medical reports, no interference is needed,” the judge said. THE CASE * On December 23, 2016, complaint Rajendersing Shergill led a convoy of trucks to Surjagad for mineral loading * At about 5 kms from Hedari, about 40 to 50 Naxalites in green dress holding weapons and 60-70 in civil dress, asked all drivers and cleaners to get down from the trucks * The outlaws then burned 39 vehicles, including three Pocklands and a motorcycle, by pouring diesel * They shouted slogans of Communist Party, Maowadi Sanghatan and Lal Salam * They thrashed the drivers and cleaners while warning them never to venture into their area again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-court-rejects-naxalite-varavara-raos-bail-plea/articleshow/76364660.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 14, 2020||Kanpur||No increase in cost of KDA flats till March 2021||KANPUR: The board of Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) at its meeting held here on Friday took a decision not to increase the cost of its flats till March 31, 2021. The board members also decided to hand over possession to the allottees on the basis of the registered agreement till March 31, 2021. Apart from it, the board also decided to raise a picnic park near Atal Ghat on the bank of Ganga . The board meeting, held under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde, was attended by in-charge vice-chairman Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi, secretary, SP Singh, ADM Kanpur Dehat Pankaj Verma, Pramod Agrahari and Ram lakhan Rawat as nominated members and special guest Neeraj Srivastava. In all, 12 proposals and four supplementary proposals were presented before the members for discussion. The meeting began with the KDA flats issue. The officials informed that as scores of KDA flats were lying unsold in various schemes, therefore their cost should be freezed for the current financial year.  The members, after passing the resolution, decided to hand over the possession to the allottees on the basis of registered agreement till the end of the current financial year. The members were of the view that the government would not suffer any revenue loss and since there is a liquidity problem in the market therefore the cost of flats it should not be revised. Through another proposal land has been allotted to Indian tourism centre for construction of a water park on plot no. 39, 41 and 42 which can be used by people as a picnic point. The members passed an additional proposal presented by Neeraj Srivastava suggesting construction of a four lane road inside the park. The members also gave their consent to sell two plots each of 3200 square metre at commercial rates. JK Group has proposed to raise a hospital in Kamla Nagar on approximately 28,380 square metre land which according to the town planner and the additional labour commissioner was being opposed by labourers who claimed that the proposed hospital would not be allowed to be constructed on their colony land. However, after inspection, it was found that the land for the proposed hospital did not belong to the labour colony. Some members stated that though both Kanpur and Lucknow have almost the same population density but there are three multi speciality hospitals in Lucknow while Kanpur has none. They said KDA has a right to sanction alteration in building plans to which the board members have no objection. The members decided to constitute a committee which after investigating objections would present the same before KDA vice-chairman along with its recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-increase-in-cost-of-kda-flats-till-mar-21/articleshow/76364640.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Engg colleges force faculty members to quit to cut costs||CHENNAI: After getting approval and affiliation for the upcoming academic year, several engineering colleges in the state have started to force their faculty members to quit their jobs to cut costs amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Anna University has received complaints against 10 engineering colleges from faculty members in the past few weeks.  A city college which got its autonomous status recently is forcing 60 senior faculty members to resign. “Our college had near 100% admissions last year. It has got AICTE approval and NIRF ranking showing our qualifications and research work. But after getting the extension of affiliation, the management is forcing senior faculty members out,” an affected faculty member said. Ten of the 60 have resigned so far. “The college says admissions are poor even before Class XII exam results are out. But they are preparing to recruit freshers,” the faculty member added. A deemed university in the city is forcing 50 faculty members out without prior notice and has told the faculty about it orally. “In the middle of the pandemic, the management says we will be sacked. Where will we go?” a faculty member asked. Private Educational Institutions Employees Association president K M Karthik says there are widespread complaints of terminations throughout the state and that some colleges were terminating satff in small numbers to avoid trouble. Many colleges have not paid salaries since the lockdown began. “Poor admissions, Covid have put colleges under financial stress. It is to cut cost, there is no word on when colleges will reopen. Colleges think they faculty can be hired any time,” principal of a prominent city college said. “We have received complaints about a few colleges. We may conduct surprise checks to prevent colleges retrenching faculty after getting affiliation,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor of Anna University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engg-colleges-force-faculty-members-to-quit-to-cut-costs/articleshow/76364294.cms||A Ragu Raman
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||CM orders suspension of nodal officer & doc of quarantine centre where youth killed self||A day after a 19-year-old youth committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at a quarantine centre in city’s Balawala area, chief minister (CM) Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday ordered the authorities to suspend the nodal officer and the doctor of the facility. He has also asked for a thorough probe into the matter. The teenager had returned to the city from Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) on June 6 and was put under quarantine at Sardar Bhagwan Singh Medical College in Balawala along with 70 others. During the day, the CM also ordered a probe into the death of a pregnant woman, who was refused treatment by some hospitals. The CM further called for the audit of each death related to Covid-19. He laid thrust on analysing the cause behind such deaths. Meanwhile, speaking about th eteenager’s suicide, a police official said, “He was a resident of Haridwar and his family has been informed. No suicide note was recovered from the spot and we are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-suspension-of-nodal-officer-doc-of-quarantine-centre-where-youth-killed-self/articleshow/76364290.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 14, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt slashes private lab test cost to Rs 2,200 from Rs 4,500||PUNE: The state government on Saturday slashed the cost of Covid-19 test in private laboratories to Rs2,200 from Rs4,500 with immediate effect. After reducing the price of private Covid-19 tests by more than 50%, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the move would enable more people to go to private laboratories for tests. He claimed that the new private testing rates were the lowest in the country. Tope told TOI that Rs2,200 would be charged for collecting swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals. For collection of swabs from home, Rs2,800 would be charged. He said legal action would be taken against any laboratories charging more than the prescribed rates. Earlier, the rates were Rs4,500 and Rs5,200, respectively.The minister said the revised rates were the maximum the laboratories could charge from patients and district collectors could negotiate further to reduce the charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-slashes-pvt-lab-test-cost-to-rs-2200-from-rs-4-5k/articleshow/76364977.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||HC refuses interim relief to IMS director, posts case to June 15||Vijayawada: Former director of Insurance Medical Servcies (IMS), C K Ramesh Kumar did not get any relief from the high court on Saturday that posted the hearing on the house motion petition moved by his wife Maghusmitha Rani to June 15 without granting any interim relief. Rani moved a house motion petition in the high court seeking an urgent hearing after her husband was arrested by ACB on June 12 in the Employees State Insurance (ESI) scam. Ramesh Kumar was named as one of the main accused as he was the then director of IMS when the scam took place. He allegedly had flouted norms under pressure from the then labour minister K Atchannaidu to award call centre and cardiology services to a firm that caused losses to the state exchequer. Rani argued in her petition that the entire case is part of a political conspiracy. She alleged that the ACB did not follow the set procedure while arresting her husband. P V Krishnaiah, the counsel for Rani, argued that the officials did not serve any notice before arresting Ramesh Kumar. The counsel for the ACB countered the argument and stated that there is no need to serve prior notice to the arrested person or his family members. Ramesh Kumar was an accused in a case, which is cognizable and non-bailable in nature. He was arrested as per the apex court guidelines duly and his family members were informed and explained about the charges against him. There were no lapses in the procedure of the arrest and the special ACB court has already sent them to judicial remand, he said. The counsel for the ACB further argued that the petition is not maintainable at this stage as the accused have already been produced before a lower court and Ramesh Kumar is in the custody of court. Taking the arguments of both sides into consideration, the high court posted the matter for further hearing to June 15 without granting relief to Ramesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-refuses-interim-relief-to-ims-director-posts-case-to-june-15/articleshow/76364285.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||‘No action against regularisation of illegal colonies’||LUDHIANA: Despite sending two reminders against the violation of policy for the regularisation of illegal colonies in the city, no action has been taken till date by the officials concerned. A city-based RTI activist, Kuldeep Khaira, claimed that he had made a complaint that illegal colonies were flourishing at various locations and developers had applied under regularisation policy to get these colonies regularised. He said the policy clearly says colonies developed after March 2018 cannot be taken up under this policy. Khaira claimed that he procured information under the RTI Act from the Ludhiana MC that most of applicants had not enclosed the essential documents like Google image as well as revenue documentary proofs to establish that these colonies had been developed before the cut-off date of March 19, 2018. He said he had come to know that many developers of many undeveloped/new colonies had applied under the regularisation policy and these included Fateh Enclave in Dhandari Kalan, Rajinder Colony in Kot Mangal Singh, Bapu Piyara Singh Colony, Lohara, Sharmanji Vatika, Sua Road, Barewal and Sardar Jaswant Singh Enclave, 33ft Road, Mundian Kalan. He said these might not be the only cases of new colonies, and there may be lot more. The files of these colonies along with others are lying undecided for more than one and half years and MC officials are letting most of these to be established. He said he made several complaints when construction had just started in these colonies. Khaira said the civic body should dispose of these files immediately after verification of stamp papers by the treasury office. He said FIRs must be lodged for submission of false information with the government department and for using fabricated stamp papers in the files submitted with the affidavit. Also FIRs must be lodged under PAPRA Act against colonisers for establishing new colonies. He added that as the colonies were being established now, the FIRs be lodged against the officers for not reporting on time for the entire actual status and construction work must be stopped immediately there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-action-against-regularisation-of-illegal-colonies/articleshow/76364288.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Banas Dairy to give extra month’s pay||Palanpur: The Banaskantha District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd (BDCCMPU), Asia’s biggest dairy, will reward all its 3,500 employees with an additional one month’s full salary. The board of directors in its meeting on Saturday lauded the service of its employees who worked hard during three months of the lockdown period. Chairman of Banas Dairy, Shankar Chaudhary, said that it was because of their hard work that the work went on smoothly and without any hindrance. “We could collect milk every day from the milk producers without any holidays. This could save the milk suppliers from hardship that they could have undergo,’’ he said. “When there is retrenchment or reducing salary in other sectors, our dairy has put forward an example by paying an additional one month’s salary,’’ said an employee on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/banas-dairy-to-give-extra-months-pay/articleshow/76363509.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Alliance Air resumes ops from Kandla||Rajkot: The flight operations of Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, resumed from Kandla airport on Friday.The operation was suspended following the lockdown announced on March 24. This flight provides connectivity to trade and industry players in Gandhidham. Gandhidham is a commercial town near Kandla which houses a major port also. Better air and rail connectivity has been an ongoing demand of business and industry fraternity. According to airport authority, the 72-seater aircraft will connect Kandla to Ahmedabad, Nasik and Pune. This flight will operate from Monday to Saturday. The flight will depart from Ahmedabad at 12pm and arrive at Kandla at 1.05 pm. In return it will depart from Kandla at 1.35 pm and arrives at Ahmedabad airport at 2.25 pm. The Kandla airport will have two flights per day for Ahmedabad. Kandla airport director Sanjeev Menghal said, “The people of Gandhidham people will now have one more option of flight connectivity to Ahmedabad.” However, on Saturday there were only 11 passengers on-board the 72-seater flight. “The airlines are strictly adhering to government guidelines to minimize the contagion through contacts and through frequently touched surfaces. Precautionary measures are being taken within the aircraft as well at the time of check-in, boarding and arrival at the destination,” a statement issued by airlines said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alliance-air-resumes-ops-from-kandla/articleshow/76363528.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chennai||HC asks RDO to pay Rs 50,000 as penalty for flouting order||Chennai: The Madras high court has imposed Rs 50,000 as penalty on a revenue divisional officer for failing to obey the court order and issue community certificates to a woman and her children. She and her two children were to be issued kurichchan (scheduled tribe) certificates by the Dharmapuri RDO. Refusing to accept the excuse that the officer concerned had been transferred, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar imposed the penalty on the transferred officer, and directed the incumbent RDO to remain present in the virtual court on June 13 along with the certificates for the petitioners. The bench was passing the orders on a plea moved by M Jayalakshmi, saying the officer had refused to refused to issue certificates to them despite repeated requests and an order passed by the state-level scrutiny community on January 31. Allowing the plea, the court directed the RDO to issue the certificate and file a compliance report to the court on June 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-rdo-to-pay-rs-50000-as-penalty-for-flouting-order/articleshow/76364303.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Agarwada enters week-long shutdown||MAPUSA: The Agarwada-Chopdem panchayat, on the other side of the Siolim-Chopdem bridge in Pernem taluka, on Saturday decided to go in for a self-imposed seven-day shutdown. The panchayat issued a notice stating that a decision has been taken by the body under the Epidemic Act to go in for a complete lockdown in its jurisdiction from June 15 to 21 as a preventive measure. The notice also states that all shops in the village will remain closed, with the exception of pharmacies, banks, cooperative societies, government offices, dairies and medical clinics. Shopkeepers or others found violating the lockdown will be fined Rs 5,000 by the panchayat, the notice states. Sarpanch Pramod Gaonkar said that although no Covid-19 cases had so far been detected in the village, the decision was taken as a precautionary measure. The panchayat body held a joint meeting with the village development committee and villagers where a unanimous decision was taken, Gaonkar said. It may be recalled that Paliem, which borders Maharashtra, had gone in for five-day lockdown from June 10 after a resident tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agarwada-enters-week-long-shutdown/articleshow/76364982.cms||Keshav Naik
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor cyber police help victim recover 1.4 lakh||TIRUPATI: Chittoor police on Saturday helped a victim recover Rs 1.4 lakh, which he was duped of by a cybercriminal. According to Chittoor police, the resident of Palamaner had received a call from an unidentified person who posed as a bank staff. The cybercrook who managed to get his credit card details siphoned off Rs 1.4 lakh from him. But, after the victim lodged a complaint with the Palamaner police, district cybercell sleuths intervened and helped him get his money back. Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar on Saturday appealed to the people not to entertain any unidentified calls and part with sensitive credit/debit card data. Meanwhile, people in Chittoor district will now have to pay a heavy fine if caught without a mask outside their home. The district police began implementing the new government order with regard to it on Saturday. On the first day, 175 people were fined a total of Rs 71,275 for violating the mandatory-mask norm and booked 304 cases under the Motor Vehicles Act and imposed fines worth Rs 84,500. The Chittoor SP appealed to the people to strictly adhere to the state and central government guidelines to protect themselves as well as their families from falling prey to the novel coronavirus. ‘‘If anyone neglects the government guidelines and poses risk to the lives of others, we will act tough and not spare anyone”, warned Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-cyber-policehelp-victim-recover-1-4l/articleshow/76364301.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 14, 2020||Goa||After tea boy, 2 kitchen staff contract virus||Panaji: Following the tea boy at the Covid hospital testing positive, two kitchen staff at the ESI hospital have also tested positive. Sources said the tea boy contracted the virus because although he was supposed to collect the tea from the kitchen and place it on tables for patients under a particular system followed at the hospital, he was found entering wards. The two kitchen staff at the ESI hospital are suspected to have picked up the infection from the tea boy. In the ESI quarters, a family staying opposite the tea boy’s flat has also tested positive. Officials said that his children used to play with the neighbour’s children. While the neighbour’s mother also works at the ESI hospital, she used to stay away from the family at the hotel accommodation provided. Half of the ESI staff got their results on Friday and the other half will receive the results on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-tea-boy-2-kitchen-staff-contract-virus/articleshow/76364983.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Road to be rebuilt after sample fails||LUDHIANA: After the samples of the newly constructed Circular Road (S A N Jain School Road) had failed the quality tests, the contractor has dismantled the entire road for constructing it again. The municipal corporation officials claimed that he was told to construct the road again and only then the civic body would release his payment. Besides, before making his payment too samples of the road in question will be filled again and if those samples will match then the quality, only then the required his payment will be released. The samples were collected from street number 8 of Baba Mukand Singh Nagar; S A N Jain School Road; Textile Colony, near R K Road; Sewakpura, and two areas in Durgapuri. The Durgapuri samples were the only ones that were able to meet the parameters. The superintending engineer of bridges and road department, Tirath Bansal, said, “We had held back the payment of the contractor as the samples of the road had failed. Now, he has been told to construct the road again. MLA Surinder Dawar had also conducted a meeting with him and he was asked to set things right.” He said after he would build the road again, they would check the samples again and the payment would be made only when the roads in question would match the quality standards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/road-to-be-rebuilt-after-sample-fails/articleshow/76364300.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Betim man tests +ve for Covid, critical, put on ventilator||Panaji: A 56-year-old security guard who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday is in critical condition and has been put on ventilator. The two men who rushed him to hospital couldn’t be traced for several hours, till one was found in the evening. The second is still at large. The security guard is the first Covid patient in Goa since the first cases reported in March to require ventilator support. “The man was taken to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital in critical condition after he suffered a heart attack,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said. “He is also a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He was then shifted to the ESI hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. He is currently on ventilator.” A health official said that one of the two men who took him to GMC was traced and tested negative for Covid-19. The other person, however, is yet to be found, and has also switched off his phone. Porvorim PI Ninad Deulkar said they were trying to find the missing man. A health official said that the security guard probably got the infection from another worker, who came to Goa from Mumbai on June 5, and stayed at the site with him. “He was tested on arrival, and after his report came positive, he was shifted to hospital,” the official said. “Luckily, there were just three persons on the site, with construction being almost complete.” Meanwhile, Goa’s active Covid-19 count shot up to 453 on Saturday, with the detection of 60 more cases, 26 of which were from the Mangor Hill containment zone. Vasco’s Sada area reported 13 cases and Baina eight, which are also considered linked to Mangor Hill. Apart from the Betim case, an isolated case was also found in Margao. Mohanan said that 60 swab samples were collected from Chimbel, which as of Saturday has ten cases. When asked whether it will be declared a containment zone, she said that the health department was watching the trend there. “We need to have sufficient epidemiological reasons to declare a containment zone. Let us observe the trend after we get results,” she said. She also said that a survey is being conducted at Margao’s Moti Dongor, and samples are being tested. Regarding the Taleigao cases, she said that no more samples have tested positive. However, after a tea boy at the ESI/Covid hospital tested positive two days ago, three of his contacts also tested positive. In the southernmost taluka of Canacona, the count increased to five, after the three year-old daughter of a KTC driver tested positive. Her father had tested positive on Wednesday. “However, his pregnant wife has so far tested negative. The child has been shifted to the ESI hospital in Margao,” said Dr Vandana Desai, health officer, Canacona community health centre (CHC). Fifty other contacts of the driver all tested negative. Desai said that since the driver’s wife had visited her relatives in Khola, CHC officials collected swabs of 30 people from there too. Apart from the cases within the state, five travellers also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A teen who arrived with his family from Gujarat via Mumbai and was residing in a flat in Mapusa, and a woman who also came from Gujarat, tested positive. “The teen’s family was strictly instructed not to step out of their residence,” said Mapusa councillor Sandeep Falari. “I even gave them my phone number, and told them to call me if they needed any help. I even shared the police inspector’s contact number.” On Saturday, eight suspects were admitted to isolation wards. Out of the 2,808 samples tested, 1,852 returned negative. Reports of 956 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/betim-man-tests-ve-for-covid-critical-put-on-ventilator/articleshow/76364985.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Syrian national pursuing PhD at IIT duped of Rs 15,000||ROORKEE: A Syrian national, pursuing PhD at IIT-Roorkee, was allegedly duped of Rs 15,000 by a fake mailer on the promise of gift coupons. In a police complaint, victim Fatima Husari said that she received an email from an online company on June 8 promising three gift coupons worth Rs 15,000 and sought her bank details for the same. Assuming that the mail was genuine, she shared the details but soon received messages from her bank that Rs 15,000 has been deducted from her account. Roorkee Civi Lines station in-charge Rajesh Sah said, “We have received her complaint and forwarded the same to cyber cell. They are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/syrian-national-pursuing-phd-at-iit-duped-of-rs-15000/articleshow/76364309.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 14, 2020||Goa||Tidal water flooding makes life tough for Chorao locals||Panaji: Seepage of tidal waters into the fallow lands in Chorao’s Karabhat area is greatly inconveniencing the lives of locals. The water has encroached the ground water system, turning potable water inedible. Sources said the breaking of the surrounding bundh network has led to this seepage into the wells. “Water from the Mandovi has entered the area,” former sarpanch Shrikrishna Haldankar said. Residents of the Chorao Island Residential Resort – a residential complex – had to resorted to purchasing their own water for drinking and other uses. These residents hadn’t opted for the PWD’s piped water connection as their consumption needs were being met by the well water that was being pumped directly to their homes. “Due to the contamination, they are now left helpless till the end of monsoon,” Haldankar said. The residents first noticed sediments at the bottom of their pots and pans two months ago. Later, the water started smelling and taking a bath left them with irritated skin and soiled nails. A resident, Joe Rodrigues, said that when they brought the matter to the attention of the panchayat and the mamlatdar’s offices, they were told that there is a shortage of staff to give a sign of acceptance on the grievance letter.  Requesting anonymity, another resident, a senior citizen, said the bundh broke due to the continued inundation of fields last year after the state was lashed with torrential showers.“The whole path down the Pomburpa river is stinking due to the flooding. During high tide, the odour of the polluted water enters our homes. People from various places come to Chorao for bird-watching and this is a bad impression they are being left with. The local authorities must act quickly to rectify the issue,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tidal-water-flooding-makes-life-tough-for-chorao-locals/articleshow/76365001.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||20 commissionedas Army officers||Secunderabad: Twenty gentlemen cadets (GCs) of technical entry scheme-35 (TES-35) course passed out from the cadets training wing (CTW), Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), under the Army Training Command at a passing out parade ceremony organised at CTW MCEME in Secunderabad on Saturday. Due to the Covid-19 situation, all the participants wore masks at the ceremony. The GCs were welcomed as commissioned officers in the rank of a Lieutenant by senior military officers after parade at Cariappa drill square. The parade was presided over by Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, Commandant, MCEME. He said professionalism, commitment and sacrifice would be required to their make journey as an officer. He apprised them of the challenges to national security and the call of duty that awaits them in their new role as officers of the technologically advanced Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-commissionedas-army-officers/articleshow/76364656.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Containment zone in Sattari sealed, sanitised||Keri: North Goa district magistrate R Menaka visited the Ghodemol ward of Morle village panchayat in Sattari taluka on Saturday to take stock of the situation. Ghodemol was declared a containment zone on Friday night after 15 cases of Covid-19 were detected from the area. Deulwada and Kasarwada, wards adjoining Ghodemol, have been earmarked as buffer zones. PWD, in consultation with the superintendent of police North Goa, sealed entry points from Gimaywada and from Morle colony by raising necessary barricades. Steps were taken to sanitise the ward as also other measures required in a containment zone were taken. “The entire containment zone has been sealed and villagers should ensure that there is no movement in or out except for medical emergencies. Only if you follow the protocol strictly, it will be possible to curtail the spread of the disease. We will supply essential goods and services,” Menaka told reporters. Sarpanch Vidya Sawant of Morle panchayat said instructions have been given to villagers to maintain social distancing and other safety precautions. Government officials posted in the containment zone have assured supply of essential goods, as most of the people in the area are poor and work as daily wage earners, she said. The number of people in government service from the area are less than ten, Menaka said. “It would have been appreciated if essentials were provided free as people in the containment zone as well as buffer zones will not able to go to work. They have already suffered during the lockdown. I’m worried,” she said. “The situation is under control and villagers are cooperating as far as screening, testing and quarantining were concerned,” deputy sarpanch, Sushant Paste said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/containment-zone-in-sattari-sealed-sanitised/articleshow/76364986.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown leap: Five MoUs inked for defence corridor||LUCKNOW: During the over two-month lockdown, UP government signed five MoUs for investment in the upcoming defence corridor, taking the count to 28. Also, the technical committee cleared paperwork of eight companies, which will now allow them to acquire land for their units. Five of these companies are seeking land in Aligarh, while three are scouting for space in Kanpur. Government sources said, while major works like land acquisition were stuck due to lockdown, the government remained in touch with more than 300 companies, both international and domestic, through letters and on phone. “Instead of wasting time, we reached out to firms and told them about UP’s investment potential. Many expressed desire to invest in the state,” said a senior official. The companies with whom MoUs have been signed over past two months include Anu Overseas, Cobra Industries, Kungarmour Private Ltd, Optic Electronic India Private Ltd and Deep Explo Equipment Pvt Ltd. All these companies will be involved in manufacturing ancillary equipment for the defence sector. During the lockdown, guidelines under Defence and Aerospace policy were also prepared, which will help facilitate investments in the corridor. Meanwhile, DRDO set up an office in Gomtinagar and many more companies are likely to follow suit. The defence corridor in UP is one among the twin projects coming up in the country, the second located in Tamil Nadu. UP government identified six nodes around which clusters of defence units will be established — Agra, Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Jhansi, Lucknow and Kanpur. At least 5125.348 hectare has been identified across these six nodes and 1055.6558 hectare has been acquired. This includes the entire 917.94575 hectare land identified in Jhansi. Acquisition in the Lucknow node is yet to begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-leap-5-mous-inked-for-defence-corridor/articleshow/76364990.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation has no idea where 277 Covid-19 positive patients are||CHENNAI: A total of 12,175 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city until June 10, but Greater Chennai Corporation has not been able to trace 277 of them, data shows. Among those whose tested positive, 5,038 were placed in home isolation, 1,850 in private hospitals, 3,289 in Covid care centres and the rest in government hospitals and isolation centres, while efforts are still on to find out the whereabouts of 277 people. As per the prescribed protocol, details of a person testing positive for the virus at a city lab are sent to the directorate of public health (DPH), which sends them to Greater Chennai Corporation. The civic body begins tracing the patients based on the contact number and the address provided. In case of the missing 277 people, all efforts at tracing them seem to have been futile. “Even after a field survey, these patients could not be traced. It could be either because the patients gave the incomplete or wrong address and wrong phone number. After all efforts, if we are unable to trace them, we will file a FIR (first information report) with the concerned police station. It is an ongoing process. We will somehow trace them,” said corporation commissioner G Prakash. A meeting was held with the 18 designated private labs which were asked to update patients’ contact details on the ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) portal. “All ICMR approved labs should enter details of patients tested on the portal. Most labs do not do this. We have asked them to ensure that whenever a patient gets tested, the patient fills a form providing their contact details and also contact tracing form in which they enter details of people they may have met in the last 14 days. We also ask them to quarantine themselves for a minimum of 14 days. If the result is negative, then we will test their family as well,” said a corporation official. “This is because it takes two days for the results to come and another couple of days to trace the patient and his/her contacts. We hope we will not lose track of any patient from now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-has-no-idea-where-277-ve-patients-are/articleshow/76364319.cms||Komal Gautham
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand makes provision for 6 months’ jail term for flouting Covid-19 norms||Dehradun: Governor Baby Rani Maurya has given assent to the Uttarakhand Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. After Kerala and Odisha, Uttarakhand has become the third state in the country to give assent to the amendment ordinance. With amendments in two provisions, those flouting Covid-19 norms in the state can now be sent to jail for up to six months or (and) be fined Rs 5,000. On March 14 this year, the Uttarakhand government had declared Coronavirus outbreak as an epidemic in the Himalayan state. Following this, the state government brought the Uttarakhand Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to make amendments to the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. The amendments were made in sections 2 and 3 of the Act to give the state the power to impose a fine or arrest a person for not wearing a face mask, not maintaining social distancing, flouting quarantine norms, and other such violations of Covid-19 guidelines. Sources said that the imprisonment provision — for a term of one month to six months — has been included in the Act under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 patients died on the day taking the total toll of the virus to 23 in the state. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant informed that one of the deceased was a Covid-19 positive patient from Udham Singh Nagar. “A 46-year-old man was found dead during screening at Kotdwar check post. His samples tested positive on Saturday,” said Pant. Also, 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Uttarakhand on Saturday, taking the state tally to 1,785. Among the new cases, 23 were reported from Tehri district. With this, the count of Covid-19 cases in the district has shot up to 281, the highest among all the hill districts in the state. Dehradun recorded 12 new cases, followed by nine cases in Pauri, four each in Haridwar and Uttarkashi, three in Chamoli, and one in Rudraprayag. In some good news for the state, 130 cases recovered on the day, taking the total count of recovered cases in the state to 1,077.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-makes-provision-for-6-months-jail-term-for-flouting-covid-19-norms/articleshow/76364316.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||One death every hour in Ahmedabad district||Ahmedabad: The total Covid cases touched 16,306 in Ahmedabad district on Friday over the previous 24 hours, as 344 new cases were detected. It was the seventh consecutive day on which the district recorded 300-plus cases. The district also registered 26 deaths, taking the toll to 1,165. In 13 days of June, the district has not recorded fewer than 21 deaths per day, averaging 24 deaths daily. Ahmedabad district as on Friday accounts for 70.6% of the cumulative cases and 80.4% of the cumulative deaths of Gujarat. Gujarat recorded yet another highest single-day tally of cases, of 517, on Friday, taking the total to 23,079. Gujarat is fourth in India in terms of the total Covid-19 cases. Apart from 344 cases of Ahmedabad, 59 were from Surat, 40 from Vadodara, and nine from Gandhinagar. It is the third time in four days that the state’s highest cases have increased. With the new cases, the state’s total tally crossed 23,000 (23,079). The state now has 5,739 active cases. The state recorded deaths of 33 Covid-19 positive patients on Friday, taking the state’s toll to 1,449. Apart from 26 in Ahmedabad, two deaths were recorded from Surat and Amreli each, and one each from Bhavnagar and Patan. The state recorded the discharge of 390 patients in 24 hours, taking the total to 15,891. The discharged patients include 255 from Ahmedabad, 88 from Surat, 18 from Gandhinagar, and eight from Vadodara Of the total cases till Friday evening, Gujarat has 24.9% (5,739) active patients, 68.8% (15,891) discharged patients, and 6.3% (1,449) deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-death-every-hour-in-ahmedabad-district/articleshow/76364719.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Situation along China border under control, disengagement between both sides started in eastern Ladakh: Army chief||Dehradun: Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, after reviewing the Passing Out Parade (POP) for the summer term at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun on Saturday, said “disengagement between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh has begun from Galwan river area in the north, and that the situation on the border is well under control”. Naravane added, “Armies from both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north, from the area of the Galwan river where a lot of disengagement has happened.” Elaborating further on the situation along the China border, the Army chief said, “We have been having a series of talks which started with the corps commander-level talks on June 6 which has been followed up by a number of meetings at the level of commanders of equivalent ranks and as a result of this a lot of disengagement has taken place. We are hopeful that through this continued dialogue which we are having all perceived differences will be set to rest.” On a question if the Chinese have refused to retreat from Indian territory at Pangong near Finger 8, the COAS said that he would not “like to use the word retreat in any context.” “There is no retreat. The correct world would be disengagement,” he said. Speaking on relations with Nepal — whose parliament on Saturday passed a bill to issue a new political map that shows areas like Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh situated in Uttarakhand as part of Nepalese territory — Naravane said that India has had friendly relations with Nepal and a ‘strong connect’. “We have a very strong relationship with Nepal. There are geographical, religious, cultural, historical and religious linkages. Our relation with them has always been strong and will remain strong in the future as well," the Army chief said. Asked about the situation in the Kashmir valley where the Army has been involved in operations to flush out militants, Gen Naravane said, “In the last 10-15 days alone, more than 15 terrorists have been killed in Kashmir. All of this has happened because of very close co-operation and co-ordination between all the security forces operating in Kashmir. Most of the operations have been based on the information provided by the locals, which goes to show that they are also absolutely fed up with militancy and terrorism and they want that the situation should return to normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/situation-along-china-border-under-control-disengagement-between-both-sides-started-in-eastern-ladakh-army-chief/articleshow/76364315.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 14, 2020||Goa||Rain continues to lash Goa, no respite likely till Thursday: IMD||PANAJI: The southwest monsoon continued its wet start, with strong winds and continuous rainfall lashing several parts of Goa on Saturday, bringing several trees crashing down. Though there was no loss of life reported, emergency services said that a woman at Parwadeshwar Mutt, Bethoda, was injured after a tree crashed on to her house. Fire personnel responded to 40 calls for assistance, with a total loss of Rs 3.3 lakh incurred due to tree falls, said officials of the fire department and emergency services. At least 10 trees fell on people’s houses across the state. The IMD’s daily weather report said that the southwest monsoon was “vigorous” over Goa. “Moderate to heavy rain and thundershowers occurred at most places over Goa,” the report said. It also predicted that heavy to very heavy rainfall would continue till Thursday (June 18) while wind speeds of 40-50kmph are likely to prevail along the coastal belt. According to the India meteorological department’s (IMD) regional centre in Goa, the state received 106mm of rainfall by 5:30pm on Saturday as recorded at four stations, with Mapusa recording the highest rainfall of 53mm. Due to incessant rainfall, a tree collapsed on the house of Sunil Pilgaonkar, a resident of Pilgao Tarwada in Bicholim, with an estimated loss of Rs 20,000 as per the preliminary assessment report of the Talathi of Pilgao. “Majority of the tree falls were on roads, with just a few calls for trees falling on homes,” said a fire services official at the Panaji headquarters. Panaji witnessed minor waterlogging incidents, but that did not impede traffic movement. Power fluctuation was reported in certain parts of the state capital too. Strong winds accompanied with heavy showers kept visibility low, and ensured that most people stay indoors, said authorities. Along the Calangute-Candolim belt, waterlogging was reported near the Candolim football ground following heavy showers. Waterlogging was also seen at Ximer and Paradise Village road in Calangute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rain-continues-to-lash-goa-will-go-on-till-thu-imd/articleshow/76364992.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panchayats keep an eye on home quarantined||PANAJI: With the Goa government going in for a new SOP on people entering the state whereby most of the travellers preferring 14 home quarantine, the role of panchayat members has come into focus. While announcing the new SOP which came into effect two days, the chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that in view of cases where quarantinte norms were not followed, civic authority members would be roped in to keep a close watch on those quarantined. Panchayats have started the work in the right earnest in cooridinationwith health authorities but the task is easier said than done, according to some civic body members. Some continue to act smart and the civic body need to act tough “The government has quarantined some people in hotels in Calangute, so we have been making sure that the hotel staff is vigilant. We are informed about any new admissions to the hotel and in case, we find anyone attempting to move out before their quarantine period ends, we inform the police about it,” Calangute sarpanch, Francisco Rodrigues said. With international flights having resumed, seafarers have been returning to their homes. The wards in the village of St Andre in which seafarers reside are being watched by the elected panch members. “They have been told to directly call 104 and inform the health officers in case of any violation,” Maria Cardozo, St Andre sarpanch said. Morjim sarpanch, Vaishali Shetgaonkar was informed by the health department about a villager who arrived in the state on Friday and has been marked for home quarantine. The concerned ward member was then instructed to keep an eye to ensure that the native stays at home. “We are constantly in touch with government health officers for all the dos and don’ts required to monitor the home-quarantined. Panch members have been briefed to go around the wards and ensure that the protocol is followed by those that have been hand-stamped,” Guruprasad Naik, sarpanch of Harvalem panchayat said. However, ensuring that those inked with the home quarantine stamp stay indoors can be a Herculean task for the panchayat alone. In such cases, villagers have acted as the eyes-and-ears of the civic body. Directed to quarantine herself at home and avoid socializing, a lady from Siridao had been seen often venturing out of her home during the isolation period. Residents took it upon themselves to act as vigilantes and informed the police. “After that episode, there has been no noise about people under home-quarantine breaking rules,” Pandurang Mangueshkar, a resident of Siridao said. In Taleigao, a young man was often seen joyriding through the village on his two-wheeler during the isolation period. “People really act stupid, sometimes,” Taleigao sarpanch, Agnelo Da Cunha, said. He said that the panchayat coordinates with health officers to implement the stay-at-home policy for the quarantined and wherever necessary, they even take the help of the police. “The villagers complained to us following which we intervened. He continued breaking protocol despite our warning. We told the officers to lift him and put him inside if he’s not listening,” Agnelo said. The panchayat has now deployed vigilantes to act as covid-19 warriors and keep an eye on the home-quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panchayats-keep-an-eye-on-home-quarantined/articleshow/76364999.cms||Nida Sayed
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Out on a stroll, lion seen near a colony in Rajula||RAJKOT: Having a lion cross your path like a stray dog is not what one would normally expect in a residential area, but in Rajula taluka of Amreli district, residents living in colonies set up by cement majors have been entertaining the royal guests of late. One such sight late on Friday night would permanently remain etched in the minds of the residents of Ultratech’s Gujarat Cement Company’s colony in Kovaya, adjoining the Pipavav port. A male lion with a thick mane decided to raise residents’ excitement levels with a leisurely walk right past an ATM kiosk near the entrance gate of the colony in the dead of the night. A click-savvy resident who was lucky to shoot a video of the wild cat sauntering in the area on his mobile phone told TOI: “The memory of seeing a lion up close leisurely walking so near our gate still sends shivers down my spine. It was something beyond my wildest dreams!” An official from Rajula range forest, however, claimed that lions entering into residential areas in the taluka isn’t a rare phenomenon. Earlier, in December too, a pride of three lions had entered the colony. “Humans are not the natural prey of lions. Yet, even though they don’t attack people, nobody should take any chances,” he cautioned. Meanwhile, another pride of eight lions reportedly entered a village of Dhari taluka in Amreli district on Friday night, the video of which has gone viral on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. But its exact location is still unclear, said officials. Watch Watch how lions move about freely near a residential colony in Gujarat's Rajula||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-out-on-late-night-stroll-near-a-colony-in-rajula-caught-on-camera/articleshow/76363557.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Farmer's son from Punjab bags Sword of Honour at IMA||Dehradun: The prestigious Sword of Honour at this year’s Passing out Parade held at the Indian Military Academy on Saturday was awarded to Akashdeep Singh Dhillon, son of a farmer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. Dhillon, who has been commissioned into the elite Parachute Regiment, told TOI that he had dreamt about joining the Army ever since he got into Sainik School in Kapoorthala. The 21-year-old said it was his family who taught him dedication and hard work which helped him earn the Sword of Honour, awarded to the best performing cadet during the term. Dhillon is the first in his family to join the Army. “I have seen my father’s struggles in life. I learnt perseverance from him. That’s the message I would like to give to youngsters in the country as well — follow your dreams and don’t give up, come what may," he said. The award was presented by Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane who was the reviewing officer of the parade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-son-from-punjab-bags-sword-of-honour-at-ima/articleshow/76364327.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka govt mulls online counselling for placement of teachers||BELAGAVI: Due to the pandemic, the state government is mulling online counselling to recruit teaching and non-teaching staff for government residential schools. There has been a massive delay in the hiring process, despite exams being held for the same in October 2017. The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) sent the final short-list of candidates to the Karnataka Residential Educational Institutional Societies (KREIS) only in November 2019. After this, the KREIS collected documents from the candidates for verification. However, the counselling process is yet to happen. Recruitments are being done for Morarji Desai residential schools, Ekalavya, Hutama, Indira Gandhi and other schools. The pandemic has added to the woes of the candidates, as the process has been further delayed. Now, the KREIS is seriously considering the option of taking the online route for personal interviews of candidates. There are 5,000 vacant posts for both teaching and non-teaching staff. The government has appointed 900 individuals so far, while the hiring process has to happen to fill 4,100 posts. KRIES joint director Sindhu H S said the process has been delayed considerably. “The pandemic has come in the way of carrying out recruitment. We have sent a letter to the social welfare department, seeking permission for online counselling,” she said. Sindhu said that it may not be safe for candidates to travel to Bengaluru from the districts. At the Bengaluru office too, there will be a rush, making it difficult for both officials and candidates. Hence, KREIS has proposed virtual interviews. A candidate from Haveri said that it’s a welcome move, but the government has to frame guidelines analysing challenges pertaining to online placements. “Many candidates hail from remote villages where there are network issues. The state needs to address this problem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/state-govt-mulls-online-counselling-for-placement-of-teachers/articleshow/76364647.cms||Shreyas HS
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: District hospitals face 60% doctor shortage amid Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Even as nine district area hospitals are getting ready to treat Covid-19 patients, lack of medical staff is a concern for the authorities. Sources said hospitals faced 50% to 60% doctor shortage, which could affect Covid-19 treatment. While Nizamabad Government Hospital is almost ready, RIMS in Adilabad, MGM Hospital in Warangal and district area hospitals in Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar, Siddipet, Khammam and Suryapet have been designated to offer Covid-19 treatment. Nizamabad hospital has the highest allotment for Covid-19 patients with 200 beds. “For 304 doctor posts, only 104 are working,” rued a senior doctor. In RIMS, nine patients are being treated. The hospital has 100 beds for Covid-19 cases, but has only five senior medical officers on Covid-19 duty. “They have to attend other duties also,” sources said. Officials said apart from offering treatment, these hospitals would do Covid-19 tests. Khammam GGH has 100 beds exclusively to treat Covid-19 patients, but the hospital is facing 50% shortage of staff, including doctors. It has eight ventilators. In MGM Hospital, 10 coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment. It has 200 beds for Covid-19 patients. For 1,420 medical officer posts, only 870 are working. Nalgonda GGH has 25 beds and another 10 ICU beds to treat Covid patients, sources said. In the hospitals in Suryapet and Siddipet, which were part of common districts earlier, the staff are yet to be allotted fully. Mahbubnagar government hospital has two Covid-19 patients. For 111 doctor posts, only 26 are working in the hospital. However, these government hospitals will take care of only level 1 and level 2 patients who do not require ventilator support and are not in a very serious condition. “Such patients will be sent to Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad. In all the hospitals, the isolation wards have been converted into Covid-19 wards,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dist-hosps-face-60-doc-shortage-amid-covid-19/articleshow/76364672.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||The cadet who transitioned from Air Force to Army||DEHRADUN: A gentleman cadet hailing from Uttarakhand, Dharambir Singh Bisht, 28, proved that if you have the will, there will be a way. Bisht, who hails from Talwadi village of Chamoli district, told TOI that from his very childhood, he had just one dream — to join the Indian Army. However, he couldn't crack the National Defence Academy entrance examinations despite trying thrice. Later, he joined the Indian Air Force as an airman. But he never gave up on his dream. "Despite facing multiple failures, I never stopped dreaming of becoming an Army officer. I used to study after my duty hours at the Air Force facility and fortunately, I got into the Army Cadet College in 2016," said Bisht. On Saturday, he finally fulfilled his dream after graduating from the IMA. Bisht, who will be joining the Corps of Engineers in Assam, credits his father for his success. “My father was a postman and was the sole breadwinner of our family. He always wanted to see me as an Army officer and he guided me at every stage of my life,” said the newly-commissioned officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/the-cadet-who-transitioned-from-air-force-to-army/articleshow/76364331.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||New restaurants face stiffer challenge in resuming||AHMEDABAD: Six months ago, restaurants meant booming business, with people from many professional spheres investing in restaurants and cafes riding on the wave of Amdavadis’ love for eating out. However, after the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the restaurant business is perhaps seeing its worst days, with new restaurants facing stiffer challenges in resuming business. Piling overheads, no respite in rentals, continuing operating costs, shortage of staff and revenues to low to sustain business, have led several new restaurants and cafes in Ahmedabad to shut shop permanently. A slew of once popular hangout joints at Sindhu Bhavan Road and even SG Road, have now put up hoardings stating, ‘Space Available on Rent’. Established players have opened their outlets only for takeaways to reduce overhead costs despite state government’s nod to operate dine-in services. Many others have also closed their outlets. For instance, all four outlets of a Mumbai-based Indian food chain, Charcoal Eats, are to shut permanently in Ahmedabad. Similarly, another cafe on Sindhu Bhavan Road which barely started a year ago is now downing its shutters permanently. Dhruvesh Patel, who is the partner at a café in Ahmedabad said, “We took over the space operated by a certain café and the business ran well for two years. However, the rent is piling on and the footfalls are zero. With our operating costs, it was nearly impossible to survive and despite having taken a hefty loss, we decided to shut our business.” “65% cafés, eateries and restaurants in western Ahmedabad are likely to shut down in the next six months and this will mainly comprise new players in the industry,” said Devarshi Patel, head, NRAI - Ahmedabad chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-restaurants-face-stiffer-challenge-in-resuming/articleshow/76364714.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 14, 2020||Pune||Uber cabs at Pune airport’s pick-up and drop points||PUNE: Cabs belonging to Uber will now be parked at the pick-up and drop points of the city airport. Senior officials of the cab aggregator said that a sanitisation hub has been set up to thoroughly sanitise cabs after each trip. “The cabs will be parked at the Uber’s bay at the pick-up and drop zone of the Pune airport. There is no cap on the number of cabs which can be parked at any given point in time. The sanitisation hub has been created in coordination with airport officials,” an Uber spokesperson told TOI. All cars will be disinfected before every trip, using state-of-the-art equipment and disinfectants. Pavan Vaish, head of central operations, Uber India and South Asia, said, " We believe our partnership with Pune airport and Mumbai International Airport Private Limited (MIAL) to set up sanitisation hubs will be critical in providing our riders and drivers much needed safety assurance and peace of mind."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uber-cabs-at-airports-pick-up-and-drop-points/articleshow/76364673.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Sewagram Ashram chief withdraws resignation||Wardha: TRN Prabhu, who had last month resigned as president of Sewagram Ashram Pratisthan, on Saturday said he is rejoining on the post. According to Prabhu, he decided to withdraw his resignation in the interest of Gandhian ideology. The Sarva Seva Sangh (SSS), the top body of all Gandhian institutions in the country, had asked TRN Prabhu to resign on March 18. Prabhu tendered his resignation on May 25. He had then cited differences with SSS president Mahadev Vidrohi for his resignation. The fresh twist in the resignation drama came four days after a four-member committee was formed under Bhavani Shankar Kusum from Jaipur on June 8 to address problems and dispute over presidentship of the Ashram. The committee has been given 15 days to study the issue and file its report. Prabhu, in a letter written to all the board of directors, stated that Gandhians are urging him to remain in office. In the letter Prabhu stated that Vidrohi had a discussion with him. Prabhu also said he would convene a board meeting after the lockdown. “Prabhu has been demoted on March 18. So there is no question of him resigning and taking it back. Apart from this, the committee is yet to study the issue and submit a report,” said Vidrohi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sewagram-ashram-chief-withdraws-resignation/articleshow/76364667.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: RMLNLU final semester students to take online test||LUCKNOW: Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University on Saturday decided to conduct online examination for final semester of BA-LLB five-year integrated course and promote students of preceding semesters on basis of marks and internal assessment. The decision, which will provide relief to 1,000 undergraduate students, was taken as per Bar Council of India guidelines on covid-19 pandemic. “Semester 10 students will appear for online test. They will also have to submit project reports on a topic, but this time in online mode,” said vice-chancellor SK Bhatnagar. Exam dates will be announced shortly. Students of remaining semesters whose exams are also due will be promoted on basis of 50% marks obtained in previous exam and aggregate of internal assessment in the current semester. BCI guidelines also provide for offline examination of promoted students in case university reopens this session. In such a case, the exam period and questions will also be reduced. “A committee has been formed to decide modalities,” said Bhatnagar. Other universities and colleges in the city teaching law will decide on BCI guidelines next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rmlnlu-final-sem-students-to-take-online-test/articleshow/76365002.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Man attacked over parking issue in Rajkot||Rajkot: A 26-year-old man was attacked over a parking issue allegedly by the husband of Bajrangvadi corporator and his aide in Rajkot on Friday night. Police said the accused, Jahid Dal, husband of corporator Sofiya Dal, and his unidentified aide, allegedly attacked Bhavin Jobanputra. In his complaint Jobanputra has alleged that Jahid had picked up a fight with him when he parked his car near his house in Bajarangvadi-14 area where Jobanputra had gone to drop his sister. “Jahid and his aide entered into an altercation with Jobanputra and hurled abuses at him. When Jobanputra asked them not to do so, Jahid and his aide started beating him up. Then one of the accused hit Jobanputra on his head with some heavy object, subsequent to which Jobanputra was rendered unconscious,” said an official from Gandhigram police station. Jobanputra was first taken to Rajkot Civil Hospital and later he was shifted to a private hospital. “We have booked the accused on the complaint of Jobanputra and started the investigation into the case,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-attacked-over-parking-issue-in-rajkot/articleshow/76363591.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Man commits suicide after woman rejects his marriage proposal||HARIDWAR: A 24-year-old man committed suicide on Saturday at his home in Rodebelwala area after a woman from the same locality rejected his marriage proposal. According to police, the man, identified as Raju, is a resident of Mukundpur, Delhi and worked in Haridwar as a daily wager. Station house officer (SHO) city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “He first slit his wrist and then hanged himself. According to reports, he was in love with a local woman and wanted to marry her. He took the extreme step after she rejected his proposal. We did not find a suicide note and his body has been sent to the district hospital for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-commits-suicide-after-woman-rejects-his-marriage-proposal/articleshow/76364337.cms||MS Nawaz
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Owner of banking kiosk shot dead||Roorkee: Owner of a franchise of mini banking services of a nationalised bank was shot dead on Saturday by unidentified criminals. The victim was identified as 25-year-old Bilal Ahmed, a resident of Ladwa in Saharanpur district. Reportedly, the victim, who ran a customer service point of a bank at Manak-Majra Chowk in Bhagwanpur near Roorkee, was shot dead by two bike-borne criminals at around 3.30 pm. “The assailants escaped the scene after committing the crime and are still at large. We are gathering CCTV footage of different locations and other clues to nab the accused. We have sent the body for postmortem to Roorkee’s Civil Hospital,” said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/owner-of-banking-kiosk-shot-dead/articleshow/76364333.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Rainfall forecast in Kutch, Saurashtra for next five days||RAJKOT: There has been scattered rainfall in parts of Saurashtra and Kutch since Friday night. According to weather forecast, parts of Saurashtra and Kutch will receive rainfall for the next five days. In Kutch district, nearly 40mm rainfall was received in Nakhatrana taluka on Saturday. According to reports, there was water-logging on roads. A person was rescued by the locals from a drain. There were reports of rainfall accompanied with strong wind in Bhavnagar and Gondal town of Rajkot district. The winds uprooted many trees which resulted in traffic jam on the interior village roads. Water-logging was reported in villages like Moviya, Derdi and Vekri of Gondal taluka. Significant rainfall was reported in Bhavnagar’s Vallabhipur, Talaja, Mahuva, Palitana, Gariadhar and Sinhor talukas on Friday night. The electricity supply was also disrupted in some of the villages due to heavy rain and strong wind. Rain was also reported in the parts of Botad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rainfall-forecast-in-kutch-saurashtra-for-next-five-days/articleshow/76363568.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Govt to plug 3 breaches to bundh at Carambolim||Panaji: Water resources department (WRD) has decided to fill up temporarily three breaches to the Panch Manos-Guddier bundh, as this vulnerable third line of defence poses a danger to low-lying houses in Carambolim during monsoon. Taking cognisance of a TOI report “With breaches to bundh network, Carambolim locals wary of floods” dated June 10, 2020, WRD officials inspected the damaged bundh network on Wednesday. The nearly 2-km bundh has developed three breaches due to the increased tidal flow caused by other breaches to the main bundh on Cumbharjua canal and Zuari river. WRD is also taking up improvement of Talle-Savatt bundh at an estimated cost of Rs 38 lakh. The tender had been issued a year ago, but was pending for financial approval. WRD officials, Vinoo Naik and Milind Gaude held discussions with sarpanch Uttam Murgaonkar, panch Rajesh Naik and other stakeholders about the weak bundh network. Most of the cultivable area in Carambolim khazan is under submergence due to breaches to the main bundh of Domzo in Dongorim-Mandur, which have not been repaired for many years. The Nagonzo-Vallapoi bundh - the second barrier against the tidal flow – has also been damaged some years back. About three weeks back, the Panch Manos bundh also crumbled and heavy rainfall during cyclone Nisarga only widened the gaps. The villagers had expressed fear that the flooding may worsen during the monsoon season and submerge their houses in low-lying areas, especially in Porkebhat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-plug-3-breaches-to-bundh-at-carambolim/articleshow/76365007.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Self-lockdown, don’t wait for govt: BJP to Chimbel||PANAJI: State BJP vice-president Anil Hoble on Saturday appealed to the people of Chimbel to go in for a self-lockdown after a spate of Covid-19 cases in the village. Asking them not to wait for the state government to declare it a containment zone, Hoble urged people to take cue from the villages of Sattari and elsewhere, and opt for a self-imposed lockdown. “I urge the people of Chimbel, from Ribandar to Chinchwado, Gulebhat and Indiranagar, to go in for a lockdown,” he said. “They have all agreed. I want to appeal to them not to wait for anybody (including government) to declare a lockdown, but instead self-impose a lockdown.” He asked people not to think of it as something political. H e also said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has supported the call. “I have spoken to CM Pramod Sawant about the lockdown, and he has given us his full support,” Hoble said. He said that the people of Indiranagar should impose a self-lockdown since the houses are in close proximity. “It has a population of around 7,000,” he said. “Even if a single person there is infected, the virus will spread around the area.” He also said that since most people from Chimbel work in Merces, the virus could also spread there. “If it spreads to Merces, then it will spread to Ribandar, Panaji, Old Goa and Curca.” He said that while the state has seen the spread of the novel coronavirus in Mangor Hill, it would be worse in Chimbel if not controlled. While there have been demands that areas like Shirem in Chimbel be declared a containment zone, the government on Friday said that it hasn’t yet taken a decision, since the cases were linked to one family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/self-lockdown-dont-wait-for-govt-bjp-to-chimbel/articleshow/76365006.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||26 cadets commissioned into Indian Army||Pune: About 26 cadets were commissioned into the Indian Army after training for four years on Saturday at the Cadet Training Wing (CTW) on the campus of College of Military Engineering (CME). Presently, the wing conducts training for Technical Entry Scheme (TES) popularly known as TES. The TES entry cadets undergo one year of basic military training at Officers Training Academy (OTA), Gaya, before arriving at CTW for engineering studies for civil and mechanical engineering. The cadets receive their commission after completing one year of military and three years of engineering training. “After commissioning, the cadets will continue their balance one year of engineering degree at CME as commissioned officers,” stated a statement issued by the Southern Command. This time no parents were invited to the parade. Lieutenant General PP Malhotra, Commandant, CME, was the reviewing officer of the parade. The General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Army Training Command gold medal was awarded to cadet Rahul Chaube and, the silver and bronze medal to cadets Vivek Kumar and Satender Pal, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/26-cadets-commissioned-into-indian-army/articleshow/76364681.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||MahaRERA’s online hearings to start from July 1st week||PUNE: The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) will take the digital plunge in the first week of July. A few cases were taken up for digital hearing in April, and MahaRERA, through a notification on Friday, said it would hear all the cases online to ensure zero pendency. MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu told TOI that they had started online hearings or urgent matters during the lockdown, and the decided to make this a permanent arrangement. MahaRERA bar association secretary Anil Dsouza said this hint at a proactive approach by the regulator. “This is a milestone moment for all RERA institutions across the country,” he said. Pune RERA practitioners’ association president Nilesh Borate said this approach would benefit both the parties. “It will prevent the pandemic from spreading,” he added. Mumbai Grahak Panchayat head Shirish Deshpande too welcomed the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahareras-online-hearings-to-start-from-july-1st-week/articleshow/76364675.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||19 of a family test +ve in Zaheerabad||Hyderabad: As many as 19 people of a family tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangareddy district after they attended the funeral of a 55-year-old woman who had contracted the virus. The woman had died in Secunderabad on June 9 and her last rites were performed on June 10 in Zaheerabad. However, her test results came positive the following day. All 25 relatives who had attended the funeral were subsequently quarantined and tested. Only six of them tested negative. The health officials are making efforts to trace the contacts. The entire Shantinagar area in Zaheerabad has been declared a red zone and check ups are being conducted int the 350 households there. In Medak district, a 63-year-old trader tested positive for Covid-19 in Toopran on Saturday. The trader owns a petrol bunk, a rice mill and a cotton mill. The man, a resident of Sainagar colony, fell ill a few days ago and was shifted to Hyderabad for treatment at a corporate hospital. When his swab samples were sent for test, the result was positive. Following the development, the entire Sainagar colony was turned into a containment zone and his family members have been put in home quarantine. They will be shifted to a government hospital on Sunday. A health official in Toopran, Bhavana, said contact tracing of the patient would be done. This is the second case of Covid-19 in Toopran. The entire Shantinagar area in Zaheerabad, where the family stays, has been declared a red zone and check ups are being conducted int the 350 households there||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-of-a-family-test-ve-in-zaheerabad/articleshow/76364682.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 14, 2020||Dehradun||Amid India-Nepal stand-off, 3 Nepalese cadets graduate from IMA, join Indian Army||Dehradun: On the day the Nepalese parliament passed a constitutional amendment bill to update the country’s map to include areas like Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh situated in Uttarakhand as part of its own territory, three Nepalese cadets graduated from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) to become commissioned officers in the Indian Army. Although the three newly-commissioned officers refused to speak on the ongoing tension between India and Nepal, terming it ‘a political matter’, they were unanimous in asserting that they are dedicated in their intent to serve India. Speaking to TOI, Suraj Rai, one of the new officers hailing from Nepal, recounted his journey from being a soldier in the Indian Army to graduating from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) as an officer on Saturday. Rai, who hails from Itahari in eastern Nepal, served as a jawan for seven years before he was able to get admission into the Army Cadet College (an institution which trains soldiers for commission as officers in the Indian Army). While undergoing training at the IMA, Rai suffered a huge personal loss as his father, a former soldier in the Gorkha regiment of the Indian Army, passed away due to cardiac arrest last month at his residence in Nepal. “I received the news of his death while our training was going on. I felt very bad that I was not able to see him one last time. He would have been extremely happy today to know that I am finally going to become an Army officer,” said the 29-year-old who has been commissioned in the Jat Regiment. Rai is a third-generation Army man as his father and grandfather served in the Gorkha Regiment as soldiers. He is the first in his family to earn an officer’s rank. There has been a long tradition of Nepalese personnel joining the Indian Army. “People from Nepal have been joining Indian Army since many decades, both as jawans and officers, mainly in the Gorkha Regiment,” said Dehradun-based senior Army officer Lt Gen Shakti Gurung (retd) According to Brigadier PS Gurung (retired), another senior officer who has served as commandant of the Gorkha Recruiting Depot in Gorakhpur, “there was a time when only Gorkhas from Nepal used to join this regiment. Now, with many people from Nepal having settled in India, the ratio of Indian and Nepalese personnel is almost equal. As per the India-Nepal peace treaty, any Indian can settle in Nepal and do any job and vice-versa, and this is how people of Nepal joined the Indian forces both as jawans and officers”. Commenting on whether tension between the two countries will have an impact on Nepalese continuing to join the Indian Army, former Indian Army officer and defence expert Maroof Raza told TOI, “I believe that people from Nepalwill continue joining the Indian Army.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-india-nepal-stand-off-3-nepalese-cadets-graduate-from-ima-join-indian-army/articleshow/76364359.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 14, 2020||Shimla||‘90% cases aymptomatic, don’t require specialists’||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has been under attack from Congress, which has been demanding his resignation after the arrest of former director health services (DHS) Dr Ajay Kumar Gupta over an audio clip in which he is allegedly demanding Rs 5 lakh from an agent. Thakur said there was no place for corruption in his government and the opposition was trying to mislead the people by raising the issue. In an interview to TOI's Anand Bodh, he spoke at length on these issues. Excerpts:On May 1, Himachal Pradesh was about to become Covid-19 free. But, now, there has been a spike. What happened?Initially, there were only 40 Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh and there was only one active patient on May 1. He too tested negative on May 2. However, a large number of people from the state were stranded in other parts of the country and it was the state government’s duty to ensure their safety. Over 1.95 lakh people were brought back, and this led to a spike and our tally reached 486 within 40 days. Still, the situation is fairly under control. We have made elaborate arrangements to ensure people arriving from other states are examined and kept in institutional or home quarantine. Is the state government ready to deal with growing cases?We have created a three-tier facility. This includes 26 care centres with 1,400 beds, 11 dedicated health centres with 450 beds, and six dedicated hospitals with 400 beds. Almost 90% cases are asymptomatic and they don’t require major clinical treatment. Care centers, which are established in non-health institutions, will be able to cater to 90% of these cases. Also, as per the Centre’s guidelines, the state government has issued guidelines for isolation of pre-symptomatic or mildly asymptomatic cases at their homes. Poor infrastructure is a concern. Specialists are not available in remote areas. What will your government do in case the situation worsens?Since 90% cases are asymptomatic, they don’t require the care of specialist doctors. Vital parameters of all patients in all facilities are being monitored by a dedicated team of specialists in respective medical colleges. All facilities have dedicated ambulances for prompt shifting of patients to better facilities, if required. How much money is needed to upgrade health infrastructure. Has your government made a plan to provide best facilities to people in remotest corners of the state?Upgrade of health institutions is a continuous process. The state government has provided tele-medicine in remote areas like Kaza, Keylong, Pangi and Bharmour. Also, all primary health centres (PHC) and health subcentres in the state are being converted into health and wellness centres in a phased manner. Staff and diagnostics are being provided there. Moreover, tele-consultations are being provided through eSanjeevani hubs established in medical colleges, which are manned by medical specialists. So far, 10,000 tele-consultations have been done. People are questioning your decision to bring back stranded Himachalis very late.It is not true. As soon as we received SOS from people stranded in other parts of the country, we took up the matter with the respective states for ensuring their well-being. We made elaborate arrangements for their return and also took up the matter with the railway ministry to arrange special trains from at least seven destinations. Allegations of corruption are surfacing. Initially, the government handed over the probe into the sanitiser scam to vigilance and now director health services has been arrested in connection with the PPE scam. Even purchase of ventilators is being questioned.As soon as corruption in buying hand sanitiser for the secretariat came to notice, the case was handed over to state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau. The superintendent was suspended and officials concerned charge-sheeted under CCS (Conduct) Rules. When it came to the DHS, the case was handed over to the vigilance bureau for investigation as soon as we came to know of the clip. He was arrested and also placed under suspension. As per the report of the directorate of health services, prima-facie, there is no irregularity in the purchase of ventilators and the allegations are baseless, mischievous and false. An FIR has already been registered against those who created a fake document to defame the state government. Opposition wants a white paper on funds collected and spent to fight Covid-19 pandemic. It is unfortunate that the opposition is indulging in such nefarious, malicious propaganda. Transactions regarding funds received and spent are available on the website. Anyone can access it. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri was joined by 10 BJP MLAs to demand a special session of assembly to discuss the situation arising out of Covid-19. This episode has been blown out of proportion. Our MLAs have already clarified their position in the media and the matter is now closed. Is there a rift within BJP. Recently, some leaders held a meeting in Kangra district, after which local leaders even lodged a complaint against them to high command. These all are merely media speculations. There is nothing wrong in meeting and there is nothing secret.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/90-cases-aymptomatic-dont-require-specialists/articleshow/76364730.cms||Anand Bodh
June 14, 2020||Pune||Restaurateur held for stealing cash & valuables worth Rs 1.74cr||Pune: A 31-year-old restaurant owner was arrested on Friday for stealing cash and valuables worth Rs1.74 crore from a woman’s residence in Bibvewadi for around a year.The woman lodged a complaint with the Bibvewadi police on June 5. The suspect — Aniket Surendra Babune of Dhankawadi — would befriend women from wealthy families via various dating sites and then steal valuables from their homes, the police said. The Pune city crime branch recovered cash and an SUV, collectively worth Rs1.08 crore from Babune. The police took the help of a woman, who was Babune’s friend on a dating site, to lay a trap and arrest him in the theft case. Deputy commissioner of police (Crime) Bachchan Singh said, “The probe revealed that Babune had cheated other girls the same way. He allured them with the promise of marriage and also extorted money or jewellery from them. In this case, he stole the woman’s valuables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateur-held-for-stealing-cash-valuables-worth-rs-1-74cr/articleshow/76364684.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Friend in Covid-19 need is a friend indeed||AHMEDABAD: When Vijay Dabhi was going to Chakliwalu Delu in Dariyapur wearing a PPE kit, he was not a health worker — he had donned the protective gear so that he could deliver meals to his friend Pratik Prajapati. Dabhi, who runs an NGO for animal welfare, got a call from Prajapati, a post department employee, on May 2 about the hospitalization of his mother at SVP Hospital due to Covid-19. A few days later, Prajapati lost his father in a non-Covid ailment. “I have known Pratik, who is a few years elder to me, since childhood. I live in adjoining Hanumanwali Pol. He had helped me a lot in my studies. I felt it was my duty to help him. Thus, I decided to provide him meals during the lockdown. There was protest from the area, but I was adamant. As I was working with veterinary organizations, procuring PPEs was not an issue for me,” said Dabhi, who provided Prajapati meals for close to a fortnight till alternative arrangement could be made. “I have done what any friend would have done in such a condition,” Dabhi said. “My only request to the society at large is: Don’t stigmatize the patient or the condition. The numbers may rise or fall, but we must stay together and never let the family feel that they have been alienated. It will be a great help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ve-story-friend-in-covid-19-need-is-a-friend-indeed/articleshow/76364710.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Labourer slips from third floor, dies||Rajkot: A labourer tripped and fell to his death from the third floor of an under construction building on Saturday. The site where the incident took place is located at the place earlier Amrapali Cinema used to exist on Raiya Road in Rajkot. Police said the deceased, identified as Vipul Solanki (33), was a resident of Ambedkarnagar behind ST workshop on Gondal Road. “Solanki fell from the third floor of the building after he appeared to have tripped over some object. He was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival,” said an official from Gandhigram police station.Solanki is survived by his wife, son and a brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourer-slips-from-third-floor-dies/articleshow/76363634.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jaipur||Exporters seek pre-shipment cover to drop anchor, compete with China||Jaipur: As they pick up the pieces after lockdown, major sectors of Rajasthan’s industry stumble upon new hurdles. Some need fiscal handholding and others policy support, while most await demand generation that is held hostage to the pandemic. Handicraft, apparel and jewellery sectors are the best-known faces of Rajasthan’s industry, but their issues of survival find no takers when it matters the most. In recent weeks, the demand from the US and European countries has started trickling in for handicraft products, but the industry cannot grab them. Many of the buyers from these countries now look to India but will go back to China if Indian manufacturers don’t close the deals. “Buyers are looking to avoid China, and talking to us but I cannot just sign the deal. There is lot of uncertainty now. What happens if I accept an order and spend, for example Rs 8-10 crore for manufacturing them, and then the lockdown is imposed again? I will lose the client, the investments and my whole time and effort,” said Dileep Baid, former president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters. He said the exporters need pre-shipment insurance to cover the risks because already they are financially distressed and don’t like to take any decision that would bring them to their knees. “We want to pay the premium only to cover our costs and not profits. But in India it is hard to get pre-shipment insurance because we don’t have the system. In China this facility is available for exporters. If we decline to accept the orders, they will immediately go to China,” added Baid. Similarly, the apparel sector in the state is battling its own challenges. Payments have been stuck at buyers’ end which cannot be realized before September. There is an unsold inventory and they cannot access working capital from the banks for fresh production. The demand is not there to move the cycle. “We just want the wheels to move again. It’s jammed now. There has to be a solution to the undelivered volume stuck at our end due to cancellations or on-hold orders by retailers in the country. Because of this we cannot get fresh working capital to work on new orders. Secondly, the demand has to come back. But we don’t see that happening till September. Thirdly, the leading retailers need to release payments on time for the goods they have already received,” said Rajiv Diwan, president of Garments Exporters Association of Rajasthan. The gem and jewellery sector is also facing headwinds not only from the exports front but also from domestic demand squeeze. Adding to the woes is the rise in gold prices which is now shrinking the margins of the orders signed before the lockdown had started. Rajiv Jain, ex-chairman of Gem and Jewellery Exports Promotion Council, said, “We are left with only 30% of the export orders. The rest has been cancelled or put on hold. Gold prices have also shot up during the crisis which is shrinking the margins. Demand in the domestic market has crashed because weddings have been postponed.” However, Jain said that gold jewellery is a fashionable item but investments in them are not a loss making proposition like in other fashionable goods. “I would like to buy gold jewellery rather a car or other things in the current situation,” added Jain. Removing Hurdles *All claims pending and dues outstanding against government liabilities for GST, IGST, ROSL, MEIS, DBK and other schemes should be released at the earliest to ease cash crunch. Till such times, the government works on settlements, ad hoc limits to 90% of value due should be made available with banks *Handicrafts industry urges the government to roll back 2% tax increase on agri produce. It said Rajasthan’s wooden handicraft exports, which contributes 60% to the country’s total volume, is already struggling to survive in international market due to stiff competition from Chinese products *In order to compete with China, India has to bring down interest rates and taxes. Infrastructure cost is also much higher in India which includes high prices for land, electricity and other compliance charges. The focus needs to be on economies of scale, not higher taxes to raise government revenues *Cancellation of weddings and sharp rise in gold rates have hit the jewellery industry hard. Gold price increase will not only dampen the demand in the country but also squeeze the margins of the industry. The industry demands reduction in import duty to upset the damages to an extent||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/exporters-seek-pre-shipment-cover-to-drop-anchor-compete-with-china/articleshow/76358049.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 14, 2020||Pune||Four in net for damaging 10 vehicles||Pune: The Pimpri police arrested four men on Friday afternoon for damaging 10 vehicles — three cars and seven two-wheelers — with sharp weapons at the Kailashnagar slum pocket in Pimpri around 2.30am the same day after they picked up a fight with one of the car owners. Aslam Nankulali Raeen (40), the owner of one of the cars, lodged a complaint with the police. Sub-inspector S D Nikam told TOI, “The suspects stopped Raeen’s car and threatened him. They smashed the rear and front windshields and robbed him of Rs7,000. While leaving the area, the suspects went on a rampage and damaged the vehicles parked on the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-in-net-for-damaging-10-vehicles/articleshow/76364683.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Rajkot||Man, two sons electrocuted in sleep||Rajkot: A man and his two sons were electrocuted in their sleep after the live wire hanging loose from the fan touched the iron cot in Sudavad village of Amreli district on Friday night.Raju Bambhaniya, 25 and his two sons, Jignesh (9) and Ravi (4), died on the spot, said sources in Bagasara police station. They were asleep in a makeshift house in the farm of one Fula Gajera.According to the accidental death report registered with Bagasara police, the ceiling fan was hooked in a strip of iron and the structure was supported by an another metal strip. The doors were also made of iron. Possibly there was a short-circuit and the live wire touched the strip to which the fan was hooked. The current spread to other iron strip that touched the bed on which they were sleeping. There was spark and loud noise heard in the nearby farm. People staying there rushed to the farm and informed Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL) team. The trio was taken to a government hospital in Bagasara where they were declared dead on admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-two-sons-electrocuted-in-sleep/articleshow/76363621.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR makes surprise visit to Konda reservoir||Hyderabad: Following reports that technical glitches had cropped up in lifting water at Kondapochamma Sagar, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday made a surprise visit to the recently-inaugurated reservoir, which was constructed as a part of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme. The CM spent almost one hour at the project site, which left the officials on tenterhooks. The CM went to the project site directly from his farmhouse in Erravelli. Even senior officials of the CMO in Hyderabad had no clue about his visit. “Even we were not aware of his inspection until it happened,” said an official. KCR examined the functioning of the lifts at the reservoir. Irrigation officials rushed to the spot and explained to the CM about the arrangements being made for lifting of water from Godavari river to the reservoir. Congress MP A Revanth Reddy tweeted on Friday that all is not well at Kondapochamma reservoir as claimed by the ruling TRS and also posted some pictures on social media platforms. Meanwhile, the CM will hold a review meeting on agriculture and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme on June 16. District collectors, additional district collectors (local bodies), district rural development officers, zilla parishad chief executive officers, district panchayat officers, district forest officers and district agriculture officers will attend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-makes-surprise-visit-to-konda-reservoir/articleshow/76364697.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two undertrials escape from temporary jail||PUNE: Two undertrial prisoners, afraid of catching Covid-19, escaped from a temporary jail in Yerawada in the early hours of on Saturday. One of them was later nabbed by the police around 12 hours later. The undertrials were identified as Akash Pawar — facing trial for attempted murder — and Arshad Sayyed, who has been charged with robbery and dacoity. They escaped between 5.30am and 5.45am, officials said. Around 5.15pm the same day, Sayyed was caught by the Pimpri Chinchwad police, who were acting on a tip-off, and later handed over to the Yerawada police. Pawar, Sayyed and 18 others were lodged on the second floor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University girls’ hostel, which was converted into a temporary jail to prevent Covid-19 outbreak in prisons. The facility has a total of 398 undertrial prisoners. “None of them have tested positive for Covid-19,” U T Pawar, superintendent of the Yerawada Central Jail, told TOI. “Pawar and Sayyed made a request to use the washroom, following which they were let out. They removed an iron bar and climbed out of the window and then climbed down from the roof of the first floor. They made a break for it after scaling the small compound wall,” Pawar added. Additional director-general of prisons Sunil Ramanand has instructed deputy inspector-general of prisons Yogesh Desai to conduct an inquiry. Cases under IPC sections 224 (escaping from lawful custody) and 34 (common intention) were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-undertrials-escape-from-temporary-jail/articleshow/76364695.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||KMC looks for agencies for body disposal||KOLKATA: The taking over of the Dhapa crematorium for deceased Covid patients has created a double-pronged problem for the KMC. Though it has decided to dispose of unclaimed bodies at multiple crematoriums across the city and beyond, they are yet to find any such facility. Also, it do not wish to any longer depend on the solitary agency for the exercise that would require more manpower and resources. Since late 90s, the civic body has been dependent on a single agency for the disposal of unclaimed bodies. But now, it is seeking multiple agencies to transport bodies to various crematoriums located across the city. “We need multiple operators that would take care of the assignments area-wise,” said a KMC health department official, adding the civic brass were contemplating to invite a tender to select the agencies. At the same time, hunt for crematoriums for disposal of unclaimed bodies is on. According to a civic official, trouble started after the Dhapa facility was taken over for the cremation of deceased Covid patients. On Wednesday, a furore took place at Garia crematorium over alleged offloading of unclaimed bodies in an “inhuman manner”. Chairman of the board of administrators of the civic body, Firhad Hakim, pointed out that they faced similar protests at a smaller facility near Metiabruz. Getting berths in large and busy crematoriums, like those at Keoratola and Nimtolla, was almost impossible as they were under tremendous pressure, an official said. And, the civic bodies faced public outrage at smaller facilities, like those at Garia and Metiabruz, as they were located in residential areas. “Our experiment with the Garia crematorium has backfired as irate locals did not allow the cremation, fearing health hazard. We need to find an alternative venue shortly,” a KMC official said. A KMC health department official claimed they might have to use the Dhapa crematorium for the time being. “Till we find alternative facilities for unclaimed bodies, we will use the one at Dhapa,” said a civic official. But, a source in the civic electrical department said one of the two furnaces at Dhapa was already malfunctioning owing to the burden of Covid-19 corpses, and so, it would be difficult to handle the added pressure. The home department on Saturday tweeted on the Garia crematorium controversy: “Some unidentified and decomposed dead bodies lying in a morgue has no relationship whatsoever with the current pandemic. This has been communicated in writing and in person by most senior state officials even to hon’ble governor. Streamlining of all relevant procedure especially at a time when the entire state is fighting the twin blows of Covid and Amphan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-looks-for-agencies-for-body-disposal/articleshow/76364372.cms||Saikat Ray
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt decision on fees fails to cheer parents||Ahmedabad: The state government on Saturday said that schools could only accept tuition fees from parents and that fees under any other categories including transportation could not be sought till September. Many parents who were expecting some monetary relief in school fees from the state government have been left disappointed as no announcement was made in this regard. The parents raised a hue and cry on Saturday after many schools in Ahmedabad announced a hike in the annual tuition fee, which, according to the state government, was a violation of the Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC) norms. Addressing a press conference, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that the fees could be raised by schools only on a monthly basis and not on a quarterly, six-monthly or yearly basis. Parents could pay the tuition fees till September as per their convenience, the minister said. A number of parents have signed a petition after a school in Satellite locality announced a fee hike of 20%. The school in its letter to the parents, has claimed that it arrived at this decision after discussion with the FRC officials, said a parent. Such cases have come to the fore at many schools in the past few days. Naresh Shah, president of All Gujarat Wali Mandal, has written to the secretary, primary and secondary education, for initiating action against a number of private schools for flouting the FRC norms. Shah, who has in his letter enlisted about 20 self-financed schools across the state, said the schools were charging excess fees as well as capitation money from parents. Amit Panchal, member of All Gujarat Wali Mandal, alleged that the government has been sending mere notices to the schools and that no concrete action has been taken to stop such instances where schools charge excess fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-decision-on-fees-fails-to-cheer-parents/articleshow/76364705.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Karnataka resident booked for extorting Rs 5,000 from 19-year-old woman||PUNE: A resident of Bijapur in Karnataka was booked on Friday by the Chandanagar police on the charge of issuing threats to a 19-year-old woman and extorting a sum of Rs5,000 from her after uploading her photographs on different social networking sites. The incident occurred between March 18 and June 12. “The man created her fake profiles where he uploaded the woman’s photos and wrote obscene content on it. He demanded Rs15,000 from the woman for deleting the profiles. She transferred Rs5,000 to his bank account and approached the police as the man continued to harass her,” an officer from Chandannagar police said. In another incident, a software engineer (24) from Kharadi lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday stating that he was duped of Rs1.03 lakh while trying to book a gas cylinder online on June 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/karnataka-resident-booked-for-extorting-rs-5000-from-19-year-old-woman/articleshow/76364693.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Naranpura BJP councillor tests positive||Ahmedabad: A BJP corporator from Naranpura on Saturday experienced the healthcare hardship that common people have to routinely endure. She was forced to sit in an ambulance outside SVP Hospital for nearly 30 minutes. The corporator, Sadhna Joshi, eventually tested positive. Sources said two family members of Joshi also tested positive. Earlier, when Joshi called 108, an ambulance picked her up. But outside the hospital, there was nobody to attend to her. After waiting in the ambulance for 30 minutes, Joshi called the leader of the ruling party in the AMC, Amit Shah. He immediately contacted the hospital authorities. “There was a communication gap between the medical health officer of the AMC and SVP’s resident medical officer,” Shah said. “The medical health officer forgot to inform the resident medical officer. However, after I called, the corporator was immediately admitted to the hospital.” The news of Joshi testing positive has worried BJP’s top office-bearers in the AMC as she was present in a programme organized on the World Environment Day on June 5. The programme was attended by, among others, mayor Bijal Patel; the AMC’s standing committee chairman, Amul Bhatt, and the leader of the BJP in the corporation, Shah. A controversy had erupted over the programme as it had been organized near the containment zone in Naranpura. A few BJP leaders fear that someone with the infection could have attended the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naranpura-bjp-councillor-tests-positive/articleshow/76364716.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Prisoners can now make videocalls||PUNE: The state prisons department has started a facility for prisoners to make calls to their near and dear ones via coin box phones or video calls. The department had discontinued allowing inmates to meet their family in person, to prevent the Covid-19 spread in jails. The additional director general of prisons Sunil Ramanand said, “We have procured coin box phones, smartphones, sim cards and installed Wi-Fi connections in all jails. The facility has been started. The prisoners can talk to their family and lawyers for three minutes.” Superintendent U T Pawar of the Yerawada Central Prison said, “Around 350 inmates can make a call to their family once in eight days.” Prison officials said, “The call duration will be monitored and numbers verified before calls are allowed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prisoners-can-now-make-videocalls/articleshow/76364696.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 14, 2020||Pune||Man arrested for jewellery store staffer’s murder in 2018||Pune: The Kondhwa police have arrested Ravi Singh (25) from Bihar, suspected of gunning down a jewellery store employee at Yeolewadi in November 2018. Five men posing as customer had engaged the victim, Amrat Parihar (27), in a conversation, while one of them, identified as Singh, opened fire on him.The police had earlier arrested the four other suspects from Bihar. A police team had twice visited Bihar to arrest Singh, but he continued to elude them. His whereabouts was not known.The Bihar police had recently arrested Singh in an Arms Act case. A Kondhwa police team, led by inspector Mahadev Kumbhar, visited Hajipur in Bihar’s Vaishali district and took him into custody on June 9 and brought him to Pune on Thursday.Singh will be in police custodial remand till June 15. Police are questioning Singh to establish the motive behind killing Parihar, because nothing was stolen from the jewellery store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-for-jewellery-store-staffers-murder-in-2018/articleshow/76364698.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government allows Sir Ganga Ram Hospital to resume RT-PCR testing||NEW DELHI: The state government on Saturday allowed Sir Ganga Ram Hospital to resume testing for coronavirus, almost 10 days after it had prohibited the medical institute from conducting tests for the viral infection.  In an order issued on June 3, Delhi government had prohibited the hospital from carrying out RT-PCR sampling for Covid-19 suspect/contact cases.  "We have now been authorised to use the RT-PCR app. With this, the hospital can start conducting tests for Covid-19 patients as per the government guidelines," Dr D S Rana, chairman of the hospital's board of management said in a statement. Dr Rana thanked the government for the intervention and expressed its whole-hearted support in the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic. The Aam Aadmi Party government later lodged an FIR against the hospital alleging that it wasn't using the app till June 3; almost a month after an order was issued mandating all accredited labs to collect samples only through the app, so that all suspected cases could be tracked and monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-allows-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-to-resume-rt-pcr-testing/articleshow/76365211.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Amritsar||Third suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba man held in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police arrested the third Jammu and Kashmir-based suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant Javed Ahmed Bhat (29) on Friday from Pathankot while fleeing back to the valley. The state police had earlier arrested two suspected LeT operatives on Thursday — Aamir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hassan Wani — while they were smuggling weapons into the Kashmir valley to carry out terror attacks. The third suspected LeT operative arrested on Friday, Bhat is a native of village Shirmal in Shopian district. Bhat was intercepted while he was trying to flee, after he came to know about the arrest of his two other accomplices, in a truck (JK-22-8711) from Dhobra bridge in Pathankot on Amritsar-Jammu highway by the Pathankot police Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta said Bhat and the earlier two arrested suspected militants belong to the same village in Kashmir and were childhood friends. These three friends had been doing the transport business together for the past over 2-3 years, and had been making trips to Delhi, Amritsar and Jalandhar. Bhat is brother of a Jammu and Kashmir homeguard Arif Ahmed. He was also selected by the unit in 2012, but had left the job subsequently. During the investigation, Bhat has revealed that he had come with Aamir and Wasim from the valley to Amritsar to collect weapons consignment in the guise of bringing fruits and vegetables. The DGP said all three had come in two trucks and, after picking up the weapons’ consignment from near Vallah Road on June 11, Aamir and Wasim had asked Javed to stay behind in Amritsar to contact the weapons’ supplier on the directions of their handler, Ishfaq Ahmed Dar alias Bashir Ahmed Khan of the LeT. The police are carrying out further investigation to identify further links and associates of the three men in Punjab and J&K .  The DGP said these arrests indicated widespread terror network backed by Pakistan-based militants and also corroborated recent intelligeance inputs indicating that Pak-ISI had been pushing weapon consignments and infiltrating militants from across the border into Punjab, and further to Kashmir valley for carrying out terror activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/3rd-suspected-let-man-held-in-pkot/articleshow/76366447.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Resale home market bleeds, housing societies’ rules blamed||PUNE: The fear of Covid-19 and the lockdown rules prepared and imposed by several housing societies across the city are having a debilitating impact on the secondary real estate market sales. Realty industry estimates reveal that two old houses are sold for every 10 new units in Pune. Within the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, about 40,000 housing units are sold and registered every year. Of these, 6,000-8,000 houses could be resale units. But the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 norms and the personalized rules made by the housing societies have hit hard the real estate sector already going through a slowdown. “We are not allowed to enter many housing societies. Many prospective interested clients have moved to under-construction properties,” said Nilesh Deshmukh of Magic Stone Property Consultant in Pimple Saudagar. He estimated that there were at least 1,000 properties available for resale in Pimple Saudagar alone. Registration department data of May 2020 revealed that only 30,000 sales deed were registered in the state as against 1,25,000 in May last year. The resultant revenue (stamp duty and registration payment) fell a sharp 90% to Rs175 crore. As per market sources, the primary housing sales in Pune is likely to drop by 50-60% in the April-June quarter of 2020 as against the corresponding period of 2019. “Customers think that prices should fall some 25%. Customers who have paid token advances are renegotiating. This is pulling deals apart,” Sattar Sayyad of Ashiyana Real Estate said. The brokers said they were not able to show properties and such a situation was leading to layoffs, loss of revenue and a comatose market. “It is true that many housing societies are not allowing us to enter the premises. Some of the brokers have already left the field. The small-time brokers are finding it difficult to survive," said Kishan Agarwal of Prociti Real Estate in Baner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/resale-home-market-bleeds-hsg-societies-rules-blamed/articleshow/76364699.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclists must follow road rules like others: Kolkata cops||KOLKATA: Cyclists would be treated on a par with other motorists and drivers when it came to maintaining traffic discipline on roads returning to normalcy after lockdown, indicated Lalbazar. But for now, cops might let off errant riders with a warning without penalize them. Instead, those found following road rules might be rewarded to encourage safe cycling practices. All 25 traffic guards in the city claimed managing cycles on roads was becoming a challenge. “Whether a cyclist takes a right, a left or a u-turn, we hope he or she follows traffic lights, just like other persons at the wheel of other vehicles. Not every cyclist is doing that at present,” said an ACP in central Kolkata. Citing the bike-cycle accident at Hastings 48 hours ago, an officer said, “Analyzing the CCTV footage, we found both the biker as well as the cyclist were at fault as they had disregarded the signal near Turf View and the bike rammed into the cycle.” Echoing him, another cop at the strand Road-MG Road crossing said not all riding cycles stopped at red lights. “In footage after footage, many are seen violating the stopline or never bothering to stop at signals.” Cops claimed with a spurt of motorcycles on the road, which were also violating rules, they found it difficult to manage two completely different sets of two-wheelers. TimesViewThe safety factor is important and unsafe practices must be penalised. But we should also look at other methods to enhance cyclists’ safety. Cycling increasingly looks like an important part of our commute.But for a beginning, they do not plan a crackdown. “Many people are being forced to use cycle and we must give them time to adopt to the rules. For now, we want to promote good cycling practices and want to reward those who follow the rules. They can act as an example,” said a Lalbazar officer. Police also plan a “safe parking” policy for them. “The relaxation will be on till July 30. The time could be enough to promote safe cycling,” said an OC from South Kolkata traffic guard. For future, police have decided on a few provisions under which cyclists can be penalized. “Since Motor Vehicles Act will not be applicable, we will use the Kolkata Police Act, under which cycles of errant riders might be confiscated,” an officer said. Police also said vans and carts would not be included in the “relaxations” provided to cyclists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclists-must-follow-road-rules-like-others-cops/articleshow/76364383.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Third suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba man held in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police arrested the third Jammu and Kashmir-based suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant Javed Ahmed Bhat (29) on Friday from Pathankot while fleeing back to the valley. The state police had earlier arrested two suspected LeT operatives on Thursday — Aamir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hassan Wani — while they were smuggling weapons into the Kashmir valley to carry out terror attacks. The third suspected LeT operative arrested on Friday, Bhat is a native of village Shirmal in Shopian district. Bhat was intercepted while he was trying to flee, after he came to know about the arrest of his two other accomplices, in a truck (JK-22-8711) from Dhobra bridge in Pathankot on Amritsar-Jammu highway by the Pathankot police Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta said Bhat and the earlier two arrested suspected militants belong to the same village in Kashmir and were childhood friends. These three friends had been doing the transport business together for the past over 2-3 years, and had been making trips to Delhi, Amritsar and Jalandhar. Bhat is brother of a Jammu and Kashmir homeguard Arif Ahmed. He was also selected by the unit in 2012, but had left the job subsequently. During the investigation, Bhat has revealed that he had come with Aamir and Wasim from the valley to Amritsar to collect weapons consignment in the guise of bringing fruits and vegetables. The DGP said all three had come in two trucks and, after picking up the weapons’ consignment from near Vallah Road on June 11, Aamir and Wasim had asked Javed to stay behind in Amritsar to contact the weapons’ supplier on the directions of their handler, Ishfaq Ahmed Dar alias Bashir Ahmed Khan of the LeT. The police are carrying out further investigation to identify further links and associates of the three men in Punjab and J&K .  The DGP said these arrests indicated widespread terror network backed by Pakistan-based militants and also corroborated recent intelligeance inputs indicating that Pak-ISI had been pushing weapon consignments and infiltrating militants from across the border into Punjab, and further to Kashmir valley for carrying out terror activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3rd-suspected-let-man-held-in-pkot/articleshow/76364700.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Srinagar||Third suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba man held in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police arrested the third Jammu and Kashmir-based suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant Javed Ahmed Bhat (29) on Friday from Pathankot while fleeing back to the valley. The state police had earlier arrested two suspected LeT operatives on Thursday — Aamir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hassan Wani — while they were smuggling weapons into the Kashmir valley to carry out terror attacks. The third suspected LeT operative arrested on Friday, Bhat is a native of village Shirmal in Shopian district. Bhat was intercepted while he was trying to flee, after he came to know about the arrest of his two other accomplices, in a truck (JK-22-8711) from Dhobra bridge in Pathankot on Amritsar-Jammu highway by the Pathankot police Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta said Bhat and the earlier two arrested suspected militants belong to the same village in Kashmir and were childhood friends. These three friends had been doing the transport business together for the past over 2-3 years, and had been making trips to Delhi, Amritsar and Jalandhar. Bhat is brother of a Jammu and Kashmir homeguard Arif Ahmed. He was also selected by the unit in 2012, but had left the job subsequently. During the investigation, Bhat has revealed that he had come with Aamir and Wasim from the valley to Amritsar to collect weapons consignment in the guise of bringing fruits and vegetables. The DGP said all three had come in two trucks and, after picking up the weapons’ consignment from near Vallah Road on June 11, Aamir and Wasim had asked Javed to stay behind in Amritsar to contact the weapons’ supplier on the directions of their handler, Ishfaq Ahmed Dar alias Bashir Ahmed Khan of the LeT. The police are carrying out further investigation to identify further links and associates of the three men in Punjab and J&K .  The DGP said these arrests indicated widespread terror network backed by Pakistan-based militants and also corroborated recent intelligeance inputs indicating that Pak-ISI had been pushing weapon consignments and infiltrating militants from across the border into Punjab, and further to Kashmir valley for carrying out terror activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/3rd-suspected-let-man-held-in-pkot/articleshow/76366446.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jammu||Third suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba man held in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police arrested the third Jammu and Kashmir-based suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant Javed Ahmed Bhat (29) on Friday from Pathankot while fleeing back to the valley. The state police had earlier arrested two suspected LeT operatives on Thursday — Aamir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hassan Wani — while they were smuggling weapons into the Kashmir valley to carry out terror attacks. The third suspected LeT operative arrested on Friday, Bhat is a native of village Shirmal in Shopian district. Bhat was intercepted while he was trying to flee, after he came to know about the arrest of his two other accomplices, in a truck (JK-22-8711) from Dhobra bridge in Pathankot on Amritsar-Jammu highway by the Pathankot police Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta said Bhat and the earlier two arrested suspected militants belong to the same village in Kashmir and were childhood friends. These three friends had been doing the transport business together for the past over 2-3 years, and had been making trips to Delhi, Amritsar and Jalandhar. Bhat is brother of a Jammu and Kashmir homeguard Arif Ahmed. He was also selected by the unit in 2012, but had left the job subsequently. During the investigation, Bhat has revealed that he had come with Aamir and Wasim from the valley to Amritsar to collect weapons consignment in the guise of bringing fruits and vegetables. The DGP said all three had come in two trucks and, after picking up the weapons’ consignment from near Vallah Road on June 11, Aamir and Wasim had asked Javed to stay behind in Amritsar to contact the weapons’ supplier on the directions of their handler, Ishfaq Ahmed Dar alias Bashir Ahmed Khan of the LeT. The police are carrying out further investigation to identify further links and associates of the three men in Punjab and J&K .  The DGP said these arrests indicated widespread terror network backed by Pakistan-based militants and also corroborated recent intelligeance inputs indicating that Pak-ISI had been pushing weapon consignments and infiltrating militants from across the border into Punjab, and further to Kashmir valley for carrying out terror activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/3rd-suspected-let-man-held-in-pkot/articleshow/76366445.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Phone calls come as painkiller for coronavirus patients||AHMEDABAD: Archana Raval didn’t know any patients at Covid-19 hospital at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) last week. But now she can proudly say that she has touched the lives of 10-odd patients through telephonic conversation with them. An engineer by profession, Raval had come across a social media post about volunteers required at the GCRI to engage Covid-19 patients. “I agreed to talk to them over phone, sharing their anxiety and offering a few words of solace. The experience has been cathartic in a way – one of the first patients I was talking to was an octogenarian. A simple question of how many times he talked to his family triggered emotions that made him – and in turn me – cry for minutes,” she narrates. In another instance, she talked to a very young patient who was in the hospital for nearly a month over phone. “I assured him that he would be fine. He told me that it was easy to say – he was also suffering from other health conditions. But I asked him to keep faith. It was such a great news when I heard that he got discharged after a couple of days,” says Raval, who insists that it’s her bit for the patients and she’s no counsellor or psychologist. “Often what all one needs is talking things out,” she says. Raval is one of the volunteers from the city who responded to an appeal by the GCRI staff online to get engaged with the Covid-19 patients. They only had to donate some time and send across messages, song, play music or do activities such as yoga. Dr Rajan Garg from the GCRI, who is part of the initiative coordination, said that the idea was to keep the patients engaged in a fruitful way. “We have several screens in the ward that play videos from the members of the society. We did not want celebrity as the patients should relate to the person on screen,” he said. “Someone had sent a video of playing flute, whereas a staff member had sent across a prayer.” Dr Shashank Pandya, director of the GCRI, said that the initiative has got a good response and the team is doing their best to ensure that the patients are in good spirits. Dr Parijat Goswami, professor and head of microbiology department at the GCRI, said that mental well-being becomes as important as physical well-being of Covid-19 patients and they are hopeful that the initiative would help the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phone-calls-come-as-painkiller-for-corona-patients/articleshow/76364703.cms||Parth Shastri
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar holds online budget session||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, slated for polls later this year, held an online Budget session on Friday, focusing on Covid-preventive measures, conservancy, maintenance of roads and disaster management. “We are stressing on issues, such as conservancy, road repairs and maintenance, disaster management and Covid-preventive measures, like sanitization, spraying of disinfectant, providing masks, gloves and hand sanitisers to residents. Our aim is to have all-round development,” said Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty. The authorities have placed a surplus Budget with a total earning of Rs 425.3 crore and total expenditure of Rs 424.8 crore. This was the current board’s last allocation proposal. Post-Amphan, the civic authorities want to allocate more for disaster management and also plan to auction uprooted trees. The money will reportedly be used for disaster management, conservancy and anti-Covid measures. Officials have allocated disinfectant-spraying machines to all the 41 wards and are distributing masks, hand sanitisers, face shield and gloves to health and conservancy workers. The authorities are also intensifying its dengue-control drive. Last year, the civic authorities prepared a Rs 78-crore road repair scheme, of which they received Rs 29 crore as state grant. “A Rs 150-crore road repair scheme has been proposed that will be placed before the state,” said a civic official. Looking to increase its earnings, the civic body is set to turn its focus on collection of property tax. It had earlier set a target of collecting Rs 100 crore in property tax by the end of its tenure this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-holds-online-budget-session/articleshow/76364390.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Devotees and conduct of exams exempted from Sunday lockdown||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has amended its order on the total lockdown for Sundays, allowing devotees to travel to places of worship and conduct of examinations. An order issued by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta said the government has excluded the movement of devotees from their homes to places of worship and back. This comes in the wake of the Centre permitting places of worships to open, from June 8, as part of its easing of restrictions, and the state government issuing necessary orders in this regard. The latest government order also allows for the conduct of exams -- and by extension the movement of students and personnel for organizing and conducting the same. They will be allowed to move with their admit cards and identity cards, respectively, it said. The order also permits movement of students to join their educational institutions, allotted medical or dental colleges, with their allotment cards being treated as travel passes. The order also asks district collectors and SPs to make necessary arrangements and issue necessary orders to comply with the exemptions. However, other existing restrictions will continue. Shops selling essential goods and those collecting and distributing milk, hospitals, laboratories, medical stores, Covid-19 work-related departments and agencies engaged in removal of waste are already exempt from the Sunday shutdown. Take-away services in restaurants are permitted. The Sunday lockdown will also not be applicable to those attending weddings and funerals. Persons out on medical requirements, and those engaged in Covid-19-related duties and media have also been exempted. Any other public activity will be permitted only on the basis of special permits issued by police or other concerned officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/devotees-conduct-of-exams-exempted-from-sun-lockdown/articleshow/76363689.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Amritsar||Vigilance bureau to reopen road tax evasion scam||Amritsar: Vigilance bureau have reportedly reopened an inquiry into road tax evasion fraud worth crores of rupees that was committed allegedly by a few motor vehicle agency owners in connivance with some employees of transport office. Though the vigilance department is tightlipped about it, sources said many heads could roll, including that of some ‘bigwigs’, as the reinvestigation into the scam gathers movement. According to sources, the registration of vehicles was allegedly done at much lower than the original price of the vehicle to evade the road tax. Giving example, sources said, “If the value of a vehicle is Rs 14 lakh , a duplicate bill for Rs 4 lakh was generated of the same vehicle by the agency and on basis of which the regional transport office would show the receipt of road tax received on Rs 4 lakh whereas customer had to pay the road tax on Rs 14 lakh value of the vehicle.” The road tax on vehicles below Rs 20 lakh was around 9% and 11% above it. The vigilance department had in December 2018 initiated an inquiry into the alleged scam and had also indicted a senior official of the transport department and two to four clerks, who were allegedly involved in the scam. However, no action was taken against the agencies who were hand in glove with the employees of the transport department. “The inquiry couldn’t reach a logical conclusion and was suspended under pressure,” said the sources. When contacted, Darbar Singh, secretary, Regional Transport Authority, admitted that there was a scam of this nature but added that the defaulters had deposited the tax evaded by them. He also said he does not know if the investigation is being reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/vigilance-bureau-to-reopen-road-tax-evasion-scam/articleshow/76364720.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Not 58k, only 323 weavers committed suicide: Govt||Hyderabad: Handlooms and textiles director Shailaja Ramaiyer has informed the high court that the state is planning to release Rs 92 crore from thrift funds of weavers’ societies with matching grant from the government to help the crisis-hit weavers under ‘Nethannaku Cheyutha’ scheme. Also, the Telangana government clarified that not 58,000 weavers, but 323 weavers had killed self since 2010. The director informed these in an affidavit in response to a PIL filed by advocate Rapolu Bhaskar, who brought to the notice of the court the plight of weavers during the lockdown. The IAS officer said they had conducted a survey and geo-tagged all handlooms in the state. “There are 17,573 handlooms employing an equal number of families and 35,588 powerlooms employing 8,898 weavers in the state. During the lockdown, they were given a one-time assistance of Rs 1,500 per family along with 12-kilo rice given to all the poor. The district collector mobilized funds from donors and extended Rs 1.5 crore assistance to the weavers. They were allowed to avail funds from their societies’ thrift funds,” she said, adding it would have a matching grant from the state. She also refuted the petitioner’s claim that there were seven lakh families of weavers in the state and said the weaver families were not more than 26,471. She also refuted the charge that as many as 58,000 weavers had committed suicide in the state from 2010. She put the total deaths of weavers due to suicide at 323 between 2010 and 2020. Shailaja also said the state’s decision to buy Bathukamma sarees every year from the local weavers too helped them. In the last three years, the state had spent Rs 300 crore on buying sarees from the weavers, she said., brushing aside the allegation that the state was buying sarees from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-58k-only-323-weavers-committed-suicide-govt/articleshow/76364745.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Excise official accused of Rs 5 lakh graft evades action as government dithers||PATIALA: Six months after being booked and arrested by the state vigilance bureau on charges of accepting Rs 5.1 lakh graft, an assistant excise and taxation official (AETC) continues to evade action as the state government has failed to grant prosecution sanction against him. The enforcement directorate (ED) on Monday also initiated a probe into the allegations of hefty graft being paid to excise officials by those who were operating the illicit liquor manufacturing unit in Gandian village near Shambhu border. AETC Rajesh Bhandari, who worked with the Mobile Wing Chandigarh-2 and was posted at Shambhu Barrier was booked by the state vigilance bureau on January 15 under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The case against him was registered in Patiala. According to records, one of the transporters from Ludhiana alleged that Bhandari demanded a bribe of Rs 50 lakh from him. They eventually agreed to a bribe amount of Rs 5 lakh, which was paid to his driver Gurmail Singh, who had also accepted Rs 10,000. After receiving a complaint from the Ludhiana based transporter, vigilance sleuths laid a trap and arrested Gurmail Singh red-handed with Rs 5.1 lakh. Gurmail called Rajesh Bhandari in the presence of witnesses, after which the VB booked and arrested him. Considering the facts and evidence put on record by the Vigilance Bureau, the court of additional district and sessions judge, Patiala, denied him regular bail on March 9. However, the VB could not file a challan against Bhandari within the stipulated 60-day time frame as prosecution sanction was not granted by authorities concerned. Therefore, the same court granted him bail on March 16. Sources in the state vigilance department said six months on, the challan has still not been filed in court, further weakening the prosecution’s case against the accused. Superintendent of Police, Patiala Vigilance Bureau, Jaspreet Sidhu said the department is waiting for prosecution sanction after which the challan will be presented in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/excise-official-accused-of-rs-5-lakh-graft-evades-action-as-govt-dithers/articleshow/76364724.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Automation the way ahead for manufacturers in Gujarat||Rajkot/ Ahmedabad: The famed entrepreneurial spirit of Gujarat is known for innovatively handling the hour of crisis, and that triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic was no different. Manufacturing units, whether in engineering or other essential services sectors, were reeling from extreme manpower shortage due to the mass exodus of migrant labourers. However, in desperate times, Gujarati manufacturers took to different measures and many opted for automation to sustain production capabilities.Rajkot’s famed engineering industry is looking to turn the the adverse situation into an opportunity. With 70% of skilled migrant workers leaving for their native places, a large number of units engaged in automobile part and other key engineering goods are reviving their plans to go for automation and artificial intelligence-based technology in manufacturing.Parth Ganatra, who makes agriculture machinery in Metoda GIDC, said, “I will be investing Rs 2.5 crore to buy machines for automation of submersible assembly and welding, which will cost nearly Rs 1.50 crore. The bearing races for CNC machine will cost me nearly Rs 1 lakh. I am in advanced talks with a Japanese firm to purchase AI-based automation machinery.”Ganatra, who is also the president of Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI), said his unit will be able to reduce dependency on 28 people using automation and robotics. “In the long run, this will also bring down production cost, reduce production losses, increase efficiency and give better quality products,” he added.Similarly, Brijesh Dudhagara, a foundry-owner in Aji GIDC, said, “I switched to automation a few years ago and I got good orders too. I am planning to speed up purchasing AI-based technology for my unit.”Industry sources said that they don’t expect the workforce to return soon and one-time capital investment in automation will reduce their dependency on migrants. According to an estimate, at least one lakh workers – majority of them migrants – are employed in the units in Rajkot and industrial clusters around the city. This was the first time in the industry’s history that a majority of their skilled hands had left the city.Industries are planning to use automation in the assembly line of submersible pumps, ball bearing races, bearing grinding and automobile spare parts where welding work can be done by robots and that too for 24 hours. CNC machines can be operated by robots.According to industry players, the engineering sector in Rajkot is currently working at 50 percent capacity because of labor shortage. There are fewer orders, but plant oweners are worried about coping when the flow of orders returns to normalcy.Similar is the situation in other parts of Gujarat as well. For instance, Adani Wilmar deployed automation in loading-unloading and packaging processes at its edible oil manufacturing units here.“We have specially procured robotic arms that help in packing bottles or pouches in the carton and seal it. Similarly, other initiatives have been taken in loading-unloading process and even handling of items on the conveyor belt. With several automation initiatives, our manpower requirement has come down drastically. In fact, since edible oil fell under essential commodities, the manufacturing activity at our factory had been ongoing through most part of the lockdown. Automation helped us maintain production levels in the range of 60-70% which would not have been possible otherwise,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy director, Adani Wilmar Limited.Manufacturers of food products are also looking at automation from the hygiene point of view. “Last year, we invested in a new line so that manpower requirement becomes low. It’s a fully automatic line for production and packaging of frozen potato-based food products, which involves minimum human intervention. While automation not just helps in reducing manpower requirement, it also helps us maintain better hygiene and cleanliness in our manufacturing process, especially in the time of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Haresh Karamchandani, chief executive officer, HyFun Food, which manufactures frozen potato-based food products.--With inputs from Niyati Parikh (Ahmedabad)Photo quotes:“Even before Covid-19, many companies were planning to go for automation for mass production. These plans are now being expedited.” Paresh Vasani, president, Rajkot Engineering Association (REA)“There has been a surge in inquiries and orders from across the industrial sectors including engineering and brass for AI and machine learning tools. We believe this demand will only increase now.” Jaydeep Nandani, president, Rajkot Information Technology Association (RITA)Box: Embracing automation in RajkotRajkot holds a 70% share in automobile parts supply in India10,000 units are into automobile and agri equipments in RajkotAround 70,000 of one lakh workers have left for home statesThose who stayed back are unskilled workersRoughly, Rs1 cr investment in automation can reduce demand of 10 labourersDemand for robots, AI-based tools surging||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/automation-the-way-ahead-for-manufacturers-in-gujarat/articleshow/76364732.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 14, 2020||Faridabad||Cousins from Rohtak commissioned as Army officers||ROHTAK: Aakash and Abhijit Rana, 26-year-olds from Pakashma village of the district were commissioned into the Army after the passing out parade in Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. The cousins studied together in Rohtak. They did their Bachelor in Technology from Faridabad and cracked the Combined Defence Academy test to get into the Army three years ago. Naresh Rana, father of Lieutenant Aakash Rana, who works in the tourism department, said both the boys have a brilliant academic record and they completed their education and officers’ training at IMA Dehradun together. He said his elder brother Surender Rana, father of Lieutenant Abhijit, is principal of Jat college, Sonipat. “Aakash and Abhijit’s grandfather was also in the Army, so love for the olive uniform runs in their blood. This is a dream come true for our family,” he said. Aakash got the engineering regiment while Abhijit got an ARMD regiment after their commissioning ceremony, he added. Rana said they wanted to go to IMA Dehradun to witness the passing out parade but due to the Covid-19 epidemic, visitors were not allowed to participate for the first time in the history of IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/cousins-from-rohtak-commissioned-as-army-officers/articleshow/76369259.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Cousins from Rohtak commissioned as Army officers||ROHTAK: Aakash and Abhijit Rana, 26-year-olds from Pakashma village of the district were commissioned into the Army after the passing out parade in Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. The cousins studied together in Rohtak. They did their Bachelor in Technology from Faridabad and cracked the Combined Defence Academy test to get into the Army three years ago. Naresh Rana, father of Lieutenant Aakash Rana, who works in the tourism department, said both the boys have a brilliant academic record and they completed their education and officers’ training at IMA Dehradun together. He said his elder brother Surender Rana, father of Lieutenant Abhijit, is principal of Jat college, Sonipat. “Aakash and Abhijit’s grandfather was also in the Army, so love for the olive uniform runs in their blood. This is a dream come true for our family,” he said. Aakash got the engineering regiment while Abhijit got an ARMD regiment after their commissioning ceremony, he added. Rana said they wanted to go to IMA Dehradun to witness the passing out parade but due to the Covid-19 epidemic, visitors were not allowed to participate for the first time in the history of IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cousins-from-rohtak-commissioned-as-army-officers/articleshow/76364728.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Thousands of devotees visit Dakshineswar on 1st day||KOLKATA: A few thousands of people offered prayers at Dakshineshwar Kali temple, which reopened on Saturday after a gap of two-and-a-half months. Even though the new rules of sanitization and social distancing were maintained and visiting timings were curtailed to 7am to 10am and 3pm to 6pm, a huge number of people could get a glimpse of the deity on the very fast day as the sprawling complex could accommodate 300-plus devotees at a time. The Kalighat Temple, which is likely to reopen next week, also plans to install a sanitization gate this weekend. Meetings are on to decide how to manage crowd inside the temple. Since the gates are closed at Kalighat, people were seen taking help of pandas and worshipping from outside. A picture of the deity was hung at the gate, where offerings were made. The temple committee, however, said it had nothing to do with it. At Dakshineswar, social distancing was maintained right from the skywalk to the temple, and inside, the crowd was manned so well that no one had to wait for more than half-an-hour. As they stepped in, devotees were told to stand in marked spots in the courtyard, where officials scanned their temperature, checked for masks and made them sanitize their hands under channels at the entrance. Cleared, groups of 10 visitors were led to the temple. Unlike at Kalighat, entry to the sanctum santorum at Dakshineshwar is not allowed but for additional safety, devotees were stopped eight-feet away, from where priests told them to put their dry sweet packets in baskets. No one was allowed to come in with flowers and the temple also did not distribute bhog or prasad. Priests and sevaks were all in PPE. No one was allowed into smaller temples, Ramakrishna’s room or Panchavati garden. “We allowed dry prasad as darshan is incomplete without a small offering. But flowers and bhog are a no-no,” said Kushal Chowdhury, spokesperson for temple trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/thousands-of-devotees-visit-dakshineswar-on-1st-day/articleshow/76364397.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Cousins from Rohtak commissioned as Army officers||ROHTAK: Aakash and Abhijit Rana, 26-year-olds from Pakashma village of the district were commissioned into the Army after the passing out parade in Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. The cousins studied together in Rohtak. They did their Bachelor in Technology from Faridabad and cracked the Combined Defence Academy test to get into the Army three years ago. Naresh Rana, father of Lieutenant Aakash Rana, who works in the tourism department, said both the boys have a brilliant academic record and they completed their education and officers’ training at IMA Dehradun together. He said his elder brother Surender Rana, father of Lieutenant Abhijit, is principal of Jat college, Sonipat. “Aakash and Abhijit’s grandfather was also in the Army, so love for the olive uniform runs in their blood. This is a dream come true for our family,” he said. Aakash got the engineering regiment while Abhijit got an ARMD regiment after their commissioning ceremony, he added. Rana said they wanted to go to IMA Dehradun to witness the passing out parade but due to the Covid-19 epidemic, visitors were not allowed to participate for the first time in the history of IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cousins-from-rohtak-commissioned-as-army-officers/articleshow/76366501.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||A childhood dream fulfilled||KARNAL: Shubhankar from Kunjpura village in Karnal district was commissioned Lieutenant at the passing out parade of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on Saturday. “Shubhankar has joined permanent commission of the Army as a Lieutenant. He has been deputed with the Para Special Force Regiment, Agra,” said his father, Suresh Pal, a government teacher in Karnal’s Kambopura village. His mother Neelam is a homemaker. Suresh said Shubhankar aspired to be an officer right from childhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-childhood-dream-fulfilled/articleshow/76364733.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: 3 killed in Mandi as vehicle slips into gorge||SHIMLA: Three persons were killed when a vehicle they were travelling in skidded off the road and fell into a deep gorge in Kamand area of Mandi district late on Friday night, the police said on Saturday. According to the police, the accident took place in Karha village under Navayay panchayat. After skidding, the ill-fated vehicle fell into a 200-feet-deep gorge. While Bhupinder Sharma, 24, of Balt village died on the spot, Lovedeep, 18, of Samlon village died later at Zonal Hospital, Mandi. Third person, Nidhi Singh of Mehva village in Kangra district, was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, but he died on the way. The police have registered a case under various sections 279, 337, 304A of the IPC at Padhar police station and are trying to ascertain the cause of accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/3-killed-in-mandi-as-vehicle-slips-into-gorge/articleshow/76364735.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pop ups of Chicalim bay revival bring cheers to locals||PANAJI: The catch of a rarely spotted but venomous fish in a fisherman’s net at Chicalim, among two other recent finds, has provided some solace to biodiversity managers, grieving over the the plunder of clams and oysters in Zuari bay. The revival in aquatic biodiversity seen after the stoppage of mining activities had yielded a bountiful tisreo (clam) and kalvam (oyster) crop in mud flats of Chicalim and Sancoale. But large crowds still managed to carry away massive quantities of both bivalves despite police vigil at biodiversity managers’ behest. A catch of a few cat-fish look-alikes on Thursday near St Jacinto island set social media abuzz about its identity. “I have not come across this fish for the last 30 years. We used to get this type of fish on the island called koddomb (striped eel catfish), even under stones,” David D’Souza, an islander responded on the villagers network. Villagers see it as an indication of the water body’s rejuvenation. “There is a silver lining in this grim story of plunder and loot during May,” Cyril Fernandes, a human rights activist said. But on Zuari’s northern side, fishermen said small populations of this marine fish (Plotosus lineatus) occur in rocky outcrops. “We used to get them in bigger numbers more than a decade back,” Sanjay Pereira, a Cacra fisherman said. Fisheries scientists of Indian council of agricultural research, Old Goa netted during a survey a small catch in mid-May. “This is the only catfish species found in groups in coral reefs. The species is also considered as a marine migrant species (often visiting inward bays and estuaries,” G B Sreekanth, scientist at ICAR said. For some, the catfish with a painful sting in its dorsal and pectoral section is a delicacy. “Cooked on a hay fire in a banana leaf, it is very tasty for some, more tastier than catfish,” Silvester D’Souza, chef cum restaurateur said. A few days back, Rui M Costa Araujo, chairman of Chicalim biodiversity management committee had posted a picture showing a couple of window pane oysters from Vareg island site. “Chicalim bay is one of the last habitats for the brood stock of these endangered oysters, which had been missing this year, so far. To the delight of villagers, a fisherwoman also extracted ‘kalle khube’ at low tide in Chicalim. “These had not been found so far on mud flats here,” Fernandes said. The mud clam is generally restricted to mangrove habitats. “Apart from being edible, it has antiviral property and NIO has patented it,” Baban Ingole, retired chief scientist, biological oceanography, NIO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pop-ups-of-chicalim-bay-revival-bring-cheers-to-locals/articleshow/76365050.cms||Paul Fernandes
June 14, 2020||Gurgaon||A childhood dream fulfilled||KARNAL: Shubhankar from Kunjpura village in Karnal district was commissioned Lieutenant at the passing out parade of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on Saturday. “Shubhankar has joined permanent commission of the Army as a Lieutenant. He has been deputed with the Para Special Force Regiment, Agra,” said his father, Suresh Pal, a government teacher in Karnal’s Kambopura village. His mother Neelam is a homemaker. Suresh said Shubhankar aspired to be an officer right from childhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/a-childhood-dream-fulfilled/articleshow/76366478.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali lad commissioned into Army, kin watch on TV||MOHALI: A resident of phase 3B2, Sahgurbaaz Singh was commissioned into the Army as Lieutenant in an impressive Passing out Parade and pipping ceremony held on June 13 at Indian Military Academy, IMA Dehradun. Lt Sahgurbaaz Singh is an alumnus of St John’s High School, Chandigarh and Shamrock school. He secured the top position in the science stream before qualifying for NDA. He started his Military training at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute, Mohali and joined National Defence Academy, NDA Khadakwasla, Pune in June 2016. After completing his graduation and basic Army training in NDA, he joined IMA in July 2019. His father, Balvinder Singh, deputy general manager, telecom and mother Harjot Kaur, joint general manager, Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd (HUDCO) are overwhelmed. His sister Jappji Mehar, a scientist with the Department of Space, ISRO said she is proud of her brother. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, parents of all newly-commissioned Lieutenants from IMA Dehradun watched live telecast of the passing out parade on TV. In a break from tradition, the pipping ceremony of newly- commissioned officers was done by IMA officers. Earlier, it used to be done by parents or family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-lad-commissioned-into-army/articleshow/76364734.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Centre sets up key panel to help states fight Covid war||NEW DELHI: Amid rising number of deaths due to Covid-19, the Centre has initiated multiple interventions to help states efficiently and effectively manage the cases at the clinical stage, especially those who are severely ill and need critical care. The move comes in the wake of concerns raised during a meeting of the cabinet secretary with states on Thursday. While the issue of rising death rates was discussed, many states sought central expertise to ensure standard and effective clinical guidance. Following the discussion, the Centre set up an expert group at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, to provide clinical advice to states to manage cases. A WhatsApp group has also been set up with nodal officer/doctor from each state. Highlighting such interventions, health secretary Preeti Sudan has asked states to form similar expert groups and clinical management hubs at state levels to efficiently manage severe cases in ICUs and reduce deaths. “All these interventions have the objective of effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases and reducing avoidable deaths. I hope you would utilise these interventions by adopting them to the needs of the state and reducing the case fatality among Covid-19 cases,” Sudan said in a letter to chief secretaries of states and UTs on Friday. TOI has reviewed the letter. On Saturday, the health ministry recorded 11,458 news cases and 386 deaths in the last 24 hours since Friday 8am.The total tally crossed 3 lakh on Saturday and the death toll was at 8884. Of the 386 new deaths reported, 129 were in Delhi, 127 in Maharashtra, 30 in Gujarat, 20 in UP, 18 in Tamil Nadu, 9 each in West Bengal, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh, 7 each in Karnataka and Rajasthan, 6 each in Haryana and Uttarakhand, 4 in Punjab, 2 in Assam, 1 each in Kerala, Jammu & Kashmir and Odisha. States had raised the need for an expert group in the meeting with the cabinet secretary. It has also been suggested that states can set up their own expert groups of doctors for tele-consultations on how to handle ICU cases. Sudan also added that some states have already set up such groups which are working pro-actively in reaching out to the hospitals and enquiring about specific cases to provide specific clinical guidance. The Centre on Saturday also revised the clinical management protocol for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-sets-up-key-panel-to-help-states-fight-covid-war/articleshow/76365213.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Revival push for 2 H’bag water bodies following NGT order||Hazaribag: Dhobia Talab and Jhinjiria Nala, which had been encroached upon by builders for the last 20 years, may soon be revived following a recent order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that has banned all illegal construction activities around these two water bodies, citing a threat to their existence. Talking to TOI on Friday, 50-year-old Savita Devi — a resident of Sharma Sadan in Korrah locality, who had sought a ban on illegal construction around the two water bodies by filing a petition with the NGT— said, “I hope the NGT order will set the tone for the revival of the two water bodies. Due to the illegal construction around the two lakes, the adjoining localities are often water-logged whenever it rains.” Hazaribag DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said they are yet to get the NGT order officially. “We will do the needful as soon as we get it,” he added. Dhobia Talab, located in the heart of Hazaribag town, has a slew of multi-storeyed buildings encroaching upon its catchment area. Majority of the buildings do not possess valid land documents, sources in the local circle office here said. Of the 7.5 acre area of Dhobia Talab, around two acres of it is occupied by encroachers, the sources added. A similar case can be seen around Jhinjiria Nala. Sadar SDO Megha Bharadawaj said the district administration had conducted several raids in the past to get rid of the encroachers around Dhobia Talab. She added, “In the past, we had imposed prohibitory orders at Dhobia Talab to prevent encroachment and had stopped the illegal constructions. Last year, notices were slapped to many alleged encroachers, directing them to appear before the SDO court but no one turned up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/revival-push-for-2-hbag-water-bodies-following-ngt-order/articleshow/76364536.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||CM flags off train with 1,600 workers for border projects||Dumka: A day after it was cancelled, chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday flagged off a special train carrying nearly 1,600 Jharkhand labourers, including 1,329 workers from Dumka district. The workers were hired by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for road construction on the Sino-Indian border. The special train rolled out from Dumka railway station and will head for Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir. Heavy rush was seen at the station with little room for social distancing and Soren faced a tough time avoiding the crowd. He later climbed a marble bench to flag off the train. Addressing the crowd at the railway station, Soren said, “The miseries narrated by the labourers who had returned from Leh and Ladakh suggested the kind of exploitation they were facing all these years while they were carrying out their duty for national security. It prompted my government to act tough before sending the migrants this time. Our focus is to ensure that our people’s rights and safety are taken care of.” Expressing concern on how migrants were forced to walk miles barefoot and died on railway tracks during the lockdown, he said, “This depicts how insensitive the government in power was towards the migrants who contribute immensely to nation-building.” He further said Jharkhand workers would not have to face such miseries now as his government has ensured that whoever employs the state’s workers will have to take responsibility in taking care of them. Before flagging off the train, an MoU was signed between BRO and the state on service conditions and pay packages of the workers. Soren said, “Any violation of the agreement by BRO will seriously be dealt with.” Taking a dig at the BJP-led central government, Soren said, “When we demanded permission to fly aircraft to bring our people from Leh and Ladakh, it was initially denied. However, before air transportation was formally started in the country, we brought our workers back. We were the first to bring our people via trains and also by flights in the country.” Meanwhile, hundreds of labourers failed to board the first train due to full occupancy. Santosh Bhusuk from Jama block, who could not board the train, said, “I had worked in BRO projects for many years but stopped going there for the last three years. This time, I wanted to go because of the better pay.” Officials said a few more trains will ply for the BRO workers soon. BRO ADG Anil Kumar said, “Around 11,000 workers are to be ferried by seven special trains on different dates from Dumka and Jasidih railway stations between June 13 to July 4.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-flags-off-train-with-1600-workers-for-border-projects/articleshow/76364427.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Monsoon arrives in state a day ahead of schedule||Ranchi: The southwest monsoon arrived in major parts of Jharkhand, including the state capital, a day before its schedule, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Ranchi formally announced on Saturday. Usually, monsoon sets in on June 14 in most parts of the state and enters Jamshedpur a day later. IMD Ranchi director S D Kotal said, “The southwest monsoon descended in Jharkhand with rains covering northeastern, central and southern parts of the state so far. The conditions are favourable and in next 24 hours, the remaining pockets too will be drenched with the first bouts of monsoon showers.” “This time, monsoon has arrived a day early and we are expecting good rains this season,” he added. Kotal also said that cloudy conditions will prevail over the next five days and the entire state is expected to get good rains. In the last 24 hours, Ranchi witnessed 17mm rain whereas Putki in Dhanbad got the maximum showers with 53.4mm downpour. In the last 24 hours, Ranchi’s maximum temperature was 30 degrees Celsius, around four notches below normal and the minimum temperate was 23.8 degrees Celsius. Similarly, Jamshedpur too saw over three degrees dip with the maximum temperate reported at 33.2 degrees Celsius. In view of the khariff season, the state agriculture department pulled up its socks to speed up distribution of seeds and other assistance to help farmers to sow crops on time. On Thursday, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh held a meeting with department officials of all the 24 districts and directed them to begin distribution of seeds within three days on a mission mode to help farmers, many of whom under immense financial stress due to the lockdown. Jharkhand has a set a target of 18 lakh hectare paddy cultivation this time. District administration officials said seed distribution drives have begun in Ranchi since Friday. District cooperative officer Manoj Kumar, who is overseeing the drive in Namkum block, said they are distributing hybrid paddy seeds (DRRH3 and IR-64 DRT) on 50pc subsidy to farmers this time. He said, “In the next two days, we are targeting a distribution of 200 quintal seeds in Namkum alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/monsoon-arrives-in-state-a-day-ahead-of-schedule/articleshow/76364405.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Three cops suspended for beating Dalit youth in Palamu||Daltonganj: Three policemen posted at Dangwar outpost under Hussainabad police station were suspended by Palamu SP Ajay Linda after it was alleged that they beat up a Dalit youth for not wearing a mask. The incident took place on June 8. Linda was asked by the police headquarters to look into this case after a complaint to the state police through Twitter. Sources said Hussainabad NCP MLA Kamlesh Kumar Singh also came to the aid of the youth and directed police to take swift action. Linda said, “The three policemen posted at Dangwar outpost — Vikas K Dubey, Vivek K Pandey and H Mishra — have been put under suspension last night (Friday) once the issue was brought to my notice. Hussainabsad SDPO Vijay Kumar has been asked to conduct a thorough inquiry into the incident. A departmental proceeding has also been initiated against the three policemen.” Asked if there was any provocation that led the cops to lose their cool, Linda said, “The SDPO will inquire into all the aspects. There could be a possibility, but police will conduct a neutral probe into the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/three-cops-suspended-for-beating-dalit-youth-in-palamu/articleshow/76364520.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Rainy season not a respite in some Jharia pockets||Dhanbad: With the onset of monsoon, people living in the areas of Jharia affected by underground fire that has been burning for over 100 years, fear loss of life and property due to land subsidence. During the rainy season, water seeps in through the cracks in the open cast and other mines and loosen the ground below leading it to cave in. Around 1 lakh families live in the 595 affected areas of Jharia coalfields region and only 4,000 have been relocated to safer places since March 25, 2010 when the Jharia Master Plan, a rehabilitation project, began. The tardy implementation of the plan could be attributed to various reasons such as lack of coordination between the state and central governments, paucity space to carry out such a massive rehabilitation project, lack of clarity over the eligibility of beneficiaries and frequent changes in the plan. Dhanbad sub-divisional officer Raj Maheshwaram said, “The process of shifting of people to safer places through Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority for those living in dangerous areas will be initiated soon as monsoon has begun. Priority will be given to those who have already been allotted quarters at safer places.” “At the same time, we will write to the general mangers of different areas of BCCL to rehabilitate people by issuing orders under Section 133 of CrPC for conditional removal of nuisance from public place, river, channel etc,” added Maheshwaram. However, residents of the affected areas can barely hold on to their patience as promises of a better life have fallen flat several times in the past. Expressing disgust, retired employee of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) R C Paswan (65) and a resident of Katras locality of Jharia, said, “We are compelled to live in inhuman conditions amidst fire and noxious gases. Above all, the constant fear of land subsidence and the increase of the chances during monsoon is unbearable at this age.” Paswan added, “The land subsided near our house at Rajapur on May 10 leading to the development of cracks in over half a dozen houses. A similar incident too place in Ghanudih area.” President of Federation of Jharia Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Amit Sahu said, “Some hope of the rehabilitation project speeding up came in during the second week of February after the Supreme Court took cognizance of the delay and instructed amicus curie Gaurav Agarwal to hold meetings with all stakeholders. However, things stopped after the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown.” Sahu said that they have been demanding for a proper compensation package for the relocation of residents which the government is yet to decide upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rainy-season-not-a-respite-in-some-jharia-pockets/articleshow/76364494.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Koderma admin imposes Rs 1 crore penalty on five mining entities||Koderma: The district mining department has imposed a fine of around Rs 1 crore on five stone mining lease holders for extracting excess minerals but paying less royalty to the government. Koderma district mining officer Mihir Salkar on Saturday said the lease owners included Mahendra Prasad Verma and his two partners Kapil Prasad Sharma and Ram Lal Prasad Yadav who own a lease area of three-acre land. They were slapped a total fine of Rs 34 lakh. Moreover, Rupak Singh and his partner Parmeshwar Mehta, who have a lease area on 2.3 acres, were fined Rs 16.90 lakh while Medha Baranwal and Himanshu Kediya, who have a three-acre lease area, had to pay a penalty of Rs 14 lakh. Another lease holder, Birendra Mehta, possessing a 60-decimal area was fined Rs 32 lakh. Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said there were complaints of royalty theft and the action has been taken to set things in order. Talking to TOI, Salkar said, “There are a total of 50 leases in the district. In case of non-payment of the penalty, a certificate case will be done against the lease holder. We have set a target for Rs 29 crore in royalties for the 2019-2020 financial year, but the department received only Rs 10.50 crore so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/koderma-admin-imposes-rs-1-crore-penalty-on-five-mining-entities/articleshow/76364510.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi has second most active cases after Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: The daily count of fresh Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 2,000 mark for the second consecutive day on Saturday, with 2,134 more people testing positive. With this, the total number of cases till date in Delhi has reached 38,958, third highest in the country after Maharashtra (1,04,568) and Tamil Nadu (42,687). In terms of active cases, Delhi is second only to Maharashtra. The number of active cases in the national capital has increased to 22,742 (58% of total cases) while Maharashtra has 51,379 (49%) such cases. “More active cases mean need for more quarantine facilities and hospital beds. If the cases continue to grow at such speed, we may face difficulty managing the situation in the coming weeks,” said a Delhi health department official. 798 deaths reported in Delhi since June 1Though Tamil Nadu’s total case tally is more than that of Delhi’s, its active cases number 18,881 (44% of total cases). Gujarat and UP have total 23,079 and 13,216 Covid-19 cases respectively, but the number of active cases in these two states are 5,739 (25%) and 4956 (37%). Delhi has 9,714 dedicated hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Of this, 5,449 are occupied. There are 606 patients requiring ICU or ventilator support, as per the latest government data. “Around 550 people persons were admitted to various hospitals on Saturday and 400 were discharged,” said an official. He said that 1,137 people are admitted in the Covid Care Centre that have basic medical facilities and 344 are recuperating at various Covid health centres. The death toll due to Covid-19 has mounted to 1271, including 57 deaths that were confirmed on Saturday. Health department officials said that most of the fatalities related to Covid-19 are taking place in elderly persons who also have comorbidities, for example uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension and heart disease among others. “The government is working on war footing to scale up hospital beds and equip hospitals with more oxygen concentrators and ventilators so that the severely ill can be saved and mortality can be reduced,” officials said. Data shows 798 deaths have been reported in the state in the last 13 days, from June 1 to June 13. In March, April and May, Delhi reported 2, 57 and 414 Covid-19 fatalities respectively. The incidence of Covid-19 has also gone up significantly, with over 1,000 new cases being reportedly since May 28, except on June 1. “Situation in Delhi is worrisome. Lockdown or not, people should go out only if they must. They should take all possible precautions, for example wearing masks at all times and washing hands frequently,” said a senior doctor. Many RWAs are also making their own isolation rooms and arranging oxygen cylinders for managing Covid-19 cases, in case the patients find it difficult to get a bed in hospital when the pandemic is at its peak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-has-second-most-active-cases-after-maharashtra/articleshow/76365175.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 14, 2020||India||85% of migrants had to pay for journey home: Survey||MUMBAI: More than 85% of migrants surveyed by a volunteer group, Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), said they had to pay for their journey home during the Covid-19 lockdown. The survey report says that the Supreme Court interim order on May 28 asking state governments to bear the transport costs came too late since their movement had been cleared at the beginning of the month. The automated phone survey of 1,963 migrants found that 33% had managed to leave for their home states while 67% still stayed behind. Of those who had left, more than 85% had to pay for their journey home. The report titled “To Leave or Not to Leave: Lockdown, Migrant Workers and their Journeys Home’ was released on Friday. The survey was conducted in the last week of May and first week of June. Of those who managed to leave, 62% of them had paid more than Rs 1,500 for the journey, said the report. The report said that lack of jobs was one of the key triggers for the migrant workers leaving. The desire to return home was not driven by sentiment alone and the report said that 75% of those who were still stuck in the cities they worked in faced lack of employment. “We found it was not just fear of the disease and the desire to be with family that pushed migrants to return to their home states,” Anindita Adhikari, researcher at SWAN, said. “It was also the lack of jobs, income and food in the cities they work in.” The survey said 44% of those who left took buses to reach their home states and 39% managed to get a Shramik Special train. Around 11% took trucks, lorries and other similar modes of transport, while 6% made the journey on foot. Of those who are still stuck in the cities, 55% want to go home immediately, said the report. The SWAN report also included a survey of 5,911 migrant workers who reached out through 821 distress calls between May 15 and June 1. It found that 80% of those surveyed had no access to government rations and food distress remained high. Around 63% of the callers had less than Rs 100 left with them. Around 57 % had made SOS calls saying they had no money or rations left or had skipped the previous meal. Watch 85% of migrants had to pay for journey home, says survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/85-of-migrants-had-to-pay-for-journey-home-survey/articleshow/76365221.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||17 IPS officers transferred in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In a major reshuffle of senior police officials, the government on Saturday transferred 17 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers across the state. The officers transferred include Vijayawada police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao who has been given the post of director general of police (railways). B Srinivasulu, Vijayawada’s additional police commissioner will take over as commissioner. The move comes as a surprise since the post the city’s police commissioner was upgraded to the additional director general of police rank back in 2014. Two director general-rank officers— D Gautam Sawang and Tirumala Rao have commanded the post for a long time in the past. Now, the post has been given to an inspector general-rank officer. N Balasubramanyam, additional DGP (railways), who was on long leave, has been posted as additional DGP (organisation). DIG-rank officer PHD Ramakrishna, currently serving as superintendent of police (SP) Guntur (urban), has been transferred as director of special enforcement bureau (SEB). Ch Vijaya Rao, currently serving as SP of Guntur (rural) has been posted as Vijayawada railway SP. Former SP of East Godavari, Vishal Gunni, will take his place. Kripanand Tripathi Ujela has been given the charge of ADGP (road safety). West Godavari SP Navdeep Singh has been transferred to the post of SP of crime investigation department. Babujee Attada, SP of Vizag (rural) has been transferred to the post of SP of special intelligence bureau (SIB). Udaya Bhaskar Billa, Vizag’s deputy commissioner of police (law and order) has been posted as additional inspector general (administration). Aishwarya Rastogi, a DIG-rank officer has been posted as DCP of Vizag commissionerate. Srikakulam SP RN Ammi Reddy has been transferred to the post of SP of Guntur (urban) while Amit Bardar, the APSP 3rd battalion commandant has been transferred to the post of Srikakulam SP. Disha special officer M Deepika has been placed on full additional charge as commandant of APSP 6th battalion in Mangalagiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/17-ips-officers-including-vij-top-cop-transferred/articleshow/76363939.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ganga Ram Hospital in court against 'violation' FIR||NEW DELHI: Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) has approached Delhi high court, seeking quashing of an FIR lodged against it by Delhi Police for allegedly violating Covid-19 regulation norms. The petition is listed for hearing on Monday before Justice C Hari Shankar.  The hospital in its plea has sought an end to criminal proceedings started on the basis of an FIR lodged on June 5 at the Rajinder Nagar police station. The FIR was filed based on a complaint by Delhi government against the medical superintendent of the hospital under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly violating directions issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19, Regulation 2020. The plea has also sought to set aside the state government's June 3 order, prohibiting Reverse Transcription- Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) sampling for Covid-19 suspect/contact cases with immediate effect.  SGRH, a private hospital with 675 beds, was declared a Covid-19 facility by the state government and told to reserve 80% of beds for the novel coronavirus patients.  A senior official of the Aam Aadmi Party government's health department had lodged a complaint against the medical superintendent of SGRH for not using the RT-PCR app for testing data. "The CDMO-cum-mission director central has mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till June 3, which is a clear violation of directions issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulation 2020 Act," the FIR based on the complaint stated.  Seeking to streamline the testing process, the central government had earlier launched a dedicated RT-PCR mobile-based app for labs to fill the data at the point of sample collection. Following the directives, Delhi government had made it mandatory for all lab collection and testing centres to download that app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ganga-ram-hospital-in-court-against-violation-fir/articleshow/76365232.cms||---
June 14, 2020||World||Over 100 arrested after violent disorder at far-right linked UK protest||LONDON: Police in London said they arrested more than 100 people on Saturday after far-right protesters holding a counter-demonstration against anti-racism activists clashed with officers. Thousands of people defied the coronavirus restrictions to assemble in and around Parliament Square, in the centre of the capital. That required "major" policing operation the Metropolitan Police Service said, adding that they had encountered "pockets of violence directed towards our officers". Television footage showed some agitators throwing punches, bottles and smoke bombs at officers as well as scuffling with rival protesters. The Met they had arrested more than 100 peopled by 2000 GMT for violent disorder, assault on officers and possession of an offensive weapon. Six officers suffered minor injuries. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said "racist thuggery has no place on our streets" and that "anybody attacking the police would be met with full force of the law". As footage of the disorder was shared widely on social media, he wrote on Twitter: "Racism has no part in the UK and we must work together to make that a reality." A protest by the Black Lives Matter group planned for Saturday had been switched to Friday to avoid clashes with the far-right counter-demonstration. Anti-racism group Hope Not Hate had warned before Saturday that hooligan gangs attached to some English football clubs also planning to attend Saturday's counter-protest. Paul Golding, leader of fringe far-right political group Britain First, which has seen its members jailed for hate crimes and been banned from Facebook, was among the first to arrive at Parliament Square. Golding, who was last month found guilty of an offence under the Terrorism Act, told the domestic Press Association news agency they had turned out to "guard our monuments". Earlier, a march by several hundred Black Lives Matter activists through the capital went ahead, ending in Trafalgar Square near where the counter protesters gathered and amid a heavy police presence. Police commander, Bas Javid said a number of demonstrators had failed to disperse by 1600 GMT. "There have been pockets of violence directed towards our officers. This is completely unacceptable and I condemn those involved," he added. Police have also launched an investigation after a photo posted on social media appeared to show a man urinating on a memorial to Keith Palmer, the police officer killed in the 2017 terror attack outside parliament. The Met would "gather all the evidence available to us and take appropriate action," said Javid. London's mayor Sadiq Khan praised the force for doing a "fantastic job to control the situation. "Millions of Londoners will have been disgusted by the shameful scenes of violence, desecration and racism displayed by the right-wing extremists who gathered in our city today," he added. Britain has seen a wave of protests prompted by last month's death during a US police arrest of George Floyd, an unarmed African-American, which triggered outrage around the world. Most of them have been peaceful, but demonstrations in London last weekend latterly turned violent, while crowds in Bristol, southwest England, toppled a statue to a 17th-century slave trader Edward Colston and threw it into the harbour. Several central London memorials were boarded up as a precaution ahead of Saturday's demonstrations. They included one of World War II leader Winston Churchill -- which last weekend was defaced with the word "racist" -- and the Cenotaph war shrine. Former Conservative MP Nicholas Soames, Churchill's grandson, denounced the "very small, extremely explosive group of people" responsible for last weekend's vandalism. But he told the Daily Telegraph: "The idea that the hard right should stand guard over Churchill is absolutely repulsive. "It feels like a society that has lost its compass."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/over-100-arrested-after-violent-disorder-at-far-right-linked-uk-protest/articleshow/76365228.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Central Railways awaits nod to run Mumbai's locals for essential government staff from this week||MUMBAI: Following requests by the Maharashtra government to the Centre to restart Mumbai’s local train network for essential services workers, the Central Railway is awaiting the final nod to reintroduce services for state government staffers in essential duties from Monday. Though a final decision is yet to be taken and a nod awaited “from the top”, sources said the state government would have to provide the railways with a list of passengers engaged in essential services duty, to whom tickets will be issued directly, a system similar to that employed for the Shramik Specials. Ticket booking counters will not be open. The trains that will ply will have stops only at stations where fast trains are usually allowed to take halts. Sources said according to the arrangement being planned, the state would be asked to give a QR code-based ID card to essential workers to ensure easy identification. All ticket checking staff have been told to report from Monday with a QR code scanner downloaded on their mobile phones. Railway ticket checkers in city to get PPEsPPEs will be provided to all ticket checkers or TTEs, sources said. Sources said the state and railways are likely to finalise the modalities in coordination with the Union ministry of home affairs. CM Uddhav Thackeray had, in PM Modi’s video conference interaction with chief ministers on May 11, sought permission to restart suburban railway services in the city so that essential services staff could be ferried. He had said staffers would be allowed to board the trains only after their I-cards had been checked. The demand has been reiterated by the state since then and also after the first phase of the state’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ was launched, postlockdown, on June 1. BEST buses and bus stops have seen big crowds in the rush hours since the start of this month, with social distancing norms often flouted. Sources said there will be no thermal scanning at the stations, and the state government would have to deploy its staff initially to handle arrangements at various railway stations. Sources said the state must also stagger office timings to avoid overcrowding in trains and at stations. CR chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said, “As of now we haven’t got any instructions. We will convey details after receiving an approval from the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/central-railways-awaits-nod-to-run-mumbais-local-for-essential-government-staff-from-this-week/articleshow/76365223.cms||Manthank Mehta
June 14, 2020||Vijayawada||ESI scam: ACB to seek custody of Atchannaidu, Ramesh Kumar||VIJAYAWADA: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) is set to seek custody of Tekkali TDP MLA and former labour minister K Atchannaidu and retired ESI director CK Ramesh Kumar who are the main accused in the ESI scam. The two main accused were produced before the ACB court on Friday and the remaining five accused were produced before the court on Saturday. Atchannaidu was initially taken to Vijayawada sub-jail and later to Guntur Government General Hospital (GGH) where security arrangements had been made. On Saturday, ACB joint director Ravi Kumar said the bureau has registered two FIRs against the seven accused who have been arrested. Kumar said that there are more documents and witnesses that have to be investigated. “The accused have undergone necessary medical tests, including for Covid-19. Later, they were produced before a special judge of ACB court who issued a 15-day judicial remand for them,” Kumar said. When asked whether they would seek custody of the former minister and director Ramesh Kumar, the ACB joint director replied in the affirmative and said that they would do so by next week. So far 19 persons, including the the former labour minister, three retired ESI directors, five joint directors, ESI employees and directors of four private companies, have been booked in two cases for allegedly violating the rules and resorting to irregularities in purchasing drugs, surgical equipment, furniture and computers, worth around Rs 988 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/esi-scam-acb-to-seek-custody-of-atchannaidu-ramesh-kumar/articleshow/76363963.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Cop defeats corona, resumes duty to bust gang, net gangster||Nagpur: It’s been less than a month since Laxman Shende (TOI has taken his permission to publish the name) was found Covid positive and was back on the job after he recovered. The 43-year-old head constable from Tehsil police station has nabbed a gangster and rounded-up a gang which was planning a dacoity. Still on medication, Shende is leading his team from the front to chase criminals as a part of ‘Operation crackdown phase II’ announced by commissioner of police BK Upadhyay. On Friday, the head constable braved the rain to participate in an operation in which one externed goon and four of his accomplices, all with history of serious offences, were nabbed from containment zone at Dobi Nagar slum in Mominpura. It was at Mominpura containment zone where Shende had likely contracted the infection and tested positive on May 16. He resumed duty on June 8 and on June 11, he and his team, under senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar and Dileep Sagar of Tehsil police station, arrested gangster Amzad Khan who is the younger brother of Mominpura don Ippa Khan. Within two days of arresting Amzad, Shende and his team arrested externed goon Sagar Gaur and his gang from Dobi Nagar after receiving a tip-off. They also seized insecticide spray from the gang which had planned to bump off anyone who confronted them. “The gang possessed weapons that could have killed anyone coming in their way. Hence, it was crucial to nab them,” said Shende. One of the two cops from city police who had tested positive, Shende was asymptomatic but doctors at Mayo hospital had a reason to be worried due to his very high sugar levels. After Shende was hospitalized, his entire team of detection branch (DB) wing of Tehsil police station was quarantined. Those who had been quarantined — police naik Pravin Manapure, head constable Pramod Shaniware, constables Nazir Shaikh, Suraj Thakur, Pankaj Dabre, Shailesh Dabole and others — were part of the operation in which the four-member gang was arrested recently. Shende said he is following Covid protection measures, including ‘pranayam’ practice, to boost his immunity. “Those in the force have gone through a tough training regime in the beginning and later worked in tougher environment, making us strong overall. The most important thing for us is duty and the pride of our uniform,” said Shende who begins his day with ‘haldi dudh’ (milk with turmeric). “I am still having my medicines prescribed by the doctor,” he said. Senior inspector Bhandarkar said he was petrified to see a completely drenched Shende when he returned with the nabbed goons. “I reprimanded and asked him to take care but later congratulated him for his willpower,” he said. In 2014, while working with the crime branch, a never-say-die Shende had jumped off the fourth floor while chasing a chain-snatcher in Mumbai. Notably, he did this with a broken leg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-defeats-corona-resumes-duty-to-bust-gang-net-gangster/articleshow/76364546.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Private hospitals fleeced patients and lockdown was lax after the initial phase: Maharashtra task force chief||MUMBAI: The heat of the state task force on Covid-19, Sanjay Oak, said people who needed hospital beds had struggled and suffered while trying to get beds, and the dashboard plan, where citizens were supposed to get information, had flopped.  "It was an IT failure, and it was coupled with the obstinate approach of the hospital administrations and clinicians. It was unpardonable," Oak told TOI. He said that testing guidelines were changed repeatedly, and advisories at all levels from the World Health Organization to the level of the task force kept changing, adding to the confusion.  "The approach was test-centric when it should have been symptom-centric. Private hospitals fleeced patients, and the black sheep among them deserve to be punished with suspension of their health licence," he stated. On the non-availability of crucial medicines to fight the pandemic, Oak said, "Four medicines were made available for a select few, which was disturbing, and in spite of the task force shouting from the rooftops that the drugs should be deregulated, it has still not happened for obvious reasons."  He added that the lockdown was effective in the initial phase but later became lax before the actual unlocking began in the state. "India also witnessed massive migration, which could have been either avoided or properly executed. There was lack of coordination at all levels," Oak said. However, the Director of Medical Education and Research Tatyarao Lahane said that despite all the shortages, Maharashtra had been able to control the spread of the pandemic. "AIIMS had estimated that the state would have 48,000 cases by April 30, while in reality there were fewer than 26,000. AIIMS had also predicted 2.5 lakh cases by May 31, while we have had one lakh cases on June 13. We are making all-out efforts to tackle the situation," Lahane told TOI.  Lahane said the state's medical education and public health departments had handled things effectively. "The lockdown helped us to contain the spread. We were able to quarantine people from hotspots and containment zones," he added. Lahane said that given the experience around the world, it is expected that after 96 days, the intensity of the spread will continue for a few days and then reduce. "I am sure Maharashtra will witness a steady decline in the number of cases in the weeks to come," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/private-hospitals-fleeced-patients-and-lockdown-was-lax-after-the-initial-phase-maharashtra-task-force-chief/articleshow/76365234.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Five Maoists surrender in East Godavari||KAKINADA: Five members of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) surrendered before East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Saturday. The surrendered Maoists have been identified as Madakam Maasa, Ravva Bheemayya, Madavi Lakshmi, Paddam Santhi and Madavi Jogamma. These surrendered Maoists were Dalam members of BK-EG DVC of the Maoist party. All five belong to Guthikoya community and are residents of Yatapaka and Chinturu mandals of Chinturu sub-division. While Madakam Maasa was involved in an exchange of fire with CRPF personnel in February 2020 where two Maoists and two CRPF personnel were killed, Ravva Bheemayya was involved in an exchange of fire in which two police personnel were injured. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/five-maoists-surrender-in-eg/articleshow/76363994.cms||Samson Raj
June 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Woman lodges complaint against two former TDP ministers under SC/ST Act||Kakinada: A case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has been filed against former finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnadu, former home minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa and five others at Thondangi police station in East Godavari district. The case was booked on the basis of a complaint from a SC woman, who alleged that the accused were trying to get her husband to remarry. Complainant Pilli Manju Priya, a resident of Madhavapatnam in Samalkota mandal, said in her complaint that she married Pilli Radhakrishna — son of former Kakinada (Rural) MLA Pilli Anantha Lakshmi — in 2011. The couple has two children. Manju Priya alleged in the complaint that her in-laws refused to accept her because of her lower caste. She said she was also repeatedly threatened to leave her husband and make a settlement. She further said that she came to know that her husband was planning to remarry on June 11, and the marriage venue was a rice mill at AV Nagaram in Thondangi mandal, which she claimed is owned by Yanamala. Manju Priya said she lodged a complaint with Disha police station in Kakinada, following which cops from Indrapalem and Thondangi police stations went to the spot and stopped the marriage. She claimed that she has evidence to prove that former TDP ministers Yanamala and Chinarajappa were involved in the marriage arrangements. Police have lodged an FIR against her husband Pilli Radhakrishna, her in-laws Pilli Satyanarayana and Pilli Anantha Lakshmi, TDP Tuni constituency in-charge Yanamala Krishnudu, besides the two former ministers. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said a case has been registered on the basis of the woman’s complaint. “This is a domestic issue. We will investigate if the former ministers were involved in the marriage arrangements as alleged by the complainant, or if they were there as guests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/woman-lodges-complaint-against-two-former-tdp-ministers-under-sc/st-act/articleshow/76364034.cms||Samson Raj
June 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM asks doctors for teleconsultation||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to doctors to join the government's move to provide people free telephonic consultation so that non-serious unwell people can get medical advice over telephone. In a tweet, the chief minister stated on Saturday: "I appeal to all doctors to volunteer for Delhi government's Corona Telemedicine Helpline. Give a missed call now to 08047192219 to register. The people of Delhi need your support in this difficult hour." Delhi is battling the coronavirus pandemic which is rushing towards its peak - the capital reported more than 2000 Covid positive cases for the second consecutive day on Saturday. "The coronavirus is spreading in Delhi and the country at a very fast speed. Humanity has never seen such a pandemic before. One agency or institution cannot battle it out alone. We all will have to come together. We can defeat it when the government, society, institutions of the society come together," Kejriwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cm-asks-doctors-for-teleconsultation/articleshow/76365240.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-min Ahir concerned over short supply of fertilizers||Yavatmal: Former Union minister of state for home and fertilizers Hansraj Ahir has expressed concern over the short supply of urea and other fertilizers to farmers of Yavatmal. He has asked the administration to convene a meeting of transporters, krishi kendra proprietors and agriculture officers to resolve the issue.“The district has over 9 lakh hectare land suitable for cultivation and farmers should therefore be given quality seeds and adequate supply of fertilizers at proper rate and proper time,” said Ahir.Giving facts, Ahir said that last year the district got 35,000MT of fertilizers and this year, a mere 15000MT.“Major players like IFCO, RCF and KRIFCO do not maintain proper records of their products and stocks. Similar is the case with transporters and distributors. There is rampant corruption and red tapism in dealings,” alleged Ahir.During the first term of the Modi government, supply of fertilizers was streamlined on the basis of a predetermined time frame. “Fertilizers were adequately supplied to the needy farmers of Yavatmal and other districts across the state,” said Ahir.“Fertilizers for Yavatmal are supplied from Dhamangaon Rly and Wardha. However, there is manipulation in the supply and farmers are the worst hit. To remove this disparity, the Modi government had sanctioned a railway rake point at Pimpalkhuti near Wani. But it seems to be abandoned as the DGM Sanjay Rathod recently declared that Yavatmal would get supply from Nanded and Chandrapur. Both these rake points are situated outside the district and hence the prevailing manipulation would continue,” alleged Ahir. He urged the district collector to float tenders for making the Pimpalkhuti rake point operative to wipe out the existing anomalies and short supply.Ahir would soon make a representation to PM Narendra Modi and CM Uddhav Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-min-ahir-concerned-over-short-supply-of-fertilizers/articleshow/76364581.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Vidarbha records 4 Covid-19 deaths in a day for second time in June||NAGPUR: For the second time this month, Vidarbha recorded four Covid-19 deaths in a day on June 13, taking the region’s toll to 92. Earlier, four deaths were reported on June 8. Two of the four deaths on Saturday were reported from Akola. Of the total deaths in Vidarbha, 46 are from Akola alone. The region recorded 81 new cases on June 13 taking the tally to 2,846. On the other hand, 65 patients recovered and discharged from hospitals, taking total count of recovered patients to 1,866 — which means 65.56% recovery rate. Two women patients admitted in isolation ward of Akola GMCH died during treatment. A 52-year-old woman from Akot Fail area was admitted on June 10 and died on June 12 late night. She had severe comorbidities. An 80-year-old woman from Deshpande Plots was admitted on June 8. She died on June 13 early morning. Akola also recorded 12 new cases, taking its tally near the 1,000-mark at 985 cases, of which 625 have recovered. In Nagpur, a 56-year-old SARI patient from Akola, who was admitted to GMCH on June 10, died on June 12 late night. He had severe liver complications. In Yavatmal, an 83-year-old man from Ner who was brought in a critical condition to GMCH tested positive for Covid-19 and died within hours. Nagpur once again recorded highest 32 cases in a day from Vidarbha. Washim, where the situation seemed under control, recorded 17 cases in a day. “Washim has reported 38 cases in last 4 days. During contact tracing, it came to fore that one patient has infected 17 others,” said district collector Hrishikesh Modak. Buldhana, the fifth district to register 100-plus cases from region, reported three new cases on June 13. They came from interiors of Lonar and Khamgaon tehsils. Buldhana now has total 113 cases, including 77 discharged, four deaths and 32 active cases. In Chandrapur, a 57-year-old man from Sumitra Nagar in the city tested positive, taking the district tally to 44. Currently, Chandrapur has 21 active cases. Infection is steadily increasing in rural areas of Amravati. A case each was detected from Shirajgaon Mozari village in Teosa taluka and Loni Takli village in Nandgaon Khandeshwar on Saturday when the district reported 12 new cases. The district’s Covid count is now 324. Two patients got discharged on Saturday, taking the number of recovered patients to 237. Sharda Vihar and Ambadevi road in Amravati reported their first cases. A 19-year-old boy tested positive from Sharda Vihar while a 53-year-old schoolteacher tested positive from Ambadevi road. A 65-year-old man from Katepurna village in Murtijapur tehsil of Akola district, who was taking treatment at a private hospital in Amravati, tested positive. His swab sample was sent to a private lab in Nagpur. A 63-year-old woman, who is wife of a 65-year-old patient from Karanja Lad town in Washim district, tested positive at a private hospital in Amravati where she was taking treatment. A 22-year-old girl from Tiger Project Office campus became the second person to test positive from the place while a 19-year-old girl became the third positive case from Yashoda Nagar locality. After drawing a blank for last two days, hotspot Masanganj reported two new cases, a male (35) and a female (25). Masanganj’s tally has no reached 40. Campasspura in Badnera old city reported two more cases, both males aged 43 and 20. Badnera count has increased to 19. Yavatmal registered one more Covid-19 death, its fourth so far, while three more tested positive on Saturday. According to sources, an 83-year-old man from Ner died within hours of testing positive on Saturday morning. The man was reportedly suffering from SARI for long. Questions are being raised why his swab was not collected till Saturday. The three new patients include a 30-year-old man from Mudhana village of Mahagaon, a 60-year-old man from Pusad and a 75-year-old woman from Pathradgole village in Ner tehsil. Now, there are 25 active cases in GMC isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-records-4-deaths-in-a-day-for-second-time-in-june/articleshow/76364582.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad private hospitals charging lakhs for Covid-19 treatment||HYDERABAD: Even as the Supreme Court is seeking a response from the Centre on capping treatment cost of Covid-19 patients in private health facilities, some corporate hospitals in Hyderabad are charging patients anywhere between Rs 25,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh a day. Inquiries by TOI revealed that a few hospitals were reportedly charging around Rs 30, 000 a day only towards personal protective equipment (PPE) gear for hospital staff and other charges. Others put the charge at around Rs 4,000. When TOI contacted a corporate hospital in Banjara Hills as a potential patient, a hospital representative informed that the treatment cost starts at Rs 40,000 a day, excluding PPE cost, in a normal ward. For twinsharing and a separate room, the cost would be higher. “Only a doctor would be able to give you the exact cost and how many days of hospitalisation will be required,” the representative said, assuring that their treatment cost was way less compared to other corporate hospitals. The hospital even offered a discount if more than one person from the same family gets admitted for Covid-19 treatment. Sources: State may fix tariffs for private hospitals treating Covid-19 patientsI got admitted for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” said a patient who is still being treated at the corporate hospital in the city. “All I am being administered is four tablets and an injection per day at a cost of about ₹50, 000 to ₹60, 000 daily. I feel that unless the government intervenes and puts a cap on treatment at corporate hospitals, there is no way a common man can afford this.” “In states like Tamil Nadu, the government has fixed the slabs for Covid-19 treatment, but I don’t think that is the situation in Telangana. If the government fixes it, the hospitals will have no other option except to follow,” said Dr P Raghu Ram, president of Association of Surgeons of India. A number of corporate hospitals were contacted to get their side of the story but none of the managers was ready to speak freely about the issue. A hospital in Gachibowli is charging between Rs 1.3 lakh and Rs 1.6 lakh a day. A hospital in Kondapur, which has its branches in various locations in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, is charging about Rs 50,000 for an ICU bed and about Rs 30,000 for the general ward apart from PPE costs. “A relative got admitted to a corporate hospital in Gachibowli for Covid-19 and was charged more than Rs 20 lakh for a 12-day stay,” a senior doctor, working in a government hospital in the state, said, adding, “the treatment is no different from what’s being offered in government facilities”. In fact, the Covid-19 isolation wards in most of these hospitals are already full. “A real estate businessman was recently declared corona positive. Despite knowing who’s who in the state, he couldn’t find a bed at a corporate hospital and had to wait for a day,” an entrepreneur told STOI. Of the total coronavirus positive patients in the state, about 200 are being treated at five major corporate hospitals in the city, 150-200 are under institutional quarantine at government facilities, about 600 under home quarantine and about 350-400 being treated at the state government’s Gandhi Hospital. The sources also confirmed that like Tamil Nadu, Telangana too would fix tariff for private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the next four to five days after organizing a meeting with managements of the corporate hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-private-hospitals-charging-lakhs-for-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/76365256.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 14, 2020||India||Maharashtra cuts Covid test cost in private labs by 50% to Rs 2,200||PUNE: Maharashtra on Saturday slashed the cost of a Covid-19 test in any private laboratory by more than half to Rs 2,200 from Rs 4,500 with immediate effect. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the revised rate was the lowest in the country. Tope told TOI that Rs 2,200 each would be charged for collecting swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals. For collection of swabs from home, Rs 2,800 will be charged. The old rate for home collection of swabs was Rs 5,200. The minister said legal action would be taken against any laboratory found charging more than the prescribed rates. While the revised rates are the maximum that laboratories can charge from patients, he left it to the district collectors to negotiate with them further to reduce the cost of a Covid-19 test even more. “The places where more testing is required, such as Pune and Mumbai, the respective collectors can negotiate and reduce the rates,” he said. Tope had formed a four-member committee based on an ICMR directive to all states to negotiate the pricing of Covid-19 tests with authorised private laboratories. This was after India started manufacturing test kits. The minister said test kits were still being imported when the ICMR fixed the original cost of testing for Covid-19 in private laboratories. The committee, headed by State Health Assurance Society CEO Sudhakar Shinde, submitted a report after talks with all stakeholders. Joint director of medical education and research Ajay Chandanwale and Prof Amita Joshi of Mumbai's Grant Government Medical College and Hospital were the other members of the panel. Tope said 95 laboratories in Maharashtra — 53 government and 42 private — were currently conducting Covid-19 tests. Four to five more are in the pipeline. As on Saturday, the state had conducted 6.24 lakh swab tests, of which 1.14 lakh tested positive — about 16.18%. Mumbai and Pune account for the maximum number of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-cuts-covid-test-cost-in-private-labs-by-50-to-2200/articleshow/76365242.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Recovered patients not keen to donate plasma||HUBBALLI: The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) is on the threshold of discharging its first Covid-19 patient treated with plasma therapy but doctors say recovered patients are hesitant to donate plasma with vital antibodies. While some are afraid of the procedure, some mistakenly believe they will become infected again. KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani told STOI that symptomatic Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the hospital did not cooperate for extraction of plasma. “We are asking for their plasma for the betterment of other patients, but many have misconceptions about the process,” he said. Potential of plasma therapyIn a dialysis-like process, blood is drawn from the donor’s body and plasma is extracted through a machine, after which WBC, RBC and platelets are returned. Doctors said recovered patients did not want the blood returned to their body after extraction of plasma. “The family members of many donors believe mistakenly that they may fall sick again,” said a doctor. Following plasma therapy at KIMS, a 65-year-old Covid-19 patient “is doing fine and will be discharged soon”, said Antartani. It would be the first instance of a patient recovering fully with plasma therapy in Karnataka. KIMS is considering plasma therapy as a second line of treatment for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patients. The hospital said it has five SARI patients who could benefit from plasma therapy. “Patients have to be willing, we cannot force them to donate plasma,” said Antartani. “We have written to directors of all medical colleges to persuade symptomatic patients who have recovered to donate but the response is not encouraging.” He added that majority of the patients treated at KIMS were asymptomatic and those who showed symptoms were aged or unsuitable due to other reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-recovered-patients-not-keen-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/76365261.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: May 15-30 Covid-19 peak has pushed up June deaths, say doctors||MUMBAI: June’s first fortnight has been the cruellest period in the state, with Covid-19 claiming 1,544 lives. In contrast, the entire month of May saw 1,827 deaths. The city registered 1,380 cases on Saturday, which has been in tune with the daily tally throughout June so far, taking the overall count to 56,831 cases. Both the state and BMC updates revealed that more men than women died on Saturday. The state toll of 113 deaths included 73 males and 40 females while the city toll had 22 females and 47 males. Most of the deaths were among the 60-plus age group—accounting for 65 out of 113 deaths in the state and 37 in the city’s daily toll of 69. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid, said the June deaths were a reflection of the fact that the city witnessed its Covid-19 peak between May 15 and 30. “Many of the severe cases in that period could have turned into mortality now, hence the slight rise in deaths in early June,’’ Joshi said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the BMC will closely monitor the situation over the next 10 days. “The lockdown was partially lifted a week back and we haven’t witnessed a huge surge in the number of cases, as we had feared. However, we don’t want to let our guard down as the next week to 10 days are crucial,” he said. Kakani said that the city was ready to handle the cases as the BMC has developed a “good model” as a result of the experience in controlling Covid-19 in the slums of Dharavi and Worli. “We are using the same successful model in K East and P North wards which have been witnessing a rise in cases in the last week,” the additional municipal commissioner said. The model entails involving local doctors and clinics to reach out the residents, wide use of pulse oximeters to catch people with early respiratory problems, and holding fever clinics. “We have covered a population of 3 lakh people in our pulse oximeter survey,” Kakani said. The slum-dominated Dharavi locality on Saturday reported 17 new Covid-19 positive patients. The total number of positive novel coronavirus cases reported from the entire area stands at 2,030, said municipal officials. Neighbouring Thane city breached the 5,000 mark of Covid-19 cases when 176 patients tested positive within 24 hours on Saturday. Thane recorded five deaths, taking the toll to 153 so far. In Navi Mumbai, a total of 191 positive novel coronavirus cases were found on Saturday, taking the total Covid-19 count to 3,734. The area under the jurisdiction of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation reported five deaths, taking the toll to 114.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-may-15-30-covid-19-peak-has-pushed-up-june-deaths-say-doctors/articleshow/76365263.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 14, 2020||Hubballi||241 monks stuck in Karnataka's Mundgod fly to Mongolia||KARWAR: As many as 241 Buddhist monks from Mongolia, who were stranded at the Tibetan camp at Mundgod in Uttara Kannada district, flew back to their homeland in a special flight from Goa. The monks were stuck after restrictions were imposed on air travel due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The flight took off from Dabolim international airport on Friday night, Goa airport director Gagan Malik told a news agency. The monks travelled from Mundgod to Goa by road a week ago, SP Shivaprakash Devaraju said, adding they entered through Karwar border. UK dist admin arranged buses for 241 monksThe Uttara Kannada district administration arranged for their travel to Dabolim airport in buses. “A Mongolian Airlines flight arrived in Goa to ferry the stranded monks,” an official said. All regulations related to social distancing and hygiene were meticulously followed during the departure of this group, the official added. The embassy of Mongolia in India handed over 530 reusable PPE kits to the state government, which were received by director of NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza. The PPE kits have been handed over to Goa police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/241-monks-stuck-in-karnatakas-mundgod-fly-to-mongolia/articleshow/76365271.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Four Mumbai cops die since Friday night, one of whom was to retire in 17 days||MUMBAI: Four Mumbai police personnel, one of whom was to retire at the end of this month, succumbed to Covid-19 since Friday night. With these deaths, coronavirus toll among the city police force has risen to 26 while that in the state is now 40. Senior police officers say they are concerned about the dipping morale in the force and the tough task at hand to motivate personnel to go on field duty. Constable Hemant Kumbhar (51) from Dindoshi police station succumbed to the virus late on Friday. Officers said he was on duty at the police station and is likely to have contracted the virus on the job. “Kumbhar worked closely with an inspector in charge of crime investigation. Both of them tested positive. On June 4, Kumbhar was admitted to Seven Hills Hospital. But while the inspector recovered and was discharged, Kumbhar couldn’t make it," said a senior officer. His family has tested negative. On Saturday, three personnel from Borivli, Vakola and the protection branch succumbed to the virus—perhaps the highest number of casualties in a single day. Health-conscious constable Sandesh Kini’s death shocked all at Borivli police station. Kini (47) was a beat marshal. “On June 8, he was admitted to Star Hospital at Nalasopara close to his residence. He was recovering but his condition deteriorated on Friday. He succumbed to the virus on Saturday. He had no comorbidities,” said an officer. Head constable Ashok Kamble (58) from Vakola police station was just 17 days away from his retirement when he died at a private hospital in Santacruz East on Saturday morning. After police commissioner Parambir Singh asked policemen above 55 to go on mandatory leave from April, Kamble was working from home. He would come to the police station once a week. He was rushed to Niron Hospital when he started feeling breathless on Friday. Colleagues said he is survived by his wife and two children. Assistant sub-inspector Deepak Lole (55) from the protection branch had complained of breathlessness and was hospitalized at Navi Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-mumbai-cops-die-since-friday-night-one-of-whom-was-to-retire-in-17-days/articleshow/76365272.cms||S Ahmed Ali
June 14, 2020||India||In a first, Uttarakhand is restoring its meadows||DEHRADUN/UTTARKASHI: In what is being touted as the first of its kind conservation effort for alpine meadows in the country, the Uttarakhand forest department is using eco-friendly engineering to ward off soil erosion that’s devastating Dayara Bugyal — ecologically precious pastures in Himalayas. Jairaj, head of forest force and principal chief conservator of forests (Uttarakhand), told TOI that conservation efforts started at Dayara Bugyal in Uttarkashi last year and soon meadows across the state will be restored. “The project to restore other meadows will cost Rs 6 crore,” he said. S P Subudhi, member secretary, Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board, added that the first phase of Dayara Bugyal repairs was nearing completion. The rolling patches of Dayara Bugyal at 11,000 feet are a perennial tourist attraction but soil erosion is marring the landscape and adversely affecting plant ecology. The meadow spread over 28 sq km is home to endangered plants like spikenard (Nardostachys jatamansi) and kutki (Picrorhiza kurroa) used in traditional medicine. Over the past few years, at least 2.5 km of the bugyal has been damaged, with huge cracks appearing in a 600-metre area. A six-member committee called Dayara Bugyal Conservation Committee, which was set up in 2019, is overseeing the project. Former dean of Wildlife Institute of India and technical advisor to the committee, G S Rawat, said it was important to arrest soil erosion in meadows in time else it could lead to floods as well as loss of Himalayan biodiversity. “Alpine meadows are extremely important as all streams and rivers in the Himalayan region originate in the meadows. Their conservation should be a top priority.” Under the first phase, large coir mats made up of coconut fibre — a natural fertiliser — have been used to prevent soil erosion in the severely damaged 600m area. Sushil Bhatt, assistant manager of Coir Board of India, Dehradun, said, “The coir mats grip the land firmly, thus keeping the soil from loosening. They would remain effective for at least two years,” he said. Sandeep Kumar, divisional forest officer of Uttarkashi, said coir mats were also stuffed with pine leaves and used as check dams to prevent streams from eroding soil when they are in full flow during monsoon. In the next phase, the department will use the same techniques in other parts of Dayara Bugyal while also setting up nurseries — planting local grass and small plants and herbs — to offset effects of overgrazing on the pastures. Local villages have also been roped in for conservation efforts. Counselling and awareness camps are being held to help village residents understand the demerits of overgrazing. Watch Uttarakhand is restoring its ecologically precious meadows||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-uttarakhand-is-restoring-its-meadows/articleshow/76365273.cms||Shivani Azad
June 14, 2020||India||Hizb duo killed in Kulgam encounter||SRINAGAR: Two Hizbul Mujahideen ultras who had joined the proscribed outfit recently were killed in an anti-terror operation in Zadoora Nipora area of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday morning. One of the two slain terrorists, Umer Ahmad Bhat, had joined Hizb barely three days ago, while his accomplice, Nadeem Ahmad Bhat, had been active since May 31, sources said. An official statement about the identity and affiliation of the two was awaited till the filing of this report. Based on a tip-off received by Kulgam police about the presence of terrorists in Zadoora Nipora area, a joint team of Army’s 19 RR, CRPF’s 18 Bn and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search operation on Saturday morning. As the personnel neared the hideout, holed-up ultras opened fire at the search party. In the ensuing gunfight, the Hizb duo was killed, a police spokesperson said. “The terrorists were given the opportunity to surrender, but they opened fire and lobbed grenades at the security forces, triggering the encounter,” the spokesperson said, adding that it was a “clean operation without any collateral damage”. Soon after the encounter, internet services were temporarily suspended in the area as a precautionary measure, and restored by late evening. The forces also recovered arms and ammunition besides other incriminating material from the site of the firefight. The items seized have been taken into case records for further investigation, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hizb-duo-killed-in-kulgam-encounter/articleshow/76365278.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 14, 2020||Business||18% GST not levied on plain rotis, only on frozen parotas: Govt||NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday said that the ruling by Karnataka's Authority for Advance Ruling for GST for an 18% levy applied to frozen, packed and preserved wheat parotas and malabar parotas, with a shelf life of three to seven days, and did not apply to plain rotis.  "It may be noted that frozen parota is preserved, sealed packed, branded and is usually sold at higher prices. It is not a staple item and is consumed by the class which could afford to pay taxes. Even items like cheaper biscuits, pastries, cakes, etc, attract GST at the rate of 18%. Frozen food would be more comparable to such item. Frozen foods can not be comparable to plain roti or plain parota served in restaurants or taken as staple food, or eaten by poor on a day-to-day basis," it said days after a TOI report on the AAR ruling caused a storm on social media. It added that globally, processed or packaged foods are taxed at a higher rate and pointed to the instance of milk being tax-free but those sold in cartons being taxed at 5% and condensed milk facing a 12% levy. The government said that plain roti or parota served in a restaurant or provided in takeaway joints face the same tax treatment and attract 5% GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/18-gst-not-levied-on-plain-rotis-only-on-frozen-parotas-govt/articleshow/76365280.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Business||ArcelorMittal to invest 2,000cr in Odisha||Bhubaneswar: ArcelorMittal - the world's largest steel-maker - will soon invest around Rs 2,000 crore in Odisha, Lakshmi N Mittal, chairman and chief executive officer of the company, said in a video call with CM Naveen Patnaik on Saturday.  The Rs 2,000 crore will form part of the first tranche of the company's overall investment in Odisha, and will be used mainly for augmenting the capacity of the erstwhile Essar Steel's pellet plant at Paradip and beneficiation plant at Dabuna in Keonjhar, besides development of mines. The state government is hopeful that this portion of the investment will materialise this financial year, said a senior official. ArcelorMittal along with Nippon Steel had taken over the pellet and beneficiation plants from Essar Steel in December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/arcelormittal-to-invest-2000cr-in-odisha/articleshow/76365285.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
June 14, 2020||Mumbai||Private operators tie up with corporates, plan 1,200 buses in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Apart from 2,500 BEST and 150 MSRTC buses catering to office-goers, private operators will run 1,200 buses for corporates from Monday. The chartered services are for private companies to ensure staff reach office safely and on time. The buses will reduce the load on BEST, which has been catering to rush of commuters, with social distancing norms being violated in some buses. Nearly 30 lakh commuters were ferried by BEST buses this week. Harsh Kotak of Mumbai Bus Malak Sanghatana said, "We will provide additional private bus service to office-goers as part of our tie-up with corporates. We will ensure social distancing and ferry only 25 passengers per bus with no standees." BEST permits five standees. "We hope more private buses will lessen the burden on public transport. Our buses will ply from Virar-Nalasopara and Kalyan-Dombivli," he said. He said tourist and luxury bus operators were willing to offer vehicles for point-to-point services to BKC and Churchgate, and requested BEST to hire the buses and issue tickets at boarding points. BEST is yet to take a decision, he said. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI the government could permit private buses if needed. "State transport department has been running additional buses on long routes such as Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar to Mumbai to ferry emergency staff, and it may help reduce crowding in other buses. A review of bus services will be taken on Monday," said Parab. On allowing private buses to take regular passengers in Mumbai, he said, "Allowing passengers in private buses is under consideration. Private buses will be allowed only if required. If we feel BEST and ST buses are not enough to cope up with the passengers by maintaining social distancing, we will consider an option of allowing private buses, after the review meeting."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/private-operators-tie-up-with-corporates-plan-1200-buses-in-mumbai/articleshow/76365288.cms||Somit Sen
June 14, 2020||Bengaluru||23-year-old who refused to go to ICU dies in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 23-year-old man from Bengaluru, who battled diabetes along with Covid-19, died on June 12, becoming the youngest victim in the city. He was among three Covid-19 victims reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 81 in the state. “The man was referred from a private hospital to Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital on June 9. His condition was severe with breathlessness, fever and high diabetes. But he got himself discharged against medical advice,” said KV Trilok Chandra, special officer for high-risk Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. When his test result came positive on June 11, he was traced and admitted. He died a day later. In 24 hours, 308 new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 6,824. Of these, 31 are from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/23-year-old-who-refused-to-go-to-icu-dies-in-bengaluru/articleshow/76365294.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||Real Anamika finally gets a teacher's job||LUCKNOW: Four days after real Anamika Shukla appeared and lodged an FIR against unidentified persons for misusing her documents to obtain jobs at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidayalayas, she was appointment at a government-aided private school Bhaiya Chandrabhan Dutt Smarak Vidyalaya in Tarabganj in Gonda. TOI had reported earlier that while at least 25 imposters used her name and educational qualification to get jobs at KGBVs, Anamika was jobless so far. While the nine FIRs have been lodged for this fraud, one of the masterminds and two ‘duplicate Anamika Shuklas’ have been arrested. Anamika’s husband Durgesh Shukla on Saturday confirmed to TOI that she has got the appointment letter. “Anamika wanted to become a doctor but could not afford the coaching. The school had approached us for the job, and asked us to come on Monday for verification of the documents,” he said. “We were worried after the whole episode of fraud in the name Anamika came to light in the media. We have a small piece of land which is just enough for subsistence,” he added. The couple has two kids — Adhya (2) and Anant (3). “After seeing reports in the media about Anamika’s plight of poverty, and also considering her educational qualifications, the board of the school decided to employ her,” said the manager of Bhaiyya Chandrabhan Dutt Smarak Vidyalaya, Digvijay Pandey. Pandey also said that three months ago, before the lockdown, Anamika had also applied for a job in the school. “We will keep her on an ad hoc basis in the primary section because of the higher number of students enrolled in that section and she will be given the designation of assistant teacher,” Pandey told TOI. He also said that Anamika will be reimbursed as per standards of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/real-anamika-finally-gets-a-teachers-job/articleshow/76365296.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two years on, labour official gets job back||HYDERABAD: It could perhaps be a unique case of a government officer holding jobs in two neighbouring states and yet fighting for his reinstatement and pending salaries for two years. The Telangana high court finally stepped in to rescue AM Prasad Raju by ordering the Telangana state labour commissioner to take him back as an assistant labour officer (ALO) in Warangal. The high court even threatened to send the labour commissioner to one-month jail if Raju is not reinstated in the post immediately. It also told the commissioner to pay the salary and last two years' arrears to Raju, who has been running from pillar to post to get his job back. Finding fault with the labour commissioner for not taking back Raju despite the earlier court orders, a bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice P Keshava Rao said the litigant had suffered enough while pronouncing the judgment. The wrangle over Raju's reinstatement was stuck between Telangana and neighbouring AP over jurisdictional issues. The bench said the Telangana labour commissioner could restore Raju's old ALO post in order to give meaning to the status quo, as ordered by the Supreme Court. Bench: AP can’t be compelled to take Raju as deputy tahsildarRaju’s story began when he was selected in APPSC’s group II in 2005. He was initially appointed as an assistant cooperative sub-registrar in united AP. Some of those selected in group II, however, challenged the posts allotted to them by APPSC by moving the Supreme Court. Raju was promoted as deputy registrar and posted in Hyderabad in 2007. In the meantime, APPSC, following a court order, revised its allotment order and sent him to the labour department. After the bifurcation of the state, Raju was made ALO, Warangal. Later, APPSC revised its allotment order again. This time, Raju was taken into revenue department and allotted to AP. The neighbouring state issued orders appointing him as a deputy tahsildar in Kurnool. Even before he could take charge, the Supreme Court asked both the states to maintain a status quo on the allotment of group II officers. Following the apex court order, the Kurnool district collector said he cannot take Raju as a deputy tahsildar. Raju then made efforts to come back and join as ALO in Warangal. But, the Telangana labour commissioner refused to accept Raju on the grounds that he had already been relieved from the state cadre. P Narasimha, counsel for petitioner Raju, said the officials in the labour department were unwilling to take him back despite an order from a division bench of Telangana high court which had directed them to take him back till the issue was resolved by Justice Thakkar Committee. The officials did not follow this order. The two-judge bench, which went through the records, said AP and its revenue officials cannot be compelled to take Raju as a deputy tahsildar in Kurnool in view of the status quo order issued by the apex court. “But as far as the labour department authorities in Telangana are concerned, they can restore his old labour officer post in order to give meaning to the status quo,” the bench said and directed the labour commissioner to take Raju back immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-two-years-on-labour-official-gets-job-back/articleshow/76365297.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 14, 2020||Business||RIL raises another 6,442cr by selling 1.32% stake in Jio||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) said on Saturday that it has raised Rs 6,442 crore by selling 1.32% stake in Jio Platforms. It has sold 0.93% of Jio to US private equity firm TPG for Rs 4,547 crore and 0.39% to L Catterton, a consumer-focused fund, for Rs 1,895 crore. The company, controlled by Mukesh Ambani, has so far raised Rs 1.04 lakh crore by selling 22.38% in Jio to various US and Middle Eastern buyers, with the largest chunk being given to Facebook. The foreign investments boosts RIL's efforts as it reduces its dependence on refining and petrochemicals and increases its focus on telecom, e-commerce and online entertainment. The outside money also aids RIL to lower its Rs 3.36 lakh crore debt. Texas-based TPG and Connecticut-headquartered L Catterton, like the previous financial investors in Jio, has pegged the telecom-cum-digital services company's valuation at Rs 5.16 lakh crore. The multiple deals in Jio are a precursor to RIL's plans of taking the subsidiary public in the near future. Jio is the latest bet of TPG and L Catterton. TPG, founded in 1992 and which today manages assets worth $79 billion, has investments in other technology-enabled companies such as Airbnb, Uber and Spotify. The fund, which has been investing in India since 2000, has backed healthcare, financial services and retail sectors here.L Catterton has invested in Peloton, Vroom, ClassPass, Owndays and FabIndia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-raises-another-6442cr-by-selling-1-32-stake-in-jio/articleshow/76365304.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Wash area near main door? Realtors redo home layouts||KOLKATA: Architects at leading real estate firms in the city have rushed back to the drawing board to redesign apartments to meet the demands of aspiring buyers in a world that is now defined by the coronavirus pandemic. There is now a growing demand for flats with larger windows and balconies, separate studies and even a wall recess just after the entrance to hold a basin where anyone entering can first wash their hands. “The major change brought by the pandemic to the indus-try is de-densification. Space usage per person has increased significantly affecting the space-efficiency strategies implemented in pre-Covid times. Based on the current circumstances, these changes appear short-term but may get extended to medium-term if there is delay in getting the vaccine,” said interantional realty consultant JLL’s Kolkata managing director Surekha Biyani. Belani group MD and chairman of the Bengal chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Assocaition of India (Credai), Nandu Belani, said there is already an increased demand for flats with bigger living area, better ventilation and larger balcony. “For two months, homes turned into the world. Families realised the need for bigg-er, spacious and well-ventilated apartments so that they don’t feel claustrophobic,” said Belani. Sensing this, Merlin group chairman Sushil Mohta, also the chief of the apex body of Credai in the state, has already asked architects to redesign projects that are yet to be launched with bigger windows and larger balconies to ensure proper sunlight and ventilation. “Those working from home have realised it is financially not possible to keep the AC running throughout the day,” he said. A recent study of 500 prospective home buyers in Kolkata and Hyderabad by real estate consultancy firm NK Realtors showed customers are also keen on larger bedrooms and a wash area after the entrance. “Till now, architects would have baulked at the idea of a wash area next to the entrance. But things have changed now with people more aware of hygiene and want everyone entering an apartment to first wash their hands,” NK Realtors vice-president Biplab Kumar said. Architect Partha Ranjan Das though feel differently. A wash basin at the entrance, he says, will be a plumbing challenge. “It is much easier to make a provision for hand sanitizer,” he pointed out. Most developers are also trying to make provisions for a study. Jain group MD Rishi Jain says a study room will become a standard feature in apartments that cost in excess of Rs 45 lakh, “There will now be 2.5 bedroom or 3.5 bedroom apartments with two or three bedrooms and a study,” he explained. Others though feel that even smaller apartments can have a private corner where children can attend school and elders can work from home. “We are even looking at a small business centre in the complex club where a resident can meet an outsider on office work,” reasoned Siddha group MD Sanjay Jain. Mohta feels many customers will now prefer bigger units for the extra space and large families living in comparatively smaller units will want to either upgrade to a bigger unit or split into nuclear families and move into separate units. Bihani feels Covid-19 may leave behind some some long-term changes like increase in hygiene and sanitation in properties by reduction of touch points and using technology in building management systems. Anshuman Magazine, chairman & CEO (India, South East Asia, Middle East and Africa) of international consultant CBRE feels the need to reduce touchpoints will lead to many technological advancements beyond the home in common areas of apartment blocks. “Adoption of touchless technology is expected to be a focus area. For instance, corporates in China have deployed technologies such as holographic projection elevator controls; temperature scans; mask scans; infrared thermal scanners at entry and exit points; UV sterilization devices in elevators and escalator handrails; and facial recognition access control to limit human interface,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wash-area-near-main-door-realtors-redo-home-layouts/articleshow/76365096.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||Slowly but steadily work picks up pace in Adityapur factories||JAMSHEDPUR: Following two months of shut down, economic activities are gradually picking up pace in a large number of factories in the Adityapur industrial area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) president, Inder Agarwal, said, “Of the 1,200 factories, nearly 1,000 have resumed production but at a marginal capacity for only pending orders are being catered to at the moment. Out of the nearly one lakh workers who were employed in the industrial area prior to the lockdown, only about 30% of them have returned to the factories.” He added that the manufacturing of trucks picking up pace at Tata Motors, work will increase multi-fold in the industrial area. Close to 700 factories in Adityapur are ancillary units of Tata Motors while the remaining ones are pig iron and chemical manufacturing companies, among others. The ASIA president said that they are working with the state labour and industry department to absorb the skilled, experienced and qualified migrant workers — who have returned to different parts of Kolhan division from different states during the lockdown — in a phased manner. Parveen Toppo, the secretary at the state’s industry department, said the government will extend all kinds of support to the industries for their revival. “The Union government’s financial package announced to aid the MSME sector will give a boost to the industries in Adityapur,” Toppo said while on his visit to the district on Friday. Meanwhile, Singhbhhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry functionary Bharat Vasani said the slump in the automobile sector has given an opportunity to the young entrepreneurs in Adityapur to work on new business ideas instead of depending on the manufacturing of automobile parts. “Few factory owners have shifted to manufacturing sanitisers while few others have set up mask and gloves making units,” Vasani added. Industrialist Ashok Bihany said with the start of the Electronic Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) in next four to six months, the Adityapur industrial area will witness a new high in terms of increase in the business activities and job opportunities for the skilled workers. “With the start of EMC, close to 8,000 workers will get jobs directly, provided the government trains them properly,” Ashok, who is also a consultant for EMC, added. The Seraikela-Kharsawan DC, Anjaneyulu Dodde, had, in fact, conducted two meetings with the representatives of Adityapur industries on May 16 and June 6 on the issue of giving jobs to the migrant workers, following which the district labour department has started the process of sending lists of skilled migrant workers to the companies for absorption on a requirement basis. However, a noted industrialist in Adityapur, on condition of anonymity, said that political leaders run the labour supply firms and the factory owners have to oblige by giving priority to those workers who are registered with such firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/slowly-but-steadily-work-picks-up-pace-in-adityapur-factories/articleshow/76364249.cms||B Sridhar
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Centre grants Rims director extn till Covid outbreak normalises||Ranchi: Dr D K Singh, director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) will continue to serve the state’s largest hospital till the Covid-19 situation normalises. The development comes after the Union health ministry accepted the state government’s request to provide Singh an extension till the situation normalises. He was slated to join AIIMS Bhatinda as the executive director. According to highly placed sources in the health department, the Union ministry has given in-principle approval to the state government’s request on providing Singh an extension due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the state. Notably, Rims is the only tertiary care centre of the state to treat serious covid patients. “We have been told by a joint secretary level official of the Union health ministry that Singh will continue to discharge his duties as director of Rims as per state government’s request in the wake of an outbreak of Covid-19,” a source said. Singh was selected for the position of executive director of AIIMS Bhatinda by the appointments committee of the Union cabinet on March 12 and was set to join in July. Soon after his selection, Singh had written a letter to secretary, Union health ministry on April 3 accepting the offer, but also requested him to provide an extension citing the situation in Jharkhand. In another letter to the state health department on April 7, Singh informed about his selection and subsequent acceptance of the offer and requested them to relieve him after the Covid-19 situation normalises in the state. Taking cognizance of his letter, the state health department communicated with the Union health ministry and requested an extension. “As Rims is the lone tertiary care centre in the state to treat serious Covid-19 patients and with increasing positive cases of novel coronavirus, we request your approval to allow Dr Singh to discharge his services as Rims director until the outbreak slows down or normalises,” the letter sent by state health department to the Union health ministry read. Singh said that he hasn’t received any letter from the ministry or the state government on the issue and he will not be able to comment before he receives an official communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-grants-rims-director-extn-till-covid-outbreak-normalises/articleshow/76364192.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Villager killed in Sunderbans tiger attack||Kolkata: A 31-year-old villager was reportedly mauled to death by a tiger in the Sunderbans when he ventured into the mangroves to collect firewood on Saturday morning. Goshtho Gayen, a resident of Deulbari village, is officially the ninth victim this year. The actual toll may be higher, said a source. The incident took place in the jungle of Chituri under South 24-Parganas forest division. Sources said Gayen, along with six others from his village, left home early in the morning and the attack took place later in the day. While locals claimed the group had set out on a fishing trip, a senior forest department official said the villagers had gone to collect firewood. By the time his companions managed to scare away the big cat, Gayen was already dead. He is survived by his wife and their three children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/villager-killed-in-sunderbans-tiger-attack/articleshow/76365046.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand records 54 cases, recovery rate increases||Ranchi: Jharkhand continued to see nearly 50% dip in fresh cases of Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Saturday with only 54 fresh cases. Barring Koderma, which reported 35 cases, other districts recorded only single-digit cases. Koderma also became the seventh district in the state to cross the 100-mark on Saturday. The district’s tally now stands at 128. The total number of cases in the state has risen to 1,711; of which 887 are active and 816 have recovered. Eight persons have succumbed to the viral infection. Two other districts of Kolhan division have crossed the 200-mark with Simdega at 232 and East Singhbhum detecting 230 cases. Ranchi has a total of 165 cases while Hazaribag has 132 and Dhanbad’s tally stands at 114. Ramgarh with 108 cases is also among the districts with over 100 cases. The state also saw a jump in the number of recoveries as 131 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals on Saturday. “We are pleased to inform that we have recorded a 50% jump in our recovery rate in comparison to fresh cases on Saturday. A total of 54 people tested positive for the virus and 131 were discharged from different districts after their recovery,” a health department official said. In Ranchi, a 60-year-old resident of Dhanbad district, who was admitted to Rims with complaints of persistent fever, cough and cold for over a week, tested positive on Saturday. He was admitted to the Covid ward of the hospital since he showed symptoms. “The patient had come from Dhanbad with persistent flu symptoms on June 11. After screening, we had admitted him to our Covid wing and he tested positive on Saturday,” a Rims official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-records-54-cases-recovery-rate-increases/articleshow/76364298.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||State prepares SOPs for schools; No decision on reopening: Officials||Ranchi: Standard operating procedures (SOP) to ensure anti-Covid measures in schools across Jharkhand are being chalked out, informed officials at the state education department. The SOPs are being prepared on the lines of a format provided by the centre, the officials further informed. Asked if the steps will lead to reopening of schools soon, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto said, “As of now, no decision has been taken on the issue.” The reopening of schools has become a challenge after the state recorded a significant rise in the number of cases. Till Friday, Jharkhand saw 1,657 cases. According to the guidelines sent by the ministry of home affairs, there is no chance of schools reopening till the end of June. Director, secondary education, Jata Shankar Choudhary, said, “The states are framing norms according to a format provided by the central government. The SOPs will be sent to the Centre for a final decision. Many aspects, including starting and ending the different sections of classes in a staggered manner, challenges in transportation of students, maintaining social distancing among students, teachers and staff, sanitization of schools, norms for use of common services like toilets are being worked out.” Choudhary added, since since each school has a different structure and campus, there should also be a micro plan for them. Recently, the Centre held a discussion with the state officials on the issue of reopening of schools through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-prepares-sops-for-schools-no-decision-on-reopening-officials/articleshow/76364178.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Tribals kill Naxal, timely intervention by police averts massacre||Bokaro: Over 500 infuriated tribals conducted ‘sendra’ on Saturday and killed a Naxal with traditional weapons and torched three houses at the Maoist-hit Piprataad village, some 70km from the Giridih district headquarters. In Jharkhand, tribals termed hunting with bows and arrows as ‘sendra’. Police said their timely intervention prevented a massacre as the mob was targeting to kill seven murder accused. The deceased, Suresh Marandi, was hit by an arrow. Marandi and the six others, having criminal antecedents, were accused by the tribals of killing 32-year-old Hiralal Kisku on June 4 after a land dispute, police said. Kisku’s body was found near a canal close to his home in Pipratand village under Bishanpur panchayat. A case was filed in connection with the killing against the seven accused with the Pirtand police station. Giridih SP Surender Kumar Jha said a police team rushed to the village in the morning after getting information about the tribals burning down houses. While they were rescuing people inside the houses, Marandi fled but was tracked down by the mob and shot him with an arrow. Jha added, “The police team had to fire several rounds in the air to disperse the mob. A few cops were injured while trying to bring the situation under control.” He added, “Strict action will be taken against those involved in the incident. The process to file FIR in the matter is on.” Following the incident, Jha and DC Rahul Kumar visited the spot on motorcycles to take stock of the situation. Police said the seven accused in the killing of Kisku were absconding but they continued to threaten the victim’s family, angering the villagers who were mostly tribals. On Saturday morning, the villagers found out that they have returned and surrounded three of their houses, which were later set on fire. Jha said family members of the accused inside the burning houses were rescued. He added that police were camping in the village to prevent further escalation of violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribals-kill-naxal-timely-intervention-by-police-averts-massacre/articleshow/76364258.cms||Divy Khare
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Guv spars with TMC leaders, focuses on intra-party politics||Kolkata: Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday sparred with individual Trinamool Congress leaders, taking his “constitutional responsibility” beyond scrutiny of state government activities to focusing on the state’s ruling party. Kolkata Municipal Corporation board of administrators chairperson Firhad Hakim, Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra and Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien came in the line of fire. Dhankhar wasn’t satisfied with the state government’s positive response to his flagging the “sordid saga” of 14 unclaimed dead bodies taken to Garia crematorium. He wanted Hakim to personally meet him at Raj Bhavan even after KMC commissioner Vinod Kumar gave a detailed update of the Garia incident and also admitted the lapses. Instead, the governor conveyed to Kumar that Hakim should see him at the earliest to discuss the “unprecedented suffering in Kolkata over a week post-Amphan due to KMC”. Hakim kept up his defiance and said on Saturday he was not going to pay a visit to Raj Bhavan. “The governor is the head of state and there is no reason why I won’t meet him. But he made the tweet earlier and then requested me to see him. And more, he is acting on behalf of a party, BJP. As head of the state, the governor didn’t even sympathise with the KMC team working overtime against the challenges — Covid, Amphan and dengue. He kept training his guns when the state government is laying down rules and procedure for cremating the dead,” Hakim said. Dhankhar tweeted on Saturday morning asking for “apology to the society at large” over the “ghastly episode that has shocked all”. The state home department responded within hours saying: “GOWB respects the credo of dignity at death and, while handling the Covid pandemic, it has espoused the principle by laying down transparent procedures regarding disclosure of facts, opportunities given to bereaved relatives for showing last respect to the deceased, disposal of dead bodies etc.” The governor then switched to TMC MP Moitra’s recent comments on utilisation of funds by panchayats in Nadia for construction of rural roads. “Sharp and well-aimed arrows against her own government were lethal and the rampant corruption issue in the state prominently flagged, panchayat corruption took centre stage — reminding all about ‘cut money’ stated to be all pervasive,” he wrote. Moitra shot back, saying: “Firing BJP arrows at state govt which is handling Covid, Amphan & migrant return smoothly all at once. A (rotten) apple never falls far from the tree. Three-pronged battle. The governor is aiming at the state government with political arrows.” Dhankhar continued with the repartee and tweeted: “Knives that were being sharpened @MamataOfficial are now out to take on the governor.” Next came Derek. “Now, for about two weeks, I have been urging you to reveal the number of pending results for (Covid) test reports. I had indicated that reports pendi-ng are in thousands,” the governor tweeted. Derek re-lied: “It seems now he (Guv Dh-ankhar) has been officially appointed as BJP spokes-person… He is trying to set up the BJP narrative for Bengal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-spars-with-tmc-leaders-focuses-on-intra-party-politics/articleshow/76365032.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Migrants leave home again, for work and a better future||Malda: One disaster robbed them of their livelihood. Another has now provided them jobs. A section of migrants who had returned to Bengal from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand following the lockdown in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic have been recruited by agencies engaged to restore powerlines that were devastated by Cyclone Amphan. Earlier this week, five buses ferried 500-odd workers from Sujapur and Kaliachak in Malda and Dhulian and Farakka in Murshidabad to Kolkata, from where they would travel to North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas to take up the repair work. Mohiuddin Sk of Fulbaria and Tafiluddin Haque of Nagharia, both major labour contractors, said they had sent workers who had earlier worked on high tension electricity transmission lines in Himachal and Uttarakhand to the cyclone-affected districts where towers and powerlines have been uprooted. “The two cyclone-hit districts are in need of workers as hundreds of electric and mobile towers need to be restored. We have supplied workers for the job,” Mohiuddin said. A group of labourers have also been sent to Meerut in UP from Malda’s Nagharia. While some have hired buses, others boarded lorries to travel to their destinations. Contractors like Hasimuddin Sk of Bhagabanpur and Mujibar Ali of Bangitola said they had used trucks to send men to Kolkata and Bihar. According to Hasimuddin, fitters get Rs 18,000 while labourers Rs 12,000 per tower in other states, which is much more lucrative than working as labourers in Bengal. When asked why they were so desperate to travel to another state within days of returning home after being stranded in other states without work for over two months, most of them said the higher wages offered elsewhere were difficult to ignore. “We can’t sit idle at home. We can survive on MNREGA, but it will only be survival. Our hopes and aspirations of a better education for our children cannot be fulfilled from the earning that the scheme provides,” pointed out Nur Nabi Khan. Old Malda block Mahishbathani panchayat member Salim Sk conceded that many migrant returnees who had been offered jobs in 100 days’ flagship project had turned them down as they did not offer enough income. Manab Banerjee, district president of trade union INTTUC, conceded that the reverse migration had started amid the corona scare. “About 60,000 migrants have returned in this district either by train or on their own. But with the opening of factories and industries in other states, some are returning there. A few days ago, some workers of Manikchak contacted me as they wanted to return to Kerala to work in banana orchards there,” Banerjee said. Sabina Yasmin, TMC MLA of Mothabari, which supplies more than 30,000 workers to Maharashtra, Telangana and Kerala, sees it in different light. “The states that badly need our workers for their development should have realized their importance much earlier before leaving them in distress during the period of lockdown. Now, they are approaching our workers even with offers of 10 hours’ wage against 6 hours’ work,” she said, conceding that many locals had started migrating to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/migrants-leave-home-again-for-work-and-a-better-future/articleshow/76365019.cms||Subhro Maitra
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||Sikkim moms swap kids for Covid care||Siliguri: Two women have had to temporarily swap their children after a toddler and a mother tested positive for Covid-19 in Sikkim. Doctors at STNM Hospital have put the positive 2-year-old — the youngest Covid patient in the Himalayan state till date — in the care of a positive woman, whose negative 3-year-old is in the custody of the unaffected mother at a quarantine facility. The woman and the toddler were among 14 fresh cases reported in Sikkim on Thursday. The duos had been housed at a quarantine facility at Paljor Namgyal Girls’ Senior Secondary School in Gangtok following their travel history to Mumbai. Gangtok has been declared a containment zone. “We have a case where a mother has tested positive, but her child is unaffected. Another 2-year-old has tested positive, but her mother is negative. So, we have kept the affected pair together to prevent transmission,” said paediatrician Ruth Yanzon. The doctor, however, maintained that the swapping may have to be reversed if the children start looking for their mothers. “The Covid-positive toddler is doing fine and has had a good night’s sleep on Friday. In fact, both are asymptomatic and their condition is stable,” Yanzon added. Two floors at STNM hospital with 266 beds are dedicated to Covid-19 patients. The ward has eight doctors and 32 health workers. Director-general and secretary (health and family welfare), Sikkim, Pempa Tshering Bhutia said 36 cases were reported on Friday. Twenty-three have been reported from south district and 13 from west district. “All 36 are currently at quarantine centres and asymptomatic. The 23 patients from south district, including 18 with travel history to Maharashtra, are being shifted to the isolation ward at STNM hospital,” Bhutia added. According to a health bulletin, the total number of cases reported in the state is 63; of which 58 are still active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sikkim-moms-swap-kids-for-covid-care/articleshow/76365051.cms||Roshan Gupta
June 14, 2020||Ranchi||Cops start drive against Covid||Ranchi: Police on Saturday carried out a statewide drive to ensure citizens wear masks and manitain other preventive measures to keep Covid-19 from spreading. Additional Director General of Police and chief police spokesman M L Meena said, “The checking drive was carried out across the state on the direction of director general M V Rao. The implementation of anti-Covid norms would be stricter in the coming days in view of the rising number of cases in the state. All district officials have been asked to remain in the fields.” Meanwhile, in Ranchi, the entire force, including SSP Anis Gupta and beat constables, were seen on the streets from 8am to enforce preventive measures. The vehicles of all police stations and 35 patrolling vehicles roamed in various parts of the district advising people to follow anti-Covid norms. One PCR van was seen moving in Ranchi advising shopowners to refrain from selling products to people who are not wearing masks. It also said that shopowners should wear masks. A case was also registered against a man under Section 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC for not wearing mask in Chutia police station area. Meanwhile, traffic police carried out a checking drive against triple riding and other violations at all important crossing of Ranchi. As many as 908 challans involving a fine of over Rs 16.99 lakh were issued for violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-start-drive-against-covid/articleshow/76364201.cms||Sanjay Sahay
June 14, 2020||Kolkata||V-B suspends 3 officials for altering meeting log||Santineketan: Three senior officials of Visva-Bharati University have been suspended by the varsity’s executive council (EC) for allegedly tampering with minutes of an EC meeting held on February 17, 2018. Senior professor of the philosophy department and former officiating vice-chancellor Sabujkali Sen, Rabindra Bhavan official and former registrar Saugata Chatterjee and professor of botany and former finance officer Samit Roy are accused of changing resolution No. 2 in the minutes, relating to Sen’s extension as director of the varsity’s studies, educational innovation and rural reconstruction (SEI and RR) wing. While the executive council had refused such an extension, altering the minutes of the meeting allowed Sen to continue as officiating VC. Sen became the officiating VC by virtue of her position as director of SEI and RR, as per Clause 3(6) of the varsity’s statute. According to the statute, in case the pro-VC is not available, the most senior director will become the officiating VC till a regular VC assumes office. Sources said the three officials received their suspension letters via email late on Friday. Chatterjee confirmed having received an email, but said: “I don’t know my fault. I’ll reply to the university authorities.” Sen told TOI the law would take its own course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/v-b-suspends-3-officials-for-altering-meeting-log/articleshow/76365026.cms||Someswar Boral
June 14, 2020||World||'Nepal's move myopic and serves Oli's limited agenda'||NEW DELHI: Nepal's passage of a constitutional amendment to change its map to include Indian territories Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, is a blatant attempt to use artificial map making to serve narrow political agendas of Prime Minister K P Oli, say senior government sources here. Nepal renounced all claims to territories lying west of the Kali river under Treaty of Sugauli (Article V) of 1815. "These actions do not reflect any seriousness on part of the Nepalese government to discuss and resolve the issue through dialogue. They are myopic and self-serving to further a limited political agenda," sources here said. Read AlsoNepal House clears new map; untenable, says India​In a strongly-worded statement after Nepal’s lower house unanimously passed the constitutional amendment to redraw the map on Saturday, the MEA said, “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our currentIn 1817, Nepal made a claim to the area and demanded return of villages of Tinkar, Chhangru, Nabhi and Kuthi. Lying east of Kali, first two were returned to Nepal. But the Governor General of India rejected its claim to Nabhi and Kuthi as they lay west of Kali. The question of source of Kali river was also settled by the same ruling. Nepal's current claims are also incompatible with its own boundary treaty with China, where the current territorial sovereignty is maintained. In fact, India has repeatedly accused Nepal of encroaching on Indian territory in Narsahi and Susta areas in Bihar "by settling its own population and through various construction activities". In fact, on Wednesday, three weeks after declaring a new political and administrative map, the Nepal government formed a nine-member team of experts to collect historical facts and evidence related to Nepal's ownership of Kalapani and Susta areas. This shows, according to Indian sources, that even Nepalese consider this new claim to be dodgy, drawn up too hastily, and for narrow political objectives. India says it has discussed the outstanding boundary issues with Nepal at the joint working group in 1997 and 1998. "In 2014, both sides mandated the two foreign secretaries to work on the issues of Kalapani and Narsahi-Susta and with technical inputs from Boundary Working Group as and when required." Indian officials said New Delhi agreed to talks on Kalapani after Nepal objected to the inauguration of the Kailash Manasarovar road by India on May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepals-move-myopic-and-serves-olis-limited-agenda/articleshow/76367025.cms||---
June 14, 2020||India||'Nepal's move myopic and serves Oli's limited agenda'||NEW DELHI: Nepal's passage of a constitutional amendment to change its map to include Indian territories Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, is a blatant attempt to use artificial map making to serve narrow political agendas of Prime Minister K P Oli, say senior government sources here. Nepal renounced all claims to territories lying west of the Kali river under Treaty of Sugauli (Article V) of 1815. "These actions do not reflect any seriousness on part of the Nepalese government to discuss and resolve the issue through dialogue. They are myopic and self-serving to further a limited political agenda," sources here said. Read AlsoNepal House clears new map; untenable, says India​In a strongly-worded statement after Nepal’s lower house unanimously passed the constitutional amendment to redraw the map on Saturday, the MEA said, “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our currentIn 1817, Nepal made a claim to the area and demanded return of villages of Tinkar, Chhangru, Nabhi and Kuthi. Lying east of Kali, first two were returned to Nepal. But the Governor General of India rejected its claim to Nabhi and Kuthi as they lay west of Kali. The question of source of Kali river was also settled by the same ruling. Nepal's current claims are also incompatible with its own boundary treaty with China, where the current territorial sovereignty is maintained. In fact, India has repeatedly accused Nepal of encroaching on Indian territory in Narsahi and Susta areas in Bihar "by settling its own population and through various construction activities". In fact, on Wednesday, three weeks after declaring a new political and administrative map, the Nepal government formed a nine-member team of experts to collect historical facts and evidence related to Nepal's ownership of Kalapani and Susta areas. This shows, according to Indian sources, that even Nepalese consider this new claim to be dodgy, drawn up too hastily, and for narrow political objectives. India says it has discussed the outstanding boundary issues with Nepal at the joint working group in 1997 and 1998. "In 2014, both sides mandated the two foreign secretaries to work on the issues of Kalapani and Narsahi-Susta and with technical inputs from Boundary Working Group as and when required." Indian officials said New Delhi agreed to talks on Kalapani after Nepal objected to the inauguration of the Kailash Manasarovar road by India on May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepals-move-myopic-and-serves-olis-limited-agenda/articleshow/76365320.cms||---
June 14, 2020||Bengaluru||No more containment zone in Bengaluru, affected house to be sealed||BENGALURU: With Bengaluru recording an uptick in number of Covid positive cases, the state government is all set to scrap the Standard Operating Procedure of declaring an entire ward as a containment zone. Instead, it will seal only the house or apartment of the infected person. An order will be issued soon by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The move follows the logistical challenges in the present system of containment zones even as the city unlocks itself. Initially, BBMP would declare a ward (198 wards in the city) as a containment zone when a Covid case was reported. Subsequently, the parameters were revised: The street where an infected person stays in case of an independent house and three floors (one above and one below along with where the infected person stayed) in apartments were defined as containment zone. According to the Covid-19 War Room bulletin on Saturday, there are 126 streets and 19 apartment complexes which are containment zones across 116 wards. This will change now. “There have been discussions on containing only a single home (of the Covid patient) and spare the the rest of the road and ward. The containment zone regulation is evolving,” BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar told TOI. RWAs welcome BBMP’s decision to stop sealing wardsUnlike other cities such as Mumbai and Chennai where clusters (aggregation of Covid-19 cases which are epidemiologically linked) have been formed, the situation in Bengaluru is different as the civic agency has controlled the spread of infection, Kumar claimed. Citing Padarayanapura, SK Garden and Mangammanapalya wards that almost saw a mild community spread, Kumar said containing the entire zone was very important. The earlier rules of containment zones were stringent and a 5-km radius round the house of a positive person would be marked. Kumar said blocking the entire ward or sealing an entire road for one positive case for 28 days would be challenging. “The person who tests positive may turn negative in less than three days, in which case sealing a locality or ward or road would be injustice to those living there. The ministry of home affairs rules would be difficult to follow,” he said. Many resident welfare associations are praising the BBMP for this move. A member of Whitefield Rising said: “With lockdown ending and free movement all around, the challenge has multiplied. It’s time for all citizens to step up and do their bit. Stay home as much as possible. Wear masks whenever out, and sanitise hands often.” Janaki J of Malleswaram said containing only one house is sensible. “People need to understand that when everything is functioning normally, rules should also evolve,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-more-containment-zone-in-bengaluru-affected-house-to-be-sealed/articleshow/76365308.cms||Nithya Mandyam
June 14, 2020||India||Nepalese IMA passouts join Indian Army||Dehradun: On the da y the Nepalese Parliament passed a constitutional amendment bill to update the country's map to include areas like Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh situated in Uttarakhand as part of its own territory, three Nepalese cadets graduated from the Indian Military Academy to become commissioned officers in the Indian Army. Although the three newly-commissioned officers refused to speak on the ongoing tension between India and Nepal, terming it 'a political matter', they were unanimous in asserting that they are dedicated in their intent to serve India. Speaking to TOI, Suraj Rai, one of the new officers hailing from Nepal, recounted his journey from being a soldier in the Indian Army to graduating from the Indian Military Academy as an officer on Saturday. There has been a long tradition of Nepalese personnel joining the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepalese-ima-passouts-join-indian-army/articleshow/76365340.cms||Ishita Mishra
