June 15, 2020||Goa||Football will provide joy to the world post-Covid: Tim Cahill||Alongside luminaries such as Cafu, Xavi and Samuel Eto’o, Tim Cahill is now an official ambassador for the Fifa World Cup 2022 in Qatar. Having retired after a stint with Jamshedpur FC in the Indian Super League (ISL), the Australian legend who starred at four World Cups speaks exclusively to TOI about the coronavirus pandemic, preparations for the World Cup and his grounding experience in India. Edited excerpts. The Fifa World Cup in Qatar is still more than two years away, but given the chaos that the coronavirus pandemic has sparked, will there be any impact?One thing I know is that everything is on schedule. Eighty percent of the competition stadiums are on its way. The coronavirus has affected different countries in different ways, but with the Word Cup (preparations), everything is on schedule, which is really impressive. What kind of impact would the World Cup in particular and football in general have on people across the world, once fears over coronavirus dies down?The World Cup is one of the biggest shows on earth. It’s the beauty of football. All countries involved can have some real positive energy to look forward to. Football is a massive conduit for countries, fans, foundations to bring the world together. It plays a massive role. It plays a role through the vision of how we know the game and happiness that it brings. Football will play an important role when we make a comeback. Not having sport on television is difficult, but I know the World Cup is something to be excited about. The Bundesliga was first to restart and now La Liga and Italian football have followed. Do you think finances have taken precedence over people’s lives?I have taken a cautious role. It all comes down to the powers that be in making the decision. As an individual, for me, health is paramount, that always comes first. At the moment, it seems like things are breaking in very slowly. It’s a trial and error situation. To be absolutely honest with you, I don’t know the answer. What I do know is that the first port of call has to be health. You had a glittering 20-year career, which included stints in England, US, China and Australia. Why did you choose India as the final destination before hanging up your boots?India is definitely a country which I was really interested in. We have a really close relationship with India because of cricket. One of my closest friends is Brett Lee, David Warner, (Steven) Smith, Shane Watson, a lot of guys who I know very well and speak till this day. When I joined Asia, I started to learn more about Asian Cup, different countries, also realised how big the markets were with football, on the pitch business, commercials, the whole element. Getting that opportunity later in my career, I couldn’t turn it down. Now being an ambassador for the World Cup 2022, I get to do amazing projects off the pitch, and hopefully soon I will be heading to India to really cement strong foundations with world football. You could play only 11 matches for Jamshedpur FC because of injury, but how was the overall experience in India?Amazing. It wasn’t just about football, it was just as much about off the field, in my interactions of helping the club develop stronger professional ties with my knowledge as a footballer who played four World Cups, Premier League and around the world. We were three hours away from an airport and I was training twice a day, helping players to really make the most of this opportunity. I loved it. It grounded me to live so close in the village with local families, to see thousands of people at the stadium, travel around, understand the culture, the food, the logistics of travel. It opened my eyes in a whole different level. I was really blessed to have such a brilliant career to share with my teammates and also clubs I had played against (in India). It was really grounding. The ISL started with big names like Robert Pires, Zico, Alessandro Del Piero and Roberto Carlos. You were the last real big-name player to play here. What does India need to do to attract the big guns?India has so much going for them. They have the infrastructure, fans, stadiums and amazing facilities. The structure of the games and formatting of the league needs to suit the players. More games they play, the more professional things can be. It takes time. You have to build those levels and you really have to continue to progress and attract those names, and at the same time attract players who will help grow the league and not themselves individually. I think the league is fantastic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/football-will-provide-joy-to-the-world-post-covid-tim-cahill/articleshow/76375191.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Class of 2020 gear up for virtual graduation ceremonies||Online classes and virtual interactions have been a regular aspect of student life over the past three months. With educational institutions trying their best to keep youngsters, teachers and even parents engaged in the academic calendar, the digital world has helped everyone see through these tough times without having to miss out on a lot. Taking things a step further, some colleges in Bengaluru are now planning to even conduct this year’s convocation ceremonies online. With students unlikely to go back to campus before September, can online ceremonies be a more feasible option? We spoke to final-year students and faculty members to take stock of the situation. And here’s what they have to say… RIGHT NOW, VIRTUAL CONVOCATION IS POSSIBLY THE ONLY WAY FORWARD Rakesh BK, Professor at St. Claret College, says that they would obviously prefer to handover the graduation certificates to students in person, but a virtual ceremony may help to lift their spirits for now. He says, “A convocation ceremony is an integral part of a student’s life, and we wouldn’t like to compromise with that. But given the current scenario, we decided to have a dialogue with our graduating batch, before reaching a conclusion. While some had their reservations regarding an online ceremony, the others agreed that this is possibly the only way forward now. So, we decided to take things ahead.” The college’s faculty members are closely working on proceedings of the event. After the final exams, we’ll decide on how to take this forward in the best manner,” Prof Rakesh adds. REHEARSALS ARE ON TO ENSURE A SEAMLESS CEREMONYAccording to Srijita Sen, who is graduating from the Indian Institute of Journalism and New Media this year, her college authorities are looking at making the online ceremony as real-time as possible. “From inviting parents to be part of the event to maintaining decorum, our faculty members and administration are making sure nothing seems less than the actual ceremony on campus. Virtual rehearsals are also being carried out so that everything goes seamlessly. They might organise an actual convocation ceremony on campus a few months later, when things go back to normal. But, for now, this appears to be a positive move,” she says. CULTURAL ACTIVITIES WILL BE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE DAYThese virtual events are not going to be only about the giving-away of certificates. Plans are afoot for a few performances and cultural shows as well, in a bid to make the day a memorable one for graduating students. Soham Dey, who is studying psychology at the Indian Institute of Science, is all set to put up an act for his seniors. “It’s going to be an immersive experience. The goal is to make the final-year feel that it is a real event, and everyone is putting in as much effort as they would have on college premises,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/class-of-2020-gear-up-for-virtual-graduation-ceremonies/articleshow/76375594.cms||Hansy Sanctis
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||13 new Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai's Dharavi||MUMBAI: Thirteen new Covid-19 cases were reported in the Dharavi area of Mumbai on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 2,043 in the locality, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).  According to the data, the total number of cases includes 77 deaths.  "Thirteen more Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai's Dharavi area. The total number of cases in the area is now at 2,043, including 77 deaths," BMC said.  According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India witnessed its highest-ever spike of 11,929 new cases in the last 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 3,20,922.  With 311 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the coronavirus death toll has now reached 9,195 in the country. (ANI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mumbais-dharavi/articleshow/76375980.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Another health worker tests positive for Covid 19 in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : An ASHA worker tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Thiruvanahtapuram on Sunday. She is the third staffer from the health department to have contracted the virus. The 51-year-old woman, who is attached with a primary health centre Amachal and is a resident of Ettiruthy has been an active field worker in surveillance of homes where people have been kept under isolation in the district. She said that she had no clue about the source of infection. She was active with field work and her swab was collected on June 11. She is also the first health worker to be tested positive as part of sentinel surveillance being done for health care workers in the district. An ambulance driver employed at Navaikulam primary health centre was tested positive for the infection on May 25. A nursing assistant at Medical college was tested positive on June 9. The epidemiolgical investigation team has been unable to detect source of infection in previous two cases. It is being cited that the ambulance driver may have contracted infection while transporting expatriates. However, this also raises another concern regarding breach of prevention protocol. In the case of nursing assistant, a series of violations were reported in testing and admission protocol as she was sent back home after collecting her swab at a medical college. Her father and her husband are now being treated for Covid 19. The ambulance driver had reported mild symptoms while the nursing assistant had shown clear symptoms before she was tested and confirmed with Covid 19. The ASHA worker said that she had taken special precaution even during her field work. ``I took care of my grand kids at home hence I was always cautious. I have no idea as to how I got infected,'' she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/another-health-worker-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-thiruvananthapuram/articleshow/76376089.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 24 more Covid-19 cases: Official||LUDHIANA: Additional deputy commissioner (Development) Amarjit Singh Bains said on Sunday that 10 more patients had been declared cured of Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours. He said that till now, the total number of patients discharged from hospital has reached 205. Besides, 24 more positive cases were reported in the district, out of which 23 are from Ludhiana and 1 from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-24-more-covid-19-cases-official/articleshow/76376161.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||First virtual 2-day 'Model United Nations' conference concludes||CHANDIGARH: The 11th edition of the Model United Nations conference, organised by the Bhavan Vidyalaya Chandigarh, concluded on Sunday. The two-day BVCMUN'20 saw participation from 290 students from over 80 schools across the globe through video conferencing. Some of the issues discussed include global economic slowdown in the present geopolitical paradigm. Vineeta Arora, senior principal of Bhavan Vidyalaya Chandigarh, said such platforms offer young minds an opportunity to hone and exhibit their skills in the debating arena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-virtual-2-day-model-united-nations-conference-concludes/articleshow/76376165.cms||Ajay Sura
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mithakali underpass closed for traffic||AHMEDABAD: The Mithakali underpass was closed for traffic after a wall collapse incident. The underpass was opened for commuters in November last year. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that following heavy rains on June 8, the old boundary wall of the underpass toward the side coming from Mithakali to Ashram road collapsed. For the safety of the passersby and motorists, the AMC has decided to close the underpass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-mithakali-underpass-closed-for-traffic/articleshow/76376257.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 15, 2020||India||India to send tri-service contingent for Russian military parade||NEW DELHI: For the first time, an Indian military contingent comprising members of all 3 services will march through Moscow's Red Square on June 24. In 2015, the only time Indian forces joined the military parade, the participation was restricted to the Indian army. The Russian parade is held every year on Victory Day (May 9), which marks the surrender of Nazi Germany in 1945, but has been delayed this year because of the novel coronavirus. PM Narendra Modi had been invited as a special guest for May 9 event this year. With Modi unlikely to attend the delayed event in these times, the government is hoping to make up for his absence by sending a tri-service contingent to take part in the parade which showcases Russia's military might. A tri-service contingent comprising about 75-80 will depart for Moscow on June 19. President Vladimir Putin had invited Modi for the Victory Day celebrations during their meeting in Vladivostok last year. Russia, in fact, has invited several others heads of state and government for the parade as the event this year marks the 75th anniversary of the "Victory over Nazism". Diplomatic sources said while details were still being worked out, the parade, depending upon the time available, was likely to include a mention of the contribution made by Indian soldiers in the Great Patriotic War. Despite Russia's deep military and political ties with China, and its own relations with the US, India continues to look at Moscow as a key partner. There has been enough political signaling too to that effect recently, apart from the commitment to constantly upgrade defence cooperation with Russia, including to jointly develop military equipment. Earlier this month, the day PM Narendra Modi spoke to US President Donald Trump about the Sino-Indian border standoff, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla also held a meeting with Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev and briefed him on the issue as first reported by ToI on June 4. In February this year, while the Trump visit was still on, India allowed 2 Crimean leaders, both proscribed by the US, to visit India. Defence though remains the most significant aspect of India's relations with Russia with both sides looking to encourage joint manufacturing of equipment under India's Make-in-India programme and through transfer of technology. The 2 countries had said in a joint statement after the Vladivostok summit last year that they "recognized" the requirement of an institutional arrangement for reciprocal provision of logistic support and services for the armed forces and tha they had agreed to prepare a framework for cooperation on it. The 2 countries continue to encourage military to military cooperation through military political dialogue and joint military exercises. They last year carried out second joint tri-service exercise INDRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-send-tri-service-contingent-for-russian-military-parade/articleshow/76376310.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 15, 2020||India||Union Health Ministry relaxes guidelines on handing over bodies of suspected Covid cases to families||NEW DELHI: The Union Health Ministry on Sunday relaxed the guidelines on handing over the bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases to relatives for cremation to ensure that they do not have to wait for laboratory confirmation of the infection. The ministry on Sunday wrote to the Delhi government, saying the bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases should be handed over to their relatives without waiting for laboratory confirmation but the mortal remains should be treated as per the government guidelines. The letter, signed by Directorate General of Health Services Dr Rajiv Garg and addressed to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, was posted on the Twitter handle of the health ministry's website after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held two high-level meetings on management of the worrying Covid-19 situation in Delhi on Sunday. "In a letter issued by #DGHS to #Delhi Govt, guidelines on handing over of #dead bodies of suspect #Covid19 cases to relatives for #cremation have been relaxed to ensure that families do not need to wait until the result of lab report," Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted. The first meeting was attended by Delhi's Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Vardhan and top officials of the Union Home and Health Ministries, while the second was with mayors and commissioners of Delhi's three municipal corporations. Baijal, Kejriwal and Vardhan also attended Shah's meeting with mayors and municipal commissioners. "Please refer to the issue raised regarding deaths of suspect Covid-19 patients and bodies not being handed over to the relatives pending confirmation of test report by hospitals. "I would like to clarify that the dead bodies of such suspected Covid-19 cases should be handed over to their relatives immediately and laboratory confirmation of Covid should not be awaited," Garg said in the letter. These bodies can as a matter of abundant precaution be disposed as per the guidelines on dead body management issued by the health ministry. If such cases test positive eventually then the requisite action for contact, tracking should be carried out subsequently, the letter stated. Vardhan also posted an official order according to which three teams have been constituted by the Centre to inspect Delhi hospitals to guide them on clinical management of Covid-19 cases. "Pursuant to consultations between the central government and the Delhi government it is felt that a rapid assessment should be made of the existing capacity, patient care amenities, and associated aspects of Covid- Care facilities in the Delhi government in order to inform efficient and timely decision making," the order stated. Teams of domain knowledge experts comprising doctors from AIIMS, Delhi, DGHS, Union Health Ministry and the Delhi government assisted by officers from the municipal councils have been constituted. The teams will inspect the major dedicated Covid facilities under the Delhi government and suggest specific measures for betterment of facilities and patient care services. The doctors from All India Institute Of Medical Sciences and Directorate General of Health Services are empowered to co-opt other doctors from their institutes or organisation to assist them in their endeavour, the order said. The number of Covid-19 cases has rapidly approached the 39,000-mark in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/union-health-ministry-relaxes-guidelines-on-handing-over-bodies-of-suspected-covid-cases-to-families/articleshow/76376467.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||What I liked about Sushant was his down-to-earth nature: Keshab Ranjan Banerjee, MS Dhoni’s coach||Not many people know that Keshab Ranjan Banerjee, Mahendra Sign Dhoni’s first cricket coach in school, happened to share a cricket pitch with Sushant Singh Rajput in 2015. The actor was there to shoot for MS Dhoni biopic. Keshab, a humble sports teacher of DAV Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Ranchi, shared his experience of meeting Sushant… “On Sunday, while I was doing some household chores, a friend from Kolkata called me to share the news that Sushant was no more. I thought it was fake news, like the ones that do the rounds on social media. So, I switched on the television. I was shocked beyond imagination and stood in front of the TV, speechless. What a waste! I remember the day Sushant went to our school before shooting. I expected him to ask me about MS Dhoni, but to my surprise he already knew everything. The first thing he told me, after exchanging greetings, was that I was a celebrity as I had given a jewel to the country and I told him that I didn’t do anything because Dhoni had all the talent he needed to become an accomplished cricketer. He smiled and agreed to disagree. What I liked about him was his down-to-earth nature. He was very soft spoken and a thorough gentleman. Though I have not met many actors in life, Sushant was not at all like a typical film star. During his stay in Ranchi, he would regularly visit our school to practice different cricket shots on the grounds. I used to watch him play and couldn’t help but feel impressed about the way he batted. After all, he was not a cricketer and I had no idea that an actor could bat like that. He was in Ranchi for over two weeks and we met five or six times. He came to Ranchi again after the release of the film and we had a conversation. I found him to be a soft spoken gentleman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/what-i-liked-about-sushant-was-his-down-to-earth-nature-keshab-ranjan-banerjee-ms-dhonis-coach/articleshow/76376899.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
June 15, 2020||India||Covid-19: 5 states manage to keep positivity rate below 3%||NEW DELHI: Five states — MP, Rajasthan, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab — and the Union territory of Chandigarh have managed to slow the incidence of Covid-19 cases with the positivity rate (confirmed cases per 100 tests) over the last three 14-day periods showing a downward trend. All the states have kept the positivity rate in the green zone, below 3%, while Chandigarh has remained at 5% through the three fortnights. States that maintain a positivity rate below 5% over a period of two weeks are considered to be ready for easing of lockdown measures. In the last fortnight, MP’s positivity rate came down from 5% to 3% while Rajasthan’s remained constant at around 2%. In the last three fortnights, Kerala’s positivity rate came down to 1.69% (during May 31-June 13 period) from 2% during May 19-June 1. The positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh has remained at 1% during the last two fortnights and below 1% in Punjab, a major achievement for the two states in containing the spread of the pandemic. Only Chandigarh has been constantly hovering around 5% in all three periods studied. For India, the positivity rate has gone up from 5% (during May 7-21) to 6.4% (May 19-Jun 1) to 7.4% (May 31-Jun 13), the three two-week periods analysed by TOI. Watch Covid-19: Five states manage to keep positivity rate below 3%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-5-states-manage-to-keep-positivity-rate-below-3/articleshow/76377087.cms||Pradeep Thakur
June 15, 2020||World||Jaishankar to meet China FM in virtual RIC meet on June 22||NEW DELHI: Even as India wrestles with Chinese intrusions along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, foreign minister S Jaishankar is scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a virtual Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral on June 22. The meeting would have been unremarkable but for the fact that Indian and Chinese troops are facing off at four points on the LAC in Ladakh and one point in north Sikkim, only now beginning the process of disengagement after sustained diplomatic and military talks between the two sides. While the military talks are happening on the ground, the diplomatic heavy-lifting is being done in New Delhi and Beijing. After the first round of fisticuffs between Indian and Chinese troops on Pangong Tso on May 5-6, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla called in the Chinese ambassador, Sun Weidong, for a rare tough message. On May 8, national security adviser Ajit Doval is believed to have spoken to Chinese politburo member Yang Jieche on the Chinese intrusion at Pangong. However, the very next day saw scuffles between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Naku la in northern Sikkim. Since then, officials on both sides have been in touch, say sources, both in New Delhi and Beijing, leading finally to a high-level military commanders’ meeting at Chushul-Moldo on June 6. According to high-level sources, India wants a return to the status quo before May 5. India is also pushing for established patrolling protocols at Pangong, which is the scene of repeated violations given the LAC runs through the lake. According to reports, the two sides have been disengaging slowly on the ground in Galwan valley. But the Indian concern is centred around Pangong, where the Chinese have built structures that prevent Indian patrolling activities eastwards of Finger 4 towards Finger 8. There has been no discernible movement in that area. It is not yet clear whether foreign minister S Jaishankar would attend the RIC meeting if the Chinese withdrawal in Pangong has not started by then. In 2017, the Indian side had informed China that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would not attend the Brics summit in Xiamen if Chinese troops did not step back to their side of the boundary. It was one of the factors that compelled China to disengage from the face-off site in Bhutanese territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/jaishankar-to-meet-china-fm-in-virtual-ric-meet-on-june-22/articleshow/76377112.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 15, 2020||India||Jaishankar to meet China FM in virtual RIC meet on June 22||NEW DELHI: Even as India wrestles with Chinese intrusions along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, foreign minister S Jaishankar is scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a virtual Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral on June 22. The meeting would have been unremarkable but for the fact that Indian and Chinese troops are facing off at four points on the LAC in Ladakh and one point in north Sikkim, only now beginning the process of disengagement after sustained diplomatic and military talks between the two sides. While the military talks are happening on the ground, the diplomatic heavy-lifting is being done in New Delhi and Beijing. After the first round of fisticuffs between Indian and Chinese troops on Pangong Tso on May 5-6, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla called in the Chinese ambassador, Sun Weidong, for a rare tough message. On May 8, national security adviser Ajit Doval is believed to have spoken to Chinese politburo member Yang Jieche on the Chinese intrusion at Pangong. However, the very next day saw scuffles between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Naku la in northern Sikkim. Since then, officials on both sides have been in touch, say sources, both in New Delhi and Beijing, leading finally to a high-level military commanders’ meeting at Chushul-Moldo on June 6. According to high-level sources, India wants a return to the status quo before May 5. India is also pushing for established patrolling protocols at Pangong, which is the scene of repeated violations given the LAC runs through the lake. According to reports, the two sides have been disengaging slowly on the ground in Galwan valley. But the Indian concern is centred around Pangong, where the Chinese have built structures that prevent Indian patrolling activities eastwards of Finger 4 towards Finger 8. There has been no discernible movement in that area. It is not yet clear whether foreign minister S Jaishankar would attend the RIC meeting if the Chinese withdrawal in Pangong has not started by then. In 2017, the Indian side had informed China that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would not attend the Brics summit in Xiamen if Chinese troops did not step back to their side of the boundary. It was one of the factors that compelled China to disengage from the face-off site in Bhutanese territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-to-meet-china-fm-in-virtual-ric-meet-on-june-22/articleshow/76377098.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 15, 2020||India||India no longer weak, won’t compromise on national pride: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: Amid the border stand-off with China, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the government would never compromise on "national pride” and asserted that India was no longer a "weak" country as its security capability had increased manifold. “I can say with full conviction that we shall not compromise on the issue of national pride… let me assure that India is a strong country on the front of national security. India is no longer a weak country. However, the strength India has gained is not to intimidate others but for its own protection,” Singh said while addressing a virtual rally for BJP workers from J&K as part of the party’s ‘Jan Samvad’ campaign. Singh said there was a stand-off between India and China in the Ladakh region and certain people, including opposition parties, were asking about the border situation. “We keep sharing information on such issues as we understand the importance of the opposition in a democracy and we respect them,” Singh said. “Talks at military level are going on between India and China and even China agrees that the dispute should be resolved through discussion. Our effort is that the current tussle between the two countries is resolved,” he added. Singh reiterated that the government had nothing to hide and issues related to the border stand-off would be made public at the right time. “I want to assure my friends from the opposition that we don’t intend to keep you or Parliament in the dark. All issues will be revealed at the right time,” he said. Countering allegations that the country's secularism was compromised after nullification of Article 370, Singh said contrary to what the opposition said, secularism was implemented in J&K for the first time. “When secularism was inserted in the preamble of India’s Constitution in 1976, it was not inserted in the constitution of J&K. Despite having a majority, Congress was supporting the Sheikh Abdullah government,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-no-longer-weak-wont-compromise-on-national-pride-rajnath-singh/articleshow/76377119.cms||Akhilesh Singh
June 15, 2020||India||India gets its first climate change assessment report||NEW DELHI: The average temperature in India is projected to rise by 4.4ºC, frequency of heat waves to be 3-4 times higher, intensity of tropical cyclones to increase substantially and sea level to rise by 30cm by the end of this century as compared to the recent 2-3 decades, shows the first ever climate change assessment report by government scientific institutions. The report "Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region" shows temperatures of the warmest day and the coldest night of the year have risen by about 0.63°C and 0.4°C in the recent 30-year period (1986-2015) and these temperatures are projected to rise approximately by 4.7°C and 5.5°C, respectively, by the end of the century in business as usual (BAU) conditions. BAU conditions refer to a scenario where either no action is taken or very little is done to reduce emission of greenhouse gases that have resulted in global warming and consequent climate change. Though the report, to be released by earth sciences minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday, doesn’t carry state or city-specific projections, its analysis refers to various studies that spell out how cities like Mumbai and Kolkata faced floods in the recent past due to "climate shifts, urbanisation, sea-level rise and other regional factors". Projections in the report are more regional — Indo-Gangetic plains, Western Ghats, coastal areas along North Indian Ocean and east and west Himalayas — with an analysis of past extreme weather events and triggering factors. Noting that India has witnessed an "increase in the frequency of droughts and floods during the past few decades", the report says the humid regions of central India have, notably, become drought-prone regions. Referring to past assessment, it also says flood risk has "increased over the east coast, West Bengal, eastern UP, Gujarat and Konkan region, as well as in a majority of urban areas such as Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai". The scientific report from the ministry of earth science is edited by scientists at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. Findings of the report deal exclusively with India and the sub-continent unlike the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which is global in nature. The India report documents regional climate change projections based on the IITM Earth System Model and Coordinated Regional Climate Downscaling Experiment datasets. "The need for a comprehensive assessment report on climate change was felt for a long time. This is the first ever climate change assessment report for India… This report will be very useful for policymakers, researchers, social scientists, economists, and students," said M Rajeevan, secretary, MoES, in his foreword. He said, "For policy makers, it is important to have a clear comprehensive view on the possible future climate change projections." Underlining various climatic changes in India since the middle of the 20th century, the report says, "There is compelling scientific evidence that human activities have influenced these changes in regional climate. Human-induced climate change is expected to continue apace during the 21st century."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-gets-its-first-climate-change-assessment-report/articleshow/76377134.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||HC raps Punjab cops for racial slur against blacks in case papers||CHANDIGARH: Appalled to find a racist slur against people of African origin in probe papers submitted by Punjab Police in a narcotics case, the Punjab & Haryana high court has directed the state DGP to ensure that no official document henceforth contains any offensive reference to a black person that will "shame" India's tradition of treating foreigners with dignity. "This is a highly offensive word across the globe and no one has any business to use it, and much less the police. This brings shame to India and hatred for the country. The police appear to have assumed that every black is a drug peddler and should be treated as such. This is terrible thinking," Justice Rajiv Narain Raina said. Directing the DGP to officially instruct the police force to refer to a person as a native of a particular country rather than by the colour of the skin, Justice Raina said racial abuse had no place in any investigation. "We are, professedly, a tolerant sub-continent of ‘browns’ in all its shades, but more often than not, display a perverted and primitive mindset looking down on others without looking within ourselves. For many centuries we have been slaves. Freedom does not lend its wings to our countrymen to fly anywhere they wish and in any manner they like and abuse foreigners on the street, calling them ‘kalla'. To the contrary, freedom teaches love for human dignity and respect for fellowmen," the judge said. Probe officer used N-word in case papersLast week, Bengal's education department suspended the headmistress and teacher-in-charge of a government-aided municipal school in Burdwan district for using an unauthorised pre-primary textbook that illustrates the word "ugly" with the image of a black person. Meant to introduce pre-primary children to the English alphabet, the textbook "Child Study" mentions two words starting with "U" – umbrella and ugly. In the Punjab Police case, Justice Raina harked back to Mahatma Gandhi's political moorings in South Africa that pioneered the apartheid movement. "Let us follow that inspiring precept and pay due respect to each other and other people," he said. The high court's observations came while hearing a bail plea filed by one Amarjit Singh, arrested by Jalandhar police in a narcotics case. In the challan, the investigating officer used the 'N' word to refer to Singh's African co-accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-raps-punjab-cops-for-racial-slur-against-blacks-in-case-papers/articleshow/76377186.cms||Ajay Sura
June 15, 2020||India||7 booked in 1st case under UP's amended cow protection law||LUCKNOW: Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh became the first in the state to register a case under the recently amended act for prevention of cow slaughter after police nabbed seven persons and recovered four quintal of beef from their possession on Saturday.  SP, Barabanki, Arvind Charurvedi said that an intensive night surveillance has been started to nab habitual offenders of cow slaughter in the district. He said that the NSA will be invoked against all the seven arrested persons. The SP further said that following the state government's directives "a database of habitual offenders (accused in cow slaughter cases) has been prepared and, so far, 50 persons have been included in it". He said that the police has also set up teams for surveillance of 'dark spots' where incidents of cow slaughter are common.  Explaining the modus operandi, the officer said that during the daytime miscreants spotted the cows which are not part of any herd. Then they took the cattle to a semi-forest area and in the night services of butchers were taken to do the job. Later, a convoy of about three vehicles was engaged in transporting the meat. While the meat was loaded in a vehicle other vehicles provided backup to the main vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-booked-in-1st-case-under-ups-amended-cow-protection-law/articleshow/76377213.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 15, 2020||India||Jamiat moves SC, opposes petition to scrap law on shrines||NEW DELHI: A Hindu organisation's PIL seeking scrapping of a 1991 law prohibiting alteration of the character of religious places, ostensibly to revive litigation on disputed religious sites in Varanasi and Mathura, saw Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind move the Supreme Court saying this was a blatant attempt to correct historical wrongs.  The Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, barred courts from entertaining any litigation regarding change of character or ownership of religious places, with the sole exception of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute in Ayodhya. The law mandates maintenance of status quo as existing on August 15, 1947. A PIL by an organisation of priests through advocate Vishnu S Jain had argued that many temples and places of worship of Hindus were converted into mosques and, hence, Hindus should have a right to prove historical ownership over these, which was barred by the 1991 law .  The Jamiat, through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, said the 1991 law was "intrinsically related to the obligation of a secular state". "It reflects the commitment of India to equality of all religions and equal protection to all religious places. Historical wrongs cannot be remedied by people by taking law in their hands," it said.  "If the Supreme Court entertains the PIL, it will open the floodgates of litigation against countless mosques in the country and the religious divide, from which the country is recovering in the aftermath of the Ayodhya dispute, will only be widened," the organisation added. Watch Kashi- Mathura row: Jamiat moves SC, opposes petition to scrap law on shrines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jamiat-moves-sc-opposes-petition-to-scrap-law-on-shrines/articleshow/76377217.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 15, 2020||India||Corbett opens, Delhi man's booking nixed||Dehradun: Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) opened after almost three months on Sunday. Five people made online bookings for safari at the reserve - four of whom were from Uttarakhand while one was from Delhi -- but the Corbett administration turned down the booking of the Delhi resident. Park officials said they had called him and told him about the threat that his visit would pose to all, including wild animals, as he would be coming from a high-load Covid zone. After its opening, the reserve's Bijrani zone welcomed Uttarakhand Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and his two family members as the first guests. The reserve is open only for day visits and adhering to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines, night stay has not been permitted. Also, tourists are not allowed to get off safari vehicles. Corbett director Rahul said, "We have been provided a list of 31 high-load Covid cities by the state government and, therefore, we had no other option but to reject a booking as Delhi is on the list." He added that a booking for three people (two men and one woman) was done by him for next Saturday (June 20). "We have asked him to rebook the tickets keeping in mind the quarantine period," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corbett-opens-delhi-mans-booking-nixed/articleshow/76377233.cms||Shivani Azad
June 15, 2020||India||AG, SG give Rs 30L for lawyers to tide over lockdown loss||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI published a story about lukewarm response from rich lawyers to the cause of hard-pressed advocates during the lockdown, responses poured in about individual charitable work being carried out by some advocates.  Lawyer Harish Salve and senior advocate Sidharth Luthra had set up a trust six years ago with contributions of Rs 1 crore and 25 lakh, respectively, to arrange for insurance benefit scheme for advocates-on-record, lawyers who alone are entitled to file cases in the Supreme Court, from the interest generated from the fund.  When the lockdown began and courts were closed, this trust sought donations from affluent advocates. Attorney general K K Venugopal pitched in with 15 lakh and solicitor general Tushar Mehta committed Rs 13.5 lakh. Former SC Bar Association president Vikas Singh sent Rs 10 lakh in addition to a similar amount he had donated to the SCBA Covid distress fund. Ex-AG Mukul Rohatgi, former SG Ranjit Kumar and senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi contributed Rs 5 lakh each. Luthra and his sister Geeta contributed 3.25 lakh. Renowned lawyer Fali S Nariman gave Rs 2 lakh and similar amounts came from K V Vishwanathan, Vijay Hansaria and Shivaji Jadhav.  The fund created by the trust through donations mopped up Rs 60 lakh and has given Rs 10,000 ex-gratia to 136 lawyers. It gave Rs 5,000 to 20 clerks. Stories emerged about the Luthras donating food packets ato over a thousand migrant workers. Advocate Zoheb Hossain offered a monthly retainership of Rs 25,000 for two months to four advocates in return for carrying out research work assigned to them.  But the fact remains that most successful lawyers have not responded to the call for contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ag-sg-give-30l-for-lawyers-to-tide-over-lockdown-loss/articleshow/76377238.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Another day of over 2,000 cases takes tally past 41,000||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded over 2,000 Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day with 2,224 persons testing positive on Sunday — the highest single day tally so far. The total Covid-19 cases in Delhi have reached 41,182. Only Maharashtra (1,07,958) and Tamil Nadu (44,661) have more cases than Delhi. The death toll in the capital, meanwhile, reached 1,327, including 56 confirmed on Sunday. In terms of fatalities, Delhi again ranks third with Maharashtra (3,950) taking the first spot followed by Gujarat (1,478). At least 5,137 people who suffer from the viral infection are admitted in different hospitals. Of this, 695 require ICU support and 182, who are seriously ill, are on ventilator support, said an official in the state health department. Those with mild to moderate symptoms are kept at the Covid health and Covid care centres, which have basic medical facilities and isolation beds. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news With a surge in Covid-positive cases and requirement of 15,000 beds projected by June-end, Delhi government on Saturday asked to turn all the small nursing homes with bed strength ranging between 10 and 49 as Covid facility. The order, however, had to be withdrawn within 24 hours due to protests by nursing homes that claimed to not have infrastructure to manage the infection. “The government will have to focus on turning more big hospitals in various districts into Covid facilities so that people in need of urgent care can be shifted immediately,” said a senior doctor, adding that many Covid patients are asymptomatic and advised home isolation. However, the doctor said, in rare cases, it has been observed that the patient could develop sudden complications such as breathing difficulty. “It is important to have hospitals where oxygen support can be provided immediately to prevent further deterioration and to save more lives,” he said. Meanwhile, in Gurgaon, six people succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s toll to 31, the highest in the state. A total of 88 people have died because of the virus in the state so far. The six people who passed away on Sunday in Gurgaon — five men and one woman — were in the age group of 35 to 70 years. They had been admitted to various hospitals in the city, the health department said. Covid cases in the district also rose to 3,294 on Sunday, with 169 more people testing positive. The health department said that the district was reporting at least 200 new cases every day. At present, Gurgaon has 1,998 active cases of whom 1,509 are under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-day-of-over-2k-cases-takes-tally-past-41k/articleshow/76375943.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Ministry responds to artisans’ distress||Kolkata: The ministry of culture under the central government has advised all its zonal offices to extend aid to the artists and artisans facing financial constraints due to the three-month long lockdown. Several folk artists and artisans associated with pottery, weaving and handicrafts were left without work and subsequently loss of income after the nationwide lockdown was enforced in late March. Since most of these artists and artisans are not registered with the department of culture, they did not reap benefits from any government scheme. Sundeep Bhutoria, who is associated with several NGOs and works closely with these artists and artisans at the ground level, started Lockdown Live, an online series by such artists struggling to make ends meet in several states. Many artists have also been receiving honorarium from the foundation, which is helping them run their families even after the lockdown. “This is a very good decision by the department of culture. This will go a long way in helping these torchbearers of our culture and art,” said Bhutoria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ministry-responds-to-artisans-distress/articleshow/76376480.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||Lalu Yadav's family owns 143 plots of land, 30 flats: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday accused the ‘Lalu family’ of owning 143 plots of land, 30 flats and six buildings. Modi said the owners of these properties include Lalu’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi, his two sons – Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav – and two daughters – Misa Bharti and Hema Yadav. Modi said Tejashwi, at the young age of 29 years, has become owner of 52 properties. “Tejashwi did not have any ancestral property. He did not complete intermediate and also failed in cricket. He should explain as to what qualities he possessed by dint of which he became the owner of 52 properties,” Modi said. He said Rabri is the owner of 43 plots of land and 30 flats, while Tej Pratap owns 28 properties and Misa Bharti more than 23 properties. Modi said the Enforcement Directorate and Income-Tax department have seized 30 fake companies run by the Lalu family that includes 11 fake companies under Delite Marketing, 10 in the name A K Infosystems and one each in the name of AB Exports and Michel Packers. Besides, seven properties of Rabri and Hema Yadav have been seized under the Benami Act, he said. Modi said sand mafia Subhash Yadav and RJD’s Sandesh MLA Arun Yadav had purchased eight flats of Rabri at Patna worth Rs 4.28 crore on one single day. “When Lalu was railway minister, the family got ownership of 3 acres of land at Rupaspur at Patna in lieu of giving two railway hotels on lease. Later, Tejashwi started developing the land for making a mall worth Rs 750 crore,” Modi alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-family-owns-143-plots-of-land-30-flats/articleshow/76374350.cms||Abhay Singh
June 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rise in cases of domestic violence, sexual harassment after Unlock 1.0||PATNA: There has been steep rise in the number of domestic violence and sexual harassment cases since the Unlock 1.0, if the figures of women felicitation-cum-counselling centres dealing in such issues are to be believed. Women in the state had faced domestic violence after the lockdown imposed across the country in March. According to the Bihar State Women Commission (BSWC) figures, altogether 1,384 cases of domestic violence have been reported in state till June 12. Of which, 815 cases are from Patna, followed by 47 in Muzaffarpur, 45 in Bhojpur, 44 in Nalanda, 40 each in Buxar and Rohtas and 39 Samastipur districts. BSWC chairperson Dilmani Mishra told this newspaper on Saturday that most of the domestic violence cases and complaints received on toll-free number or by letters and mails were related to financial issues, extramarital affairs, dowry harassment and sexual conflicts. “The number of cases increased from April after the lockdown. When men and wives are spending more time together, there can be only two things -- their relationship becomes stronger or falls apart due to conflicts. Ironically, most of the cases were from the urban areas and the reason was financial,” she said. “In June, around 244 complaints were registered at BSWC. On an average, we received 12-15 cases per day,” she added. The commission has now decided to organise camps in each district from next month and the chairperson would talk to the victims face-to-face. “We have already chalked out plans to meet the victims of domestic violence personally by organising camps from July and counsel both the parties,” said BSWC officials. Dr Binda Singh, a clinical psychologist, said most of the domestic violence cases were due to ego clash, frustration of work, monetary issues and intolerance. Citing the recent cases, Dr Binda said a woman from a posh area in Patna contacted her for moral support. “The woman and her mother-in-law always had a tiff over some issue or the other. Due to family tension, her husband always fought with her. The woman complained that her husband did not give her moral support whereas the man said she disrespected his mother,” she said. She also talked about other cases like wife spending more time on social media (chatting with other men) when husband didn’t show much affection towards her. “On an average, I received 5-6 cases per day. I tried to sort out the issue by counselling them over the phone. The other problem is that women who faced violence could not take shelter elsewhere,” Dr Binda said. Rajni, who runs an NGO to help women from domestic violence, also shared similar thought. “We basically work at the grassroots level. The complaints that we received were mainly due to financial, sexual and mental harassment issues,” she said and added: “Due to lockdown, work pressure for working women had increased and this often led to conflict with their hubbies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rise-in-cases-of-domestic-violence-sexual-harassment-after-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76374748.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 15, 2020||Surat||Two more in Daman test Covid-19 positive||SURAT: Two more Covid-19 cases were reported in the union territory of Daman on Sunday. According to the UT’s health department officials, one patient, aged about 30 years, is working with a pharmaceutical company at Kachigam in Daman. The other case is a 40-year-old male working with a private company and living in Dabhel area of Daman. “At present, Daman has six active Covid-19 cases and three containment zones,” said an official. The containment zones include Ummar Noor Apartment in Khariwad in Nani Daman, Vijaybhai Bar and Restaurant Building in Dabhel and Dilip Empire in Dilip Nagar in Daman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-in-daman-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76375135.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||42 test positive in single day||Vadodara: Covid-19 cases continue to surge in the city with Sunday registering a new high of 40 cases in a single day and two from the previous evening. With 42 new patients, the total number of cases have gone up in the city to 1,566. The results were from 189 samples that were tested in 24 hours ending Sunday evening. Of the fresh cases, nine were reported from rural areas of Vadodara, while 33 alone were from within the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits including Diwalipura, Channi, Harni Road, Panigate, Subhanpura, Yakutpura, Fatepura, Warasiya, Raopura, Wadi, VIP Road, Navayard and Polo Ground areas. The new cases from the city included 11 each from east and north zones, seven from west and four from south zone. North and east zones remained the worst affected , with 623 in north and 476 cases in the east zone. The death toll in city and district stands ‘officially’ at 47 even as it is no secret now that the actual death toll is much higher. The fresh cases outside the VMC limits were from Padra, Dabhoi, Bajwa, Jarod and Manjusar areas of Vadodara district. With this, the number of positive cases in Vadodara rural has reached 115 of which two patients have succumbed to the virus. There are 510 active cases of which 36 are on ventilator or BIPAP machines while 63 are on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 411 patients is said to be stable. The number of patients discharged from the hospitals was low on Sunday with eight patients including four from private hospitals and four from home isolation were discharged. The total number of discharges has however reached 1,009. Currently, 724 individuals are under quarantine. Of these, eight are under quarantine at private facilities while 716 are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/42-test-positive-in-single-day/articleshow/76374629.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||Railways to set up 100 automatic vending machines, says DRM||PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) will install at least 100 automatic vending machines (AVMs) at different places under the division to cater to the needs of passengers at a time when the country is fighting against Covid-19 pandemic. These AVMs, which are likely to become functional soon, will dispense face masks, sanitizer, hand gloves, caps and about 45 other items, including juice and snacks. Talking to this newspaper here on Sunday, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said railways has already installed one such AVM at Patna Junction to dispense ‘apparels’ related to Covid-19. The process is going on to install two more AVMs at Patna Junction, two at Rajendra Nagar Terminal and one each at Danapur, Patliputra Junction, Patna Sahib, Ara and Buxar railway stations. Incidentally, the Patna Junction AVM is yielding about Rs30,000 earning per day, he said, adding the cost of a face mask and other personal use items has been fixed at reasonable prices. Giving details about manifold advantages of these AVMs, Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj said railways has also decided to dispense juice, cold drinks and ‘samosa’ through AVMs under ‘self service scheme’. Railways has identified 100 places in the division to install more AVMs in collaboration with reputed companies and agencies, he said, adding payment will be either through debit/credit cards or any other easy digital modes. According to Adhar, these AVMs are to be fitted with ultraviolet light and auto-sanitizing devices to keep the products safe and hygienic. Besides, the cold chain of 4 Degrees Celsius will be maintained in these AVMs 24x7 to maintain the standard food product guidelines. Railways has decided to award contract for five years period for installation of AVMs at 100 more places. Railways will charge Rs10,000 per AVM machine as monthly rent, he said, adding the firm or agency concerned will pay the electricity charges of these AVMs. These AVMs will have the provision to automatically lock sales of expiry food products. Date of manufacturing and expiry of each product will be seen on the AVM screen. Besides, railways will allow easy access to passengers to view food stock in each AVM online, he said, adding Danapur division has taken this initiative for the first time in the railways to provide such facility to passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-set-up-100-automatic-vending-machines-says-drm/articleshow/76374714.cms||Kumod Verma
June 15, 2020||Surat||Five days after discharge, Surat cop dies of Covid-19||SURAT: City police received a setback on Sunday when a 52-year-old assistant sub inspector of Mahidharpura police station succumbed to the virus which had relapsed five days after he was discharged from the hospital. Magan Bariya, who was put in isolation at New Civil Hospital (NCH) since May 30, suffered other co-morbidities including from diabetes and high blood pressure. Colleagues mourn the death of Bariya, a soft spoken and straight forward man, who started having complications after he was released from the hospital on June 9. “After he again started feeling unwell on June 11, his kin brought him to NCH for test on June 13 and by the time his results of testing positive arrived, Bariya had already passed away,” a colleague in Mahidharpura police station said. Bariya was posted on various bandobust duties at important spots on road in limits of the police station. A homeguard jawan posted with Bariya in Bhagal was found positive in last week of May. Having few symptoms Bariya got self tested and he too was found positive. Bariya was native of Panchmahal district. His family lives in Lalita Park of Katargam. "This is the first case for us as well where a patient was discharged recovery and again developed Covid-19 symptoms. It may be a case of late representation of Covid-19 symptoms. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension as well,'' Dr. Ashish Naik, Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Health), SMC, told TOI. At least three policeman in Ahmedabad have succumbed to Covid-19 infection while 35 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-days-after-discharge-cop-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76375149.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tension continues to prevail in districts bordering Nepal||PATNA: Tension along India-Nepal border in Sitamarhi district has refused to die down even after unconditional release of an Indian national, Ramlagan Rai alias Lagan Rai, who was detained by the Armed Police Force (APF) personnel of Nepal. Rai was detained by the APF following alleged clashes and subsequent police firing between Balbandi and Narayanpur border outposts in which one Indian civilian was killed and two others were seriously injured on Friday. The APF has withdrawn its personnel from Narayanpur border outpost in Nepal fearing attack from residents of nearby villages in Indian territory. “They have virtually abandoned the check post,” said an SSB jawan posted at a BOP in Sitamarhi. Locals said there have been more than six incidents of altercation between APF personnel and civilians in Sitamarhi, East Champaran, Madhubani and Kishanganj districts in the last two months. Friday’s incident was fallout of simmering tension on the border, they said. The Friday’s incident was, however, resolved after the SHO of Mahuawa police station Udai Singh intervened following a clash between the residents of Sanphulwa village in Nepal and Chandraman in India. Earlier on May 7, the APF deployed in Bara district of Nepal had opened fire to stop residents from Navgachhia village in Mahuawa. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said no FIR had been lodged with any police station in the district with regard to Friday’s incident. “The place of occurrence falls in Nepal. So the police of that country will probe the incident,” the SP said. He, however, added the district police would initiate investigation if any written complaint is made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tension-continues-to-prevail-in-districts-bordering-nepal/articleshow/76374323.cms||Ramashankar
June 15, 2020||Surat||50% Covid-19 cases in Surat linked to three zones: SMC||SURAT: As many as 50% of the total Covid-19 cases in the last few days are linked to three Civic zones in the city. According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, 68 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday."We have observed that 50% of the cases in the city are linked to three civic zones in the city _ Katargam, Limbayat and central zone. On Sunday, out of the total 68 fresh cases, Katargam recorded 25 cases. In Katargam, cases are coming from diamond workers, workers' family members. It is physically difficult to visit every diamond unit to enforce social distancing and other Covid-19 rules but unit owners are requested to follow these rules for the sake of public health,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. Three more people succumbed to the virus on Sunday taking the death toll to 194 in the city. "All the three people who died of Covid-19 on Sunday had comorbidity and were aged. We have come across such cases where people are not reporting to doctors when they develop initial symptoms fearing the SMC would hospitalise them but people don't need to worry about it. If you have just a cough, cold or fever, you will not be forced to be admitted to hospital. If you have breathing problems then only you will be hospitalized for your better treatment,'' Pani said. "People have a misconception that if they will tell about cough and fever, SMC would consider them as Covid-19 patients. We want to make it clear that we don't want them as Covid-19,'' he added. 'At present, 130 patients are on oxygen, seven patients on ventilator and 44 patients are on bipape. This indicates that people are not reporting to doctors when they develop symptoms and late admission make their conditions critical,'' Pani added. Meanwhile, 59 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of discharged patients to 1775 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/50-covid-19-cases-in-city-linked-to-three-zones-smc/articleshow/76375112.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||Monsoon makes quiet entry in Mumbai, IMD says five rainy days ahead||MUMBAI: The IMD announced the arrival of the monsoon in the city and the rest of the state on Sunday, three days past the expected date of June 11. While the city and its vicinity received showers on Saturday, Sunday was a relatively dry day. Weathermen said the next five days would be rainy. “As of June 14 [Sunday], the monsoon has covered all of Maharashtra without keeping us waiting for long,” Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD Mumbai, said. “Over the next five days, Konkan, Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha are expected to receive rainfall.” Bhute said there could be heavy to very heavy rainfall in some parts. The Santacruz observatory recorded 19.7mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Sunday, while the figure for Colaba was 11.2mm. For Monday, the IMD issued an orange-yellow alert for the city, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, which means heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places is very likely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/monsoon-makes-quiet-entry-in-city-imd-says-five-rainy-days-ahead/articleshow/76376817.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
June 15, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput leaves family, friends in Patna shocked||PATNA: A pall of gloom descended on Rajiv Nagar locality of Patna where KK Singh, the father of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, lives. The actor, who allegedly committed suicide in Mumbai, is survived by his father and four sisters. No sooner the news broke, the neighbours and Sushant’s father’s friends rushed to his home on road number 6 where policemen had to be deployed to manage the crowd. Bhavya, Sushant’s cousin (from his mother’s side) told this newspaper that they got the sad news through television channels. “We immediately rushed to see phuphaji (KK Singh). He is not in a condition to talk to anyone,” she said. “We last met Sushant bhaiya at Maldiha village in Purnea district. We can’t believe that he is not with us now,” she said. Sushant’s uncle RC Singh, who also lives at Rajiv Nagar road number 24, said he got the news of his bhagina’s (nephew) death on television. “My son called me around 2pm. I was so shocked. It is unbelievable for the family,” he said. “Sushant was a fighter. He could not commit suicide. Police must investigate into his death properly,” Singh said. The neighbours were seen consoling Sushant’s father, who was not in a condition to talk to anyone. Birendra Kumar Singh, who lives next door, said Sushant came to Patna on May 11 last year and offered prayer at the nearby temple. “He also promised the residents to get a boundary wall constructed near the temple on his next visit to the city,” he said. Sushant, who completed his matriculation from Patna’s St Karen’s High School (SKHS), was a bright and happy-go-lucky student. School principal Seema Singh said all the teachers, who knew him personally, were quite shocked. Suniti Bahadur, a Hindi teacher at SKHS and Sushant’s class teacher in 2000, told this newspaper that he was a loving child and always put a smile on his face. “He was a bright student and friendly with all his teachers. I was his class teacher when he was in class IX. I also taught his sisters as well. One of them, Shweta lives in America,” she said. “The news about his suicide is unbelievable.” Atul Mishra, a classmate of Sushant in SKHS, expressed his grief on Twitter and shared a picture of his school days. He wrote from Noida: “Sushant was my classmate. Though we were not in touch after Kai Po Che, he remained a dear friend. It’s shocking for me and for all St Karen’s Patna alumni. Will miss you my friend (sic).” Sushant had finished 7th in AIEEE and secured admission in Delhi College of Engineering in 2003. He had also won Physics Olympiad. His last social media post on June 3 was a tribute to his late mother, who died in 2002. Sushant wrote, “Blurred past evaporating from teardrops/Unending dreams carving an arc of smile/And a fleeting life,/negotiating between the two … Ma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushant-leaves-family-friends-in-city-shocked/articleshow/76374760.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 15, 2020||Patna||Lockdown proves a boon for water bodies in Bihar||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 might have caused untold sufferings to millions of people within and outside the state, yet it did cast a magical impact on the state’s water bodies. There have been remarkable qualitative and quantitative changes in both surface water bodies and groundwater reservoirs during 68 days of the lockdown, claim experts. The water quality in rivers passing through the state, such as the Ganga, the Gandak, the Sone and the Kosi improved considerably during the period. Besides, the quality of water in various lakes and ponds of the state, especially in north Bihar region, also improved considerably. Though routine groundwater level measurements of different observatory wells for the pre-monsoon period have not yet been completed by the state’s minor irrigation department or the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) owing to restrictions in the movement of field staff during the lockdown, the water level must have gone high this summer as compared to last year, assert CGWB scientists. Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has already studied the impact of lockdown on the quality of Ganga river water near Patna and found that almost all the parameters indicating high level of pollution of the river have subsided during the lockdown period. After making a comparative analysis of the data collected before and during the lockdown period, it has been found that the amount of dissolved oxygen has increased considerably, while those of COD, BOD, total suspended solid (TSS), total dissolved solid (TDS), total coliform (TC) and faecal coliform (FC) have reduced drastically during the lockdown, said BSPCB chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh. “Since all major polluting industries situated in cities located on the banks of the Ganga were closed, the toxic load remained off the river. Besides, the amount of municipal and domestic wastes was also checked during the lockdown,” Ghosh added. With the improvement in quality of water, the aquatic life also heaved a sigh of relief. Dolphins, which are good indicators of water quality, have started resurfacing in the river as visible from different ghats of Patna, said Zoological Survey of India joint director Gopal Sharma. Environmentalist and Ganga Prahari Deepak Kumar said more and more dolphins are now visible at the Vikramshila Dolphin Sanctuary near Bhagalpur these days as the water has become cleaner and the flow of the river also remains undisturbed owing to the reduction of anthropogenic activities during the lockdown. The number of smaller fish, frogs and turtles has also increased considerably during the period, he said. Central University of South Bihar’s environmental science faculty Pradhan Parth Sarthi said during the lockdown period, there was drastic reduction in PM10 and PM2.5 pollutants in the lower atmosphere at various places, including Patna. Such reduction (50-60%) has improved the quality of surface water resources. With the reduction in emission of greenhouse gases, there will be a change in the pattern of rainfall, enhancing our surface and groundwater resources, he said. Moreover, behavioural changes in human beings during the lockdown also led to enrichment of water resources. “Less pumping of hand pumps and tube wells for domestic, irrigational and industrial purposes exerted less pressure on the aquifers and hence the groundwater level remained almost static even during the summer. Requirements of bathing and washing clothes were also reduced during the lockdown, saving our precious groundwater resource,” said CGWB regional director A K Agrawal. Satellite data indicate that there are nearly 28,000 water bodies having an area above 0.5 hectare in the state. But, only 14% of them are perennial and the remaining smaller water bodies are seasonal. The lockdown has had a positive impact on all these water bodies and they are likely to contribute to the sustainable water resource development in near future, said Geological Survey of India retired director N Dayal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-proves-a-boon-for-water-bodies-in-state/articleshow/76374308.cms||B K Mishra
June 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rs 23.34 crore realised as fine from lockdown violators||PATNA: Police have so far realised Rs 23.35 crore as fine under Motor Vehicles Act from those violating lockdown norms since the last week of March. Altogether 2,471 people were arrested, 2,275 FIRs lodged and 96,677 vehicles seized till Sunday for violation of lockdown norms. According to state police headquarters, Rs 3.11 crore was realised as fine from lockdown violators since June 1, when ‘Unlock 1.0’ was introduced by the government. Altogether 39 people were arrested, 19 FIRs lodged and 12,028 vehicles seized during this period. During the complete lockdown phase which existed till May 31, police had collected Rs 20.23 crore as fine, arrested 2,432 people, lodged 2,256 FIRs and seized 84,649 vehicles across the state. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the fines were imposed under Motor Vehicles Act. “Arrests were made under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, National Disaster Management Act and Bihar Epidemic Disease Act,” he said. The SSP said the government is also considering introduction of penal provision for not wearing mask in public places. “Once such penal provision is introduced by the state government, action will be taken against people not wearing mask in public places,” he added. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said fines were imposed under MV Act during the lockdown period just to discourage people from coming out of their homes unnecessarily. “The fine amounts have been deposited in a government bank account,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-23-34cr-realised-as-fine-from-lockdown-violators/articleshow/76374729.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 15, 2020||Surat||MHA sanction CISF security at Surat airport||SURAT: The long pending demand for the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deployment at the Surat international airport has been sanctioned by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). In its letter to the Surat airport authorities on June 10, the MHA has sanctioned the post of about 360 CISF personnel from the rank of inspectors to constables to be deployed for the security of the Surat international airport. At present, the airport is connected with major cities including Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Delhi, Goa, Bhubaneshwar etc. Before lockdown, there were 20 flight movements from the airport per day carrying over 1.50 lakh passengers per month. Despite increase in the passenger traffic, the airport lacked adequate security arrangement. Even the state police deployment is short of staff. Against the required strength of 114 personnel, only 95 cops from the city and state reserve police are stationed at the airport. It was in March-2019 that the BCAS had given an in-principle approval for the CISF deployment at Surat airport. In a letter (a copy of which is with TOI), the MHA has stated that the airport authority will provide accommodation to the CISF personnel at the rate of 45% family accommodation and 55% barrack accommodation for the rank from inspector to constable within the period of three months. Further, the CISF will sign Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) approved by MHA with the concerned airport management within 15 days of the issue of the sanction order. Official sources said that the airport authority has started searching for the accommodation of the CISF personnel near to the Surat airport in order to facilitate them for easy travel to the airport and perform their duties. A senior airport officer said, “The CISF security was much-needed at the airport and it was a long pending demand. The number of flights are likely to increase in the future and that Surat airport is in the priority list of the AAI for infrastructural development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mha-sanction-cisf-security-at-surat-airport/articleshow/76375090.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||Kin recall Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s home visit to Bihar last year||PATNA: Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide has shocked his cousin in Saharsa, the villagers of his native place in Purnea and maternal uncle’s family in neighbouring Khagaria district in Bihar. In May 2019, Sushant had participated in the house warming function of his cousin and BJP MLA from Chhatapur Niraj Kumar Singh Babloo in Saharsa. He had met his close relatives and family acquaintances after 17 years. “Everybody was delighted,” recalled Niraj. A big crowd had assembled outside the legislator’s newly built house where the actor had stayed for two days before leaving for Patna where his father lives. “He played cricket with local guys as reminiscent of his acting in the biopic ‘MS Dhoni: An untold story,” Niraj told this newspaper. “What went wrong with him is a subject for investigation. But there was no sign of any depression during his last visit to us,” Niraj said, in a choked voice. Niraj left for Bagdogra airport to take a flight to Mumbai. Family sources said Sushant’s mortal remains may be brought to Patna for cremation as he had spent his childhood in the town. Raman Thakur, a family friend, said when Sushant was spotted driving a motorbike on the roads of Saharsa town, youths virtually chased him forcing to cut short his travel. “. “Such was the actor’s craze,” recalled Thakur. Sunil Singh, another relative settled in Siliguri, said Sushant was very courteous and respected his elders. “This was evident during his stay in Saharsa where he met his family members as well as acquaintances without any hesitation,” he said. During his three-day tour, Sushant had also visited his village Maldiha under Barhara Kothi block in Purnea district where he paid obeisance to his ‘kuldevta’. He also met his relatives there but didn’t stay for long. Before leaving for Patna, Sushant had also visited his ‘nanihal’ (maternal grandmother’s house) at Borne village under Alouli block in Khagaria district on May 11 to fulfil his late mother’s ‘mannat’ for his ‘mundan’ (haircut). Another relative, Anil Singh, said his mother Usha Singh, who died in 2002, had a ‘mannat’ for Sushant. Subsequently Sushant’s ‘mundan’ (haircut) was performed in traditional manner at the local ‘Bhagwati temple’ amid chanting of mantras. Former mukhiya of Numar panchayat in Khagaria district, Vikas Chandra Singh, said, “It was his maiden visit to the area after becoming an actor. Sushant had visited the village several times in his childhood. He was easily accessible to local residents.” Singh said the actor had to cross the river on a country boat to reach his maternal uncle’s house. He had also shared his pictures of crossing the river on a boat on social media. “How excited and cheerful he was. How can such a person commit suicide,” Singh wondered. Sushant had closely been associated with Jamui district as well. He had spent some time with his elder sister Mitu Singh, whose husband Om Prakash is a 1993-batch IPS officer of Haryana cadre and belongs to Numar village under Barhat block in Jamui district. Mitu had played cricket for Bihar. Chunnu Singh, another cousin of Sushant, said the family had settled in Delhi after the death of his (Sushant’s) mother in Patna in 2002. His father Kamal Kishore Singh, a retired government employee, lived with Sushant in Delhi when he went there for higher studies. His initial schooling happened in Patna where the family has a house in Rajiv Nagar locality. His father received the news of his death at his Patna residence. Anil said Sushant was the youngest among his siblings. Among his brothers-in-law, one is an IPS officer, one a lawyer in the Supreme Court and another is settled in Australia. The actor’s bhabhi Nutan Singh is an LJP MLC. Meanwhile, governor Phagu Chauhan, CM Nitish Kumar and LJP MP from Jamui Chirag Paswan expressed deep shock over the untimely death of the actor. They described Sushant’s death as an irreparable loss to the film industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kin-recall-bollywood-actors-home-visit-to-state-last-year/articleshow/76374779.cms||Ramashankar
June 15, 2020||Business||Government Covid cover for healthworkers gets just 27 claims||MUMBAI: The government’s Covid-19 insurance policy covering over 22 lakh healthcare providers for Rs 50 lakh each, issued by New India Assurance, had received just 27 eligible claims till Friday. While nearly 75 claims were lodged, due to lack of awareness, most were ineligible as there were applications from non-healthcare cases and claims for deaths unrelated to the coronavirus. New India Assurance is looking at ways to keep the policy, which expires on June 30, open for claims to ensure that the entire premium of over Rs 100 crore that it has collected from the government is distributed. The insurance scheme was funded through the health ministry’s NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) budget. Despite keeping the process straightforward, there have been disputes because of multiple claimants in some cases. Speaking to TOI, New India Assurance chairman Atul Sahai said the company has so far settled six claims, several of which were paid in a day. “Keeping in mind the sensitivity, we have authorised all regional offices to settle claims immediately. Because this is an unnamed policy, we have to decide on the coverage going strictly by the definition.” Given the trend, the company expects total claims to be within 50. Unlike health or life insurance, where coverage is not restricted to a particular ailment, the government went for a group personal accident cover, which is limited to death due to Covid-19. The policy is a Rs 50-lakh-death benefit cover for healthcare providers and community health workers who are in direct contact with Covid-19 patients and extends to private healthcare staff roped in by the government. The claim procedure has also been kept straightforward — a death certificate and a certificate from the nodal officer. The beneficiary has been defined as the one named by the claimant in their gratuity application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-covid-cover-for-healthworkers-gets-just-27-claims/articleshow/76375990.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Bloody good Sunday: Coffee House adda shifts to Maidan, for a cause||KOLKATA: Despite the rain on Sunday, over 100 blood donors turned up at Brigade ground (opposite SAIL building) to be a part of the city’s first blood donation camp at the venue generally used for rallies. The camp organized by College Street Coffee House Social Service Association was the first initiative on behalf of the city’s book hub (boi para) for hundreds of serious patients being denied blood amid a pandemic since donors are scared of getting infected at hospitals. A large crowd gathered at the venue during the day to sign up for the event. But several could not be accommodated for want of infrastructure. “Unlike traditional blood donation camps, this was held inside a specially designed air-conditioned bus. Capacity of each of these buses is 50. We were allotted two such buses. That is the reason why we had planned to accommodate 100 donors. We have planned to organize another camp soon to accommodate all those who pledged today,” said a member of the association. Somnath Mallick, who donated blood on Sunday, said, “We need to understand that serious patients are being denied treatment for want of blood. If people don’t come forward at this critical hour more lives will perhaps be lost to cancer, thalassaemia or other life-threatening diseases.” According to Jayanta Aich, a regular donor and one of the members of the association, said they need to spread the message that by donating blood in a safe environment people won’t get infected by the deadly virus. “One of the reasons for organizing this year’s blood donation camp at Brigade was to attract the attention of the citizens to a severe crisis of blood in the state’s blood banks due to the pandemic. We have been successful today and our endeavour will continue throughout the year,” Aich said. According to another association member, the next camp will be organized on College Street in a couple of months, which would hopefully have better infrastructure and the association would be able to rope in sufficient donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bloody-good-sunday-coffee-house-adda-shifts-to-maidan-for-a-cause/articleshow/76376152.cms||Saikat Ray
June 15, 2020||Surat||Gratitude gifting in the US to boost Surat’s diamond exports||SURAT: After a prolonged dull phase, Surat diamantaires can finally hope to see a sparkle in their polished stones. A recent research by De Beers, the world’s largest diamond mining company, has revealed that Americans would remain the top choice for gifting over other luxury items in the holiday season. The pulse survey shows that US citizens would like to gift diamonds as a ‘gratitude to their loved ones’. “The research demonstrated that lockdown had made many consumers feel grateful for things they used to take for granted, such as spending time with family, and that this would influence their purchasing and gifting behaviour in future. The primary desire for purchasing being a reflection of gratitude and acknowledgement during the current crisis,” the company said in a statement. Around 56% of the respondents in the study preferred meaningful gifts and they considered diamonds as the best for “symbolising intimacy, connectedness and love among both men and women”. “Close to 90% of the respondents said that choosing a gift that holds its value over time, like diamonds, would be an important consideration this holiday season,” De Beers said. The survey found that lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic has made people re-evaluate aspects of what’s important in their lives and reinforced the value of inter-personal relationships, some things that had been so long taken for granted. These choices will influence their purchasing and gifting behaviour in the future too, it said. With annual turnover of about $45 billion, US is the world’s largest diamond export market for India. GJEPC pegs India’s US export in the range of $10 billion per annum Bruce Cleaver, CEO, De Beers Group, stated, “While consumer confidence and spending has been significantly impacted in the US, this research shows that diamonds will continue to play a ‘most meaningful role’ in the post-lockdown people’s lives and their relationships.” Vipul Shah, a leading diamantaire told TOI: “Diamonds have emotional value and consumers in the US understand this well. Similarly, we are witnessing US customers’ emotional bonding with the diamonds which has grown even stronger.” Diamond analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide told TOI, “Diamond industry’s survival in the pandemic is dependent on the US. The De Beers survey will certainly boost Surat’s diamond industry’s confidence in the coming days.” “The US is the biggest export market for diamonds from Surat. We always have known that American consumers are very emotional and are bound to celebrate their ties by gifting diamonds to express their gratitude,” said Hitesh Patel, MD, Dharmanandan Diamonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gratitude-gifting-in-the-us-to-boost-surats-diamond-exports/articleshow/76375285.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Fear is the key: Office commute, behaviour change in Covid-19 times||KOLKATA: Putting on multiple layers, including full-sleeved clothes, masks, gloves, shower caps and face shields, and carrying multiple bottles and dispensers of sanitizers, homemade food and water bottles — going to office is no longer a simple act for a large section of citizens. With Covid cases on the rise, office-goers pointed to various measures they have been taking to ensure safety. But the fear of contracting the infection is still looming large. “No matter the heat or humidity outside, I don’t leave home without a double layer of clothing, with full sleeves, as well as knee-length socks under trousers. I also wear elbow-length industrial gloves, a mask and cover my head with a shower cap. I wear spectacles to cover my eyes. While driving to work, I don’t even swipe cards to refill fuel, preferring UPI transactions so there is minimum contact with strangers,” said Meghmallar Das, who works with a telecom firm and has to go to office twice or thrice a week. Earlier, Das used to take public transport. Pharma executive Avijit Das said every time he goes to office, it feels like gearing up for war. “Since I have to depend on public transport, I mostly use autos and bike taxis. Even then, I completely cover my body, wear gloves, a mask and a face shield. I also take immunity-building medicines, like vitamin C tables, vitamin D tablets and zinc capsules. I need to be extra alert as I have a small son and elderly parents at home,” the Behala Silpara resident said. Some others have even started wearing complete PPE kits while travelling to and from office and many have shifted to greener means of transport like bicycles and walking. At workplaces, too, employees have cut down on cigarettes, tea and bathroom breaks and mostly stick to their cubicles. They also ensure not to use office cups or bottles. Some have even been carrying sticks or handkerchiefs to press elevator buttons and touch door handles. “I have been carrying my own coffee mug and am no longer sharing cigarettes, or even lighters, with colleagues. I have kept a bottle of sanitizer at office and clean my desk and chair at the start of the day. I even carry food and water from home and eat at my desk,” said Subhasis Saha, who has been cycling to office. The sanitizing protocols after returning home are also difficult. “I have made a makeshift enclosure outside my flat door where I take off most of my clothes and keep them in a bucket of disinfectant-mixed water. I wash my hands and feet there, and then rush to the washroom as my wife cleans the floor immediately. All this while my three-year-old daughter tries to hug me as my wife keeps her at bay,” said Arijit Bose, a marketing executive with a cement company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fear-is-the-key-office-commute-behaviour-change-in-covid-times/articleshow/76376135.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 15, 2020||Patna||Water table goes up by 10 feet in Gaya||GAYA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan’, has started bearing fruits in the district. This summer, it is apparent as long queues of women and children with empty buckets waiting or quarrelling near the Gaya Municipal Corporation and PHED tankers did not make headlines as no water crisis has been reported from anywhere. The district, infamous for its perennial water crisis, has recorded an incredible increase of 10 feet in its water table. As per official figures, the sub-surface water-level in the district in June 2019 was 42.5 feet, which is 32.6 feet in June 2020. It may be mentioned here that in 2006 summer, the Nitish had to camp in Gaya for several days to address the water issue. Going by that standard, the programme’s success in a hilly area like Gaya is all the more remarkable. District Magistrate Abhishek Singh attributes the distinctly better water scenario this summer to a series of measures taken for water conservation which includes rejuvenation of the abandoned water bodies, tree plantation near water bodies to reduce evaporation level, rain harvesting measures and public awareness campaigns. According to the DM, altogether 1,662 water bodies in the district, which were lying in a state of neglect and encroachment, have been rejuvenated under the ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan’. Besides that, about 16 lakh plant saplings have been planted to reduce evaporation level of the existing water bodies. About 1,279 recharge borewells have been installed in the district to augment the depleting water table. About 17,418 soak pits spread over all the 24 blocks of the district have been developed for effective watercharge. Altogther 329 check dams have also been constructed to retain river water and 884 rooftop rain harvesting facility has also been developed. As per official statistics, the district, on an average used to receive 1131 mm rainfall. During the last 15 years, the average rainfall has recorded a decline of more than 10 per cent. Moreover, the rainfall is not evenly distributed as most of the rainfall takes place in a span of 60 days (July -August) and rest of the period is generally dry. The district does not have a perennial river as all the eight rivers of the district with a total length of 453 km are seasonal in nature. Except for 2020 summer, the water-table has all along been registering a general decline over a period of more than two decades. Hailing the programme’s success, environmental science specialist Prof Ataur Rahman, postgraduate head of the department of Botany, MG College, Gaya says that there is no room for complacency as a sustained effort is required to address the all important issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/water-table-goes-up-by-10-feet-in-gaya/articleshow/76374318.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh seeks free wheat, pulses for 6 months more||CHANDIGARH: In view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free wheat and pulses to the beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for another six months. Amarinder said the extension would go a long way in ensuring that the poor and needy do not sleep hungry, and also enable them to make both ends meet. In a letter to the PM, the chief minister noted that an early announcement of the PMGKAY had provided major relief to the poor NFSA beneficiaries during the difficult times of Covid-19. He said the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic has not only slowed down the country’s economy, but also led to a major reduction in the incomes and savings of the people. Underlining the need to extend the benefits, the chief minister pointed out that with the lockdown now touching almost three months, the economic situation of the people, especially the poor, has not improved much even after resumption of industrial activities in Punjab. Of the 2.60 lakh industrial units in the state, more than 2.32 lakh units have resumed operations, but the loss of wages over the past few months has severely crippled the purchasing power of the people, he said. Further, the number of Covid-19 cases is also seeing a steep upward trend daily after relaxations, and further lockdown and restrictions cannot be ruled out, said Captain Amarinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-seeks-free-wheat-pulses-for-6-months-more/articleshow/76376482.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||SHO in trouble for ‘abusing’ govt staff||PATNA: Bhojpur SP Sushil Kumar has sought an explanation from SHO of Garhani police station Sajid Hussain, who was accused of hurling abuses at the government employees at the local circle office on May 31. Kumar said a chowkidar, Pankaj Kumar, was earlier suspended by DM Roshan Kushwaha in this connection. Kumar, who was with the SHO at the circle office, was also accused of misbehaving with the government officials. The SP said the government had asked all district administrations to provide an additional vehicle to each police station for patrolling during lockdown. “One vehicle was provided to Garhani police station. However, even after 11 days, fuel slip was not issued. The SHO and some other policemen had gone to the circle office to get fuel slip,” he said. He said explanation was sought from the SHO on the basis of an inquiry report submitted by SDO and DSP of Sadar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sho-in-trouble-for-abusing-govt-staff/articleshow/76374334.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 15, 2020||Business||UTI MF board names acting chief Rahman full-time CEO||MUMBAI: IPO-bound UTI Mutual Fund finally got a full-time CEO, as its board of directors late on Friday elevated its acting CEO of nearly two years, Imtaiyazur Rahman, to the position. Rahman has been at the helm of affairs at India’s oldest fund house since its former MD Leo Puri demitted office in August 2018. Earlier, Rahman was acting CEO in 2011 as well, when the fund house’s former chairman U K Sinha had quit to head markets regulator Sebi. The asset management company had filed for an IPO in December, and Rahman’s appointment addresses one of the concerns of Sebi, which had questioned the company’s decision to tap public money without a full-time executive head in place. The proposed listing, on the other hand, will address another Sebi concern. For long, the regulator had been uncomfortable about UTI MF’s shareholding structure. Other than US fund-management giant T Rowe Price, which was brought in as a strategic investor about a decade ago, SBI, LIC, Punjab National Bank (PNB) and Bank of Baroda (BoB) are its other shareholders, holding 18.25% stake each. Apart from PNB, all the others have their own full-fledged fund management businesses, thus creating a conflict-of-interest situation. In December 2019, Sebi had asked all the three financial institutions — SBI, LIC and BoB — to reduce their stakes in UTI MF to below 10% by December 2020. The listing of the fund house is expected to address this regulatory concern as well, industry players said. The fund house said that Rahman was an internal candidate for the position, which fell vacant after completion of the earlier CEO’s term in 2018. A qualified company secretary and a cost accountant, Rahman was involved during the group’s transformation after the erstwhile Unit Trust of India was restructured in early 2000s. As the chief finance officer of UTI MF, he had headed various functions of the fund house, including its international business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uti-mf-board-names-acting-chief-rahman-full-time-ceo/articleshow/76375975.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Bathinda govt school to get swimming pool||BATHINDA: Government schools in VIP constituency Bathinda are getting a major make over. An amount of Rs 17.12 crore has been sanctioned for restructuring of the buildings of 10 government schools in Bathinda city. The construction of a swimming pool at the cost of Rs 65 lakh at Government Senior School at Dhobiana Basti in Bathinda, which is being upgraded from an elementary school, is expected to start in a week. The pool is being constructed to national-level competition specifications. tnn The two-storey building of the school has almost completed. In his budget speech on February 28, finanace minister and Bathinda MLA Manpreet Badal had announced allocation of Rs 100 crore for construction of 4,150 additional classrooms across the state during the year 2020-21. Apart from Dhobiana Basti school, the Government Senior Secondary School (Girls) at Mall road is foremost on the priority list. Manpreet took along education secretary Krishan Kumar and Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan to review the progress of the campus development. The minister said, “Bathinda will be taking pride in one of its government schools having a national-level swimming pool very soon. The school infrastructure is being refurbished in such a manner that students and their parents will prefer these schools in comparison to private schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bathinda-govt-school-to-get-swimming-pool/articleshow/76376463.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||Auto driver hangs self to death in city||PATNA: An autorickshaw driver allegedly committed suicide inside his residence at Jaganpura Shahpur under Gopalpur police station in Patna late Saturday night. Financial crisis during the lockdown is stated to be the reason behind the incident. Family members rushed Pradeep Kumar (25) to PMCH where doctors declared him brought dead. This is the fourth suicide case in Patna either due to job loss or suffering from financial crisis during the lockdown. PMCH temporary police outpost in charge Amit Kumar said Pradeep’s father Vijay Singh in his statement on Sunday said his son was in extreme financial crisis due to the lockdown as autorickshaws were not allowed on roads. “He even tried to work as a labour whenever got an opportunity to meet his family’s needs,” he said. Kumar, quoting Vijay, said Pradeep did not open his bedroom’s door for several hours late Saturday night after which the family members forcibly entered inside to found him hanging from the ceiling fan with a bedsheet. On Wednesday, a 55-year-old man, who used to work as a dishwasher at a restaurant before lockdown, was found hanging at CID Colony under Jakkanpur police station. Police suspected financial crisis as the reason behind suicide as he had lost job. On May 25, an autorickshaw driver, Rajesh Pandey, had also committed suicide at Khajekala in Patna City due to financial crisis in the lockdown period, as per Patna Autorickshaw Association. On April 21, 35-year-old Dhananjay Kumar died during treatment at PMCH after attempting suicide at Jagdeopath under Rupaspur police station. His wife Khushi Dutt alleged that he was in tension after loosing job in the lockdown. Kumar had started working as a project manager with a private firm in Patna after leaving job with a telecommunication firm in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/auto-driver-hangs-self-to-death-in-city/articleshow/76374359.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Patna||B S College gets AICTE nod to restart MBA course||PATNA: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has approved the proposal of B S College, Danapur, a constituent unit of Patliputra University, to restart teaching in the master in business administration (MBA) course with an intake of 60 seats from the 2020-21 academic session. Principal Pravin Kumar said the AICTE had suspended the MBA teaching at the college in 2012 for different reasons. “The college took up the matter with the AICTE under the guidance of Patliputra University vice-chancellor Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal. The AICTE finally approved resumption of MBA course at the college on June 9 after proper verification of the relevant papers,” Kumar added. The AICTE has intimated principal secretary, higher education, Bihar government, about the approval for MBA course given to the college. The AICTE has also increased seat limit from 30 to 60 in the master in computer application (MCA) course being run at the college, the principal said, adding MBA would be of two-year and MCA three-year duration. According to Kumar, the college is running various other career-oriented courses at degree level, including BCA, BBM and library science and a few other courses. The college has also set up a placement cell for its students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/b-s-college-gets-aicte-nod-to-restart-mba-course/articleshow/76374651.cms||Kumod Verma
June 15, 2020||Patna||Now, traffic inspectors, DSPs to issue e-challan in Bihar||PATNA: Motorists violating the Motor Vehicles Act will now be able to make cashless e-challan payments by sweeping their debit or credit cards through hand-held devices from July 1 at all traffic police stations in the state. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Sunday said around 100 new hand-held devices would be provided to the traffic DSPs, inspectors, sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors of all traffic police stations in the districts. Agarwal said from July 1, all the details of violators would be fed on the system through the e-challan. “In this way, we will maintain a record of the violators in our system. It will bring transparency in the challan collection in all municipal areas. Repeat offenders will pay hefty fine and may even lose their driving licence,” he said. Agarwal added, “Till now hand-held devices were given to only district transport officers, motor vehicle inspectors and enforcement sub-inspectors. Now, the traffic cops will also use the device for issuing challan for traffic rule violation.” Earlier in February, the department had provided around 200 hand-held devices to all the DTOs, MVIs and ESIs. Altogether 80 such devices are operational in Patna district alone. The training to operate hand-held devices would be provided to traffic cops from Nalanda, Gaya, Bhojpur, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Purnia, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Munger and Begusarai this week. Agarwal said in the third phase, the department will start e-challan procedure in all police stations of nagar palikas and nagar parishads in the state from August. “In the fourth stage, we will give hand-held devices to all the SHOs for issuing e-challan. For this, we will purchase around 800 hand-held devices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-traffic-inspectors-dsps-to-issue-e-challan/articleshow/76374722.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 15, 2020||Rajkot||Family of five including 3 kids attempt suicide in Gujarat||RAJKOT: In what appears to be a horrific outcome of a petty domestic squabble, a couple along with their three minor children attempted suicide by consuming pesticides, said police.According to the case details, Bhupat Sathia (40), his wife Geeta Sathia (35), their children, Khushali (16) and Janki (14) and Kaushik (11) consumed some poisonous substance to end their lives at their residence in Maldhari Society of Bharatnagar locality in Bhavnagar on Sunday evening. However, all five have been admitted to Sir T Hospital, where their condition is said to be stable. “Our preliminary investigation indicates domestic quarrel as the reason behind the drastic step. However, the real reason will be ascertained once we record statements of the victims when they come around,” said an official from Bharatnagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/family-of-five-including-3-kids-attempt-suicide/articleshow/76375628.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Rajkot||Couple commit suicide at Keshod bypass||RAJKOT: A couple committed suicide by consuming poison in a farm at Keshod bypass near Saundarada village in Junagadh district on Saturday. Police said the deceased, identified as Vipul Zala (29) and Shanti Naghera (28), had eloped from their residences in Bhalpara village of Veraval taluka in Gir Somnath district two days ago. “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that the victims were distant cousins and the woman was married. They appeared to have decided to take the drastic step after realizing that there was no future to their relationship,” said D R Mori, head constable with Keshod police station. The victims’ bodies were spotted by Ramesh Bhalodia, the farm owner, on Saturday evening. “Their identity was ascertained on the basis of their ID cards. We will be going to Veraval to record the statements of the family members of the victims,” added Mori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-commit-suicide-at-keshod-bypass/articleshow/76375645.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Rajkot||Bhavnagar group sets aside religion to honour Covid-19 dead||RAJKOT: During challenging times as these, humanity rises high above religious differences. And what better example can be but of this group from Bhavnagar that has been serving the unclaimed Covid bodies reaffirming faith in the goodness of mankind. At a time when completing the last rites of corona victims has proved to be a bigger challenge than getting treatment, this group has voluntarily taken up the task of giving every body a send off it deserves. In many of the cases, there are no relatives available to perform the last rites. It is then when the members of the group, which has been actively involved in other social work like blood donation and de-addiction for quite sometime, started to cremate or bury these Covid victims. Till now, of the 13 Covid patients who died in Sir T hospital of Bhavnagar, this group has performed last rites of nine people. Of them, three were Hindus, who were cremated with all rituals performed according to Hindu tradition. The group is being led by Arif Kalva, a local businessman. Earlier they approached the hospital after knowing about the death of a Covid patient, but now the hospital staff or even kin of the deceased approach them for the rites. Talking to TOI, Kalva said: “This is very depressing situation. Often we find relatives not willing to perform the last rites of the deceased, or in some cases even the kin are quarantined not allowing them to perform the rituals, while their extended family members refuse to oblige. It's not humane to abandon the dead and so our group, armed with PPE kits for our own safety, decided to take up the onerous task.” Citing an instance Kalva said that a Muslim man who recently succumbed to the virus had only one daughter, who is the sole inheritor of his property. And yet, the daughter and son-in-law refused to touch their father’s body. “We had to perform the last rites,” he added In the last two days, the group has performed the last rites of two Hindus, a 62-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man, both hailing from very poor families. “We gave the money and helped their familes in performing the last rites,” said Kalva. Nearly 15 people have joined Kalva’s activity including community leaders like the president of 32 Jamat, Mehboob Sheikh, Sadik Dana, Munna Badshah among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhavnagar-group-sets-aside-religion-to-honour-ncov-dead/articleshow/76375589.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli dist records three more positive cases||RAJKOT: Amreli district recorded three more Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday with a 52-year-old man testing Covid-19 positive in Dangavadar village. “The concerned patient had come to Dangavadar from Nikol locality of Ahmedabad on Friday,” said an official from the health department of the Amreli district administration. “That apart, two women from Krankach village of Liliya taluka aged 45 and 52 have tested Covid-19 positive. These women had come in contact with Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad,” added the official. So far, the Amreli district has recorded four deaths. There have been 10 patients who have been discharged after recovering from Covid-19. At present, there are 12 Covid-19 positive cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-dist-records-three-more-positive-cases/articleshow/76375546.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After protein prices, veggie rates soar||KOLKATA: Vegetable prices, which were already high at city retail markets, have seen yet another spike over the last week, especially for the produce brought from other states. The price of beans and capsicum, which was Rs 80 per kg a week ago, has jumped to Rs 130-Rs 150 per kg. Green chilli has also become costlier. The lockdown has again hit the supply of greens to Kolkata’s markets. At the Dum Dum market, both capsicum and beans were being sold at Rs 150 a kg for the past few days. “We have never seen capsicum and beans selling for so much. Vegetable prices had been rising since Amphan,” said Sudip Datta, a resident of Nagerbazar. “This is the highest the rates have climbed in the past year. Apart from capsicum, beans and carrot, local vegetables, like brinjal or parwal, have also become pricey. Good quality brinjals are being sold for Rs 100 a kg. Additionally, truck movement has been affected by the lockdown for a long time,” said Dilip Mandal, a retailer at Gariahat market. Mandal blamed this price rise on low supply of vegetables at the city’s wholesale hubs. At Koley Market, supplies were scarce on Saturday. “Normally, we get 7,000-8,000 sacks of capsicum, beans and green chilli every day from places like Ranchi and Simla. But production in both states was hit by rain and hailstorm. On Sunday, we barely had 3,000 sacks of vegetables,” said Anup Gupta, a wholesaler at Koley Market. “Local products were severely damaged during Amphan. Bitter gourd, that was selling for Rs 70 per kg, has now crossed Rs 100. Whatever we are getting at the markets are of poor quality. We may have to wait a month to get fresh produce,” said Asit Adak, a retailer at Lake Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-protein-prices-veggie-rates-soar/articleshow/76376148.cms||Rohit Khanna
June 15, 2020||Rajkot||Strong quake in most of Gujarat triggers panic||RAJKOT/AHMEDABAD: An earthquake measuring 5.5 on the Richter scale jolted most parts of Gujarat at 8.13 pm, triggering panic among people, who rushed out of their homes.According to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) website, the epicentre was 118 km north-northwest of Rajkot. In Ahmedabad, people residing in highrise buildings in many areas including Satellite, Paldi, Bodakdev and Navrangpura rushed out after experiencing the tremors. The tremors brought back memories of the 2001 earthquake and added to the fear factor prevailing due to the Covid pandemic. “Most residents are camping down in the building as a sharp tremor was felt on the seventh floor. In times of Corona pandemic, the tremors have added to the panic quotient, said Uma Patel, a resident of Bodakdev. Dr Rajesh Maheshwari, a paediatrician from Gandhidham, said, “At around 8:13pm, there was sudden thunder and rain and immediately we felt a strong tremor twice.” Vishwa Raval, a student living in Pratishtha, said, “I was sitting on the sofa and playing a video game when I suddenly felt the jolt. I realized it was a tremor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/strong-quake-in-most-of-guj-triggers-panic/articleshow/76375801.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Constable ends life by hanging self in house||Pune: A 36-year-old constable was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his house at the Somwar Peth police colony on Sunday morning. The Samarth police said the death was a case of suicide, as the constable was alone in the house. Senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of the Samarth police identified the deceased constable as Sandeep Bansode, who was posted with the Vishrambaug police station. “We searched his house after the incident came to light, but did not find any suicide note,” Kadam said. “We called his relatives and they informed the police that he was depressed due to several domestic issues. His wife had gone to her maternal home after picking up an argument with him recently,” Kadam said. Bansode’s mother and two daughters are at his native place because of the announcement of the lockdown in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus. “Bansode had dropped them at his native place owing to the spread of coronavirus in the old parts of the city. He was staying alone in the quarter alone for the last three months,” the senior inspector said. “Bansode hanged himself with the help of a rope to the ceiling fan of the house. A local resident saw this and raised an alarm,” Kadam said, adding that Bansode was a hard-working police constable and had no adverse remark to his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-ends-life-by-hanging-self-in-house/articleshow/76376815.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Review meets to be held in each Himachal Pradesh district||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has approved of review meetings to be held in each district of the state to assess arrangements made to contain the spread of Covid-19 and to resume economic activities, including development works. The review meetings will be chaired by the speaker, ministers, deputy speaker, deputy chairman and chief whip. Besides review of Covid-19 arrangements, issues to be taken up in these meetings include review of implementation of all flagship programmes started by Central and state governments, utilisation of unspent amount, status of chief minister’s announcements, progress of schemes announced by the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/review-meets-to-be-held-in-each-hp-district/articleshow/76376477.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Have saved over Rs 4,000 crore, claim Andhra Pradesh power utilities||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh power utilities have claimed that they have saved Rs 4,783 crore by opting for open market purchase of power and reverse tendering in coal transportation. In a status report submitted to the state government in view of the upcoming assembly sessions, the power utilities told the government that the distribution companies have been badly impacted financially due to some of the decisions taken prior to 2019. In a statement issued by APTransco on Sunday, discoms said they have purchased renewable energy in excess of actual purchase obligation and at a higher cost. “While solar power was purchased at Rs 8.09 per unit when it was available at Rs 3.54 per unit, wind power was purchased at Rs 5.94 per unit as against the available price of Rs 2.43 to Rs 3 per unit. The APSPDCL purchased power at Rs 14,920 crore in 2015-16 against its revenue of only Rs 11,546 crore, power was purchased at Rs 15,076 crore in 2016-17 against revenue of Rs 12,157 crore and at Rs 16,642 crore in 2017-18 against a revenue of Rs 13,609 crore. It was Rs 19,113 crore in 2018-19 against a revenue of Rs 14,956 crore. However, following the measures taken by the new government, discoms were able to save Rs 4,783 crore. These savings were made by opting for open market purchase of cost effective power and reduction in coal transportation charges through reverse tendering. Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant said on Sunday that the AP discoms have benefited from the present situation. As excess power is available at lower prices in the market, the power utilities made strategic purchases from the exchanges by optimising the schedules of State Load Dispatch Centre by following merit order, he said, adding that following the directions of chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, power utilities are purchasing power at an average price of Rs 1.63 to Rs 2.80 per unit now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/have-saved-over-rs-4000cr-claim-discoms/articleshow/76375949.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Zoo gardener tests positive, staffers quarantined||KOLKATA: A fresh Covid-19 case was reported from the Alipore Zoo staff quarters that has sent the officials scurrying for quarantine facilities. The patient is a senior gardener at the zoo. On June 11, he had developed fever and was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital on June 12. His corona positive report came on Saturday. However, there is some relief since the disease has so far not affected the zookeepers, the men who attend to animals. KMC officials said they have initiated a complete disinfection process inside the zoo. Immediately after the confirmation of the gardener’s having tested positive for the virus came, the zoo authorities sealed the quarters and asked all the zookeepers, gardeners and their family members living in the quarters to go for home quarantine. Four gardeners and six zookeepers live in the quarters, said an official. “The family members of the gardener have been advised home isolation and we have sealed the entire building. The zookeepers and gardeners have also been asked to stay in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Further, we are trying to trace all other zoo staffers who had come in contact with the infected gardener in the last few days,” said Asis Samanta, the zoo director. Samanta added that all those quarantined have been asked to stay off duty for the next 14 days while other zookeepers and gardeners will fill in their places. The zoo has around 90-odd keepers and gardeners. The quarters, located close to the aquarium, a five-star hotel and the National Library, came under Alipore police’s scrutiny. “We will speak to the zoo authorities to ascertain if they need any assistance as far as ration supply for those in quarantine is concerned,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zoo-gardener-tests-ve-staffers-quarantined/articleshow/76376486.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 15, 2020||Pune||Shopkeepers turn away clients without masks in Pune||By- Anjali.Jhangiani@timesgroup.com PUNE: Shopkeepers across the city are very serious about wearing masks to protect themselves as well as others around them, so much so that some have refused service to customers showing up without covering their faces with protective gear. “One of the employees stands in front of the shop and allows only two people in at a time, that too if they are wearing proper masks. We politely explain to customers not wearing masks that they must do so for their own safety and for others. We point them in the direction of the medical store across the road that sells such protective gear,” said Monaji Hacharam, who owns a grocery store in Kondhwa. Another shopkeeper in Hadapsar has come up with a solution for the problem. “We also sell face masks, so if someone is not wearing a mask when they come to our store, we tell them that they must wear one and they can purchase it before they enter the premises. We also have a sign outside the store that says that if you don’t wear a mask, you are not welcome. We reserve the rights of service,” said Ajay Dhopate, a gift shop owner. Karim Shaikh, a sales worker at a bakery in Fatimanagar, appealed to consumers to wear masks. “We have to deal with so many people everyday. We have to wear masks all the time. We have to keep ourselves safe. By wearing masks customers help us do that. We also do not let people without masks enter the store,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopkeepers-turn-away-clients-without-masks/articleshow/76376824.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||PMPML bus from Pune airport likely||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has planned an ‘area-to-area’ transport from the Pune airport as it awaits the nod from the civic body to start operations in the city. “We are ready to start services in Pune and the buses are ready. However, we cannot roll out services until the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gives us permission,” an official told TOI. He said that with the airport now operational, transfers to the airport will be difficult.  “While transporting the passengers to the airport will be difficult for now, some buses can be provided at the airport for the arriving passengers,” the official said. “The idea is to transport the passengers from one area to another outside the containment zones ,” the official said. “The autorickshaws and cabs are operational now. Despite the PMC’s order that only essential transportation is allowed, it seems that the autorickshaws are moving around freely. People shouldn’t have any problems getting autorickshaws in the different areas. The advantage with traveling on the PMPML buses from the airport is that they will have to pay a much lesser fare ,” the official added. With the services at the PCMC jurisdiction having started earlier this month, authorities said that the service was slowly picking up now. “Earlier, the number of passengers was very less, but we are seeing an improvement now. We want to start the service in the PMC area desperately and are hopeful that some decision will be taken in this month,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-bus-from-pune-airport-likely/articleshow/76376819.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 15, 2020||Shimla||122 commit suicide in Himachal Pradesh in last two months||DHARAMSHALA: Amidst the lockdown, the hill state of Himachal Pradesh witnessed 122 suicides in the months of April and May alone, according to a data. The victims, majority of them males, were mostly businessmen and jobless youths. The police data showed that in April, 25 males and 16 females took the extreme step, while another 50 males and 31 females ended their lives in the month next due to various reasons. In Kangra, the district with largest population in the state, 19 persons committed suicide, including a trader who had huge bank loans on his head, and a 29-year-old jobless youth from Jawali area, identified as Balwinder Singh, in the two-month period. In response to a TOI query regarding the high number of suicide cases during his virtual interaction with the media, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “We will look into it and trace the reason behind each one of them.” Thakur said he has asked the banks and industries in the state to be on the side of people. He said the industries have been told to avoid sacking their employees and there are also guidelines in this regard from the Union home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/122-commit-suicide-in-hp-in-last-two-months/articleshow/76376483.cms||Shri Puri
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Two tiger cubs found dead in TATR buffer||Chandrapur: Park rangers discovered carcasses of two tiger cubs on Sunday afternoon in the area where earlier a full grown tigress was found dead along Sitarampeth- Kondegaon road in Moharli range of buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). Officials suspect it to be a case of poisoning as two langurs were also found dead in the area. Foresters feel that the two dead cubs could be the litter of the tigress found dead and they are searching for a third one. Both the cubs were around one-year-old and their bodies were fully petrified. They might have died at the same time along with the mother tigress, said CCF and field director, TATR, NR Pravin, talking to TOI. The tigress was found dead close to busy Sitarampeth-Kondegaon road on June 10. Its body was around three days old and veterinary doctors had failed to ascertain the cause of death due to its petrified condition. Officials have, however, ruled out poaching, claiming that all body parts were intact. Vets have collected viscera of the tigress for forensic analysis to ascertain the cause of death. However, discovery of two dead litter of the tigress has forced the officials to change their opinion. “We suspect it to be a case of poisoning. There is a small waterhole in the area where the tigress was often seen with its cubs,” said Pravin. He, however, maintained that all the bodies were in highly decomposed condition hence cause of death could not be ascertained. Investigators suspect that a small pool of water in Kondegaon talao was poisoned for herbivore poaching and the tiger family and two langurs died after drinking water from there. Foresters also suspect that a wildboar kill might have been poisoned to eliminate the predator prowling the area and the death of the langurs could be completely unrelated. Exact cause could be ascertained only after getting reports of viscera contents, said sources. Officials also could not ascertain the gender of the cubs owing to petrified condition. Post mortem could not verify the cause of death. Viscera samples have been sent to Chandrapur forensic lab for testing, said sources. This incident has taken the number of tiger deaths in Maharashtra to seven this year. Six of them have died in Tadoba landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-tiger-cubs-found-dead-in-tatr-buffer/articleshow/76376497.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 15, 2020||Pune||Cops warn against posts on Sangvi murder||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Sunday made an appeal to the people against posting and spreading misinformation on social media platforms, in relation to the recent murder of a 20-year-old in Sangvi, which may create rift between two groups of the society. Deputy commissioner of police Vinayak Dhakane said that certain elements were trying to create rift in the society by misinterpreting the incident on various social media platforms in an effort to disturb peace and harmony. “Our cyber cell is keeping watch on them and we will take strict action against such persons,” Dhakane warned. On June 6, 20-year-old Viraj Jagtap was bludgeoned to death by six persons including two minors, over his alleged relationship with a girl. The suspects are the girl’s relatives. Viraj’s uncle who lodged an FIR with the Sangvi police alleged that the girl’s father was against the relationship as Viraj was not from their caste. The Sangvi police have registered the offence under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Dhakane said the case is being investigated by the assistant commissioner of police Shridhar Jadhav. “We have arrested four persons and detained two minors. We are questioning the arrested suspects and also collecting technical evidences in the case,” Dhakane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-warn-against-posts-on-sangvi-murder/articleshow/76376826.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||60-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Agra, ASP tests positive in Bareilly||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: A 60-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College in Agra on Sunday. And the west UP's two Covid "hotspots" of Agra and Meerut continued to report a high number of daily cases. An additional superintendent of police (ASP) also tested positive in Bareilly. Covid-19 cases in Meerut remained in the high 20s with at least 27 fresh cases reported on Sunday, taking the total tally to 633, including one found in Kanpur. One more death was also reported, taking the toll to 47, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. In Agra, 18 new cases surfaced till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 1,053. The new cases included a 62-year-old cancer patient and a six-year-old suffering from pneumonia. Also, nine Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,053 cases, 83.71% have recovered and there are 123 active ones in the district. The deceased Agra resident belonged to Pratap Nagar colony. He was a hypertension patient with bilateral pneumonia and suffered respiratory failure. The man died due to a co-morbid condition. Besides the ASP in Bareilly, nine other people were found positive with five having no travel history. The ASP said that he was asymptomatic and had opted for Covid-19 test as a "precaution". Now, the entire police department is on health alert and all the officials, police and administrative, who recently came in contact with the ASP have been advised home quarantine. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The people who are leading from the front such as doctors and police are always vulnerable to infection. We should take this situation positively and shouldn’t panic. The total cases reported from Bareilly district are 133, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/60-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-agra-asp-tests-positive-in-bareilly/articleshow/76374338.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Residents oppose CNG furnaces at Delhi's Green Park cremation ground||NEW DELHI: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC)’s decision to install two CNG furnaces at its Green Park cremation ground has not gone down well with the residents of Green Park Extension, Green Park, Safdarjung Enclave and Arjun Nagar. While the civic body plans to use the units to cremate bodies of patients or suspected cases of the novel coronavirus if the situation worsens in future, fear has already gripped those living in the neighbourhood. “The crematorium is located next to colonies and if ambulance or dead bodies pass through the internal roads then it will become difficult to live here,” said former councillor Shailendra Singh Monty. The resident of Green Park Extension added, “Earlier, Delhi government had decided to use Gargi College as a shelter home and 28 people were found positive here. We had to struggle a lot to get the place shifted and now, they plan to use this crematorium for Covid-19 bodies. After the Supreme Court’s comment on the treatment being meted out to the bodies of coronavirus suspected or infected patients, we are already fearful. There is no space at the facility here to keep bodies.” Residents of Arjun Nagar claimed to have conveyed their concerns to the SDMC commissioner. Neha Puri, general secretary of Green Park Extension RWA, said that the place is surrounded by a densely populated area and lies on the other side of the colony’s boundary wall. “The government should instead use the other cremation ground at Sarai Kale Khan, which is barely 7 km from AIIMS, away from residential areas and has provision for electric cremations,” she suggested. While a senior Delhi government official said that they were yet to take a final call on using the facility for cremation of bodies of corona patients, an SDMC official confirmed to TOI that they were carrying work for installing two CNG furnaces each at the crematoria in Green Park Extension and Subhash Nagar as part of their advanced preparations. “The work may be completed within a month and depending upon the requirement, we will use the facilities for disposing of Covid-19 bodies,” the SDMC official said. He refuted the residents’ claims that ambulances could reach the place only via the colony. “It is mostly approached from the road next to the cinema hall and vehicles are not required to pass through the colony. Also, its location is isolated,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-oppose-cng-furnaces-at-green-park-cremation-ground/articleshow/76375963.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Birds back in lake as 105 trees restored||KOLKATA: Birds are chirping again at the Amphan-ravaged Rabindra Sarobar. KMDA, keepers of the 192-acre park and the 73-acre water body within it, transplanted 105 of the 160-odd trees uprooted by the cyclone. The lungs of south Kolkata, popularly called “lake”, is home to several avian varieties. On Saturday, a team of birders led by Sudip Ghosh had surveyed the park and observed 34 species and listed them. “Rabindra Sarobar has had a thick tree cover, so seeing a bird is not easy. But we heard their sound once again that had disappeared after Amphan struck the city. We managed to spot a few birds too,” said Ghosh. Saturday’s list included feral pigeon, spotted dove, yellow-footed green pigeon, Asian koel, little swift, Asian palm-swift, little cormorant, black-crowned night heron, black kite, shikra, stork-billed kingfisher, coppersmith barbet, Asian stubtail and others. The list is being uploaded by the 4,000-strong gang of birders who take to social media as “Biodiversity of Rabindra Sarobar Group”. The group has documented 110 species of rare and migratory birds in the lake area in the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birds-back-in-lake-as-105-trees-restored/articleshow/76376490.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 15, 2020||Varanasi||Another woman's papers forged to get KGBV jobs||VARANASI: In a rerun of Anamika Shukla case, two imposters have now been found working in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas in Jaunpur and Azamgarh by forging documents of one Priti Yadav. Like Anamika, Priti, too, is jobless. The identity of the two is not yet known as they are absconding.  "When the director general of school education ordered uploading of all personal details of the teachers and employees of KGBVs on-line, the Aadhaar numbers of two candidates - both shown as Priti Yadav - were found to be the same. On noticing it, he ordered me to investigate this case," Basic Shiksha Adhikari PK Tiwari said. Tiwari found that one of them was also working as a hostel warden at KGBV in Azamgarh while other was a full-time teacher at KGBV, Muftiganj. "Residential address of both candidates was shown in Mainpuri district. Except their photographs, all other documents including marksheets and Aadhaar number were same. Their date of birth was also different," he said.  After that, Tiwari traced the real Priti in Shahganj. Tiwari said that the father of real Priti told him that she was not employed as when she had applied for the KGBV job, she was found ineligible for being nine days short of the required age. It appears that Priti's documents were used by both the women to get the job. Now, Priti has lodged a complaint with the police and initiating necessary action against the duo. Interestingly, the address of the majority of imposters in Anamika case, too, has been given as Mainpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/another-womans-papers-forged-to-get-kgbv-jobs/articleshow/76377254.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 15, 2020||Gurgaon||In first virtual rally in Haryana, BJP leaders hit out at opposition parties||CHANDIGARH: In BJP’s first virtual rally in Haryana to mark one year of PM Narendra Modi’s second term, central and state leaders of the saffron party on Sunday targetted opposition parties, especially Congress, while elaborating on achievements of the incumbent party. The rally was addressed by Union minister Narendra Tomar and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar from two special platforms created in New Delhi and Panchkula. Accompanied by Haryana BJP in-charge Anil Jain, Tomar addressed a rally from New Delhi. CM Khattar was accompanied by Union minister of state Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana BJP president Subhash Barala and speaker Gian Chand Gupta at the venue in Sector 16, Panchkula. The ministers, MLAs and party leaders watched the rally in their disricts as organisers followed social distancing and did not allow assembly of more than 50 persons at a time. Khattar termed the Congress and its leaders as a party of opportunists, habitual of availing all opportunities of loot and scoot. “While they were in power, they would wait for new plans and policies to be announced, so they could make their best use for personal gains. Now, they are in opposition and have nothing to do except for indulging in politics of criticism, come what may,’’ said Khattar. It would have been better if they would have come with good suggestions, especially at this point of time, he said. “We accept and implement their good suggestions. But they need to rise above party lines,” Khattar added. The CM elaborated on the national schemes which benefited Haryana over the past six years. Tomar too targetted Congress and opposition, criticisng them for remarks on BJP and PM Modi. Tomar categorically said issues like CAA, Ram Mandir and Article 370 had never been the subjects of politics or propaganda for BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-1st-virtual-rally-in-hry-bjp-leaders-hit-out-at-oppn-parties/articleshow/76376492.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||NKDA for plantation on vacant plots||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is seeking consent for plantation from the owners of vacant plots in the township to increase its green cover. Officials have written in this regard to several institutions and individuals who have not yet started any construction work on the plots allotted to them. When construction work starts on the vacant plots, the trees will be shifted and replanted elsewhere. The NKDA has taken up a ‘re-green’ initiative in New Town after cyclone Amphan hit the city. Out of 4,647 trees that had been damaged in New Town by the cyclone, 3,738 were restored. A tree census conducted in 2018 had shown that there were around 22,800 trees in the township. “The idea is to plant trees by NGOs and nature clubs under the supervision of NKDA and a citizens’ committee. The plot owners, along with the forest department and pollution control board officials, will also be involved so that the trees can be replanted elsewhere when the construction starts,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nkda-for-plantation-on-vacant-plots/articleshow/76376501.cms||Suman Chakraborti
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Blood donation camps being held to meet demand: Punjab minister||CHANDIGARH: Blood donation camps are being organised in all districts to overcome the shortage of blood units in government blood banks and hospitals. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said around 2,850 units were collected on the World Blood Donor Day on Sunday. Sidhu said due to Covid-19 epidemic, blood donations are needed to ensure the access to safe blood and blood products for both normal and emergency situations. So far, the minister said, Punjab had successfully contained the spread of coronavirus and achieved high recovery rate. However, there is dire need of blood in hospitals so as to fulfil the demand of blood banks. The health department had aggressively organised blood donation camps. The minister said with a single unit of blood, precious life of a person can be saved. He said that any healthy person of 18-65 years and minimum 50 kg of weight can donate 350/450 ml blood, every three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/blood-donation-camps-being-held-to-meet-demand-min/articleshow/76376488.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi to have its own packhouse soon||Times News Network Varanasi: Encouraged after the success in export of fresh vegetables and fruits from farms of Varanasi and adjoining regions in the markets of Dubai and London, the district has has taken a step ahead with the efforts to get its own packhouse to end its dependency on others like of Rehmankheda in Lucknow. “Construction of a packhouse by mandi parishad in Varanasi has already been sanctioned by the state government. We have identified a land in the industrial estate of the UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) in Karkhiyao area. On our request, the UPSIDA officials have also agreed to allot a plot identified in its estate in Karkhiyao. But, the final decision will be taken on it after the approval of its board, a meeting of which is scheduled within a month”, said divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal while talking to TOI on Sunday. After the UPSIDA allots the land, completion of the civil work for a full fledged packhouse for farm products of the region will take of over six months, he said adding that till then the work on establishing a temporary packhouse has been started. “A cold storage of 30 metric ton storage capacity is already being developed at the Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport. We have started talks with the officials of the airport authority of India to allow establishing a temporary packhouse of two-three metric ton capacity with the same cold storage”, said the divisional commissioner adding that the talks are in final stage and after a final decision is taken by the AAI, the temporary packhouse would be made operational till a full-fledged packhouse is established at Karkhioyao. After the allotment of space by AAI near airport, the farmers will do shorting and grading of their produces as per the norms of international market under the supervision of APEDA, he said adding that farm producers are also being encouraged to develop sheds in their own orchards. After the establishment of a perishable cargo centre by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the packhouse will be a major support for the farmers of this region as they have started diversifying their produces for the markets in abroad to export fresh vegetable and fruits. Agrawal said that establishment of the packhouse will end dependency of farmers of this region on packhouses of other districts, which will help in saving time and money spent on transportation of the produce. After their products are packed locally, he said, it will be exported directly from LBS International Airport. With the establishment of packhouse, the officials are expecting for further growth of allied industries of packaging material and generation of employment in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-to-have-its-own-packhouse-soon/articleshow/76376550.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||DJs are making audience dance to the beat from their homes||Nagpur: To keep their audience entertained and happy amid Covid times, the city’s passionate DJs have taken live streaming of music to a new level. These talented artistes have made their homes, balconies and bath tubs their stage from where they play trendy music curated with love for the profession. 23-year-old Tanishq Gaikwad, aka DJ Tanishq, has been making music for more than eight years. He likes to give a boost of freshness to his love for music by streaming live from his balcony. His music has been premiered on world’s leading music channels and he is all set to release his own music video. “After my music started getting recognition, I was constantly touring for shows to different cities. But the one thing I always needed was me time to reinvent my music style and compile new music. I think the lockdown has given me enough time to complete an entire album and make me ready for 2021,” said DJ Tanishq. Talking about the current situation, he said, “Covid has affected all of us. Markets too have crashed. I’m trying to keep up with my job as an entertainer as it is hard for me to stay at home, away from music and my studio as well as from places where I perform. I have planned to set up a DJ set on my balcony and stream the event live everywhere, on Instagram, YouTube and Facebook to spread positivity.” Shrirang Deodhar’s journey of being a DJ and mixing music dates back to 2006 when he was just 17. In April, he entered the 15th year of DJing. He has performed in over 1500 gigs and sees the lockdown as a perfect opportunity to spread the magic of music. He also believes in giving back to the society through entertainment. “We have been trapped in our houses. Many miss socializing and partying. I saw my dad attending a lot of webinars and adding knowledge to his life. I thought that if knowledge could be added, then why people can’t be entertained. Using the power of the digital medium, I decided to go live twice a week and have themes for my spin of the week,” said DJ Shrirang. His idea is to make people groove to classic music in their homes, so that they don’t miss the party atmosphere and enjoy the wave of positivity too. “Since people couldn't go out and party, I thought why not take the party to their house. This activity was purely with a thought of bringing positivity in the lives of people. I did go live from some other brands’ page and earned a small amount, but I used it for the welfare of our corona warriors and cops on the streets. I never thought that music could act as a positive yet impactful weapon and bring smiles on the faces of my countrymen,” said Shrirang. Yugesh Madhwani, who is popularly known as DJ Greff, has ‘lockdown sessions’ where he shoots and streams live music from his home, offering glimpses of hip-hop music in the bathtub and much more. He has creatively converted eight spots in his house, such as the bedroom, terrace, rooftop etc, which he utilizes to spread the magic of music and positivity amid lockdown. “Creativity knows no limits when you want to entertain people. I use these spots in the house to create videos and music,” said DJ Greff. He is a producer and a DJ, who has shared the stage with some world-renowned artistes. Talking about live streaming of these videos, he said, “I used to travel for my shows across the county. Lockdown time was beneficial for me to create new music ideas around my live sets and other things which helped to be in touch with my audience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/djs-are-making-audience-dance-to-the-beat-from-their-homes/articleshow/76376524.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SC grants Vinod Dua protection from arrest||NEW DELHI: In a special hearing on Sunday, the Supreme Court granted interim protection from arrest to noted journalist Vinod Dua but allowed Himachal Pradesh police to conduct probe and interrogate him on an FIR lodged for allegedly misreporting the communal violence in the city in February and spreading fake news through his YouTube show. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, M M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran said the police could quiz him at his residence only after giving him 24-hour notice. It asked the police to file a status report on the next date of hearing. Delhi high court, in an interim order, had stayed probe in another case lodged in the capital against Dua by a BJP member and the trial court had directed that no coercive steps be taken against him. However, he was summoned by Himachal Pradesh police on a separate complaint lodged in Shimla. Appearing for Dua, senior advocate Vikas Singh repeatedly urged the court to stay the FIR as no case was made out against him and he could be harassed further by lodging of fresh cases in other states. He said the journalist was being targeted for criticising the government and many people could face criminal prosecution on that yardstick. The bench, however, declined his plea for staying the probe and directed him to extend full cooperation through video conferencing or online mode. “Himachal Pradesh police shall be entitled to carry on the investigation, including interrogation of the petitioner, at his residence after giving him prior notice of 24 hours and complying with social distancing norms,” the bench said and issued notice to the Centre and the HP government seeking their response on Dua’s petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-grants-vinod-dua-protection-from-arrest/articleshow/76375976.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Missing girl’s body found in sack on tracks||MUMBAI: Two weeks after a seven-year-old girl from south-central Mumbai was reported missing, her decomposed body was found in a gunny bag along the tracks near Masjid station early Saturday. A 22-year-old caterer, who worked near her house and had fled to UP, has been arrested and booked under Pocso Act. The girl’s parents had filed a missing complaint on May 30 when she did not return after going out to play and they could not trace her. “CCTV footage from the area showed a young man walking with a gunny bag on his back around the time the girl went missing,” a police officer said. 22-year-old from UP held under PocsoThe man was identified as a caterer who worked in a building near her home. But we learnt that the man had left for his hometown in Uttar Pradesh,” said senior inspector Sandip Bhagidkar. The police contacted his relatives, and then summoned him to Mumbai for questioning. He was detained on landing at Mumbai airport. During sustained questioning at the police station, he confessed to murdering the girl and dumping her body in Wadi Bunder, police said. The police recovered the decomposed body after that. The body has been sent for an autopsy. The man was booked under sections of the IPC for murder, and under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. “Whether the girl was sexually assaulted will be established only after we get the postmortem report,” said Bhagdikar. Around a hundred people protested outside the police station after the accused was arrested, demanding strict punishment for him. Watch Missing girl’s body found in sack on tracks in Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/missing-girls-body-found-in-sack-on-tracks/articleshow/76376829.cms||Mateen Hafeez
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 shadow on ESI, 3 more staff test positive||HYDERABAD: Three more healthcare workers have tested positive for coronavirus at ESIC Hospital, Sanathnagar. Earlier, staff from the nephrology department were put under quarantine after a patient died whose test result later showed the person was Covid-19 positive. “Three employees of the nephrology department have tested positive. So far, seven staff members from the hospital have contracted the infection. Over 100 staff, including technicians, nurses and housekeeping staff, have been put under quarantine,” a healthcare employee revealed. Without confirming the number of positive cases among their staff members, a nodal officer from the hospital said over 60 staff members have been put under quarantine. “There are a couple of positive cases among the staff members in the nephrology department. The issue is patients, who visit the hospital without any symptoms of Covid-19, later test positive. These are asymptomatic patients. We are now looking into this issue,” ESIC Medical College and Hospital nodal officer and medical superintendent KK Pal said. Speaking to TOI, a staff member, who tested positive on Saturday and who had worked in nephrology and neurology department, said in a week at least two patients had tested positive. “I had handled one of the patients for at least a week. Before the surgery, patient’s samples are sent for the test or if they start showing symptoms. By that time, the staff are already exposed to the infection,” the staffer added. “Every day the hospital logs around 1,500 out-patients. There is hardly any social distancing at OPD. After checking temperature and symptoms of the patients, they are sent to the Covid-19 ward. If the patient is asymptomatic, we are exposed to them with no PPE,” another healthcare worker from the hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-shadow-on-esi-3-more-staff-test-ve/articleshow/76376831.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Child falls off 4th floor, dies||Ludhiana: A one-and-a-half-year-old boy fell to death from the fourth floor of a building in Ram Nagar on Sunday evening. Keshav was playing on the bed near a window when he accidentally fell off. The window did not have a grille. His father Pappu was sleeping on the bed at the time of the incident. When onlookers raised the alarm, parents rushed the child to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The Mundiya police post officials have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/child-falls-off-4th-floor-dies/articleshow/76375165.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||CM rushes to aid of destitute woman||Ludhiana: In a humane gesture, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the Ludhiana district administration to help out a poor elderly woman staying in the city.The chief minister’s instruction came soon after he learned about the condition of old woman suffering from tuberculosis (TB) during #AskCaptain Facebook Live session on Saturday, where he was interacting with people.During the live session, a city resident Kulwant Singh highlighted the plight of 70-year-old Nirmal Kaur, wife of late Darshan Singh, who resides in New Shimlapuri area of Ludhiana.Kulwant told the chief minister that the elderly widow stays in a rented accommodation with her 11-year-old grandson. She ran the household by running a small “khokha” (stall), but since the lockdown, she has been suffering financially. As she has not paid the rent for four months, her landlord is asking her to vacate the house.On hearing about Nirmal Kaur’s condition, Amarinder immediately directed the DC to help her out. He asked the officer to ensure that she is not just able to clear her pending rent, but also pays rent for the next one year. He also said that the entire cost of her treatment of TB should be borne by the district administration.Additional deputy commissioner (development) Amarjit Singh Bains said following the orders of chief minister, the district administration has got the matter of Nirmal Kaur verified, and a case is being prepared to be sent to the Punjab government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cm-rushes-to-aid-of-destitute-woman/articleshow/76375162.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem, Krishnagiri see first Covid deaths||A 45-year-old sanitary worker from Salem who got admitted in the Covid isolation ward of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital died on Sunday, marking the first Covid death in the district. Neighbouring Krishnagiri too reported its first Covid death on Sunday after test results of a 65-year-old man who died on Saturday turned out to be positive. The woman along with her family members had visited Velankanni recently and upon developing symptoms after the return got admitted in the government hospital in Salem on Thursday and was tested positive the next day. “She had a sudden cardiac arrest. We are treating it as Covid death. This is the first Covid related death in the district,’’ said Salem deputy director of health services J Nirmalsan. Her husband, son and daughter too have tested positive on Saturday and are undergoing treatment at the Salem government hospital. The death of the sanitary worker has come as a dampener for the health workers in Salem district which has been adding Covid cases steadily for the past fortnight. With 10 fresh cases added on Sunday, Salem district had a total of 229 Covid cases, recording the highest incidence in western region now. More than 150 cases have been added in the last 15 days alone.On Sunday, before he left for Chennai, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami held an informal discussion with Salem collector S A Raman and gave instructions to take all efforts to contain the spread of the virus in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-krishnagiri-see-first-covid-deaths/articleshow/76376511.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Four cousin sisters drown in Dahod’s Pata Dungri dam||VADODARA: Four girls from Garbada taluka of Dahod who went for a swim late on Saturday evening in Pata Dungri dam drowned. The four girls, who were all cousins, had taken their goats for grazing near the catchment area of the dam. Identified as Jyotsna Bhabhor (10), Mittal (11), Neelam (8) and Payal (12), the girls had taken the goats for grazing at around 5 pm, said their parents and when the goats returned but the girls didn’t the parents rushed near Pata Dungri to search for them. However, they could only recover their clothes from the banks. The parents and other villagers searched for the girls in the water and after a few hours could locate the bodies in the deep waters. Police said that the girls often took the goats for grazing as their school was closed due to the pandemic. “We suspect that they must have gone in the water for a swim while the goats were grazing but drowned when they ventured in deep waters,” said a police official. Their post-mortem was conducted at Garbada and a case of accidental death was registered at Garbada police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-cousin-sisters-drown-in-dahods-pata-dungri-dam/articleshow/76374973.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Monsoon covers state; light to moderate rain in district till June 19||Pune: The southwest monsoon covered the whole of Maharashtra, including Pune and Mumbai, on Sunday. Usually, the monsoon covers Maharashtra between June 10 and 15 every year. This year, its progress since hitting the mainland in Kerala has been steady, officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. “Pune district will receive light to moderate rainfall till June 19,” they said.On Sunday, parts of Pune city and district received a few spells of rain as overcast weather conditions prevailed for the better part of the day. The IMD’s Shivajinagar observatory recorded 2mm rainfall but the Lohegaon observatory recorded no rainfall. Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD’s forecast division, said, “We had earlier forecast that the southwest monsoon will cover the state by June 14. Barring some portions of Nandurbar district, all regions of the state have been covered by the monsoon. The ghat sections in Pune district will get heavy to very heavy rainfall.” senior IMD official said, “Konkan and Goa will get heavy to very heavy rainfall because of a system forming over Gujarat. As a result, westerly winds from Arabian Sea will bring moisture to the atmosphere. This will bring heavy rainfall over the Konkan and Goa region and some parts of Madhya Maharashtra. Marathwada and Vidarbha will get widespread rainfall in next 48 hours.”Some parts of Marathwada and South Konkan were lashed by heavy rainfall over the weekend. Jalgaon received 82mm, Matheran 81.4mm, Panaji 68mm, Nashik 31mm and Ratnagiri 41mm till Sunday morning.The state has recorded excess rainfall this month, as much as 94.5mm till June 13. All districts have either received normal or above normal rainfall||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monsoon-covers-state-light-to-moderate-rain-in-district-till-june-19/articleshow/76376830.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Prem Nagar is third containment zone||TNNLudhiana: Prem Nagar (ward 63) has been declared a containment zone, the third in the city. So far, 18 positive cases have been reported from the place, which got its first case on June 7. There has been a rapid rise in virus spread and within 10 days it became a cluster of infection. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said in a statement, “Prem Nagar has been declared a containment zone, as the number of cases reached the threshold of 15. The containment area will have a boundary from the road in front of Nagpal Medical Store, Islam Ganj Road, which goes to Kuccha Number 11 in Prem Nagar, Field Ganj, Nalle Wali Road. These zones are created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent it from spreading, and were identified by district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat on the basis of the extent of cases. Movement for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services is allowed here.”Dr Bagga said, “The population of the ward is about 4,800 and approximately 1,100 houses fall under it. Outside the containment zone, there will be a buffer zone, where the health department will conduct intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions, as required. The positive cases, if reported from both containment as well as buffer zones, will be shifted to health centres and the focus will be on pool sampling from the area. This will continue for 14 days. If no case is reported for 14 days, the containment zone tag will be removed. But if any positive case is reported, then it will continue to be a containment zone for seven more days.” Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “The movement of people is restricted in this area and lockdown will be in force till June 28. Movement will be monitored to ensure that nobody leaves or visits the area except for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services. Dr Mala, Mother and Child Hospital SMO, will oversee this zone and supervise all activities.” He added that the police department would seal the area and ensure lockdown was enforced. Dr Mala said, “Ten teams have been formed to conduct house-to-house surveillance. Six teams will collect samples from the containment zone and four from the buffer zone.”Earlier on June 5, Chawni Mohalla was declared a containment zone, the first of the city and on June 12, the area comprising Habib Ganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islam Ganj, which lie adjacent to each other, were declared a containment zone.Cases so far3 cases on June 5 1 case on June 6 1 case on June 7 13 cases on June 12||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/prem-nagar-is-third-containment-zone/articleshow/76375179.cms||Mehak Jain
June 15, 2020||Kanpur||Man booked for killing daughter for honour||Kanpur:Two days after police recovered body of a 16-year-old girl from her house in Baglan village under the limits of Saadh police station in Ghatampur area of the district, they registered a case of honour killing against her father. The girl’s father had initially claimed that his daughter had died of snake bite while she was sleeping on the roof-top of the house on June 12 night. Police said that the autopsy report that came on Sunday suggested that the girl before being hit by a heavy object was strangulated to death. An FIR under relevant sections including 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Saadh police station against the victim’s father. “During probe it came to fore that Poonam was in relationship with a youth of a neighbouring village. Her father had allegedly reprimanded and even assaulted her on number of occasions asking her to snap ties with the youth,” said police. However, soon after the autopsy, Poonam’s family including her father went missing from their house, which suggested some foul play. “We have traced their location. Raids are underway to make arrest of Poonam’s father and others possible,” said Saadh Inspector Krishna Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-booked-for-killing-daughter-for-honour/articleshow/76376594.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Pvt school staffer commits suicide||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 35-year-old employee of a private school committed suicide at his house in BRS Nagar on Saturday night. Amit Kalsi took the step during a video call with his wife, Davinder Kaur. His family said he was depressed as he could not repay borrowed money.Amit, who worked as a computer operator at the Civil Lines school, had tied the knot with Davinder six years ago. The couple had no children.Davinder had gone to her parents’ house in Machhiwara on Saturday. At night, she received a video call from Amit, who was alone at home. He told her that he called to see her for the last time. Sarabha Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala said, “When Amit called up Davinder, he had a piece of cloth around his neck. He told his wife that he was seeing her for the last time as he was committing suicide. His wife immediately disconnected the call and asked her relatives to rush to him. But by the time they reached his house, Amit had died.” Davinder told the police that earlier, too, Amit had threatened to end his life. “He would make a video call and say he was committing suicide, but he never did so,” the SHO added.His family said that he had borrowed Rs 2 lakh from a friend and was unable to repay it. “This was leading him to depression,” they added.After recording the statement of his father Pritpal Singh and Davinder, the police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pvt-school-staffer-commits-suicide/articleshow/76375183.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 patient who gave birth, infant faring well||Mangaluru: A woman who tested positive for Covid-19 and delivered a baby boy at Wenlock Hospital is recovering. Her next swab sample will be drawn during the week, and if it tests negative, she will be discharged and sent home. The woman hails from Kinnigoli in Mangaluru taluk, and had returned from Maharashtra in an advanced state of pregnancy. Referred to Wenlock Hospital from a private hospital, as she had returned from Maharashtra, a Covid-19 hotspot, health authorities, as a matter of norm, tested her for the novel coronavirus, and she was found to be positive on Wednesday. When she went into labour the next day, doctors performed a Caesarean operation to deliver the child. She is the first Covid-19 patient in the district to deliver a baby, while under quarantine, said district health authorities. Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health and family welfare officer, said that with no known history of transmission of this virus in the womb to the unborn child, it is unlikely that the child will contract the disease. The anti-bodies that the disease generates in a person, the mother in this case, will prove to be a protective shield for the infant, Dr Bairy said, adding that care has been taken at the hospital, to ensure she does not infect the infant through fomites. Unlike in AIDS where HIV is known to transmit from mother to the child in 20-30% cases, through the placenta, Dr Bairy said the infant could be tested once the mother tests negative, to ascertain if maternal antibodies through the blood have prevented transmission or not. With the woman having undergone a C-section, Dr Bairy said she will remain in the hospital for at least 7 days, during which time her second swab report is expected. Noting that there are no more such cases, Dr Bairy said two pregnant women who had earlier tested positive, have since been discharged after treatment. Incidentally, Dakshina Kannada, in the initial days of the pandemic, had witnessed a situation where a 10-month old infant had tested positive, while the child’s mother and grandmother, who were its primary contacts, had tested negative. Infants are not separated from mothers in such cases, Dr Bairy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-patient-who-gave-birth-infant-faring-well/articleshow/76376516.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 15, 2020||Varanasi||After Dubai, Kashi mangoes to hit London market||VARANASI: Four varieties of mangoes — Banarasi Langda, Chausa, Dussehri and Ramkeda (used for making pickle) — from an orchard of Varanasi will hit the London market within a week, just days after consignment of the fruit was sent to Dubai. A consignment of 1.5 metric tonne mangoes of the four varieties was despatched to Mango Packhouse in Rehman Kheda area of Lucknow on Sunday evening for packing before being sent to London from Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal flagged off the mango-laden van for Lucknow at the perishable cargo centre in Rajatalab. “Mangoes from Varanasi region first reached Dubai and is now being exported to London for the first time under the supervision of APEDA and state officials. The mangoes are being sent to Lucknow where they will be packed as per European Union standards and will then be sent to IGAI Delhi for expert,” said Agrawal. APEDA assistant general manager Dr C B Singh said, “We had been exploring opportunities of exporting vegetables and fruits from Varanasi and surrounding districts. Finally, we had succeeded in sending the first consignment of 3 MT mangoes, including Langda and Dussehri to Dubai on May 28. Then we got an export order of 1.5 MT mangoes to London. This consignment includes Langda, Ramkeda, Dussehri and Chausa varieties.” “We had been continuously coordinating with National Plant Protection Organisation (NPPO), mango packhouse and IGAI Airport authorities for maintaining a proper chain for exporting fresh vegetable and fruits. The efforts have started yielding results,” he added. APEDA is also planning special training programmes for local cultivators with help of different organisations to boost exports from Varanasi region and convert it into an Agri Export Hub.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/after-dubai-kashi-mangoes-to-hit-london-market/articleshow/76376580.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Powerloom owners demand subsidy||Coimbatore: As many as 15,000 powerlooms are yet to receive the subsidy for upgrading the looms under the in-situ upgradation scheme for plain powerlooms introduced by the ministry of textiles executed from 2014-2017, loom owners in the region said. Meanwhile, the Centre is about to conduct inspection only at some of the upgraded looms, leaving out the rest, they said. Under the scheme, powerloom owners can upgrade warp and weft motions, and control panels in the looms. The Centre will bear 50% of the cost. The owners have to pay half the cost to the firm that upgrades the equipment and the Centre will pay the rest. Units having a maximum of eight existing plain powerlooms are eligible for the scheme. Representative of the Erode District Power Loom Owners Association B Kandavel said the Centre had been giving 50% of the upgradation cost, up to Rs 10,000, since 2014. “Of the 75,000 powerlooms that were upgraded, 15,000 have not received the subsidy. Now the Centre has said that only 7,500 of the looms will be given subsidy. This is unfair,” he said. Manufacturers of powerloom automation products who carried out the upgradation exercise said they had upgraded 75,000 looms in the region between 2014 and 2017. Due to some malpractices in Maharashtra, the scheme was stopped, a manufacturer said. “Because of this, those who upgraded the looms have not been given subsidy. “Rs 10,000 should be paid to each of the 15,000 looms. But the Centre says it will not consider firms that implemented the scheme in the initial phase, citing the irregularities. This is unacceptable.” M Balasubramanian, deputy director at the regional office of the textile commissioner in Coimbatore, said officials will soon inspect the looms upgraded under the scheme and release funds from next week. “If the upgradation is in order, if the upgraded kits are of good quality, if the units are in running condition and if there is proper documentation of the process, we will give them subsidy. This will be done in a case-to-case basis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/powerloom-owners-demand-subsidy/articleshow/76376517.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Staff of 2 hospitals among 47 quarantined||PATIENT TESTS +VE IN JAGRAONLudhiana: The health department quarantined 47 persons, including healthcare workers of two private hospitals, after a patient tested positive for Covid-19 in Jagraon on Sunday.The department officials said the 60-year-old woman of Jagraon was admitted to a private hospital, near railway bridge, three days ago after she complained of fever and breathlessness. During her admission period, doctors from another private hospital of the town would come to examine her, they added.“Her x-ray didn’t show any issue with lungs. As her condition deteriorated on Saturday, she was referred to DMCH, where her tests were conducted and she was found Covid-19 positive,” said an official. After receiving her reports, the department quarantined her 47 primary contacts. Of these, 38 are doctors and other healthcare workers of the two hospitals.The woman’s son, who is a cloth trader in Ludhiana’s AC market, told the department that neither his mother had stepped out of their house for the past three months, nor any relative visited them. She doesn’t have a recent travel history, too, he added. The officials said it was being ascertained how she contracted the virus.Jagraon civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said, “We have collected samples of her 47 primary contacts. Their reports are expected in a day or two. We are trying to trace her secondary contacts, too. The hospital, where she was being treated, has been closed for 48 hours and is being sanitized.”Those who had visited the hospital during the past few days were requested to come forward and get themselves screened, said police.As per the report of Punjab department of health and family welfare, Jagraon had 25 confirmed cases to date, of which 23 have been cured and one person had succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/staff-of-2-hospitals-among-47-quarantined/articleshow/76375193.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Two outsiders among 4 positive||tnnLudhiana: Four persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. Sixty-two samples were sent to virology lab of DMCH, of which four were positive, including two from outside the district. The outsiders include a 25-year-old man from Amritsar, who was admitted on June 6 with problems of acute pancreatitis and is now on oxygen support. The other is a 60-year-old man from Sangrur admitted to DMCH on Saturday with complaints of fever for the past three days.The city residents include a 72-year-old diabetic man who is now on ventilator. He was admitted on Sunday. Another is a 64-year-old woman, who too is a diabetic and also suffers from hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She was admitted to DMCH on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-outsiders-among-4-positive/articleshow/76375189.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Six-member gang arrested for stealing 20 motorcycles||Coimbatore: The district police arrested a six-member gang and seized 20 stolen motorcycles from them on Saturday. Police said the gang was on the prowl for motorcycles across the district during the lockdown period.Police registered a case based on a complaint by Chiranjivi Kumar, a cashier in a petrol bunk located at Mettupalayam. On April 25, he said he had parked his motorcycle and went to an ATM centre to deposit money. When he returned, his motorcycle was missing. He lodged a complaint with the Mettupalayam police, who registered a case of theft.A few days ago, sub-inspector Thilak picked up K Lakshmanan, 24, from Karattumedu in Mettupalayam for inquiry in the bike theft case. Lakshmanan confessed to being a part of a series of motorcycle thefts along with five of his aides. A special team was then formed to nab the thieves.Based on Lakshmanan’s leads, police on Saturday arrested A Moideen, 23, S Abudhahir, 21, S Moideen Basha, 21, A Kaja Moideen, 21 and a 17-year-old boy, all from Mettupalayam. Police said they were close friends and had stolen 20 motorcycles worth Rs 7.25 lakh from Mettupalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam, Annur and Saravanampatti.A preliminary inquiry revealed that the gang stole seven motorcycles from Periyanaickenpalayam police limit, seven motorcycles from Mettupalayam police limit, three from Sirumugai police limit, one each from Karamadai, Annur and Saravanampatti.The arrested were remanded in judicial custody, except the 17-year-old boy, who was sent to an observational home for juveniles, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-member-gang-arrested-for-stealing-20-motorcycles/articleshow/76376520.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||Domestic flight operations at city airport may double to 100 soon||MUMBAI: Mumbai could see its schedule domestic flights double from 25 arrivals and as many departures daily to 50 each this week. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra had allowed schedule flights to resume from May 25 at that level, given the spiralling cases of coronavirus in the state. But due to heavy demand for travel to and from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA)—India’s second busiest airport after Delhi’s IGI —NCP, a coalition partner in the MVA government, has sought at least doubling of flights at the earliest. “I have spoken to the state government. There is a need to enhance flights in and out of Mumbai. There will be a decision on increasing flights very soon,” senior NCP leader Praful Patel told TOI. Sources say the state government has been requested to allow 100 schedule domestic arrivals and as many departures daily. “In the first step, this number may be raised to 50 each and subsequently to 100 each at CSMIA,” a source said. Day One of schedule domestic flight resumption on May 25 saw 58,318 domestic passengers on 832 flights at 70 passengers per flight on average flying across India. The number of passengers rose to 71,924 on 715 flights on June 13 (average of 100 passengers per flight), according to tweets of aviation minister H S Puri. “June so far has been slightly better than last week of May in terms of aircraft occupancy, which rose from 50%-52% to 60%. Chennai is also likely to double its allowed schedule domestic flight capacity. Airlines will add flights. Hopefully, corona spread will be under control and the increased number of flights will see a rising aircraft occupancy,” said a senior airline official. Given their frail financial health, airlines will have to cut back flights if the increased numbers see planes going less than half full due to corona situation worsening and different states continuing with their quarantine rules. CSMIA used to handle almost 1,000 flights a day in pre-Covid times. On May 24, some states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra capped the number of arrivals and departures at their main airports in Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai. That had sent airlines back to the drawing board to cancel flights. While the Centre had allowed resumption of one-third of schedule domestic flights, the capping at these metros—especially at a big base for airlines like CSMIA—meant that about 20% capacity could actually get operational. “As of now, our aim is to operationalise the one-third schedule for this summer as per actual demand,” said the senior airline official. “More than 10 lakh people have now flown on more than 11,500 flights since domestic operations recommenced on May 25, 2020,” Puri tweeted on June 13. While domestic flights were supposed to resume at one-third level, unlock 1.0 has seen that cap go. Now airlines can add flights as per the originally approved summer schedule based on actual demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/domestic-flight-ops-at-city-airport-may-double-to-100-soon/articleshow/76376837.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM writes to PM, seeks Covid testing at embassies||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure Covid-19 testing facilities at the Indian embassies of various countries. In a letter sent to the Prime Minister, Vijayan said it would be safe if the people who are boarding the flight to the country are tested before embarking the flight. The chief minister said the Centre should ensure the availability of testing kits at the embassies. Those who cannot afford the testing charges should be provided the testing free of cost. If PCR kits are not available for testing, then antibody testing kits should be made available at the embassies. The CM also said that the Centre should not allow people who have tested positive to travel along with those who don’t have the virus. “We should avoid the situation in which positive people travelling with others. The Centre should arrange a special flight for those who test positive abroad,’’ the chief minister in the letter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-writes-to-pm-seeks-covid-testing-at-embassies/articleshow/76375207.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Man hammers lover to death, hangs himself||Coimbatore: A 37-year-old man killed his paramour and hanged himself at Nehru Nagar in Kalapatti road near here early Sunday morning. Police said the woman had separated from her husband, Sakthivel, five years ago and was seeing her neighbour M Padmanaban, 37, who owned a chicken shop in Nehru Nagar at Kalapatti. The woman was living in a rented house along with her two daughters. She often visited Padmanaban’s shop to buy chicken and over a period of time, she got into a relationship with him, police said. Padmanaban’s wife had separated from him more than a year ago, and he used to coax the woman to divorce her husband Sakthivel. But she refused to do so and told him that she needed to take care of her two daughters. Police said Padmanaban and his paramour often fought with each other. On Saturday night, he took her to a decrepit sports club at Nehru Nagar where he killed her using a hammer, police said. Later, he hanged himself from the roof by using a sari. On Sunday afternoon. visitors to the club found their bodies and informed Peelamedu police. Police sent the bodies to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-hammers-lover-to-death-hangs-himself/articleshow/76376530.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman, 3 kids hurt as house roof collapses||STORM, RAIN WREAK HAVOCTNNLudhiana: A woman and her three children were injured after their house roof collapsed due to strong winds and rainfall in Khanna’s Daleep Nagar on Saturday.The house owner, who works as a farm labourer, said, “I was working in the field and my family was at home when weather turned turbulent. As strong winds blew away my house roof, bricks fell on my wife and children.” His wife said, “Neighbours came to our rescue and brought us out. Home appliances, including a refrigerator and a TV set, were also damaged.” “Fortunately, my family did not receive serious injuries,” the farm labourer added.Gurdeep Singh, his employer, said, “The worker had bought a small piece of land after taking loan and built a house there.”Meanwhile, heavy rainfall and winds uprooted many trees and damaged electricity poles.A tree fell on Khanna-Samrala road and caused an-hour-long traffic jam. Kulwinder Singh, a Khanna resident, said a tree fell on a two-wheeler and a vend on Khanna-Malerkotla road. A government school wall and that of a food store in Salaudi village were also damaged.”Electricity supply was disrupted in many areas of Khanna, including Model Town, Lalheri Road, GTB Nagar, Nandi Colony, Jagat Colony, Uttam Nagar, Grain market, among others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-3-kids-hurt-as-house-roof-collapses/articleshow/76375198.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||IITR, Lucknow startup develop tech to disinfect PPE, N95 masks for reuse||LUCKNOW: The Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), in association with a Lucknow-based startup has indigenously developed ‘OptiMaser’ – a microwave-based disinfection system which can make personal protective equipment (PPE) and N95 masks reusable. “The technology has the capability to disinfect PPE kits and N95 masks within 10 minutes. It has been tested by the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur, and Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, and has received positive reviews. We have filed for a joint patent of the technology,” said IITR director Prof Alok Dhawan. “This is the first-of-its-kind technology in the country and the machine can come in handy at a time when safety gears are required at a large scale due to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. “The equipment will help in saving cost of new PPE kits and masks and also save environment as bio-medical waste will be reduced. We will send it to Small Arms Factory, Kanpur, for further testing,” he added. The equipment comes with a bucket and a revolving plate in which as many as 25 PPE kits can be placed at a time for disinfection. Executive director, Maser Technology Pvt Ltd, Monish Bhandari said: “The equipment has 10-times amplified strength as compared to normal microwave and doesn’t melt plastic or deteriorates cloth material as disinfection requires a temperature of 60-70 degress Celsius. It does not require heavy power connection and can be run even in households.” Director, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Prof Sanjeev Misra said, “We got positive results in a series of tests done since April to see whether microwave can disinfect PPEs and N95. The machine can be effective in areas of low-risk exposures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-device-to-disinfect-ppe-masks-for-reuse/articleshow/76376534.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Green lover being ‘harassed’ for saving an age-old tree||Nagpur: A green lover is allegedly being harassed after she opposed illegal felling of an age-old tree on her residential premises.Neha Joshi, a resident of Prashant Sahniwas at Ajni Square, has recently filed a complaint with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and city police against the harassment.As per the complaint, the incident of tree felling took place on the morning of May 26 when Joshi spotted an unidentified man cutting the biggest branch of a neem tree. When Joshi and her family members tried to enquire, their neighbours who had given the contract for tree felling allegedly started arguing with them. “They did not take the mandatory permission from the NMC garden department before pruning the tree nor did they consult with the society members,” Joshi stated.According to her complaint, the neighbours also abused Joshi’s family for stopping the illegal activity. Wanting to save the tree, Joshi immediately contacted cops who directed her to NMC garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar. “A team of NMC officials arrived on spot and reprimanded the tree cutters. The officials also tried to contact the neighbours but they refused to open the door,” Joshi told TOI.She further added that the same neighbours have previously chopped other trees in the area without permission.According to Joshi, though the NMC officials managed to save the tree, the neighbours are leaving no stone unturned to fell it. “They have now tied thick ropes to the branches so that they call pull them down. They barged into my house when I was not at home and threatened my old parents,” said Joshi.Recently, they issued a legal notice to the secretary of the residential society through their lawyer, stating that the tree was spreading and it was necessary to prune it to “enjoy the light and air”. It further stated that the widespread branches of the tree were causing inconvenience to the neighbours.In the notice, the neighbours further requested the secretary to allow them to trim the tree. However Joshi still has strong objections against it. “If the tree or branches are really serving a problem, they should apply for permission at the garden department and let the officials decide. They broke the laws but we are the ones being harassed,” said Joshi.She has further appealed to the NMC garden department to issue a show cause notice to the offenders. “Officials have assured that they will look into the matter and take appropriate action,” said Joshi. TOI tried to contact the officials but they did not respond. TOI has been reporting about the increase in cases of illegal tree felling on residential premises. NMC officials have stressed that trees inside residential premises too are the property of civic body and cannot be trimmed or cut without permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/green-lover-being-harassed-for-saving-an-age-old-tree/articleshow/76376529.cms||Manka Behl
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Handloom weavers stare at looming crisis||Coimbatore: Following the footsteps of his ancestors, 49-year-old T Kumar and his wife K Saroja had been weaving handloom saris at his residence in Negamam in Pollachi for the last 25 years. Though they earned low wages, the couple was happy with the work, passed down from generations. But the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to control its spread have turned their life upside down. They sat idle for over a month and waited for an opportunity to resume their trade. Now, Kumar is working in a poultry farm and Saroja in a garment factory. “How long could we sit idle at home without an income? Even though the government is giving us rice and dal through ration shops, we need money to purchase vegetables and groceries,” Kumar said. As the investment to procure raw materials like thread and zari is high, the weaver used to get them from traders and handover the final product back to them after obtaining weaving charges. Depending upon the design, their wage would vary from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 for a sari. “After the lockdown was imposed, the traders stopped providing raw materials citing lack of business as reason,” Kumar said. “Some of the traders are ready to give us raw materials on condition that the wages would be provided only after the saris are sold, which might take months in the present situation.” “To earn a livelihood, we had to leave our traditional occupation behind. In the last 15 days, I could find work only for four to five days,” he said. Desperate weavers like him find it difficult at construction sites, farms and mills, said M Manikandan, a traditional weaver. “As a result, we fail to get work most of the time. My five-member family is depending on my wife, who has been selling vegetables for the last one month.” “It is very difficult to find and shift to other jobs at the age of 50. We are more than willing to return to the weaving business but are not sure when normalcy will return. Till then, we will continue doing odd jobs,” Manikandan told TOI. Handloom weavers had taken a huge hit following the arrival of powerlooms, general secretary of the Coimbatore District Handloom Weavers’ Association E N Rajagopal said. “They cannot survive without any wage even for a week. It has been close to three months since they made any money. How will they survive? More than 70% of the weavers in the district had not even received the state government’s assistance worth Rs 2,000. We don’t know when people will start purchasing handloom saris. Till then, the fate of the weavers hangs in balance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/handloom-weavers-stare-at-looming-crisis/articleshow/76376545.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Two people found hanging in different villages of Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Cops of two different police stations recovered two bodies that were found hanging on Sunday morning, in both cases after being informed by relatives of the dead. Both bodies have now been sent for autopsy.One of those found dead was a 20-year-old girl Deepmala of village Gaybojh under Sungarhi police station. She was in the second year of B. Com. She has left behind a suicide note in which she begged her parents’ forgiveness for her suicide.Her father Rajesh Kumar said her marriage with a Bareilly-based youth, Deepak Kumar, was to take place on June 24. He said they had no idea of what drove her to commit suicide.Sungarhi SHO Atar Singh said police have taken possession of the suicide note, and that they will take further action in the matter after receiving the autopsy report.The second case of suicide was of 55-year-old Banshi Dhar of village Kokili under Barkhera police station. He was found hanging inside his house at 4am by his wife, Manuu Devi, when she woke up to feed their cattle.SHO Kamal Singh Yadav said according to information given by his family, Dhar had gone to bed after dinner at 9pm on Saturday, and was found hanging inside his room next morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-people-found-hanging-in-different-villages-of-pilibhit/articleshow/76372909.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kanpur||Ex-MP Dharmendra Yadav tests Covid positive||Kanpur: Samajwadi Party leader and former Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav (40) tested positive for novel coronavirus infection after developing fever. Dharmendra, nephew of Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, has been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital in Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences (UPUMS) at Saifai, Etawah, after his test report confirmed him positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night. UPUMS pro vice-chancellor Prof. Ramakant Yadav said, the former MP was running fever after which he underwent Covid-19 test at KGMU in Lucknow. “The lab report confirmed him positive for novel coronavirus. On late Saturday night, he was admitted to Covid-19 hospital at UPUMS in Saifai,” he added. Yadav had complained of fever when he reached Prayagraj from Delhi on June 11. “The same night Yadav left for Lucknow where he got the corona test done at KGMU,” said sources. The test report of Yadav’s gunner Giriraj came negative. “Now, samples of Yadav’s driver Vijay and four other persons who had accompanied him in the past few days have been sent for testing,” said officials. The staff of district health department in Etawah is now tracing contacts to identify the people who came in contact with the three-time former MP in the duration. The districts nagar palika launched a sanitisation drive outside the former MP’s residence in Saifai on Sunday. “The sanitisation exercise is part of campaign to prevent spread of Covid-19,” said SDM Hem Singh. “We have been sanitising the whole area with mechanical and manual spraying machines,” official said. Dharmendra was elected to 14th Lok Sabha in 2004 from Badaun constituency, re-elected to the 15th Lok Sabha in 2009 and again to the 16th Lok Sabha in 2014. He was member of the standing committees on defence, rural development, information technology and agriculture. Besides, 11 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Etawah on Sunday, pushing the tally of corona positive cases in the district to 126, said district health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ex-mp-dharmendra-yadav-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76376601.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 15, 2020||Kanpur||Migrant worker found dead under mysterious circumstasnces||Kanpur: A 30-year-old migrant, who had returned from Mumbai few days ago, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a locked vacant plot near Kanshiram colony in Unnao district on Sunday morning. The deceased was identified as Vijay Kumar Saini of Kalyani Devi of Unnao. “On his return from Mumbai, he underwent a medical test and was asked to remain under home quarantine by the health team,” said Unnao SP Vikrant Veer. “On Sunday morning, his body was found with a scarf tied around his neck and bite marks on his hands at a locked vacant plot near Kanshiram colony, around two kilometres away from his house,” he added. The exact reason behind his death is yet to be ascertained. The body was sent for postmortem. “Swab samples of the man were sent for Covid-19 test,” said a district health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-worker-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstasnces/articleshow/76376604.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest department rescues leopard||Coimbatore: Forest department personnel rescued a leopard that was found entangled in a barbed wire near a private plot in Mothepalayam village near Sirumugai forest range in the district on Sunday. The leopard is currently undergoing treatment at a forest department facility in Mettupalayam. During the morning hours, villagers had noticed a leopard lying amid the bushes in a private land and informed forest officials, who in turn rushed to the spot and rescue the animal. District forest officer (DFO) D Venkatesh said that the leopard was found trapped both in barbed wire used for fencing and a snare meant to trap animals. “With the help of veterinary doctors, the leopard was tranquilised and rescued from the bushes. It is being treated for its wounds,” he added. A source from forest department said that the leopard was roaming in the region for a couple of days, a source said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-department-rescues-leopard/articleshow/76376549.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Local body polls: SEC mulls revision of poll timings||Thiruvananthapuram: The state election commission (SEC), which has begun preparation for local body elections, is likely to propose to state government regarding revising poll timings considering the spike in Covid cases in the state. SEC plans to have revised poll timings from 7am to 6pm instead of 7am to 5pm, in a situation where the number of cases shows no respite. An amendment will have to be brought out by the state government in the relevant sections of Kerala Panchayati Raj Act and Kerala Municipality Act. SEC also plans to put forward a proposal by which it can be given the authority to revise the election timings. “We have started procuring materials for local body elections. We are closely observing the daily number of cases reported in the state. A meeting is being planned with health sector experts to draft a system for conducting elections in compliance with the protocol. We hope cases to come down by August. If that doesn’t happen, poll timings will have to be revised and government has to take necessary procedures,” said V Bhaskaran, chairman, state election commission. The poll timings will be revised to make up for the lost time while ensuring arrangements for social distancing in polling booths. If elections are to be held in accordance with Covid protocol, political parties will be asked to stick to virtual campaign. SEC estimates an expense of Rs 180 crore for the conduct of elections. With the requirement to meet social distancing criteria in polling booths, the expense is likely to go well over Rs 200 crore. Facilities for sanitization and social-distancing measures will have to be implemented in around 35,000 polling booths. The voters’ list for local body elections will be published on June 17. Once draft voters list is prepared, returning officers will have to be appointed. SEC also needs to purchase 8,000 additional EVM machines. SEC now has 37,600 machines. Considering delimitation, it was estimated to purchase 13,500 machines and with the state government deciding against delimitation, the requirement has come down. SEC plans to hold elections in October since new committees and councils will have to assume office on November 12. Trainers for returning officers will be trained directly by SEC. If Covid protocol has to be followed, the trainers will give training to ROs at the district level by observing social distancing. This will necessitate increase in duration of trainings from one day to two days or in some cases training has to be done by video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/local-body-polls-sec-mulls-revision-of-poll-timings/articleshow/76375257.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Amid Covid, NMC desilts & widens 47km of 3 rivers||Nagpur: While battling on many fronts to curb spread of the coronavirus, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has completed desilting and widening of three rivers — Nag, Pili and Pora — in the first week of June itself even before monsoon becomes fully active. The timely completion of the works will certainly result in reduced flooding and waterlogging in several areas of the city. Moreover, the civic body reportedly cleared 47km-long stretches of these rivers by spending even less than Rs5 lakh. This year, the NMC has also ensured not to dump the removed silt and garbage on the banks. Over 80,000 cubic metre silt and garbage has been removed from Nag, Pili and Pora rivers and disposed off in other places. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and superintending engineer Shweta Banerjee roped in four government agencies —Nagpur Improvement Trust, MahaMetro, National Highways Authority of India and state’s public works department — apart from using NMC’s machineries to finish the task in time. Claiming it was a rejuvenation of all three rivers, Mundhe told TOI, “We did not restrict works to only cleaning garbage and shrubs. We widened the rivers up to its original area. We desilted the rivers in such a manner that water will flow with gradient. Now, the rivers are not just neat and clean, but also wider.” Mundhe also said, “Process to demarcate red line (high flood level) of the rivers has started. All encroachments within the red line area will have to be razed. Thereafter, NMC will mark buffer zone of 15metre from red line for development as green and recreational zone. Plantation work has already been started in some places.” Banerjee and her team has identified red line areas of Nag river and submitted the plan to water resources department, which will approve it after going through data of high flood levels in the last 100 years. Exact markings will be done thereafter. Similar process for Pili and Pora will kick-off soon. The works were pending for decades and the rivers were marred by encroachments. Mundhe said, “NMC has done its part. Now, public participation is required. People should avoid throwing garbage and waste in the rivers. We have to preserve the rivers which are our heritage.” For the first time in 18 years, encroachments on Nag river in Krazy Castle water-cum-amusement park have been removed after Mundhe’s orders. In 2013, TOI-MT had launched a mass awareness campaign with title ‘Save Nag River — My City, My River’ which was followed by NMC’s activities. Since then, barring couple of years, the civic body has been desilting these rivers. The central and state governments had approved Nag River Pollution Abatement Project which is likely to kick-off in a couple of months. Process to get approval for Nag River Beautification Project is also on. Preserving Heritage 47km-long stretches of Nag, Pili and Pora rivers desilted and widened Civic body spent less than Rs5 lakh on works 80,000 cubic metre silt and garbage removed, disposed off Process to demarcate red line (high flood level) of Nag river on All encroachments within red line area will be razed Encroachments on Nag river in Krazy Castle removed after 18 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-covid-nmc-desilts-widens-47km-of-3-rivers/articleshow/76376554.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||E-passes arrive on time, save the day for Bihar-bound workers||Coimbatore: A group of guest workers from Bihar who attempted to leave for their home state in a private bus without permission were stopped at Thekkalur check post at Avinashi on Sunday evening. Police held inquiry with the guest workers and found that they did not have e-passes of the state government which allow them to travel out of the state. Later, the district administration arranged e-passes for them and only after that they were given a green signal to proceed. As many as 30 guest workers, all men, working in various industrial units in Coimbatore, pooled money and hired a private bus for Bihar. The bus was intercepted by police at Thekkalur check post around 4.30pm on Sunday. The guest workers told police that they had applied for e-passes online and were waiting for the approval of the state government. Meanwhile, some guest workers contacted journalists on their mobile phone and the message was conveyed to Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, who ordered that their e-pass issuance process be expedited. The workers got their e-passes around 5.30 pm and were then allowed to go. The revenue department from Coimbatore has till now sent 44,676 guest workers to their home states from Coimbatore railway junction in 34 special trains. More than 3,000 guest workers have reached their home states from the district in special buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/e-passes-arrive-on-time-save-the-day-for-bihar-bound-workers/articleshow/76376561.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Erode||Adult elephant found dead in reserve forest||An adult elephant was found dead in the reserve forests of Erode district. A statement from the Erode district forest department on Sunday said that the aged elephant appears to be died of natural causes. According to the statement, forest staff who were patrolling Kurumbanoor south beat of Chinnapaarai Kodikkal circle on Friday evening had spotted the adult tusker, which seemed to be sick. It was unable to walk. The forest staff informed senior officials, who summoned a medical team. Meanwhile, the staff continued to track the elephant and check if there was any improvement in its condition. However, by the time a medical team led by forest veterinarian V Ashokan from the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve could reach the forest, the elephant collapsed and died, said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/adult-elephant-found-dead-in-reserve-forest/articleshow/76376556.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: SIT begins scrutiny of 28 aided colleges in Gonda||Lucknow: Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Uttar Pradesh police has started probe into the racket involving fake teachers working in aided colleges. The SIT, on the government's directives, has sent a notice to 28 aided colleges in Gonda and asked its managers, principals and clerks to appear in person with details of number of enrolled students, the strength of teaching staff, their educational certificates, and the aid reimbursed by the government. It also includes the school which had given appointment toAnamika Shukla. As per the report sent by the SIT to Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA), Gonda, a verification of 28 secondary schools is to be done on the directions of the state government following discrepancies in appointments and receiving grants. An SIT official said that 61 persons, including managers, principals and clerks of schools, have been asked to come with all credentials within 14 days from the date of receiving the letter. “The list also includes a manager of Bhaiyya Chandrabhan Dutt Vidyalaya, which recently gave offer of ad hoc teacher to real Anamika Shukla,” said an official of SIT. The list also includes schools operated by MLAs of the ruling party and a clerk in education department. SIT further said that documents of all the 61 individuals will be verified and then a report will be submitted to the government. Last month the SIT was asked to probe discrepancies in the aided colleges of Gonda district in February, but due to Covid-19 lockdowns the process could not be initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-begins-scrutiny-of-28-aided-colleges-in-gonda/articleshow/76376564.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Gangwar leads to kidnapping and murder, body found after 30 hours||Nagpur: Gang rivalry led to the kidnapping and murder of 20-year-old Sunny Jangid, who also has crime records. The body was found some 30 hours after the crime at Dunda Maroti on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. One of the motives behind the murder is learnt to be a questionable case of gang rape which aggravated old enmity. Jangid, found with several stab injuries, including on the neck, was murdered due to gang rivalry between Rohit Ramteke and Lucky Telang groups active in south Nagpur. The daring kidnapping and murder raises question over the police ‘Operation crackdown Phase II’. Though Telang is behind bars with MPDA, and Ramteke and his accomplice Chandu Kawde too are in jail on dacoity charges, their group members are now giving cops a tough time. It’s learnt Ramteke, now booked for gang rape for the second time, had barged into the house of Dattu Fatik, a bootlegger, which led to a case of dacoity against him. Jangid is a nephew of Fatik, who is friends with Telang, whose gang members had been targeting Ramteke. It’s learnt Fatik and Jangid were close to the rape survivor, who had lodged a complaint of gang rape against Ramteke, Kawde, Akash and Saurabh at Ajni police station with help from a social worker. The rivalry between Ramteke’s gang and that of Telang and Fatik had worsened after the gang rape. Fatik’s close friend Vicky had thrashed Ingle, who is one of the gang rape accused. Fatik gang’s Tichkule had assaulted Saurabh too. All these developments had aggravated the gang rivalry. On Saturday, Jangid had gone to attend to attend a funeral at Manewada crematorium. He was summoned outside the crematorium by one of his rivals. As he stepped out, Prasheel Jadhav alias Monu Rider, Lalit Rewatkar and another whisked away Jangid on a scooter after tying his hands. CCTV footage of the kidnappers taking Jangid on a red scooter later helped police crack the case. It’s learnt Jangid was taken to a room, thrashed and was about to be murdered, when the victim pleaded for forgiveness and promised a substantial amount for his release. The kidnappers then took Jangid to Umrer and brought him back to his house. But as he could not cough up the promised amount, and also had tried to escape, they fractured his leg and took him to a desolate place near Dunda Maroti, where they stabbed him to death. The kidnappers also sent a message in the locality that they had eliminated Jangid and fled the scene. Ajni police first found the red scooter on which Jangid was kidnapped, and then Hudkeshwar police tracked down a minor. He named a person, Shivhare, as the one who knew about the body, which police were trying to find. Crime branch, and Ajni and Hudkeshwar police teams were searching for the body in and around Besa, Beltarodi, Outer Ring Road and adjoining areas, which showed mobile phone locations of the murderers. The body was found after Shivhare and the minor led Hudkeshwar police team to the desolate place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gangwar-leads-to-kidnapping-and-murder-body-found-after-30-hours/articleshow/76376563.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 15, 2020||Kanpur||Child’s murder solved, one arrested||Kanpur:Two days after a six-year-old boy was found murdered in a village in Rasoolabad area of Kanpur Dehat district, police cracked the case with the arrest of his mother’s alleged paramour on charges of bludgeoning the child. The body of the boy with grievous injuries was found on Friday in a village in Rasoolabad area of Kanpur Dehat district. The father of the boy had registered a complaint on Friday morning after he went missing while playing near his house, on late Thursday evening, police said. “Investigations revealed that the child was seen as an obstacle by her mother’s paramour-Santosh Diwakar for continuing his illicit affair,” said SP Anurag Vatsa. SP further said that the accused man caught hold of the child while he had gone to the fields on Thursday evening and after gagging him hit a heavy object on his head and after confirming he was dead, he dumped the body near a borewell in the village outskirts and fled.  “We have rewarded a police team of Rs 25,000 for cracking case in 24 hours,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/childs-murder-solved-one-arrested/articleshow/76376607.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hubballi||Encroachment cleared to widen road||Hubballi: As many as 94 houses, which had allegedly encroached Amminbhavi-Amargol Main Road, were partially demolished using earthmovers on Sunday. Two religious structures located on the road were also partially removed during the anti-encroachment drive undertaken by the HDMC officials, PWD engineers and police in a joint effort. The residents demanded alternative accommodation and also warnedof agitation in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/encroachment-cleared-to-widen-road/articleshow/76374413.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Varanasi||UP: After 25 Anamikas, 2 Priti Yadavs traced in KGBV||VARANASI: Days after the Anamika Shukla scam unfolded, verification of documents launched by basic education department revealed another similar case, with marksheets and documents of one Priti Yadav had been used by two women to get jobs of hostel warden and full-time teacher in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas in Jaunpur and Azamgarh. Basic education officer Jaunpur P K Tiwari lodged a complaint at Kotwali police station on Saturday night in this connection and an FIR was lodged against the two women. Tiwari told TOI on Sunday, “When director general of school education Vijay Kiran Anand ordered uploading of all personal details of teachers and employees of KGBVs, Aadhaar numbers of two employees, both named Priti Yadav, were found same. On noticing this, the director general ordered me to inquire the case.” Tiwari found that one Priti was working as hostel warden at KGBV in Azamgarh while other was a full time teacher at KGBV Muftiganj in Jaunpur. “The residential address of both candidates was of Mainpuri district. Except their photographs, all other documents, including marksheets and Aadhaar cards, were same, but he date of birth of Priti working in Azamgarh was different from other one,” he said. When records of primary education were checked, the identity of real Priti became clear. 0After succeeding in tracing real Priti in Shahganj area of Sikrara block, Tewari met her father at their residence in Jaunpur. “The father of real Priti said she is not employed anywhere, though she had applied for job in KGBV, but was found ineligible since she was nine days short of the eligibility age,” Tiwari said. After checking the documents of real Priti, the officer filed a complaint with police for registering a case and initiating action against the two women who had secured jobs by using Priti’s documents. Police have registered FIR against two women under sections 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC, and have launched investigation in this case. On June 4, TOI had exposed the racket in which 25 women had used the name, personal details and marksheets of one Anamika Shukla to get job and had been working in various KGBVs. Later, the real Anamika appeared in Gonda and claimed that her documents had been forged by several people to get jobs in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/after-25-anamikas-2-priti-yadavs-traced-in-kgbv/articleshow/76376562.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Students slam Lucknow University exam move with hashtag, tweets||LUCKNOW: Days after three Lucknow University (LU) professors tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19), several students of the institution have taken to social media to demand that exams be postponed in the wake of the pandemic. The demand has gained traction thanks to an online petition and hashtags like #StudentsLivesMatter on Twitter. Hundreds of students tweeted against the university’s decision of conducting examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate examinations in July and August. “Three LU professors have tested Covid-19 positive and LU is still planning to conduct examinations in July-end, when the pandemic is expected to be at its peak. The university should think about students who commute via public transport and hence are a high risk of getting infected,” said law student Harsha Singh. In this pandemic situation where whole nation is getting more covid19 patients everyday our lucknow university is p… https://t.co/33rLiEfBHM— Kuushal gurrnani (@Kushalgurnani79) 1591716627000Another LU student Kushal Gurnani tweeted, “In this pandemic situation, where the whole nation is getting more Covid-19 patients every day our Lucknow University is planning to conduct the offline examination, Bravo (sic).” Many have also tagged HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in their posts seeking his intervention. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said “We will conduct exams while following the safety protocol and after assessing situation at that time. We will follow all directions of the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-slam-lu-exam-move-with-hashtag-tweets/articleshow/76376572.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre to decide on Covid -ve certificates for returnees: Shailaja||Thiruvananthapuram: Health minister K K Shailaja defended the state government’s ‘suggestion’ that expatriates should produce Covid negative certificate before boarding chartered flights. However, she said a final decision on this will be taken only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with the chief ministers on Tuesday. “The government had only suggested that those who come by chartered flights should have a Covid negative certificate. We haven’t taken any decision. It is the preserve of the Centre to take any decision on this,’’ said Shailaja while responding to the severe criticism the state government faced from various quarters against demanding Covid negative certificate. She said the government had suggested this as a precautionary measure to protect the passengers in the flights. “Imagine the situation if a Covid-19 positive person travels in a flight which has pregnant women, children and even senior citizens as co-passengers. All of them will turn positive once they reach here. It is to avoid such a situation that we suggested testing before boarding the flight,” Shailaja said. “No person, who is a known Covid-19 positive case, should be allowed to travel. Allowing it would put the entire passengers in the flight in deep trouble. We cannot let such a situation happen. Many returnees are being tested positive after reaching here. But that situation is different from a positive person travelling in a flight,” said Shailaja. The government is not of the opinion that all the people who are coming from abroad are disease carriers. But it is always better for a carrier to avoid travel since it will protect others. The minister also flayed the criticisms made against the government on this. “There is a section of people who finds fault with whatever we do during the Covid-19 period. We cannot do anything to satisfy them. All the strategies adopted by the state in the Covid-19 prevention have so far evolved as a success model. But these people are not ready to accept it,’’ she said. Shailaja also reminded the critics that it was Kerala which first demanded that the expatriates stranded in different countries should be brought back, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-to-decide-on-covid-ve-certificates-for-returnees-shailaja/articleshow/76375282.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Demolition of cooling duct at Tekdi Ganesh temple stayed||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has stayed demolition/removal of and air conditioning duct at Ganesh temple, Tekdi. Secretary of Ganesh Temple Trust Sanjay Joglekar filed a petition alleging president Lakhichand Dhoble planned to demolish the system that was installed five months ago at a cost of Rs 67 lakh.Joglekar filed a petition with Joint Charity Commissioner raising the issue but that office did not reportedly take cognizance of the petition citing lockdown and other norms. Joglekar through advocate Pradeep Agrawal then moved the HC.Joglekar contended that the work of demolition/removal of the structure including the said duct was unauthorized and was being undertaken only on the directions of the president without approval of the executive committee of the Ganesh Temple Trust. A division bench of justices Sunil B Shukre and Anil S Kilor issued notices to the respondents returnable on July 3. They also stayed the demolition until further order.Hearing was conducted through video conferencing. Joglekar told TOI, “The work of the system completed by December last year. Rs 13 lakh worth of works more were required to be undertaken. Executive committee changed on December 15. The president gave work order to a person to demolish the system without approval from Executive Committee. It would lead to loss of public money.”Joglekar added, “Two fire staircases worth around Rs 25 lakh constructed a few months ago were also demolished.”Dhoble said, “I will file a reply in HC. Staircases were demolished as they were not constructed properly. The heat ventilation and cooling system duct needs some changes as work has not been done properly. Whatever will be done will be as per approval from executive committee.”IN A NUTSHELL* Ganesh Temple Trust had undertaken massive works for renovation of temple in the last two years* Trust constructed air conditioning duct at the cost of Rs 67 lakh and works completed by December last year* Secretary filed petition in HC with as dy charity commissioner took no cognizance of his plea* HC stayed demolition of duct* Secretary also said two fire staircases constructed a few months ago at the cost of Rs 25 lakh were also demolished||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demolition-of-cooling-duct-at-tekdi-ganesh-temple-stayed/articleshow/76376575.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 15, 2020||Goa||Shelters for cops at check posts in Vasco||Vasco: The deputy collector’s office on Saturday provided Vasco police shelters at the Mangor Hill containment zone and also at all check posts in the port town. Until Friday, police personnel were seen running for cover outside houses or shops, or rushing to their vehicles every time it rained. These nakabandis are near the IOC junction, St Andrew’s Church, Chicalim circle, airport junction, the containment zone at Varunapuri junction, Ram Mandir, Mangor Hill junction, St Theresa’s High School and Ambabaei temple. “We had asked for shelters for cops who are on duty at various points,” DySP Raju Raut Dessai said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shelters-for-cops-at-check-posts-in-vasco/articleshow/76365087.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Is high MSP enough for farmers: Jawandhia||Nagpur: Veteran farm activist Vijay Jawandhia has reacted to Union transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari’s statement that the minimum support price (MSP) for farm produce in the country is far more than the domestic and international prices. The minister had said alternative solutions need to be searched for farmers’ benefit. Jawandhia, a former Shetkari Sanghathana activist, in a letter to Gadkari asked him if the seventh pay commission has fixed a minimum pay of Rs600 for the government employees, should not be there a similar yardstick for the farmers. Jawandhia told TOI that he wanted to put across a message that no matter if the MSPs are higher than the global and domestic rates, the objective must be to ensure a decent remuneration for a farmer. It cannot be achieved even at the current MSPs for 2020, he said. “If the minster is saying that alternative solutions must be explored, then it can be increasing the aid under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana,” said Jawandhia, At present, a yearly dole of Rs6000 is given to small farmers under the scheme. “It is true that that the rates in India are more than that in other countries. However, this is not new. In 1997, large-scale import of cotton took place in the country for which I had led a protest in front of your residence demanding that an import duty should be imposed on the commodity,” said Jawandhia’s letter to Gadkari.. The activist told TOI that other countries can keep the rates low because there are a slew of subsidies for the farmer which includes direct income assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/is-high-msp-enough-for-farmers-jawandhia/articleshow/76376579.cms||Shishir Arya
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Need to rein in infection through contact: Shailaja||Thiruvananthapuram: The infection rate through contacts is at present 11% and the state wants to bring it down to 5%, said health minister K K Shailaja. The infection rate through contacts before May 7 was 25%. “Now, there are 2,028 imported cases reported in the state and only 379 contact cases. Hence, we are in safe zone now,” the health minister said. In many states and countries, they have more cases reported through contacts than the imported ones. However in Kerala, imported cases have been always more when compared to the infection received through contacts. “That’s the reason why we claim that there is no community spread here,” Shailaja said. “We have prevented the spread through strict monitoring. However in Thrissur, a cluster has been formed in a warehouse. But it has not been turned into a community spread,” said the minister. “The home quarantine was the most effective part in containing the community spread. The state has set a model on this. However, with the huge influx of people from elsewhere to the state, the cases will go up. There is also a high risk of community spread; we have to be vigilant on this,’’ said the minister. The local bodies and police have employed a strict monitoring on the people quarantined at home. The people also should have awareness on the need for remaining indoors. The state government alone cannot prevent the spread of community spread. The people also have to support the government on this, the minister said. There are more people waiting in foreign countries and other states to come back to the state. When there is a heavy influx of people, there will be heavy patient load. “It is natural we cannot prevent that. But we can prevent the spreading of the infection from them to others. That is what the government is trying to do,” Shailaja said. “Among the cases reported here, 62% have been asymptomatic. But there is nothing to fear on that since we have been able to curb the spreading from them also. All these prove that all our strategies have been a success so far,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/need-to-rein-in-infection-through-contact-shailaja/articleshow/76375303.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot offers 5,000 Covid tests daily to Delhi, 5 border states||JAIPUR: Considering the Covid-19 emergencies in neighbouring states, chief minister Ashok Gehlot offered to provide 5,000 Covid tests daily to Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat on Sunday. “Rajasthan is committed to providing all possible help to its neighbouring states in times of need. The state which started with zero testing capacity has now reached a total capacity of 15,000 per day,” said Gehlot in an official press statement. The state is likely to raise its daily testing capacity to 25,000 after the arrival of two machines from the US. Delhi and Gujarat have been reporting delays in providing test results due to the shortage of machines. The offer could come as a major relief to these governments. The decision came during a review meeting held at the CM’s residence on Sunday evening. Gehlot expressed concern over the reports of how people were not following the unlock rules properly. “People have to follow all health protocols at any cost. The lockdown has been relaxed to provide a window for economic activities. The health of our citizens is high on our priority,” said Gehlot. He also directed officials to continue to enforce health protocols by regular testing and monitoring of those who are vulnerable. Meanwhile, Gehlot has also relaxed the rules for MGNREGA workers, keeping in view the harsh weather conditions. “The MGNREGA workers are allowed to return home at 11am or even before that, provided they have completed their given task. It is done to provide ease to these workers as the temperature is very high these days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-offers-5k-covid-testsdaily-to-delhi-5-border-states/articleshow/76376585.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Corona nixes internship plans of several students||LUCKNOW: The economic slump due to Covid-19 pandemic has derailed summer internship plans of several students. These internships are crucial for placements, especially for those in their final year of courses. Students in various academic institutions in the city shared that already promised internships were cancelled and only a handful of sectors were offering virtual internships. However, the number of intakes was lower and these e-internships were not serving the purpose. “A leading firm which had approved my internship has rolled back the offer due to Covid-19. internships provide an opportunity for practical experience and build contacts to get jobs later,” said MBA final-year student of Lucknow University Yashaswi Sinha. A law student of Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University Ankita Singh was among the fortunate ones as she has landed an e-internship with a firm but is unhappy as it is not serving the purpose. “For a law student, internship is about learning case preparation and court manners through practical experience,” she said. “For hotel management students who want to be master chefs, exposure to a large kitchen is a must. We cannot bake a pizza online without the supervision of chefs. Similarly, for learning guest service in the hospitality sector, it is essential to work with five-star and three-star hotels,” said Urvashi Bhargava, a student. Scientific institutes in the city have also shut their laboratories for internships. “A few scientific institutes conduct tests to take interns that helps us not only to get real lab experience and work under scientists but also to earn stipends and add to our CVs. However, that is not happening now,” said LU MSc student Nida Khalid. Many students said that internships have helped their seniors land jobs and build contacts that tell them about job openings. This is something they are losing on. “Most journalism, mass communication and public relations students land jobs during internships. Our internships due in June have been set aside,” said MA journalism final-year student Mohsin Siddiqui. Students said they have no choice but to wait for the Covid-19 pandemic to subside. “We might have to go through the double stress of studies and internship together this year,” said Shubhangi, a management student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-nixes-internship-plans-of-several-students/articleshow/76376589.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||State ropes in 41 private hospitalsfor dedicated Covid-19 treatment||JAIPUR: In a bid to boost its capacity to treat Covid-19, the state government has empanelled 41 private hospitals to turn them into dedicated coronavirus treatment facilities, with oxygen-supported beds. The health department has prepared a list of 96 hospitals, 55 government and 41 private ones, for treating Covid patients. These hospitals have a capacity of over 17,000 isolation beds, with private hospitals providing nearly 7,000. The state has so far reported 12,694 corona positive cases. About 2,800 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Some of the asymptomatic patients are being treated at their homes in isolation. Apart from these hospitals, the Ashok Gehlot government has prepared a list of 81 hospitals and buildings (such as hotels, coaching centres, hostels), which do not have oxygen-supported beds, but can be converted into dedicated Covid treatment centres, when required. The empanelled private hospitals, some of them have received land on concessional rates from the government, are on a stand-by mode. “As of now, in Jaipur, we are providing Covid treatment at SMS Hospital, RUHS Hospital and one private hospital. Covid cases reported from other private hospitals are shifted to any of these three for treatment,” said a health department official. The department claimed that the situation is under control. “We are not reporting the same number of cases as earlier. If in future, there is an outbreak of cases in the city, the private hospitals will be roped in for treating patients,” said the official. Majority of these hospitals have ICU facility, oxygen-supported beds, isolation beds and other equipment. However, the state government will not use all these empanelled hospitals for Covid treatment now to prevent exposing healthcare staff to infection. While the government-run Jaipuria Hospital, which was providing virus treatment, has been made Covid free, the RUHS Hospital is the main dedicated facility in Jaipur where a majority of the patients are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-ropes-in-41-private-hospitalsfor-dedicated-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/76376587.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CISCE students can opt out of pending exams||NEW DELHI: Following protests by parents, the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), which conducts ISC (Class XII )and ICSE (Class X) exams, has given two options to its students for the pending exams. Students can either appear for the exams scheduled from July 1 or accept the marks of the pre-boards/internal examinations conducted by the schools. As there was a lockdown due to the Covid-19-induced crisis, the board exams had to be postponed. The CISCE then decided to conduct the exams from July 1 to 14. Concerned with the rising cases of Covid-19, parents had moved Mumbai high court asking for cancellation of the examination. There are eight ISC exams and six ICSE exam Each school has to inform the board about the option selected by the students by June 22. However, parents are not very happy. “For pre-boards, schools follow a strict evaluation process. Students also do not get much time to prepare. This notification will force students to appear for the exams,” rued Vijaya Mathur, a parent. The next date of hearing is June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cisce-students-can-opt-out-of-pending-exams/articleshow/76395268.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||History-sheeter vanishes after rally, still untraced||Vadodara: It’s been more than 10 days now after murder-accused, Suraj Kahar, and his cronies embarassed cops with a grand road show after getting bail. However, police are yet to trace the notorious criminal who has been missing ever since. A complaint was registered against him for taking out a rally despite police notification banning it. “Kahar has fled Gujarat. We are on his trail and there is possibility that he is hiding in Madhya Pradesh. We will nab him soon,” said an official from the crime branch which has formed teams to nab him. Flanked by over a dozen of his accomplices and friends on two-wheelers, Kahar had taken out a rally with his supporters on June 4 where he was seen in a luxurious car standing through the sunroof throughout the route from the central jail to his home Warasia Road. Interestingly, none of the traffic cops stopped the boisterous rally that passed through many crossroads. Police woke up only two days later after three videos of the rally went viral on the social media. But Kahar disappeared by then. Police have arrested 10 supporters who were part of the rally. Kahar was arrested by the Panigate police in February after he and his friends thrashed Keval Jadav, who was riding his bike, for overtaking his car on Waghodia Road. Kahar and four others beat up Jadav, an HR executive, so badly that he died of internal injuries. Kahar has nearly a dozen cases registered against him including assault, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder threatening and under the Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/history-sheeter-vanishes-after-rally-still-untraced/articleshow/76374945.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 checks in, hotel industry in a fix||NEW DELHI: Greesh Bindra of The Suryaa had gone to court over the state government decision to turn hotels into Covid-19 care centres attached to private hospitals. After the court asked hotels on Monday to begin the process of conversion into medical facilities — the next hearing in the case is slated for July 29 — Bindra said that he supported the decision, but staffing such a facility was a concern for hotels. Bindra, vice-president, operations, at The Suryaa, pointed out that hospitality professionals were not hospital caregivers and hotels were in no way designed and built as hospitals. None of his staff and the hotel departments such as housekeeping, front desk, security and technicians are trained in medical protocols required to deal with the highly contagious Covid-19. He has requested a few days for the conversion into a hospital because he needs 75-80 workers to be present at any time to manage operations. Most of them, he explained, panicked on hearing that they would henceforth be dealing with Covid-19 patients, and the workers’ union has expressed concerns about risking families to the infection. Delhi government had advised hotels in the city to admit Covid-19 patients with normal symptoms, and in case of their condition turning severe during their stay, to transfer them to hospitals. Under the order, the hospitals will provide doctors, nurses and medical equipment, while the hotels are to provide rooms, housekeeping, disinfection and fooding services at a fixed rate. With non-compliance attracting penal action, hoteliers represented by Confederation of Indian Industry National Tourism Committee had written to deputy CM Manish Sisodia expressing concern at the ‘sudden’ requisition of hotels for Covid-19 treatment, pointing out no notice were sent to hotels or inspections of premises for suitability as a medical centre carried out before issuing the order. Speaking to TOI about the letter, the hoteliers observed that stadia and indoor exhibition halls were better suited as medical facilities. For one, they said, hotels do not have the right kinds of beds, oxygen support in rooms or even appropriately sized elevators for patient transport. The hotels weren’t knowledgeable about disposal of hazardous biowaste that a Covid centre entailed. The banquet halls and rooms as well as the interiors, construction, air conditioning, carpeting, toilets in banquets and the panelling across rooms would hamper efforts to turn them into a treatment facility. Hotelier Kapil Chopra, who also runs NGO Charity Beds, which informs people about availability of beds in city hospitals, described such orders as panic reactions. He said the focus should be containment of the infection, the only way for this being through contact tracing and quarantine. He said the coronavirus statistics are rising drastically and this needed the government to start meticulous contact tracing to reduce infection numbers, without which a large number of beds would still prove inadequate. “A hospital using a neighbouring hotel to accommodate patients is understandable,” Chopra said, “but hotels in Aerocity being requisitioned for Apollo Hospitals many kilometres away makes no sense.” He said that requisitioning hotels would not help the government in fighting the virus, it should rather augment the existing health facilities. Jean-Michel Cassé, COO, Accor India & South Asia, reiterated that a hotel was not designed to be a hospital. He said their associates were not prepared for such utilisation of the properties. Cassé noted that many other states had contacted them to extend institutional quarantine facilities as a part of Vande Bharat Mission bringing Indians home from abroad, but not for use as a hospital. No other hotel in Accor network across the globe, he emphasised, was transforming into a Covid-19 facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-checks-in-hotel-industry-in-a-fix/articleshow/76395283.cms||Amin Ali
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Van transporting cattle illegally impounded, one held||Mangaluru: Acting on a tip-off from Bajrang Dal, Urwa police intercepted a pickup van at Kottara Cross in the wee hours of Sunday that was illegally transporting cattle, and an individual was arrested in connection with the incident. Police rescued four female buffaloes, and the vehicle that was used to ferry the livestock impounded. Urwa police inspector Mohammad Sharief said that the accused was Hanief, a resident of Jokatte in Mangaluru taluk, said that the vehicle was on its way to abbatoir in Kudroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/van-transporting-cattle-illegally-impounded-one-held/articleshow/76376444.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Cooking up a storm: Lockdown turns Lucknow housewives into food bloggers, culinary pros||LUCKNOW: The lockdown spurred Rimmi Arora, 49, a homemaker to turn her passion for cooking into a profession. Of course, her daughters were an inspiration. “I was happy being homemaker and preparing special dishes for my family, but when my daughters motivated me to think big about the culinary world, I began dreaming of becoming a professional,” said Rimmi, who loved cooking since teenage years and received appreciation from family and friends, particularly for her Banoffee Pie. During special family occasions, she would churn out favourite dishes of each family member. Rimmi’s daughters coaxed her to share her skills on social media during the lockdown and — My Flavour Table by Rimmi Arora — began trending on Instagram. Rimmi began preparing easy-to-make food for beginners and started sharing her recipes — from healthy menu to lip-smacking sweet dishes. “I am learning the art of food blogging. Now, she’s planning to start her own restaurant or eatery in the city,” she said. Once a techie, Geeta Bhargava, 49, started her Instagram page — Gateway to Treats — a year ago, but her followers soared during the lockdown. And she began receiving orders while giving wings to her passion for baking. Initially, she only made cakes and cookies with minimum artificial colour. Now, with her fare selling like hotcakes, Geeta graduated to special bakery with a dash of Indian flavour like Rasmalai Cake and Biryani-themed cake. Her page is replete with cake designs, orders, and reviews from customers. “I worked as a software engineer, but, after marriage and kids, I took a break in 1996. In 2019, I participated in local cooking competitions and won prizes. The same year, I auditioned for a reality show, Masterchef India, but couldn’t clear the second round. However, it boosted my morale and I began making cakes at home. The lockdown gave me ample time to experiment and reach out to people through social media. Soon, her phone was abuzz with calls for delivery of cakes for birthdays, anniversaries, Mother’s Day. With an extra push from family, Geeta began home delivering her fare. “The overwhelming response energised me to pursue the profession seriously,” she said. Food for jobYoung entrepreneurs in the city too are busy dabbling in cuisine. Parul Gaur, 24, is a home-baker who plans to open a cafe in the city. She handles 8-10 orders a day. “Due to the pandemic, people are reluctant to visit eateries, but they do trust home-made stuff as it is fresh, safe and hygienic. I even baked a doctor-themed cake,” said Gaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cooking-up-a-storm-lockdown-turns-city-housewives-into-food-bloggers-culinary-pros/articleshow/76376625.cms||Aditi Singh
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Grid Sub Station project halted in Jaisalmer as cables not laid underground||Jaisalmer: The work of 132kv Grid Sub Station near Mohangarh in Jaisalmer has come to a standstill as the Desert National Park officers have not issued NOC because the cables were not laid underground to protect the official state bird, Great Indian Bustard (GIB). The GIB is protected under Schedule I of the Wild Life (Protection) Act of 1972. This Grid Sub Station is being set up near the proposed GIB Arc near Mohangarh. A PIL was filed in SC over laying underground cables as many GIBs had died after colliding with electric wires. The state government had given directions to windmill companies and others for the same. Kapil Chandraval, deputy conservator of forest, Desert National Park, said the NOC could be given only after the cables are laid underground. Discom AEN Chetanram said, “the 132kv Grid Sub Station was sanctioned for Rs 22 crore. The structure is almost ready and tower pillar from Chandhan to Mohangarh Bhad has also been erected. Around 60% work is complete. Over Rs 7 crore has been spent on the project. But, terming it as GIB park area, Desert National Park officers have asked to stop the work and lay the cables underground. It is not possible to put the heavy cables underground. Villagers say that they have never seen GIB in this area”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/grid-sub-station-project-halted-in-jaisalmer-as-cables-not-laid-underground/articleshow/76376598.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||JDA camp to issue lease deeds for PRN Scheme plot owners||Jaipur: Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will reorganise camps on Monday to issue lease deeds for plot owners of Prithvi Raj Nagar Scheme. The work to issue lease deeds resumes after two months because of the pandemic. The civic body has also released list of 28 non-approved residential colonies for which camps will be organised. The civic body has set a target to issue lease deeds to all PRN plot holders till November 2020. Residents who fail to procure lease deeds on time will have to pay double development and regularisation rates for their plots. Other than this, the department will also issues lease deeds for commercial establishments, mixed used institutions and marriage gardens in 271 approved schemes developed on 80 to 200 feet sector roads of PRN scheme. “This is the first time the department will issue lease deeds for commercial establishments. The proposal had received the nod from the state government in February but work cold not be initiated as lockdown was imposed,” said an official. The official said JDA had approved 506 colonies in PRN scheme, out of which about 271 are developed on 80-feet sector road to 200-feet sector road. Commercial, mixed, institutional and marriage garden leases are issued in those schemes. For future, JDA has also prepared a list of 128 unapproved colonies developed on and above 80-feet road. “If these schemes get JDA approval, commercial lease deeds will be issued in these colonies too.” For a 100 square-yard plot, JDA will charge Rs 300 regularisation charge (per square yard), which will include allotment rates. Similarly, for plot size between 101 and 300 square-yards, JDA will charge Rs 480. The agency will charge regularisation rates of Rs 720 (per square yard) for plots bigger than 301 square yards and up to 1,000 square yards. Owners having a plot of more than 1,000 square yards will have to give 1.5 times regularisation charges. For regularising a marriage garden in the scheme, which has been developed on a plot size above 2,000 square yards, the JDA has fixed Rs 1,500 (per square yard) regularisation charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-camp-to-issue-lease-deeds-for-prn-scheme-plot-owners/articleshow/76376603.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||JMC to float tenders for 2 underground parking lots soon||Jaipur: Two more underground parking areas will come up in the Walled City to manage space crunch. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) will soon invite tenders for the parking areas in Aatish Market and Pondrick Park. Parking has been a long-standing problem in the Walled City. Market associations here rue that due to heavy traffic, there has been a decline in customers. Both the parking spaces will cost around Rs 35 crore, JMC officials said. The project will be financed by the Jaipur Smart City Limited and executed by JMC. “We invited tenders twice earlier but due to the coronavirus outbreak no one came forward to bid. We have now decided to invite the tenders at the end of July. If the tenders are finalized, we plan to complete the work within six to eight months,” said a JMC official. In Pondrick Park, the parking would cost around Rs 19 crore. It will have a recreation centre – game room, community centre and a small library. Meanwhile, another underground parking was recently completed at Chaugan Stadium which is yet to be inaugurated. Kishapole Market Association president Manish Khunteta said that Chaugan Stadium parking should have been inaugurated sooner. “Firstly, we want to start Chaugan Stadium parking which is yet to be inaugurated though the work is complete. It will help reduce traffic congestion in Kishanpole Market. Most of the parking spaces in various markets in the Walled City are not tendered and vehicles are parked 24x7 without any charge which causes disruption as customers do not get space for parking. After the completion of Aatish Market parking, we want that there should be stricter adherence to rules.”  Government should plan to provide separate space to residents, traders and customers for limited hours at reasonable rates,” Khunteta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-float-tenders-for-2-underground-parking-lots-soon/articleshow/76376602.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Shanghai chain removes photo of ‘princess’ after kin in UP object and Indian envoy intervenes||Rampur: A restaurant in China’s Shanghai has removed the photographs of a former Indian princess from its menu card after Indian Ambassador to that country, Vikram Misri, took up the matter following protests from her family in UP. The princess, Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan, is the daughter of the last nawab of Rampur. Misri pursued the matter after former UP minister and four-term MLA Nawab Kazim Ali, her nephew, sent a letter to India’s consul general in Shanghai on June 11, saying that the restaurant, Masala Art, did not take permission from the erstwhile royal family or from Mehrunnisa to use her photo. He also said it was “derogatory”.In the letter written to India’s consul general to Shanghai Anil Kumar Rai on June 11, Ali said it was an “invasion of privacy”. He wrote: “This is to bring to your notice that Shri Rajesh Prabhakar, owner of Masala Art restaurant, 397 Dagu Road, Shanghai, is using the photograph of my aunt Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan of Rampur in the menu cards of all his restaurants. This is being used in a derogatory manner without our permission. Copies of news cuttings from the local press are enclosed for your perusal. We are terribly distressed as this is a total invasion of our privacy. I shall be grateful if you can take appropriate action in this matter through your good offices."He added, “For your information, Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan is the daughter of the last nawab of Rampur state, Nawab Syed Raza Ali Khan, who was the first ruler of undivided India to merge his state in the Union of India in May, 1949. Due to this gesture, half of Gandhi Ji’s ashes were sent to Rampur from Delhi by the then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. She is also the sister of my father, Nawab Syed Zulfquar Ali Khan, a six-term MP from Rampur.” The action was swift. On June 12, Misri reverted and told Khan that the menus have been withdrawn.“Dear Janab Kazim Ali Khan. Please refer to your letter of June 11, 2020 regarding the misuse of your aunt’s image by an Indian restaurant in Shanghai. Our consul general in Shanghai had immediately taken up the matter with the restaurant owner, who has confirmed that these menus have been withdrawn with immediate effect and will not be used any further. He has also conveyed regret for unintentionally hurting your sentiments,” Misri wrote.Mehrunnisa was married to Rahim Khan, who was the commander-in-chief of Pakistan Airforce during the 1971 war. While Khan is no more, Mehrunnisa, almost 90 and ailing, lives in Washington DC. Nawab Kazim told TOI, “After the action taken by the Indian Ambassador in China, the owner of Masala Art has removed the pictures of Mehrunnisa Khan from the menu cards of all the six restaurants in Shanghai, and he has apologized for it. I am thankful to Ambassador Misri for the swift action he has taken in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/shanghai-chain-removes-photo-of-princess-after-kin-in-up-object-and-indian-envoy-intervenes/articleshow/76374482.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two pandemics, 123 years apart, show striking similarities||HYDERABAD: The demand by postgraduate medical students for postponement of the annual examination in view of the current pandemic is another example of history repeating itself. In 1897-98, when the princely state of Hyderabad was caught in the grip of bubonic plague, the Nizam VI, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, who was the ruler then, had announced the cancellation of the annual examination for medical students. He had also put off or cancelled various public examinations to minimise the risk of transmission of plague as part of the then prevalent social distancing norms. A study of medical and health records of the Nizam’s Hyderabad at the turn of the 19th century reveals how plague had caused devastation in the princely state, forcing the ruler to put medical students on plague duty, like junior doctors and PG medical students tackling Covid-19 now. And since the medicos, about 100 in all, were on plague duty and could not find time to study, the Nizam had cancelled the annual examination. READ THE STORY ON TOI+ 2 pandemics, 123 years apart, yet similar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-pandemics-123-years-apart-show-striking-similarities/articleshow/76377076.cms||Syed Akbar
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Leopardess delivers quadruplets at Jawai Bandh reserve in Pali||JAIPUR: A leopardess at the Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation Reserve (JBLCR) in Pali district recently gave birth to quadruplets, reported to be the second time in the history of the region. The female leopard named Jivada was captured with her cubs by some wildlife photographers for the first time on Saturday evening. A forest official said, “The region is also called as Jivada. The same leopardess had given birth to two cubs in 2018. The consistent increase in the population of leopards in the region is a good sign.” Many wildlife enthusiasts and reports claimed that this was the first incident in Jawai where four cubs were born. However, Shatrunjay Pratap Singh, who documented the first leopardess with four cubs, clarified, “I have co-authored a book named ‘Leopard and Shepherds of Jawai’, which has pictorial evidences that a leopardess ‘Deva’ gave birth to four cubs in November, 2018. Those cubs went out of sight from March 2019.” Naveen Menon, a wildlife enthusiast and photographer, said, “Rocky outcrop is a unique landscape of Jawai region. In other forest reserves, like Kabini in Karnataka, leopards live on trees. It is only in Jawai Bandh that one can see leopards living in caves. These leopards have brought the small town on global map.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopardess-delivers-quadruplets-at-jawai-bandh-reserve-in-pali/articleshow/76376605.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mild tremors rattle Ahmedabad, people rush out of homes||AHMEDABAD/RAJKOT: Amidst the anxiety of Covid-19 pandemic, an earthquake was least expected by many in Gujarat’s major cities and towns, The quake, measuring 5.3 on the Richter scale, hit on Sunday evening at 8:13pm. It had its epicentre at Vaundh village 10km north-north east of Bhachau in Kutch according to officials at the Institute for Seismic Research (ISR) Gandhinagar. Many people were right in the midst of their dinner when the earthquake occurred. The tremors were felt in cities like Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Bhuj , Rajkot, and Patan, where many people rushed out of their homes. Earlier, such shocks were felt on June 6 last year at night when an earthquake measuring 4.3 onthe Richter scale struck Banaskantha region at 10:31pm and earlier still mild tremors were felt in October 2015. In Ahmedabad’s Satellite area, many living in high-rises rushed out. “Suddenly, the chair I was sitting on started moving. I checked the lamp on the wall and it was swinging,” said Anthony D’Souza, a resident of Sharnam Apartments in Satellite. Vishwa Raval, a student in Satellite area said, “I was sitting on the sofa and playing a video game when I suddenly felt the jolt. I realized it was a tremor.” Mohammed Shaikh, staying on the 11th floor of Emaad Heights in Sarkhej said they had rushed out as soon as the table and chairs began shaking while they were having dinner. In Rajkot too, people living in high-rises ran out of their homes. Suresh Andadkat, a resident of Sadhu Vasvani Road said, “I was having dinner and watching television with family when we suddenly felt the tremor. We all rushed out.” In Rajkot many were seen outside their buildings in Race Course, Amin Marg, Kalavad Road, Bhaktinagar and other parts of the city. Prabhav Joshi, Kutch district development officer (DDO) said there were no primary reports of any human injury or damage to property. ISR officials claim that the earthquake originated from an expected region of the Kutch Mainland Fault (KMF) system , which is a complex web of faults and they said such episodes are usually felt once in two to three years, since the 2001 earthquake. The ISR has 65 sensors that continually monitor the region for these aftershocks. The fault system is in state of continuous uplift and erosion since the 2001 earthquake and stresses are getting accumulated, claim experts, leading to mild shocks, which are on expected lines and is normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mild-tremors-rattle-city-people-rush-out-of-homes/articleshow/76376125.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Guest workers’ kids study via YouTube||Kochi: Ikravarsi, a Class IV student of Union LP school in Thrikkanarvattom, reads out a chapter on gardening, holding a piece of paper with pictures of flowers she drew. Standing in the corner of a room, she introduces herself in Malayalam and continues reading the chapter in English. Her father Mehamood Raasa recorded it and sent the video to her class teacher in Ernakulam. Raasa recorded his daughter reading the chapter not from somewhere in Ernakulam or in Kerala but from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. Her family returned to UP due to lockdown. Ikravarsi is not the only pupil studying watching online classes on YouTube in Kerala. Guest workers’ children who have returned to their respective states follow suit either by sending videos or photos of the homework assigned to them. While an audio recording of sixth standard student Aksana Fathima of MAHS in Kodanad requests her teacher to send photos of chapters in textbooks. “Teacher, send me photos of textbooks. I will download it. Everybody says that we can come back to Kerala after one year despite the lockdown being lifted,” says the audio message sent by Aksana from Assam to her teacher in Kodanad. She sends back photos of homework to her teacher. “Teachers send YouTube link of classes broadcast on Victers channel to WhatsApp numbers of parents and ask students to send back the activities they have undertaken after watching the class. They download the classes and study. Response from many students who have gone back to their respective states is encouraging,” says Summayya Saidu, head mistress in Thrikkanarvattom school. However, many teachers find it difficult to contact parents of children who have gone back to their states in North India and send link of online classes. “When we call on the numbers provided by parents, they are not available and teachers are unable to send the links. Some students from Odisha or Kodaikanal send photos of their activities after watching the link of online class. We don’t know whether they will return or not. But, we have made alternative arrangements for students who do not have facilities to avail online class here,” says Aysha A M, block resource coordinator in Perumbavoor. Around 600 children of guest workers study under Perumbavoor BRC alone. As many as 4,165 children of guest workers attended classes from first standard to Plus Two last academic year in the district. “There were around 10,000 school-going kids of guest labourers in the state last year. Most are studying in Ernakulam. We have instructed teachers to send link of online classes to the students who have gone back to their respective states with parents and make them study. Though many are able to download the online classes, many are deprived of this facility as their houses are situated in rural areas, where there is no internet facility,” said Sindhu S S, chief programme officer Samagra Siksha Kerala||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/guest-workers-kids-study-via-youtube/articleshow/76372229.cms||T C Sreemol
June 15, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s doubling rate 34.1 days, longest in India: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that there is significant improvement in the coronavirus situation in Madhya Pradesh, as the recovery rate and doubling rate in the state has increased. Reviewing the Covid situation in the state with officers through video conference on Sunday, he said MP has the longest doubling rate of 34.1 days in the country. During the meeting, additional chief secretary health Mohammad Suleman informed that Bhopal has moved out of the bracket of top 15-worst Covid hit cities in the country. He said that from the state, now, only Indore figures in the list and is ranked 7th. Chouhan informed that Madhya Pradesh has now reached the 8th position in India in Corona infection after improvement in Corona related parameters. Madhya Pradesh has 10,641 Corona positive cases. Maharashtra has maximum 1,04,568 Corona cases, followed by 42,687 in Tamil Nadu, 38,958 in Delhi, 23,038 in Gujarat, 13,118 in Uttar Pradesh, 12,401 in Rajasthan and 10,698 in West Bengal. Chief minister said that district-wise senior officers have been made officers in charge for monitoring corona. They should monitor the condition of corona in their district as soon as they wake up in the morning and before going to sleep at night, give guidance to the concerned collectors and report it. In the meeting, Chouhan directed that the death rate of Corona in the state has to be minimised. For this, best medical care should be ensured in all Covid hospitals. Treatment protocol should be followed completely and special attention should be paid to every patient. Chouhan said that life is becoming normal now after opening of the lockdown. Therefore, it is necessary to make people aware so that they take all necessary precautions. Applying masks, maintaining distance of two yards, not spitting, washing hands with soap frequently, using sanitiser etc. are all essential. Public support should be taken to spread awareness. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and DGP Vivek Johri were present on the occasion. Meanwhile, health minister Narottam Mishra announced for setting up a new 100-bedded Covid-19 hospital in Dabra. Making the announcement during a visit to Dabra, Mishra said a sum of Rs 6.5 crore would be spent on building the hospital. Later, it was decided that the new building must be constructed in the premises of Dabra civil hospital. The hospital will be equipped with modern facilities and it would cater to medical needs of people from Dabra and nearby areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/states-doubling-rate-34-1-days-longest-in-india-cm/articleshow/76376049.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Woman ends life after killing toddler son||KOTA: Distressed with the harassment by her husband, a 25-year-old woman poisoned her 18-month-old son before killing herself at her father’s agriculture field in Girdharpura village under Jhalrapatan police station of Jhalawar district on Saturday. Police handed over the two bodies to her family members after postmortem and lodged a case of abetment of suicide against her husband. The woman was identified as Surena, wife of Jugdish Dangi and resident of Jhalawar district. The bodies were found in an agriculture field belonging to the woman’s father with two empty glass vials, in-charge at Jhalrapatan police station Komal Pradas Jatav said. A suicide note was also recovered in which the woman accused her husband of torture and held him responsible for both the deaths. “Distressed with torture and harassment by my husband, I am taking the life of myself and my son,” the suicide note read, the official said. The deceased woman had left her husband’s house in Gardankhedi village in Pedawa tehsil following a dispute and she had been living with her parents in Girdharpura village for over two months, the police official said. While the deceased woman’s parents had left for daily work on Saturday morning, the woman along with her son reached her father’s agriculture field on the outskirts of the village and first administered poison to her son before consuming it herself to end life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-ends-life-after-killing-toddler-son/articleshow/76376606.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||16 charged with realtor’s murder during northeast Delhi riots||NEW DELHI: A chargesheet has been filed by police against 16 people in the murder case of a realtor during the northeast Delhi riots that occurred earlier this year. The deceased, Mohammad Parvez (48), was a resident of North Ghonda. The murder took place around 7pm on February 25. Parvez was found outside his house with a gunshot wound and rushed to GTB Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. The bullet had perforated the right side of his chest, right lung and ruptured his liver before exiting from his back. “His licensed .32 bore revolver is missing. Parvez had 25 rounds, but only 13 cartridges were found in his pocket,” the FIR read. During investigation, it was found that just like slain intelligence official Ankit Sharma, Parvez, too, had been trying to intercede between the two communities to maintain peace. Sixteen people, all locals, were arrested by the SIT. “The accused were a part of the mob that had been rioting, committing arson and firing in the area. Eyewitnesses said one of them shot at the victim, while the others attacked him,” the police report stated. Police said evidence in the form of CCTV footage and call details incriminated the accused in this case. Their location was found at the spot and their faces were captured on camera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/16-charged-with-realtors-murder-during-ne-riots/articleshow/76395333.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC app to give info on bed availability||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) mobile application ‘Mazi Health Mazya Hathi’ (MHMH), on lines of Aarogya Setu, will now help the citizens check the availability of hospital beds for treatment of Covid-19. The app shows total number of beds, occupied and vacant, in 15 hospitals in city.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-app-to-give-info-on-bed-availability/articleshow/76374536.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NIMS flooded with Covid-19 test samples from private hospitals||HYDERABAD: With many private hospitals insisting patients posted for surgery undergo high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) screening of their lungs before going under the knife, the number of nose and throat swab samples being sent for Covid-19 testing from these hospitals to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) has been increasing significantly. Senior NIMS doctors said about 150-200 swab samples from corporate hospitals were being tested for coronavirus daily. “Earlier, the test results of very few samples were coming out as positive. But, in the last ten days, we noticed that about 30% of the samples tested are coming out as positive. On average, we are testing about 200 samples per day from private hospitals,” a faculty from NIMS said. Pulmonologists in the city said not just in Hyderabad, but worldwide patients, especially the ones undergoing surgery, were being asked to undergo HRCT of thorax to detect the presence of viral pneumonia. “Through HRCT of lungs, viral pneumonia can be easily distinguished from bacterial or TB pneumonia. Once this result is positive, the swab samples are sent for Covid-19 confirmation. By doing this, the safety of the surgical team can be ensured as chances of getting exposed to coronavirus when a patient doesn’t have viral pneumonia are very minimal,” Dr VV Ramana Prasad, consultant pulmonologist, KIMS, said. He added post-lockdown as the corporate hospitals resumed their surgical services, most of them were sending about 20 samples per day for Covid-19 testing to the government facility. A few pulmonologists, however, attributed the increase in the number of swab samples being sent for Covid-19 from corporate hospitals to more patients with coronavirus-like symptoms. “More patients are complaining of cold, cough, and breathlessness. For instance, a patient who took treatment for cold, came back complaining about the loss of sense of smell in a week. Whenever patients are presenting with Covid-19-like symptoms, we are sending their swab samples for testing,” Dr Tapaswi Krishna, consultant pulmonologist, Gleneagles Global Hospital, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nims-flooded-with-samples-from-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76376653.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 15, 2020||Bhopal||Monsoon arrives in Madhya Pradesh a day early||BHOPAL: The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday announced the onset of southwest monsoon in Madhya Pradesh — a day before the expected date. Monsoon has arrived earlier this year as compared to past five years. In 2015, monsoon had arrived in MP on June 14. Officials of meteorological department, Bhopal circle said conditions were favourable for further advancement of monsoon in state and it is expected to reach Bhopal by Tuesday or Wednesday. There were multiple systems impacting the state including upper air cycer over east MP, east west wind shear and trough passing from northwest Rajasthan to Odisha through north MP. Clouds and moisture incursion kept the day temperature below normal mark. Maximum temperature in Bhopal on Sunday was 35.0 degrees Celsius — two degrees less than normal, and night temperature was 25.6 degrees — less than normal mark. Places that recorded showers between 8.30am and 5.30pm in the day were Khajuraho 17.6mm, Rewa 26mm, Satna 9 mmm, Sidhi 2.0mm, Gwalior 1.2mm, Naogaon 1.0mm and Bhopal recorded trace of rain. In the forecast for Bhopal on Monday the meteorological officials said, there would be cloudy sky with possibility of rain and thunder in parts of the city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/monsoon-arrives-in-mp-a-day-early/articleshow/76376072.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad taluka gets 1/3 of annual rain in 2 weeks||AURANGABAD: Occasional spells of heavy to very heavy rainfall have helped the Aurangabad taluka receive around one-third of the total average annual rainfall within the first two weeks of June. While the good run of the rainfall continued in several other parts of Marathwada, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has a forecast of heavy rain for the next 48 hours as well. Earlier, the Bhavsingpura area of the city reported 145mm of rainfall between Saturday and Sunday morning. Karmad (82 mm), Chikalthana (77 mm) and old city area (75 mm) also reported heavy rainfall. As per official data, the Aurangabad taluka has recorded 226 mm of rain since June 1. It accounts for 339% of expected showers and close to one-third of total average annual rainfall received between June and October. Aurangabad district, comprising nine talukas, has received 215% of expected rainfall so far. As Marathwada continues to witness widespread rainfall activity, all districts have been reporting surplus rainfall. Aurangabad district has reported highest 215% surplus rainfall till Sunday morning followed by Osmanabad (191%), Jalna (165%), Latur (163%), Beed (159%), Hingoli (124%), Parbhani (121%) and Nanded (107%). The region as a whole has reported close to 100 mm of average rainfall since June 1 — accounting for 153% expected showers and 13% of total average annual rainfall. Meanwhile, good rainfall activity in upstream areas has led to the start of water release towards the Jayakwadi major irrigation project in Aurangabad district. Nandur-Madhmeshwar weir was releasing water at the arte of over 5,400 cusecs towards Jayakwadi dam by Sunday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-taluka-gets-1/3-of-annual-rain-in-2-weeks/articleshow/76374546.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Blending the ancient and modern in Covid war||AHMEDABAD: At a city-based hospital, the patients in Covid-19 ward are not provided the plastic water bottles – instead, they are given slightly warm water in copper pots to be sipped at regular intervals. They are also given dried herbs such as jatamasi and tagar with ajwain wrapped in a cloth to smell periodically. Two city-based hospitals in their ‘mixed method’ of treatment for Covid-19 patients are trying to infuse the ethos of Ayurveda along with ongoing allopathic treatment. City-based experts said that Ayurveda is primarily used during the epidemic for prophylactics to boost immunity with kadha (concoction) being distributed in several localities and even in hospital wards. “But what we are practising now is addressing the virus and its impact on the body,” said Vd Bhavdeep Ganatra, who is associated with medical trial of ayurvedic methods at SVP Hospital on a group of patients who have volunteered for the initiative. “We understand the nature of the patient – vata, pitta, kapha – and decide on the medicines. Surely, it’s challenging to work alongside allopathy – one has to keep in mind the medicines administered and ensure that the treatment doesn’t hamper that.” But several things can be practised by the patients, said experts. For example, the water given to the patients is infused with dried ginger, coriander seeds, cinnamon, tulsi, dried black grapes, etc based on the patient’s treatment. Vd Pravin Hirpara, who is associated with a city-based hospital for providing personalized ayurvedic treatment, said that epidemics are not new for India’s health and well-being science. “They are identified as ‘janpad dhvansak’ (roughly translated as destroyers of the states) in literature. Virus may be new but the key area where Ayurveda can help is in sustaining the patient’s health and addressing symptoms,” he said. The experts however caution that practice of Ayurveda alone is neither advisable nor practical. “If a patient develops cytokine storm, he/she needs anti-inflammatory injection immediately. Thus, all the attempts are being made in close coordination with the doctors,” said Hirpara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blending-the-ancient-and-modern-in-covid-war/articleshow/76376121.cms||Parth Shastri
June 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Rural Aurangabad sees a spike||Aurangabad: Of the 130 Covid-19 cases detected in Aurangabad district on Sunday, 48 were reported from outside the Aurangabad city, making it the highest single-day rise in cases in rural areas. Seven deaths were reported in the last 24 hours and 51 patients were discharged on Sunday. Fifteen cases were from Bajajnagar and 12 from Pandharpur. Prashant Date, taluka health officer of Aurangabad, said, “In the cases detected in Bajajnagar and Pandharpur, the infection was sourced to workers of a Pandharpur factory. However, we do not have the mechanism to check if factories are following guidelines.” Giridhar Sanganeria, Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture president, said large- and medium-scale industries are ensuring use of masks, thermal guns, sanitisers, and social distancing. “We will reissue a circular on Monday to ensure that guidelines are followed,” he said. Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture president Abhay Hanchanal denied plans to restrain production. “Industries are working at 40% capacity. Further cuts may hit the economy. We are in touch with members to ensure norms are followed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rural-aurangabad-sees-a-spike/articleshow/76374559.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata malls eye omni-channel presence with online push||KOLKATA: Retailers at city malls are strengthening their online presence to reach out to customers in the Covid era. While some retailers like Shoppers Stop and Levi’s had a strong online presence along with offline stores, others are reworking their token online presence and integrating it with their offline business to offer customers a seamless shopping experience that would take care of their safety concerns. “Around five years ago, online furniture retailer Urban Ladder had set up stores in major markets, including Kolkata, to offer the touch-and-feel experience. Now, the opposite happening with brick-and-mortar stores ramping up their online presence. It’s driven by the Covid-19 situation that has made safety the prime concern,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. In the new normal, customers are more comfortable spending time online than at stores. Yet, the desire to touch and feel the product, particularly apparels and shoes, will not disappear. Omni-channel presence, retailers said, will allow the customer to view the products online and visit the mall store to finalize the purchase after checking out the item. Some retailers are even discouraging customers to use trial rooms and instead asking the them to try out the clothes at home. “Most stores have evolved a no-hassle return policy. Goods that are returned are kept aside for decontamination before they are again placed on the shelves for sale,” pointed out Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan. While Quest has already introduced the concept of prior appointment for a mall visit, retailers at various malls say they, too, were pondering the possibility of introducing a pre-appointed store visit for customers who want a mix of online and offline shopping experience to ensure safety. This, they believe, will be particularly helpful in wooing the big-ticket customers who have been avoiding malls since they reopened on Monday. Quest vice-president Sanjeev Mehra, while acknowledging that online channels will play a role, said it could be a challenge for offline store operators to match the discounts that pure online players can offer owing to the low establishment and overhead costs. “The situation is still evolving. For high-end and luxury products, the desire for touch-and-feel experience will remain,” he said. But will it lead to contraction in store size? Ambuja Neotia whole-time director Ramesh Pandey did not think so. “Stores will always be in fashion for impulse buying. The pandemic is a bump. It won’t rob the pleasure of shopping at a mall,” he said, pointing to the retailers quickly overcoming their initial apprehensions to restart stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-eye-omni-channel-presence-with-online-push/articleshow/76376088.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Four Pilibhit sugar mills owe cane farmers Rs 551 crore||Pilibhit: Two private and two cooperative sugar mills in Pilibhit owe farmers dues to the tune of Rs 551.80 crore for this crushing season. This has left almost 89% of district's cane-growers, mostly marginal farmers, facing acute financial crisis.According to official records updated on June 10, the four sugar mills in Pilibhit had closed their respective crushing session between April 25 and May 19. Of the four mills, Bajaj Hindusthan Sugar Mill in Barkhera has not made any payment to farmers since December 10. It owes cane growers Rs 271.64 crore.The other three mills have also failed to pay for the last two-and-a-half months.The LH Sugar Mill procured total sugarcane valued at Rs 732.61 crore of which it has arrears of Rs 193.75 crore.The cooperative sugar mills at Bisalpur and Puranpur had purchased cane to the value of Rs 122.57 crore and 93.77 crore, respectively. They owe farmers Rs 49.43 crore and Rs 36.97 crore, respectively.Asked about Bajaj Hindusthan Mill, district cane officer Jitendra Kumar Mishra said the mill management had failed to seek the cash credit limit from commercial banks due to heavy backlog of sugarcane price.“Under the tagging system of the state government, the farmers are entitled to get 85% payment from the mill out of its total sugar sale value while the mill can utilize only the remaining 15% part for its own use. We are regularly monitoring the sugar sale proceedings of mills and the division of its sale price between the mill and the cane growers in the assigned ratio,” Mishra said.Meanwhile, state vice-president of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) Manjit Singh said, "Farmers have already suffered a great loss during the recent wheat procurement due to the lockdown, compelling them to sell their produce at a much lower rate than the government’s minimum support price. Now, the massive arrears of cane price have crippled them financially.,"He added that cane-growers did not even have funds for the maintenance of their ratoon fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-pilibhit-sugar-mills-owe-cane-farmers-rs-551-crore/articleshow/76372295.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||DK records 8th fatality; coast records 26 +ve cases||Mangaluru/Udupi: Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts recorded 26 Covid-19 positive cases including 21 in Udupi alone on Sunday, a day that DK recorded its eighth fatality to the global pandemic. While Udupi continues to top the state chart with 1,026 positive cases as on date, DK crept up the ranks of 19 districts in Karnataka that have recorded deaths to the third spot behind Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburagi. The eighth death to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada was that of a 24-year-old youth, designated P-6848 in the state bulletin. A resident of the district, the youth had returned from Maharashtra on May 28 and was in institutional quarantine. Suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension, the youth was admitted to a private hospital on June 12 and died the same day, said Sindhu B Rupesh, deputy commissioner, Dakshina Kannada district. The throat swabs sent for mandatory tests were found to be positive, DC said. Of the remaining positive cases, three were reported from those who returned from Saudi Arabia on June 10 and one is a primary contact of P-4526. On a positive note, a 50-year-old male suffering from blood pressure and diabetes was shifted from ICU to the ward after he responded to treatment. Two patients are undergoing treatment at the ICU, DC added. Of the 21 cases in Udupi, 19 were Maharashtra returnees, one from Tamil Nadu and last one is primary contact of P-5667, said Udupi DC G Jagadeesha. One of the cases announced today was pending from Saturday’s list, he added. Udupi presently has 235 active cases after 69 patients were discharged on Sunday. DK on the other hand has 122 active cases against total 276 positive cases including 10 from other districts. Seven patients were discharged in DK on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-records-8th-fatality-coast-records-26-ve-cases/articleshow/76374553.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Seven fresh Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district; three deaths in Solapur||KOLHAPUR: With addition of seven new cases between 10pm on Saturday and 8pm on Sunday the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Kolhapur district has reached 720. However, eight people were cured and discharged from the hospitals on Sunday,. Currently, the total number of active cases stands at 89. District collector Daulat Desai has directed the factories and industries to set up a quarantine facility for their workers who had left for their native homes during the pandemic and now are being called back. “Many factories are calling back their workers. Such migrant workers have to be kept in quarantine facilities for at least 14 days. The factory or industry will have to set up the facility by following all guidelines. If the quarantine is not done and migrant workers are bought directly to the factory for work, criminal case will be filed against the factory owners,” Desai said. Sangli reports 25 cases. As many as 25 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Sangli district on Sunday. Of them, 10 were from Mandur village of Shirala tehsil. The total number of cases reported in Sangli has reached 247, but the active cases stand at 114. On Saturday night, a person, who was brought to a hospital in critical condition, died while undergoing treatment. His throat swab sample was taken and later he was found positive for Covid-19. Civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe said, “The person was a driver and had very high fever. We have appealed to all the drivers and cleaners going to and coming from red zones to approach nearby Covid care centres even at the slightest indication or symptom.” Beedi units to resume operations in Solapur Beedi units in Solapur are likely to start their operations from Monday by following all the guidelines laid down by the municipal corporation. Meanwhile, 68 new cases were reported on Sunday along with three death in Solapur city. In rural Solapur, just one case of Covid-19 was reported. The total cases in rural district has reached to 113 of which 69 are active, 10 have died and the remaining have been discharged. Satara’s tally reaches 728 Two positive cases and one death were reported in Satara district, taking the total to 728. As per official figures, 508 people have been cured and discharged from the hospitals while 32 people have succumbed to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/7-fresh-cases-in-kolhapur-district-3-deaths-in-solapur/articleshow/76374568.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nonagenarian woman beats corona||AHMEDABAD: Shakuntala Ramchandra, a 90-year-old woman from Meghaninagar, was discharged from Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC) on Sunday amid farewell by the staff. She was hospitalized with Covid-19 on June 7. She also suffered from hypertension. IKDRC director Dr Vineet Mishra said that Shakuntala was put on a medical protocol and her hypertension was also brought under control along with the treatment for Covid-19. “She was given antibiotics, Vitamin C, antacid and low molecular weight heparin for blood thinning. She was also given HCQ and put on external oxygen supply,” said Dr Mishra, adding that amid the fear of Covid-19, her recovery could generate positivity among patients. City-based experts said that due to the nature of Covid-19 virus, those above 60 years of age are in high-risk group. Those with co-morbidity have higher mortality rate. “Their immune system is compromised, and often their health deteriorates very fast,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nonagenarian-woman-beats-corona/articleshow/76376117.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Aliganj temple to reopen today||LUCKNOW: Aliganj’s Naya Hanuman Mandir and Ramkrishna Math will reopen for devotees on Monday, after being shut for over two months due to the lockdown. Preparations were underway on Sunday at the two places of worship as they get ready to welcome devotees again while following safety guidelines. At Aliganj’s Naya Hanuman Mandir, heavy security will be deployed from 6am to 9pm. The temple will closed for sanitization after every two hours. Besides, devotees will be allowed to enter from the ‘Ram Katha Path’ section, where they would have to undergo a thermal scan and pass through a sanitization tunnel. Two exit gates have been installed at the back of the temple to avoid overcrowding. “Volunteers will keep an eye on devotees so that no one flouts rules. Only five devotees will be allowed to enter the temple at a time. Each devotee will have stand in circles marked on the ground to maintain social distancing. They would offer prayers and head out from the exit, so that the next set of five devotees can enter,” said Anil Kumar Tiwari, chief executive officer and administrator of Aliganj Shri Mahaveer ji Trust (Naya Hanuman Mandir). “Entry of children below 10 years of age and adults above 65 years of age will be restricted. Also, wearing face masks is compulsory. Devotees will not be allowed to make any offerings or enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple,” he added. Ramkrishna Math will reopen in two batches — 9am to 11.30am and 4pm to 7pm — all seven days of the week. Five devotees will have to undergo a thermal scan at the entrance, use a foot-pedal hand sanitizer and wash hands in basins kept in front of the Math office on entering. “From there visitors will have to proceed to queues at a distance of 12 feet. Ten devotees will be allowed to stand in queues at a time within the Math premises. They can head to the first floor of the temple after taking off their shoes at the gate. They can either take the stairs or the elevator. Only five persons will be allowed to be present inside the temple at a time. Devotees will not be allowed to sit or meditate inside,” said president of Ramkrishna Math Swami Muktinathananda. While devotees can bring offerings, but they will be requested to put them in baskets kept before the deity’s idol. Those wishing to donate can do so by depositing the money in the donation boxes. Every devotee will be given a packet of dry prasad as they leave the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aliganj-temple-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76376641.cms||Aditi Singh
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Govt staff among 7 held for duping contractor||Lucknow: Two government employees and a fake journalist were among seven persons arrested by Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) sleuths who claimed to have busted a gang which had duped a Madhya Pradesh contractor of Rs 9.72 crore by offering him a fake tender in animal husbandry department. Rajnish Dixit, senior secretary of state minister for animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development, of Rajajipuram, Dheeraj Kumar Dev, a secretariat employee of Gomtinagar Extension, A K Rajeev aka Akhilesh Kumar, a fake journalist of Nehru Enclave, and Ashish Rai of Vibhav Khand, Gomtinagar, were arrested and Rs 28.32 lakh cash, two fake identity cards, press cards, Covid-19 pass, six mobile phones, a Honda City car and many documents were seized from them. STF was probing a case lodged by one Manjeet Singh aka Rinku of Indore, MP, who had accused the four of duping him. Acting SSP, STF, Vishal Vikram Singh said, “During probe it surfaced that employees of animal husbandry department and their aides were involved in duping. A case was registered at Hazratganj police station and the accused were arrested.” “Ashish revealed that he was using a room allotted to animal husbandry department while posing as deputy director S K Mittal. He had even put the name plate on door,” said Singh. Rajnish Dixit, senior secretary to state minister, assistant samiskha adhikari Umesh, personal secretary (contractual) Dheeraj Kumar Dev, homeguard Raghuveer Yadav and secretariat driver Vijay Kumar helped Ashish in crime, he added. Ashish disclosed that Monti Gujjar, Rupak Rai, Santosh Mishra, A K Rajeev, Amit Mishra, Uma Shanker Tiwari, D B Singh, Atun Rai and Anil Rai were also involved. Rajnish said he got acquainted with Ashish through Dheeraj Dev, private secretary of state minister. Rajnish confessed he helped Ashish in posing as deputy director, said STF officials. Manjeet gave money to Ashish several times. Dheeraj, a class IV employee, helped Ashish in getting the room in secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-staff-among-7-held-for-duping-contractor/articleshow/76376648.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bus operators to focus on peak hours to meet demand||KOLKATA: State transport undertakings (STUs) and private bus operators have decided to focus more on catering to the peak-hour travel demands from Monday. They will run a skeletal service the rest of the day to plug the demand-supply gap in the absence of metro and suburban railway. The passenger count on buses clearly shows that the morning rush hour begins at 8 and continues till 11am-11.30am. The travel demand nosedives after noon. The demand again peaked around 5pm and continued till 8pm. The home-bound travel demand till 11pm remained tepid. “If these two peak-hour slots are served well, the majority of transportation woes will be alleviated. These peak-hour slots also served the staggered office timings as urged by chief minister Mamata Banerjee,” said a transport department official. Even private bus operators said they were running near-empty buses during non-peak hours. The Covid-19 scare has brought about serious repercussions. This has caused major deficit in non-peak hour travel. Thus, the mobility demand curve almost flattens after noon. “Since autos and cabs have resumed operations, passengers are unlikely to get stranded for too long during the non-peak hours without frequent buses,” said another official. WBTC will run over 1,600 buses. During Unlock1.0, its maintenance depot turned buses with repeating technical snags into road-worthy vehicles to make full-fleet operations possible. Now, South Bengal State Transport Corporation will run 200 buses from the fringes of the city to its central business district. “This will enable us to focus on core city operations,” said a senior WBTC officer. Besides, eight private operators will run around 100 AC buses and contract carriage operators will run more than 100 non-AC buses on the STU routes. Different syndicates of private bus operators estimated that nearly 3,000 buses will hit the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-operators-to-focus-on-peak-hrs-to-meet-demand/articleshow/76376090.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Caught marrying off child, man says he feared Covid death, wanted her in safe hands||Bareilly: Father of a 12-year-old girl said in the court of child welfare committee (CWC) that he wants his daughter to be in “safe hands” as poverty due to Covid-19 pandemic may claim his life, which is why he was marrying his minor daughter. It was one of the seven incidents of child marriages stopped by a Childline team in Bareilly division in June. In most of these cases, parents marrying their minor daughters belong to poor families and are looking for an easier route. A few parents told TOI that weddings during lockdown are not putting additional burden on them because of limited guests, hardly any gifts and no expenditure of booking a proper marriage hall. Four such cases have been reported from Bareilly, two from Pilibhit and one from Shahjahanpur. Bareilly deputy inspector general Rajesh Pandey told TOI, “The cases of child marriages are increasing as weddings are cheaper amid lockdown because only limited guests are allowed and there is no need to book a venue. Police are also keeping an eye on such marriages and coordinating with the Childline team to ensure swift action.” In Shahjahanpur, Childline team stopped the marriage of a 14-year-old girl with a 30-year-old man with the support of local police in Tilhar area on June 11. Someone from the village made a call on 1098 and informed the Childline team. Childline coordinator Vinay Sharma along with Tilhar SHO Jasveer Singh rescued the girl. The girl’s parents are labourers and all the expenses of the marriage were borne by the groom’s family. Mukesh Singh Parihar, CWC member in Shahjahanpur, told TOI, “Our team found that the girl was only 14-year-old, following which, we immediately took custody of the girl. Her family is very poor and they said uncertainty due to lockdown forced them to take this step. They wanted to relieve themselves of their responsibility of marrying their daughter. In most of the child marriage cases, parents of the girl are poor, mostly belonging to lower castes and are unsure about their daughter’s safety.” In Bareilly, marriages of 15-year-old twin sisters were stopped in Subhashnagar while two marriages were stopped in CB Ganj and Bisharatganj. DN Sharma, member of child welfare committee in Bareilly, said, “We have been able to stop four child marriages in Bareilly district in the past eight days. On every occasion, parents were poor, unemployed and uncertain of a future due to the pandemic.” The 12-year-old rescued is a rape survivor. “The lawyer of the rape accused even turned in my court and argued to send the girl to the women’s shelter home, but I decided to give the custody of the girl to her parents. Her father told us that he wanted his girl to be safe even after him which is why he was planning to marry her. We have also taken a written oath from him,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/caught-marrying-off-child-man-says-he-feared-covid-death-wanted-her-in-safe-hands/articleshow/76372314.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||38% active cases in Ahmedabad are from western parts of city||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city received 125 fresh cases on Saturday taking its share of currently active cases in the city to 37.69%. The western part of Ahmedabad now has 1,235 of the 3,282 active cases in the city. Of the 125 cases, 65 were from the AMC’s West Zone which includes Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna wards. There were 33 cases reported from the North West Zone, which includes Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota areas. Twenty-seven cases were also reported from the South West Zone which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Mamatpura and Sarkhej areas. Of the 33 cases in the North West Zone, eight were from Bodakdev ward, 10 from Gota, seven from Ghatlodia, five from Thaltej and three from Chandlodia. The South West zone which had 27 cases reported 11 fresh cases from Jodhpur, five from Vejalpur, nine from Maktampura and two from Sarkhej. In Bodakdev, fresh cases were reported one each from Suhan Complex, Sarjan Towers, Sardar Centre, Siddhi Bungalows, Smita Town, Vallabh Apartment and two cases were reported from Sumeru Bungalows. In Jodhpur, one case each was reported from Satellite Society, Vrajbhumi, Shyam Tower, Sachin Tower, Dhananjay Tower, Yash Tower, Ahswamegh Bungalows. One case was reported Prerna Tirth area and three cases from Malhar Bungalows. In Gota ward, there were two fresh cases from Aakash Apartment and one case each from Sayona City and Popular Paradise. The western part of the city now has 1,235 active cases, with 671 cases in the West Zone, 284 in the North West Zone, and 280 in the South West Zone. The city now has 3,282 active cases overall, while the remaining cases include 374 in the Central Zone, 723 in North Zone, 547 in East Zone and 403 in the South Zone. The western part of the city, as compared to Friday, reported an increase of 95 active cases with 46 from West Zone, 26 from South West zone and 23 from North West zone. However, there was a decline in the number of active cases in other zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/38-active-cases-in-ahmedabad-are-from-western-parts-of-city/articleshow/76376146.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Carelessly discarded PPE at Kolkata airport trigger safety alarm||KOLKATA: A pile of used personal protective equipment (PPE) dumped carelessly on the arrival level of Kolkata airport has left a section of passengers, some of them from the medical fraternity, horrified. Apart from being an eyesore, they flagged more serious concerns about the possibility of the virus spreading in the terminal from contaminated body suits, face-shields and gloves discarded callously by arriving passengers. Used PPE are considered bio-hazard waste. According to sources, early signs of the problem had surfaced when flights resumed at Kolkata airport on May 28. Passengers who urgently need to fly down to Kolkata, but were wary of contracting the disease during the journey choose to fly wearing PPE. Once the journey is over, they try to remove it quickly not only out of concern that droplets from a fellow passenger may have got on the suit, but also because it is extremely uncomfortable to wear the PPE. Made of synthetic material, it does not allow air to penetrate, leaving the person wearing it hot and sweaty. “Since last week, the volume of PPE discards shot up with several dozen middle-seat passengers in each arriving flight taking it off as soon as they exited the aerobridge. Though large bins were placed in the arrival hall next to the conveyor belts in baggage claim area, passengers began dumping them near a regular waste bin kept at the aerobridge arrival level,” an airport official pointed out. An arriving passenger said it was shocking to see used PPE littered all around. “There should be areas demarcated with proper signage where flyers alighting from a plane can take off the PPE and put them in a bin. Just placing a few bins here and there isn’t enough. With at least some among us expected to be asymptomatic carriers of the virus, it is plain hazardous to allow PPE litter,” he said. An airline official said that while Airports Authority of India had framed an SOP for disposal of PPE worn by the crew, it was not amended to include passengers when it became mandatory for airlines to provide PPE to middle-seat passengers. “Airports shall set up de-gowning area at appropriate locations for staffers, airline crew and medical personnel to divest and dispose PPE with a protocol for safe disposal of PPE as bio-hazard waste,” the SOP states. The nature of the PPE suits add to the problem. Though light, they tend to get inflated and take up space, causing even large waste bins to overflow. Realizing the threat, the airport operator on Saturday asked airlines to take onus of passengers travelling by their flights and ensure that the PPE are properly discarded. Bins have also been placed on the arrival level in addition to those in the baggage claim area. “We also want airlines to provide a disposal bag when passengers alight so that they can take off the PPE, fold them and put them into the bag before throwing it into the bin. That way, the bins an accommodate more discarded PPE,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/carelessly-discarded-ppe-at-airport-trigger-safety-alarm/articleshow/76376093.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Five new cases in South Bopal||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district (barring city) on Sunday reported 29 fresh cases taking the tally to 571. Three deaths were reported from Ahmedabad rural. Bopal reported five cases of which two were from Kavisha Celebrations, one from Shiv Ashish Society and one each from Arihant Society and Flora Ixora. All cases reported from Bopal were from the South Bopal area. The president of the Bopal Ghuma Nagar Palika, Jigisha Shah, said that two friends, one staying in Siddhi Bungalows and one in Maruti Nandan Bungalows had died due to Covid-19. She said that with a majority of the residents in South Bopal going to Ahmedabad and other places for work, an average of three to four cases daily were being reported from the area. Health officials said that for the past week the district has been reporting over 25 cases daily. This was the fifth day that the district has reported two or more deaths. The three latest deaths have taken the total to 38 death in the rural areas so far. Of the 29 cases in rural areas there were 14 cases from Dholka, five each from Daskroi and Viramgam and one case each from Bavla, Detroj, Dhandhuka, Mandal and Sanand. Taluka-wise, of the 571 cases in district, 165 are from Dholka, 137 from Daskroi, 104 from Sanand, 48 from Viramgam, 68 from Bavla, 26 from Dhandhuka, 12 from Detroj, 11 from Mandal, and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-new-cases-in-south-bopal/articleshow/76376116.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Man visits Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital, goes missing||HYDERABAD: A man, who went to consult doctors in King Koti Hospital and later to Gandhi Hospital suspecting that he could be a Covid-19 patient, later went missing. His mother lodged a compliant at Mangalhat police station a few days ago. Mangalhat police said that Narender Singh, 39, went to King Koti Hospital on May 30 along with his mother and was referred to Gandhi Hospital. “Narender went to Gandhi Hospital alone, while his mother returned home after visiting King Koti Hospital. Narender called his mother to inform her he was at the hospital. That was his last conversation. When we verified the facts, we found that he did go to Gandhi Hospital. But subsequently, he went missing. He is not a Covid-19 patient. He has been missing since May 30,” Mangalhat inspector G Raveender Reddy told TOI. His mother lodged a complaint with the police and they are investigating the case. Police said that during their investigation, they came to know that Singh was suffering with various health issues prior to visiting Gandhi Hospital. According to sources, his mobile phone has been switched off since May 30, after he visited Gandhi Hospital. Singh is an unemployed person from Mangalhat. He had gone to the hospital since he was suffering from cold, fever and other symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-visits-gandhi-hosp-goes-missing/articleshow/76377083.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Class XII general stream results to be out on Monday||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) will declare the board exam results for Class XII general stream students on Monday. As many as 5.3 lakh students have participated in the exams for commerce and arts subjects, the results of which will be declared online, the state education board announced on Sunday. 76376114 The results have been delayed by about two weeks as compared to last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the countrywide lockdown. Students can check their results on the official website of GSHSEB on June 15 and an announcement regarding distribution of exam marksheets will be made later. The board had earlier said that it will announce the results in the first half of June. To get their results, the students will have to log-in to the website using the hall-ticket number. The exams for general stream students started on March 5 and the GSHSEB had started the paper evaluation work around March 21 which continued during the lockdown period but later, on government’s instructions, had stopped before being resumed in April last week. The state education board had on May 17 declared Class XII (science) stream results with a pass rate of 71.34%. More than 1.6 lakh students took the exams. A fake message sooon went viral on social media claiming that Class XII (general stream) results will be published on May 19. This caused so much confusion that the GSHSEB was forced to issue a statement clarifying the message was fake. The college admission process for all science stream courses except those under Admission Committee for Professional courses (ACPC) are expected to begin from June 15. While an announcement on the college admission process for general stream students is expected to be made soon by the state education department, the academic session at colleges is likely to begin from August. Earlier this month, the board announced Class X board exam results. A total of 10.83 lakh students are estimated to have taken the Class X board exam of which the pass rate was recorded at 60.74%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/class-xii-general-stream-results-to-be-out-today/articleshow/76376114.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur shops warned against violating norms||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai has warned hawkers and shop owners of strict action if they are found violating lockdown orders. They have been asked to wait for further state government orders before starting their establishments. Many road side eateries and barber shops have started work against the norms. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation staff started seizing the gas cylinders from the roadside eateries. However, the action has been halted in the past few days. The officials said only food take away services are allowed for the hotels and restaurants. No roadside eatery has been given permission. “We are resuming action against roadside eateries from Monday. No food must be cooked along the roadside and, therefore, we confiscated the cylinders. Many agreed to provide parcel service, however, still many continue to serve the customers on the spot. Such eateries will not be spared,” said Pandit Pawar, head of KMC's anti-encroachment department said. Meanwhile, the barbers are unhappy with the district administration and claimed that they are depending on relatives and friends for survival. The barbers have decided to open shops from Monday onwards. The decision was announced on Friday. Daulat Desai, meanwhile, has given orders to the local bodies to act against the barbers opening shops. He has already spoken with civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti and has asked to make arrangements to shut the barber shops if they are found open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-shops-warned-against-violating-norms/articleshow/76374600.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||House gutted at Harni||VADODARA: A house in Harni area was gutted on Sunday morning after a fire was sparked due to short-circuit in the refrigerator. Fire department sources said that the fire broke out sometime before 10 am in Rajeshwar Enclave society when two persons were present in the house. “A woman and her son were sleeping on the first floor of the house when the fire started due to short-circuit or some other problem in the refrigerator on ground floor,” said fire officer Amit Chaudhary of Panigate fire station. The fire quickly spread through the wirings and fittings and engulfed other electronic appliances and furniture. Chaudhary said that as the smoke went up to the first floor, the woman and her son rushed out of the house. Their neighbours tried to douse the fire, but they could not. Later, the fire brigade brought the fire under control after an hour of salvaging activity. “It is possible that the house did not have circuit-breaker otherwise the fire would not have spread through wires. The upper floor was saved but it was filled with smoke so we had to use exhaust fans to vent it out,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/house-gutted-at-harni/articleshow/76375015.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant worker found Covid-19 +ve, 3 cops quarantined||Haridwar: A migrant worker put under quarantine at a facility in Rishikesh tested coronavirus positive on Sunday. Subsequently, three policemen of Muni-ki-Reti police station in Rishikesh were quarantined as a precautionary measure. Earlier in the day, the roommate of the Covid-19 positive migrant worker and another person serving quarantine at the facility were arrested for assaulting the nodal officer of the quarantine centre. The two accused have been identified as Kuldeep Joshi and Jagmohan Ramola, both residents of Tehri Garhwal. A case was registered against them under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act. Pramod Shah, circle officer, Narendra Nagar, told TOI, “The Covid-19 reports of the accused duo were found negative but a roommate of one of the two accused was found Covid-19 positive. Soon after, three policemen posted at Muni-ki-Reti police station were quarantined. Meanwhile, the accused were sent to judicial custody after being produced before the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-worker-found-covid-19-ve-3-cops-quarantined/articleshow/76375468.cms||MS Nawaz
June 15, 2020||Trichy||Plea to set up fever clinics in Trichy city||Trichy: Owing to widespread awareness insisting people with Covid-19 symptoms to get themselves tested, residents have suggested to the corporation to set up fever clinics in the city to track, diagnose and follow up such cases. As of June 13, out of the 41 active cases in the district, 22 are in Trichy Corporation. Having three containment zones, the residents who are even residing a finger away from containment zones get anxious on developing fever or other Covid-19 symptoms. “A day after the containment zone was established near our house, I developed a slight fever. After hesitation, I approached our family doctor. The fever turned out to be a normal one,” a 32-year-old resident of Big Bazaar street said. As per the Covid-19 plan management of Greater Chennai Corporation, setting up fever clinics was identified as one of the community activities to overcome the pandemic. Makeshift fever clinics will serve as early intervention centre to control the spread of the infection. “By ensuring proper precautionary arrangements such as thermal scanners, fever clinics can initiate outpatient service to monitor fever cases,” said Dr M A Aleem, Trichy-based neurologist. Though there are 18 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) in the city, residents who developed fever in recent weeks expressed reservation in visiting them. As the city witnessed a two-fold surge in Covid-19 cases in the last 15 days, establishing fever clinics in closely-packed localities was cited as an ideal move to alleviate public fear and to track fever cases. Trichy Corporation had such decentralised checkup points during the dengue outbreak. “As we are doing a door-to-door survey in vulnerable packets with our field workers, we have no immediate plans to establish fever clinics. Our health workers are tracking the fever cases,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-set-up-fever-clinics-in-trichy-city/articleshow/76376662.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Deadline for scrapping autos, taxis extended by one year||Kolhapur: The regional transport office has extended the deadline of scrapping autorickshaws and taxis which have crossed their shelf life— 16 years for autorickshaws and 20 years for taxis— by one year. This provides relief to over 5,400 autorickshaw and taxi drivers. During the lockdown, most of the drivers lost their source of income as they could not ply passengers due to the restriction of movement. Even after the lockdown norms was relaxed in the state, many of the drivers stayed at home as the number of passengers remained low. Regional transport officer Stevan Alvares said, “As per the duration fixed by the state government, the autorickshaws have to be scrapped after 16 years of use and taxis after 20 years. Over 5,400 autorickshaws and taxis had ended their shelf life by March 31,2020. The drivers are facing several difficulties as they were out of work for the past two and a half months. The associations had demanded the extention of the deadline by one year, which has now been granted.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/deadline-for-scrapping-autos-taxis-extended-by-one-year/articleshow/76374610.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Blood again starts to flow in Ahmedabad’s exhausted blood banks||AHMEDABAD: As donors lined up outside the van at Bapunagar on Sunday, it was a sigh of relief for Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS). On World Blood Donor Day – marked annually on June 14 – IRCS collected 281 units of blood in 11 camps. The Times of India on June 2 had reported about a severe shortage of fresh blood experienced by the blood banks across Gujarat. Responding to the appeal by the blood banks, the city-based NGOs and social organizations came forward to resume blood donation camps. IRCS medical director Dr Vishwas Amin said that after TOI’s appeal, rise of about 20% was recorded in the daily blood donation. “We want to thank Amdavadis for resuming the donation. Today, we are collecting about 80 to 90 units daily which has eased the pressure to an extent,” he said, “We are yet to reach the pre-lockdown average. But multiple factors such as non-functional colleges and offices and the fear of Covid-19 are responsible for it.” Dr Ripal Shah, medical director of Prathama Blood Centre, said that on Sunday they organized five blood donation camps. “Against 10-15 donations in the past couple of months, the average has increased to 40-50 recently. Against the stock of 800 units, we are hopeful of achieving 1,200 units soon,” she said. Blood banks said that they were taking all precautions including sending the staff in PPE kits and testing the donors on the spot for any signs of Covid-19 to ensure that the camps were safe. Special medical and collection protocols were also being taught to the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blood-again-starts-to-flow-in-citys-exhausted-blood-banks/articleshow/76376113.cms||Parth Shastri
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Fin dept staff tests positive||Hyderabad: A week after an outsourcing employee and attender working in finance department tested positive for coronavirus at the Telangana secretariat in BRKR Bhavan, another outsourcing employee working in the IT department has been infected with the coronavirus. The civic and the health officials took up the sanitization of the IT department premises in secretariat at BRKR bhavan. Employees in IT department have been given the option to work from home. While 60% of the finance department officials are working from home, employees in other departments in the Secretariat at BRKR Bhavan are attending office normally. However, thermal screening facility has been provided at the ground floor. The Secretariat employees TNGO’s association have urged the chief secretary to issue orders for only 20% of employees to come to work daily on a rotation basis. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fin-dept-staff-tests-positive/articleshow/76377086.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune: Sangli village reports 45 Covid-19 cases||KOLHAPUR: A small village called Mandur in Shirala tehsil of Sangli district has become a coronavirus hotspot as of the total population of 1,700 as many as 45 have tested positive for Covid-19. Throat swab samples of 350 villagers were sent for testing of which, the reports of around 200 came on Sunday. Currently, around 150 villagers have been isolated and kept in institutional quarantine. Sangli civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe said, “We have now started screening and testing of all those who arrived from Mumbai Metropolitan Region or those who have come in contact with people who arrived from the red zones. Most of the positive patients have returned from Mumbai. But local transmission has been seen in neighbourhoods. Proper containment measures are being carried out in the village regularly.” Cases in the village started to be reported from last week of May when two people, who arrived from Mumbai, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-village-reports-45-covid-cases/articleshow/76374631.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||MSY nephew and ex-MP tests positive||Kanpur: Samajwadi Party leader and former Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav (40) tested positive for novel coronavirus infection after developing fever on Sunday. Dharmendra, nephew of Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, has been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital in Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences (UPUMS) at Saifai, Etawah, after his test report confirmed him status on Saturday night. UPUMS pro vice-chancellor Prof Ramakant Yadav said that the former MP was running fever after which he underwent Covid-19 test at KGMU in Lucknow. “The lab report confirmed him positive for novel coronavirus. On late Saturday night, he was admitted to Covid-19 hospital at UPUMS in Saifai,” he added. Yadav had complained of fever when he reached Prayagraj from Delhi on June 11. “The same night Yadav left for Lucknow where he got the corona test done at KGMU,” said sources. The test report of Yadav’s gunner Giriraj came negative. “Now, samples of Yadav’s driver Vijay and four other persons who had accompanied him in the past few days have been sent for testing,” officialsfurther said. The staff of district health department in Etawah is now tracing contacts to identify the people who came in contact with the three-time former MP in the duration. The districts nagar palika launched a sanitisation drive outside the former MP’s residence in Saifai on Sunday. “The sanitisation exercise is part of campaign to prevent spread of Covid-19,” said SDM Hem Singh. “We have been sanitising the whole area with mechanical and manual spraying machines,” official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msy-nephew-and-ex-mp-tests-positive/articleshow/76376659.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||DK, Udupi receive good rain||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded good rain in the last 24 hours, till 8.30am on Sunday. Dakshina Kannada received an average rainfall of 45.4 mm on Sunday as against 44.7 mm rainfall that the district received during the same period last year. The normal rainfall for the day is 36mm, whereas Udupi received 62mm rain as against 40mm of normal rain during this period. Alur in Kundapur taluk, Udupi district recorded maximum rainfall of 144mm in Karnataka in the last 24-hours up to 8.30am on June 14. Mangaluru taluk received the highest amount of rainfall at 66.5mm, followed by 51.8mm in Belthangady taluk. Bantwal received 43.2mm of rainfall, and the least rain was received at Puttur taluk at 26.4mm. According to KSNMDC, widespread moderate to heavy rain is likely at isolated places with very heavy rain expected over coastal and adjoining parts of Malnad districts on Monday. It stated that fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea, since high waves in the range of 3-3.6 m are forecast from 5.30pm to 11:30 pm on Monday, along the coast of Karnataka, from Mangaluru to Karwar. It also warned that gales with speeds reaching 40-50 kmph are likely to prevail over east-central Arabian Sea and along and off the Karnataka coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-udupi-receive-good-rain/articleshow/76374609.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chennai||Home is where caste brutality is a reality||CHENNAI: A year ago, R Tamilselvan’s family members took turns to stay up all night to safeguard their lives, days after the 24-year-old clandestinely wed his girlfriend. Back then, Tamilselvan, a man belonging to a Scheduled Caste (SC), and Kavitha, from a Most Backward Caste (MBC), did what many young inter-caste couples from atrocity-prone districts do — get out of sight and out of mind from dominant caste families, and move to another town where chances of retaliation are slim and a new life conceivable. Following the lockdown, as Tamilselvan and Kavitha — now parents of newborn twin boys — returned to their village of Kottaipatti in Dindigul from Theni district, they had to first protect themselves from armed goons employed by her family, before they could worry about social distancing and safety inside their small home. "Sixty men armed with rods, sticks and stones came to our home and attacked us," says Tamilselvan’s brother Rajasekaran, who suffered injuries to his head, as he took the blows and kept his brother and his family shielded inside the house. "They got the revenge they couldn’t get a year ago," he says. But even as the rest of the country is putting up a tough fight against coronavirus, Tamil Nadu’s oppressed castes are waging a battle of their own, against severe stigma and discrimination that isn’t weathered by a global pandemic or a nationwide lockdown. According to activists, it has become worse as the lockdown has paved the way for more crimes and less accountability. In the end of March, Sudhakar, a young construction worker who had returned to his village of Morappanthangal in Tiruvannamalai district from Chennai was murdered by his girlfriend’s family. Sudhakar, belonging to a MBC had married the Vanniyar girl and fled the village after repeated threats to his life. His avengers finally got their due when the young man came home for the lockdown. According to a report released by Evidence, a Madurai NGO working for SC/ST rights, the months of March till June, have thrown up more than 60 serious caste-based crimes in the state. "And these are all brutal incidents that include rapes, murders, honour killings and lynchings," says the NGO’s founder and executive director Vincent Raj. "Usually, the average number of caste crimes every month in the pre-lockdown period would be between five and eight. In these months, our work has been centered on speaking with and pressuring officials to file cases, make arrests and ensure protection for victims. While following up on these procedures has become a challenge during the lockdown, our volunteers have spread themselves far and wide, remaining hawk-eyed to register such incidents," says Vincent. He also suggests that during the lockdown, it has become easy for the accused in caste crimes to avail anticipatory bail, without victims being intimated – a mandatory requirement under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. What this leads to is tampering of evidence and terrorising of victims and witnesses, which is typical in this nature of crime. Dominant caste families, who for years have used cultural systems built on bigotry and intolerance to deny SC communities their basic rights including cremation of their dead, use of public toilets, and practice of untouchability, are using the coronavirus outbreak as an excuse to marginalise them further. Incidents of sanitary workers and house helps being verbally abused or boycotted over being "unhygienic", and SC workers returning from cities being shunned in their own villages are reaching activists. Reports of dominant caste families in Tiruvannamalai planting thorns outside SC households to keep them from stepping out have also made the rounds. In addition to this is the struggle to push an apathetic law enforcement in caste-sensitive districts to take action in these times. "At a time when access to hygiene and health are so vital, in Bilippakuttai ‘Samathuvapuram’ (a social equality scheme by the Tamil Nadu Government) in Namakkal, a student belonging to the Arunthathiyar community was assaulted by a Vanniyar couple for drinking water from a public pipeline," says S Karuppiah, general secretary of Dalit Liberation Movement, headquartered in Madurai. "More than 60 caste crimes have been reported in a span of 75 days, many wherein perpetrators have violated Section 144 with the sole purpose of launching attacks on poor and oppressed communities. Considering the steep spike in these cases and poor action by the police, we have sent a petition to the state and central governments to declare Tamil Nadu an untouchability state. The first step towards eradicating this evil is to recognise it in all its ugliness," says Karuppiah. Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi @timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-is-where-caste-brutality-is-a-reality/articleshow/76376134.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
June 15, 2020||Aurangabad||CBI journal carries Beed SP’s article on police discretion||Aurangabad: CBIhas carried Beed superintendent of police Harsh Poddar’s article on ‘Exercise of Police Discretion Within Criminal Procedure (CrPC)’ in its journal, the ‘CBI Bulletin’.In the article, the IPS officer has drawn a line in exercising of discretionary powers and committing of excesses under the rule of law. The 2013 batch officer has been candid in writing, “The discretionary power of the police is an issue, which seems to open a Pandora’s box in criminal procedure...” He also covered issues surrounding arrests and arrests without warrants.The article has successfully highlighted the relevant provisions of the CrPC that vest discretionary powers on the police force with regard to arrest, search and seizure, apart from the circumstances in which these powers may be exercised. Moreover, several reported judgments of the apex court have been cited to highlight these powers in correct legal perspective.Balancing the views from both the sides, Poddar wrote: “One must realize that there are two viewpoints to this matter, both of which conflict and contradict each other severely.” Poddar while highlighting the rights of citizens defined by constitution and law of the landand warns that abolition of its discretionary powers can actually expose society to the vicissitudes of criminals, throwing open a far greater danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cbi-journal-carries-beed-sps-article-on-police-discretion/articleshow/76374640.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 15, 2020||Madurai||HC clean chit for farmer accused of smuggling PDS rice||Madurai: Madras high court quashed an FIR registered against a farmer, citing that he had produced proof to show that he was transporting his own agricultural produce and was not smuggling rice meant for Public Distribution System.The court was hearing a petition filed by Rethinam Setti who sought to quash the case, which was registered against him by Sethubavachathiram police in Thanjavur district under Sections 420 of IPC and Section 7(1) (a) (ii) of Essential Commodities Act on February 23. The case was registered on doubts about the genuineness of 256 bags of paddy transported by the petitioner in a lorry.Hearing the plea, Justice G R Swaminathan observed that the petitioner firmly states that he is an agriculturist based in Thiruvannamalai district and he had brought the paddy for sale in Thanjavur district as he was told that he would get better price.The judge said that the petitioner has produced the proof before this court that he is actually engaged in agriculture and there is nothing on record to indicate that there has been any violation in any of the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act.“It is a matter of sadness that when the state is encouraging farmers and agriculturists, they are being harassed in this fashion,” observed the judge. Observing that this cannot constitute as a crime or an offence by any standards, the judge quashed the case and directed to return the vehicle along with the paddy to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-clean-chit-for-farmer-accused-of-smuggling-pds-rice/articleshow/76376666.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||No functional electric crematorium in Uttarakhand to cremate Covid-19 patients||DEHRADUN/HARIDWAR: Taking cognisance of several instances where the family members of deceased Covid-19-positive patients had to face resistance from residents living near cremation grounds when they went to perform the last rites, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday had said that the last rites of the Covid-19 patients should be done in a respectful manner as “last rites are an important part of our culture and the dignity of the dead should be maintained”. He had also asked officials to look into the possibility of using electric crematoriums for carrying out cremation of the Covid deceased. However, at present, the state doesn’t have a functional electric crematorium for this purpose. At present, only Haridwar has an electric crematorium facility which was set up in 1990 but it has been lying defunct for many years. In the past many years, several proposals were sent to set up electric crematoriums in Dehradun and Haldwani but no such facility has yet been developed. C Ravishankar, Haridwar district magistrate, told TOI, “In view of the situation prevailing due to the pandemic, a proposal has been sent to the state government to make the defunct electric crematorium functional again.” The official added the facility, built with Rs 35 lakh initially, requires at least Rs 20 lakh for repair. Ram Pal, office secretary of the NGO which was authorised to operate the crematorium, claimed that it was used for cremation of only unclaimed bodies brought by the police, that too, only till 1994. “The crematorium was shut after non-payment of electricity dues of Rs 70,000 in 1995. It should be revived as it takes barely Rs 200 to cremate a body in an electric crematorium,” added Pal. In Dehradun too, the district administration is trying to get a separate cremation ground for Covid-19 bodies but that proposal is yet to see the light of the day. Speaking to TOI, Doon district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “I have asked the SDM to look out for spots in the district where we can have electric crematoriums or the traditional ones which can be turned into electric crematoriums. Such spots will be shortlisted within a week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-functional-electric-crematorium-in-ukhand-to-cremate-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76375482.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 15, 2020||Hubballi||CBI questions DySP in Yogeeshgouda murder case||Dharwad: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths interrogated two aides of former minister Vinay Kulkarni and a deputy superintendent of police at Suburban police station here in connection with Dharwad zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case. The CBI sleuths picked up Chandrashekhar Indi, a close relative of former minister Vinay Kulkarni from his residence in Vijaypur and interrogated him here, sources said. They also questioned Manoj Karjagi, another aide of Vinay. Later in the day, the CBI team quizzed Tulajappa Sulphi, DSP attached to the IGP office in Belagavi. He is said to have brokered peace between Yogeeshgouda’s brother Gurunathgouda and the accused. CBI is likely to question one more senior police officer who had tried to broker peace between the complainants and the accused. Goudar who was representing Hebballi zilla panchayat constituency in Dharwad district was murdered at Uday Gym near Saptapur in Dharwad on June 15, 2016 by a gang. The Hubballi-Dharwad Police who had taken up the investigation had within days arrested Basavaraj Mutagi and five others on charges of murdering Goudar and attributed the crime to property dispute. However, Yogeesh’s wife Mallamma and elder brother Gurunath Goudar refuted the police claims and alleged political rivalry behind the murder. They also demanded an inquiry by the CBI. Sources in the CBI said the agency is looking into the political angle and larger conspiracy to the murder and had summoned Dharwad ZP vice president Shivanand Karigar and former councilor Nagaraj Gouri and some other police officers for questioning. The agency had filed charge sheet against eight accused in the murder case on May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cbi-questions-dysp-in-yogeeshgouda-murder-case/articleshow/76375481.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Trichy||Dist admin shares Trichy city-specific Covid-19 statistics||Trichy: The district administration and city corporation have decided to provide daily bulletin with the number of active Covid-19 cases and new infections in urban and rural parts of the district separately. Earlier, the authorities were sharing only the pan-district Covid-19 positive cases.Ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, Trichy Corporation had not been sharing verified information on fresh and active cases in the city. The lack of transparency was paving way for unverified information doing rounds on social media.The Times of India had on June 13 carried a report titled ‘Trichy Corpn not providing updates on Covid-19 data’ highlighting the hesitation of authorities in disseminating authentic information. After the report, Trichy Corporation through the district administration from Saturday started sharing the data.Official sources said that the bulletin will be shared to keep the public informed. According to the district level statistics released by the Trichy Collectorate on Sunday, 163 people have so far contracted Covid-19 in the district, of which 91 were in Trichy Corporation.Around 56% of the total Covid-19 positive cases belong to Trichy Corporation wards. Including 25 active cases in the corporation’s jurisdiction, there are 45 active cases in Trichy. There were nine positive cases on Sunday of which seven were from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dist-admin-shares-trichy-city-specific-covid-19-statistics/articleshow/76376664.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Parents’ groups write to prez asking to keep schools closed||Dehradun: The National Association for Parents and Student Rights (NAPSR) along with several other such bodies from 12 different states have sent a letter to the President of India, governors of the respective states, and other concerned officials asking them not to open the schools until Covid-19 vaccines are available. The letter also states that continuous exposure to mobile phones for online classes is extremely harmful for the health of kids and instead distance classes should take place through television. Arif Khan, president of NAPSR, said that apart from the above requests, they have asked the government to abolish all kinds of fees during the period of lockdown and impose NCERT syllabus strictly in every school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-groups-write-to-prez-asking-to-keep-schools-closed/articleshow/76375496.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 15, 2020||Patna||State reports 36th death, 186 new Covid-19 cases||Patna: Bihar reported 36th Covid death and 186 more positive cases on Sunday. Altogether 6,475 people have tested positive for coronavirus in state so far. While 3,975 of them recovered from the virus, 2,464 people remained infected in the state till Sunday evening. A 50-year-old man of Lalganj town in Vaishali district was admitted to Sadar hospital on June 11 and died the same day due to cardiac arrest. His sample report came positive on June 12, additional chief medical officer in Vaishali, Dr Gyan Singh, said. However, the state health department confirmed the death on Sunday. It was the third Covid death in the district. Dr Kameshwar Mandal, deputy superintendent of Sadar hospital, said the man had returned from Haryana on June 7. “The samples of his family members were also collected for testing,” he said. According to the health department’s report, fresh coronavirus cases were reported from 26 districts on Sunday with the maximum 24 from Sitamarhi, followed by 16 in Samastipur, 14 in Sheohar, 13 in Saran, 12 each in Siwan and Gopalganj, 11 in Muzaffarpur, 10 in Vaishali (10), seven each in West Champaran, Nawada and Aurangabad, six in Patna, five in Bhagalpur, four each in Banka, Buxar and Nalanda, three each in Sheikhpura and East Champaran, two each in Munger and Sheohar and one each in Madhubani, Bhojpur, Lakhisarai, Gaya and Madhepura districts. In Patna, a 24-year-old man in Kumhrar tested positive whereas 4 people, including two females, were found infected in Daniyawan. One man (55) from Phulwarisharif also tested positive for the virus. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said total 1,23,629 samples had been tested so far, including 3,543 in the past 24 hours. He said altogether 4,449 migrants, who returned from other states, had tested positive till Sunday morning. “In the last 24 hours, 289 people were discharged from different hospitals after their subsequent test reports came negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-reports-36th-death-186-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76375485.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP councillor dies of Covid||AHMEDABAD: BJP councillor from Bhaipura-Hatkeshwar ward, Gayaprasad Kanojiya, died while being treated for Covid-19 on Sunday night. He was in treatment since June 1 and was actively helping migrants to transit when government gave relaxation . He is the first BJP city councillor and second among Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) councillors, after Congress councillor Badruddin Shaikh to succumb to Covid-19 in the city. Even in the last month of May he was active in his ward. He was on ventilator for the past one week. A native of Unnao in UP, he had made the city his home since 1965. He was elected for the second term from Bhaipura ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-councillor-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76376110.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chennai||Suburbs overrun by fleeing Chennaiites||CHENNAI: Several residents of Chennai, the worst-affected in TN by the Covid-19 pandemic, are fleeing to the southern suburbs – either moving in with relatives or taking houses on rent. People in these neighbourhoods are, however, alerting police and revenue authorities about this sudden influx they believe is a threat to their safety. Law enforcers in places off GST Road, Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and East Coast Road (ECR), outside the jurisdiction of Greater Chennai Police, have been receiving frantic calls from residents who want these ‘visitors’ sent back over fears of the virus spreading. While a residents’ welfare association at Urappakkam on GST Road has orally directed its members not to entertain families from Chennai in their houses, another one near Tiruporur is keeping its fingers crossed over fresh tenants over the past two weeks. T K Raman, secretary of Ceedeeyes Chennaipattinam Residents Welfare Association at Nellikuppam near Tiruporur, off OMR, said 10-15 new families have moved to their apartment complex in the past two weeks. “We are absolutely clueless about the previous locations of the new tenants and it has caused a concern. So, we have approached the Block Health Supervisor at Tiruporur to visit our complex comprising 900 units for appropriate action,” he said. Several residents associations have become cautious regarding the entry of outsiders. In one instance, members of an association on Vandalur-Kelambakkam High Road did not allow a health officer, who had come to the complex for an official visit, to enter and budged only after the intervention of police. Police are being tipped off about new occupants. Guduvancherry inspector G Asokan said three calls were received 20 days ago. “When we inquired, it turned out that they were landlords of the houses. They were residing in Chennai and had returned to their own houses. Health screening revealed that the three families did not have Covid-19,” he said. Six police stations on ECR and OMR get at least one call each every day about a new resident settling down in the locality. Police sources say some callers want to remain anonymous, while some identify themselves. “A few travelling by cars beyond Mamallapuram say they are visiting their farmhouses when intercepted,” a police officer in Chengalpet district said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/suburbs-overrun-by-fleeing-chennaiites/articleshow/76376108.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi seeks accuracy in weather forecast||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday laid stress on the need forcoordination between the meteorological department, agricultural universities and KrishiVigyan Kendra for development of a mechanism to ensure accurate weather forecast to help the common man as well as farmers so that the damage caused to crops because of inclement weather can be prevented. “We can prevent loss of life and property due to heavy rain and lightning by using technology in a better way. We can keep farmers alert through the weather forecast,” Yogi said, while speaking on the 31st foundation day of UP Council of Agricultural Research, through a webinar. He said the government, in collaboration with the Centre, is coordinating with agricultural universities and providing modern technology and information to farmers through Krishi Vigyan Kendras and trying to bring a change in their lives. He said the 30 science centres established in UP in last three years are a proof of this. Yogi also took a potshot at the previous government saying that when he took over the reins of the state, he found farmers were committing suicides due to neglect and disregard. “The situation has changed. Farmers are quite satisfied,” he said. He said amid Covid crisis, the government has made efforts to ensure that no farmer faces any problem while breaking the chain of corona infection. “We have operated 119 sugar mills during the four phases of lockdown and sugarcane crushing is almost complete. Whatever work has been done in different fields, it is the result of the government’s farmer-friendly programmes,” he said. Yogi said the increase in foodgrains production during last three 3 years was a result of the efforts of farmers, government and agricultural universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-seeks-accuracy-in-weather-forecast/articleshow/76376665.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Banquet hall owners in quandary||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government’s decision to allow banquet hall owners to host gatherings has brought some relief to the owners but the guest limit of 50 people has left them in a quandary. Besides, the banquets hall owners said that they are struggling to get back the employees associated with them but had left for their hometowns after the lockdown. Anil Chaddha, owner of Doonga House, said, “We welcome the government’s decision, but a cap on guests’ list will make it difficult for us to sustain. Around 20 days ago, we had written to the PMO asking to allow us to operate. And now, we have tweeted to the PM and the Union home minister seeking help.” He added that with just 50 guests, they won’t be able to meet the operational costs. “Most banquets and farms in Dehradun have at least 20,000 to 30,000 square feet area, which can accommodate over 500 guests even after following social distancing norms.” Echoing similar sentiments, Girish Sabharwal, another wedding point owner, said, “With just 50 guests, we will not even get back the input cost forget making profit. Besides, we will now have to spend on sanitisation, thermal screening equipment and even keep a medical team handy.” We charge around Rs 1 lakh per day for a venue, why will residents book us now for just 50 guests, asked another hall owner. Bhanu Chaudhary, another city-based wedding venue owner, said, “We will also have to spend on quarantine and check up of our staff when they return from their homes. If we don’t start getting bookings, we will run into further loses.” Meanwhile, cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that the government will soon review the Covid-19 spread in the state. “Following which, we might think of increasing the guest limit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govts-only-50-guests-order-puts-banquet-hall-owners-in-quandary/articleshow/76375513.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man booked for raping minor||ALMORA: A middle-aged (quadragenarian) man was booked for raping a minor girl who lives in his neighbouhood in Almora on Sunday. According to the police, the medical examination of the victim confirms that she was raped. The case came to light when the victim informed her family members about the crime and they reported the matter to the police. “According to the victim's family, the accused took the minor girl to Haldwani with him on Saturday and raped her on the way back. We have registered a case against the accused under the POCSO Act,” Santosh Deorani, SHO in-charge at Almora police station, told TOI. Reportedly, the victim's family allowed the girl to go with the accused to Haldwani as the two families were close. “The crime took place in Nainital district. Thus, we are transferring the case to the Nainital police. Further actions will be taken by the Nainital police,” said SHO Deorani. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-booked-for-raping-minor/articleshow/76375506.cms||Rohit Joshi
June 15, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses bail plea of accused in idol theft case||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested in connection with an idol theft case reported in Thanjavur in 2016.The petitioner, D Rajkumar, is one among the eight accused in an idol theft case registered by Eravancheri police in Thanjavur. The petitioner was arrested on March 20 this year based on the confession given by one of the co-accused from whom one of the idols was recovered.Since a few accused are still at large and two idols are yet to be recovered, the court dismissed the petition filed by the petitioner on May 18. The petitioner has again moved the court for bail on the ground that some of the co-accused were released on bail.The additional public prosecutor submitted that due to Covid-19 pandemic, they could not intensify the investigation and now after relaxation of lockdown, police are searching for other accused involved in the case and the missing idols. Hence, he submitted that if the petitioner is released on bail, the investigation may get hampered.Taking into consideration these facts, Justice G Jayachandran said that the court is not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused-in-idol-theft-case/articleshow/76376669.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Complaint filed against Hingoli RDC||Aurangabad: A Hingoli police sub-inspector has lodged a written complaint against the resident deputy collector for allegedly putting a beacon on a private vehicle without any valid reason. Taking cognizance of the complaint, and the counter allegations from the RDC, Hingoli superintendent of police Yogesh Kumar has ordered a high-level inquiry. “We have ordered the SDPO city to carry out an inquiry before appropriate action is initiated,” Kumar said. As per the complaint lodged by Hingoli city police station’s PSI Sainath Anmod, he was on Covid-19 duty at Indira Chowk on Saturday. Around 11.50 am, a private car (MH-23-AS-7223) was found moving around with an amber beacon. The PSI has demanded to screen CCTV footage from the police station, which, according to him, show the revenue officer moving around in shorts. The allegations have been out refuted by the revenue department officials. RDC Chandrakant Surywanshi told journalists that no such incident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/complaint-filed-against-hingoli-rdc/articleshow/76374650.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 15, 2020||Pune||Death toll rises to 485 with 14 more casualties||Pune: Fourteen more patients, including a two-month-old baby, succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Saturday, taking the casualty count in Pune to 485. Besides, 358 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Saturday, pushing up the Pune tally to 11,560. Among the fresh cases, 282 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 39 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 37 in the rural and Cantonment area of the district. PMC health department officials said about 163 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after they were declared Covid-free. More than 6,080 patients have been discharged in the PMC limits so far, they said. The active caseload in PMC limits has increased further to 2,810. These patients were being treated at PMC-run Naidu hospital and Covid centres, besides Sassoon and private hospitals, the officials said, adding 208 patients were at critical stage, of whom 47 were on ventilator support. Among the deceased, a two-month baby boy of Hadapsar succumbed to the contagion at a private hospital. He had co-morbid conditions. Besides, three patients died at Sassoon hospital. These included a 64-year-man from Kondhwa, a 62-year-man from Nana Peth and a 57-year-old woman from the Tadiwala Road area. The patients who succumbed at private hospitals included a 60-year-old woman from Ramtekdi, an 86-year-old man from Malwadi, a 70-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 59-year-old man from Narhe, a 64-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 40-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 59-year-old man from Tingrenagar, a 62-year-old man from Yerawada and a 76-year-old woman from Bibvewadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/death-toll-rises-to-485-with-14-more-casualties/articleshow/76364887.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s all-women police stations get kid-friendly corner||Madurai: The South and Town All Women Police Stations (AWPS) in the city have got children-friendly corners to provide a friendly ambience to children visiting the stations. Minors, who fall prey to sexually exploitation, and juveniles in conflict with the law visit such stations to lodge complaints and for inquiries.Both the stations are located next to each other on South Veli Street at the Crime Branch. Family issues, dowry dispute and sexual offences against children are referred to AWPS.The rooms where inquiry and registration of cases will take place have got attractive paintings and furniture for children. Dolls and children’s books have also been stocked. Madurai Ladies Circle-8 and Anaamalais Toyota carried out the work to turn the stations child friendly.Police officials said that the makeover will be helpful in keeping children cheerful and distract them from being in a police station. Play equipment have also been installed outside the two stations. City police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham inaugurated the facility in a low-key event held on Saturday.Madurai Town AWPS inspector M Anusha Manogari said children often accompany their parents to police stations to resolve family disputes. They get exposed to interrogation, during which parents would hurl abusive remarks against each other. A female cop now will engage children with the materials till their parents are done with the investigation. Also with the friendly atmosphere, children who come to lodge a complaint will not get scared of the police stations. The remaining two AWPS Tallakulam and Thiruparankundram too will get children friendly corners soon, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-all-women-police-stations-get-kid-friendly-corner/articleshow/76376670.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett opens for tourists; five people make online safari bookings||Dehradun: Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) opened after almost three months on Sunday. Five people made online bookings for safari at the reserve – four of whom were from Uttarakhand while one was from Delhi -- but the Corbett administration turned down the booking of the Delhi resident. Park officials said they had called him and told him about the threat that his visit would pose to all, including wild animals, as he would be coming from a high-load Covid zone. After its opening, the reserve’s Bijrani zone welcomed Uttarakhand Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and his two family members as the first guests. The reserve is open only for day visits and adhering to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines, night stay has not been permitted. Also, tourists are not allowed to get off safari vehicles. Corbett director Rahul said, “We have been provided a list of 31 high-load Covid cities by the state government and, therefore, we had no other option but to reject a booking as Delhi is on the list.” He added that a booking for three people (two men and one woman) was done by him for next Saturday (June 20). “We have asked him to rebook the tickets keeping in mind the quarantine period,” he said. Since Nainital district has a high number of Covid cases (335), the administration is very strict regarding quarantine rules. District magistrate Savin Bansal said, “Anyone coming from heavy-load cities will have to undergo 14-day mandatory quarantine – seven days of institutional quarantine and seven days of home quarantine. Those who plan to visit Corbett, should book the dates in tandem with the guidelines.” Corbett opened Jhirna, Bijrani, Dhela and Pakhro zones for tourists on Sunday. While Bijrani will close on June 30 for monsoon, the other three zones will be open the year round. As many as 30 safaris are allowed in Jhirna and Bijrani everyday, while 15 and 10 are allowed in Dhela and Pakhro respectively. Even though CTR records around 250 safaris daily across the reserve, however, due to the Covid scare, officials are not expecting more than 30-50 safaris in a day now. Meanwhile, Chief wildlife warden Rajiv Bhartari said that Rajaji Tiger Reserve will continue to remain closed till October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-opens-for-tourists-five-people-make-online-safari-bookings/articleshow/76375527.cms||Shivani Azad
June 15, 2020||Madurai||DMK, allies demand more Covid testing||Madurai: DMK and allied parties, led by Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, will stage a demonstration on Monday, demanding intensified Covid-19 testing in the district. Venkatesan said that the demonstration would be held in front of the Madurai district collector’s office. Venkatesan said that Madurai had a low testing ratio and demanded that the number of tests be increased to 3000 tests per day. Over 20,000 people have arrived from Chennai, which has been badly hit by Covid-19, to Madurai and neighbouring districts in the past 10 days. But, intensive screening is being carried out only for people coming to Madurai by air. Screening of those coming by road or by train is low. According to statistics available, Madurai was ranked 30th in number of tests being conducted for the disease in the districts of Tamil Nadu, Venkatesan said. DMK MLAs P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, P Moorthy, Dr P Saravanan, CPM district secretaries R Vijarajan C Ramakrishnan, CPI district secretaries M Saravanan, Kalidoss, Congress’s Karthikeyan, MDMK’s M Bhoominathan, and VCK district secretaries P Kathiravan, Inguilab, Selvarasu, along with cadres of these parties will take part in the demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-allies-demand-more-covid-testing/articleshow/76376671.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Army jawan who died in Kashmir cremated in Haldwani||Nainital: The 38-year-old Indian Army Subedar Yamuna Prasad Paneru, who died in Kashmir's Kupwara district, was cremated by his family in Haldwani on Sunday. The soldier, who was also a trained mountaineer, had fallen into a deep gorge while patrolling along the LOC on Thursday. Paneru had joined the Indian Army in 2002 and was posted in Kupwara with the 6th Kumaon regiment. Paneru’s body was first brought to Bareilly by an Army helicopter and it reached Haldwani on Saturday noon. “The body was handed over to us on Saturday. However, we decided to cremate him on Sunday as many people wanted to pay their homage to him. On Sunday morning, the body was taken to the Chitrashila Ghat and was cremated by his son,” said soldier’s brother Chandra Prakash Paneru. The last rites were attended by a large number of Indian Army officers and hundreds of locals. State education minister Arvind Pandey and BJP state president Banshidhar Bhagat also reached Paneru’s house to convey their condolences to the bereaved family and assure help. They said that the country is indebted to Paneru for his service and the government will do anything in its capacity to take care of the family. “The entire country is indebted to soldiers like Paneru who sacrifice their lives for us. The government is committed to providing any help that the soldier's family needs. We stand by them in this hour of grief," Pandey said. State transport minister Yashpal Arya accompanied the soldier's kin to the Chitrashila Ghat for last rites. “Several locals, Army officers, officials of district administration, policemen, and ministers came to express their grief. All these people have assured that they will support my brother’s family,” Chandra Prakash said. Paneru is survived by his mother, wife, three-year-old daughter, and a seven-year-old son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-jawan-who-died-in-kashmir-cremated-in-haldwani/articleshow/76375519.cms||Prashant Jha
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Driver nabbed for using fake e-pass||Kanyakumari: A Chennai-based driver was caught by police in Kanyakumari with a fake e-pass to transport a family from Chennai to their native village. The sports utility car used for the trip was seized by the police. A police officer said that Suresh Kumar, from Aralvoimozhi village in Kanyakumari district, who was residing in Tondiarpet in Chennai with his family, approached Prakash, the driver, to take him and his family members to his native village. Prakash assured him of getting an e-pass from Kanyakumari district administration and received Rs 4,000. However, Prakash got a fake e-pass from an internet centre. They set off on the journey on Saturday and reached there in evening. While the car managed to cross Tirunelveli district, it was stopped at Kanyakumari border. The police team checked the e-pass that Prakash was carrying and when the bar code printed on the pass was scanned to check authenticity, the pass was found to be fake. The police team shifted the family members and driver to a quarantine facility. Police said that while the car has been seized, the driver will be arrested after a test for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/driver-nabbed-for-using-fake-e-pass/articleshow/76376674.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mysuru||Woman, two children drown in Mandya lake||Mandya: In a tragic incident, a woman and two of her children met a watery grave at a lake in Biranahalli village of Nagamangala taluk on Sunday. The deceased are Gita Narasimaiah, 38, Savita, 19, and Sowmya. According to police, the victims were found dead in the tank by the villagers. Besides ruling out theuicide pact, police said it was an accident. Victims who went to wash their clothes may have accidentally fallen into the tank and drowned. A case has been registered at Nagamangala Rural station. In another incident, a 16-year-old boy has drowned in a canal at Huruliganganahalli village of KR Pete taluk. Abhishek, Class X student, had been to went to a canal bathe his cows, and accidentally drowned. District minister K C Narayanagowda consoled bereaved family. A case has been registered in KR Pete police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-two-children-drown-in-mandya-lake/articleshow/76375651.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||Bharatnatyam keeps its rhythm online during lockdown||VADODARA: “In the history of Tanjorkars, this is for the first time that we have gone hi-tech to teach Bharatnatyam” — a self-explanatory statement from the masters who introduced Banyan City to one of the finest Indian classical dances, Bharatnatyam, some 130 years ago. However, for the Tanjorkar masters, till the lockdown upset their pedagogy, it was always ‘guru-sishya parampara’ — all under one roof. But forced by the restrictions, that changed — adapting to the evolving demands and embracing the virtual medium. “I had heard of online training of various courses but I always felt that Bharatnatyam is a dance discipline that can’t be taught online and Internet video calls are inferior medium for this training. We always preferred the traditional methods of teaching Bharatnatyam where the teacher and pupil are in the same room. But during the lockdown, I thought of trying out the new technology,” said Ashish Tanjorkar, who, carrying the family legacy ahead, runs Tanjore Dance Music and Art Research Centre in the city, that was established in 1982 as the Tanjore Nrutay Shala. “After the 320 students in their dance academies in Vadodara, Vapi and Silvassa began missing out on their regular practice, I decided to innovate,” Ashish, 41, told TOI. He said he downloaded a mobile app and learnt its functions for a couple of days and in the second week of April began imparting online classes. “I was surprised to see that I could teach the nuances of this dance effectively to my students, even in the virtual medium. It is possible when the students too are dedicated,” the guru added. Interestingly, Ashish’s 76-year-old father, Ramesh Tanjorkar, too, has adapted to the new medium of teaching the dance. “We ensure that the quality of teaching remains same and each student is personally attended to,” the senior said. The Tanjorkars gather in the hall of their room daily and impart training twice in a day. “We are enjoying the online classes and I learnt so much even during the lockdown. Though the medium of training is different, it was totally fun,” said 13-year-old student, Yatri Pandit. “Many of our former students, who have settled in UK and the US too join in for the online classes,” said Ashish, adding that Tanjokar students have garnered laurels across the globe with their superlative performances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bharatnatyam-keeps-its-rhythm-online-during-lockdown/articleshow/76375845.cms||Tushar Tere
June 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru hotel shut after TN returnee infects his wife||Mysuru: A week after a man with a travel history to Tamil Nadu visited Café Mysuru at Ittegudu here tested positive, Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar on Sunday asked people, who have visited the hotel on June 6, to self-quarantine for 14 days. This comes after the wife of the Tamil Nadu returnee tested positive DC Abhiram said that the elderly couple visited the hotel between 7pm and 10pm that day. “Those who have had snacks/ dinner at that hotel around that time have been requested to self-quarantine at home for 14 days, and also report to the District Surveillance Unit of Mysuru,” he said, adding: “The hotel has been closed, and it will be opened after sanitisation. There is no need to panic.” On June 9 evening, a 60-years-old resident of Ittiegudu, who had returned from Tamil Nadu, tested positive for Covid-19. His 54-year-old wife also tested positive on June 12. According to Mysuru City Corporation authorities, two staff of the hotel have also been home-quarantined. Meanwhile, no fresh case were reported in the district on Sunday. Twenty active cases are being treated at KR Hospital, the designated facility for Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-hotel-shut-after-tn-returnee-infects-his-wife/articleshow/76376560.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Thanjavur teacher takes classes to poor students’ doorsteps||THANJAVUR: With schools shut indefinitely since March due to the Covid-19 lockdown, a government school teacher in Thanjavur decided that he could do his bit to make things easier for Class X students of poor families at least in the next academic year. Hence, A Tamilarasan, 52, has been making door-to-door visits to his students’ homes and taking classes for them in groups for the last one month. Wearing a mask and with books in his hand, the mathematics teacher has been regularly visiting Enathikarambai village in Pattukottai taluk where the school is situated. He makes the children maintain social distancing and helps them in their studies. A native of Vadakadu in Pudukottai district, Tamilirasan works as a BT (bachelor teacher) assistant in the school. He rides about 18 kilometres on his bike every day to the village to ensure that students who passed out from Class IX did not lose out in preparing for the SSLC board examinations next year. With a total of 31 students – including 21 girls — slated to appear for the board examinations, Tamilarasan managed to mobilize around 28 of them every day. He organized them into five groups and started taking classes at one of students’ houses. Classes start at 9 am and conclude around 1 pm, he said. “Private schools have been keeping in touch with students by way of online classes. But our students come from poor families. Boys accompany their parents for agricultural works while girl students weave coconut fronds to earn something for the family. They don’t have time to think about board exams right now. But I have the responsibility of making them do well in studies”, the teacher told TOI. First, he met the parents and students and appealed to them to attend the class. He provided a mask to each student and made them sit following social distancing. He distributes stationery items and also collects books from his old student to give them to the students. V Thennarasu, father of a student, said, “Tamilarasan sir explained the importance of our children attending classes to secure good marks in the examinations. Our children have been helping us with the house chores, but education is important. So we allowed them to attend the classes”, he said. “Sir is taking effort to come over here to teach us and ensure we don’t waste our time. We will honour his good efforts by scoring high marks,” K Bharathi, daughter of a painter, said. Praising Tamilarasan’s efforts, A Prakash, DEO of Pattukottai educational district, said “I have known him for the last many years. He has been working for the betterment of students at their studies. Whatever help he needs, I am ready to fulfil for the sake of his students”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-teacher-takes-classes-to-poor-students-doorsteps/articleshow/76376680.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu pastor steals bikes to pay rent for prayer hall||MADURAI: He was a man of God who had heard many a confession, but for pastor Vijayan Samuel, his judgment day came on Saturday when he had to confess to his crimes and police recovered a dozen stolen two-wheelers from him. The 36-year-old pastor, originally from Theni, was running a prayer hall at a rented place at Thanakkankulam on the outskirts of Madurai for the past two years. According to police, contributions to Samuel’s prayer hall dried up due to the coronavirus lockdown. Though he had stopped congregation services, he had to pay rent for the building which was around10,000 a month. The pastor literally found his calling in bikes parked on roadsides with keys intact and started stealing them. He would watch out for vehicles left behind by owners in commercial areas such as SS Colony, Subramaniyapuram and Thirumangalam in the city. Using a copy of the vehicle records, he would pledge them for money. He gave three such stolen vehicles to his family members in Cumbum and a couple of them to people who took part in his prayer services, say police. Samuel ran out of luck when he took one such stolen vehicle to a mechanic on Bypass Road in the city recently for repair. The mechanic, who found the two-wheeler to be similar to one lost by his customer recently, informed him about it. The customer soon arrived and confirmed that it was his stolen vehicle. They both alerted the Subramanipuram police who promptly picked up Vijayan when he returned to take possession of the vehicle on Saturday. Watch Pastor turns bike thief to pay rent for prayer hall in Tamil Nadu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-pastor-steals-bikes-to-pay-rent-for-prayer-hall/articleshow/76376682.cms||V Devanathan
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Incessant rain leads to flooding in railway hospital||Nagpur: The patients wards of Nagpur Central Railway Hospital was flooded after incessant showers in the city on Sunday.The hospital is located next to the Central Railway and SECR DRM offices. The ground floor, which occupies OPD, maternity wards, medical superintendent office, paediatric ward, and pharmacy department were under one-feet water. “We will take care that rainwater doesn’t accumulate inside the hospital. The mechanical department staff was pressed in to clear the water. No damage to stock of medicine has been reported,” said SG Rao, assistant commercial manager (ACM) and Central Railway spokesperson.National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) working president Habib Khan charged the railway administration with utter negligence. “This is a routine and every year during rainy season waterlogging is reported at the hospital but no permanent solution to check the menace is worked out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/incessant-rain-leads-to-flooding-in-railway-hospital/articleshow/76376590.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Karkala girl’s cover drive shot goes viral||Mangaluru: Cricket lovers across the globe have gone gaga after a four-second video of a cover drive by a Karkala girl during a gully cricket session went viral on social media. The girl is now a social media celebrity, after the clip made it to the Twitter page of ESPNcricinfo. Jyothi Poojary, a Mumbai resident, who had come down to her ancestral house in Kervashe, a remote village in Karkala taluk, Udupi, never imagined that her gully cricket skills would go viral on social media. Jyothi, who had to come to Udupi due to the pandemic, was playing underarm cricket along with her near and dear ones in the courtyard of the house, and it was recorded by Ranjith Poojary. Ranjith later uploaded the same online, and it was later picked up by ESPNcricinfo. ESPNcricinfo tweeted with a caption: “@ESPNcricinfo Stepping out to the leg side and smashing it through the covers. Now, where have we seen that before?.” The tweet has sent thousands of cricket lovers crazy, who not only lauded her skill of executing the cover drive, but also compared her with cricket legends. Omkar Shetty @omkar_gs replied, “TuluNadu Signature Coverdrives Men- KL Rahul Women- Jyothi Poojary.” Others compared her to Mark Waugh, V V S Laxman, Shahid Afridi, Gautam Gambhir, Brendon McCullum, Robin Singh and Herschelle Gibbs. Jyothi told local media that she loves playing cricket, and plays the sport, whenever time permits. “I never expected that the cover drive played by me would go viral. My favourite cricketer is M S Dhoni,” she added. The video has crossed over a lakh views, and has received thousands of comments and retweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karkala-girls-cover-drive-shot-goes-viral/articleshow/76374663.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Swab testing in Nashik rises tenfold after spike in cases||Nashik: The swab testing rate of Covid-19 suspects in Nashik city has increased 10 times in the last two-and-a-half months due to the sudden spike in the number of patients. According to NMC health officials, on an average, 17 swabs were tested in a day in April. However, it increased to 87 testings per day by May 31. Meanwhile, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had increased the testing of swabs in June due to the sudden spike in the number of positive cases. On an average, 175 samples are being tested in a day so far. The city had recorded its first coronavirus patient on April 6 and it had 48 positive cases by May 20. But, the number of cases began swelling after May 21. The city touched the 100-mark of coronavirus positives on May 25 and 200-mark on May 31. The city has been recording nearly 100 cases after every three days since June 1, said NMC officials. “The rise in the number of Covid cases could be attributed to the relaxation in lockdown norms by the government after May 20. It resulted in allowing the movement of people from affected areas like Mumbai, Malegaon and other parts of the country. This led to rise in number of positive cases in the city,” said NMC officials. “We are also tracing high-risk contacts of positive patients and are sending their swabs for testing. In April, our average testing was 17 swabs per day on an average which has now reached to 175 tests per day on an average,” said NMC officials. 98 tested +ve for Covid-19 in dist Nashik district on Sunday registered 98 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which 59 were from the city, five from Malegaon and the remaining 34 from other rural areas. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has reached 1,973 with 121 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/swab-testing-in-nashik-rises-tenfold-after-spike-in-cases/articleshow/76376153.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||With footfalls low, hotels and malls in Hyderabad struggle to stay afloat||HYDERABAD: A week after reopening albeit with reduced capacity, hotels and malls in the city are finding it difficult to sustain themselves as footfalls have been abysmally low. A rise in Covid-19 cases has kept most consumers at bay from visiting malls and hotels in the city. Following the state government’s nod, malls, hotels and restaurants and worship places had reopened on June 8 after a hiatus of 77 days. While worship places have had relatively encouraging footfalls, malls, hotels and restaurants are finding it difficult to remain open unless sales shoot up. “The condition of hotels and restaurants is deplorable as barely 20% of customers are visiting. Even now, consumers are afraid to step out for dine-in. Business of banquet halls is also not too encouraging as only 50 members are allowed as against 200 to 500 earlier,” said Telangana State Hotels Association secretary, Jagdish Rao. The dull start to business has forced many to reconsider their plans of reopening. Since alcohol accounts for 60% of total sales, some hotels are planning to reopen only by Dasara, hoping to see a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state by then. “There is still not enough footfall to make up for staff salaries and maintenance costs. Instead, we have to spend more on hygiene and sanitation. If it continues this way, we may reconsider reopening by Dasara,” said Vishnu Pradhan, manager of a restaurant in Madhapur, adding that early closing time as per existing night curfew rules has taken away more than half their patrons since dinner has always been peak time. While footfalls in malls has been better than hotels, officials expect volume of business to swell further. “We have received a surge in number of consumers for electronic items. Big brands have also received encouraging footfall. We are hoping that this will get better over the next few weeks,” said Tanveer Shaikh, cluster head, Forum Sujana Mall. Meanwhile, stores and food courts at many other malls are yet to reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-footfalls-low-hotels-and-malls-struggle-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/76376479.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizman dead as tipper rams into car||Hyderabad: A 42-year-old businessman died and his friend suffered severe injuries after a tipper crashed into their car in Jagtial district on Sunday. The victims were identified as Anjaneyulu (42) and his friend Yakub, from Mancherial town. The accident occurred in the early hours of Sunday on the Nizamabad-Mancherial road in Jagtial district. “When the Hyundai Creta car of the victims reached Tatipalli village in Jagtial district, a tipper coming from the opposite direction rammed into it on the driver’s side. The tipper went out of control after the front-right tyre burst,” Jagtial police said. According to police, Anjaneyulu and his friend Yakub went to Nizamabad on Saturday to attend some personal work and the accident occurred while they were returning home. The truck driver fled from the spot and police registered a case under Sections 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-dead-as-tipper-rams-into-car/articleshow/76376484.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Beware! KYC update scams the new bait for cyber frauds||HYDERABAD: Cyber criminals have now shifted their focus on luring victims on the pretext of updating their Know Your Customer (KYC). The offenders, in such cases, impersonate agents from online wallets or credit card service providers. In one such case, a 45-year-old from Sanathnagar received a call from a supposed credit card service asking him to update his KYC. The caller said the service will be blocked if he did not do so. Falling for this, the victim clicked a link sent by the caller and revealed his account details and within no time ended up losing Rs 1 lakh from his account. “The moment they say their account or card will be blocked, the victims panic. They take advantage of that and lure victims to install remote access applications like Team Viewer, Quick Support, Any Desk or similar on their phones to gain access,” said ACP S Harinath, cybercrime Rachakonda. In another case, a 23-year-old teacher from Hafeez Babanagar lost close to a lakh. A person posing as an agent from Google Pay customer care told her that she would lose Rs 9,000 every month if she did not de-activate her account. “He convinced me that he would de-activate the account and save me from losing money. He sent me a link of a Google form and asked me to fill the data,” she said in her complaint. As instructed, she entered her card details and later an OTP. Soon after money was deducted. But she was assured the amount will soon be refunded but later realised she was cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beware-kyc-update-scams-the-new-bait-for-cyber-frauds/articleshow/76376507.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||Bharatnatyam keeps its rhythm online||Vadodara: “In the history of Tanjorkars, this is for the first time that we have gone hi-tech to teach Bharatnatyam” — a self-explanatory statement from the masters who introduced Banyan City to one of the finest Indian classical dances, Bharatnatyam, some 130 years ago. However, for the Tanjorkar masters, till the lockdown upset their pedagogy, it was always ‘guru-sishya parampara’ — all under one roof. But forced by the restrictions, that changed — adapting to the evolving demands and embracing the virtual medium. “I had heard of online training of various courses but I always felt that Bharatnatyam is a dance discipline that can’t be taught online and Internet video calls are inferior medium for this training. We always preferred the traditional methods of teaching Bharatnatyam where the teacher and pupil are in the same room. But during the lockdown, I thought of trying out the new technology,” said Ashish Tanjorkar who runs the faily academy established in 1982 as the Tanjore Nrutay Shala. “After the 320 students in their dance academies in Vadodara, Vapi and Silvassa began missing out on their regular practice, I decided to innovate,” Ashish, 41, told TOI. He said he downloaded a mobile app and learnt its functions for a couple of days and in the second week of April began imparting online classes. “I was surprised to see that I could teach the nuances of this dance effectively to my students, even in the virtual medium. It is possible when the students too are dedicated,” the guru added. Interestingly, Ashish’s 76-year-old father, Ramesh Tanjorkar, too, has adapted to the new medium of teaching the dance. “We ensure that the quality of teaching remains same and each student is personally attended to,” the senior said. The Tanjorkars gather in the hall of their room daily and impart training twice in a day. “We are enjoying the online classes and I learnt so much even during the lockdown. Though the medium of training is different, it was totally fun,” said 13-year-old student, Yatri Pandit. “Many of our former students, who have settled in UK and the US too join in for the online classes,” said Ashish, adding that Tanjokar students have garnered laurels across the globe with their superlative performances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bharatnatyam-keeps-its-rhythm-online/articleshow/76374697.cms||Tushar Tere
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Sigh of relief as US univs waive GRE requirement||Hyderabad: In a sigh of relief for those aspiring to pursue their higher education abroad, several universities in the United States have waived the need for standardised GRE tests for admissions in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Prominent institutions such as UCLA’s Anderson School of Management and Northeastern University are now allowing students’ admissions based on their school and college grades. “As a working professional, I hardly got time to prepare for the GRE. This year though several universities waived the need for the test which has been a great advantage,” said Jayanthi Yalamanchili, a techie working in the city and who has got admission in five universities for their fall intake. Yalamanchili is going to pursue her master’s degree in computer sciences, with a specialisation in cyber security. Another techie, Prasanthi too hopes to head to the US soon for a master’s course in computer sciences. “The pandemic has meant that some colleges have relaxed their criteria which is a boon for us. My marks in college were strong and ensured I could make several successful applications,” she said. While competition for top universities still remains tough, dozens of mid-rung schools are offering a waiver for various reasons including aspirants not being able to get dates for GRE tests. “Cleveland State University, Rowan University, Texas A&M Commerce, Fairleigh Dickinson University are among the many schools that have relaxed their criteria and are giving admission with lesser scores too,” confirmed Sanjeev Rai, founder, Hyderabad Overseas Consultants. “Besides the GRE waiver, students are being offered other options for English proficiency including accepting students whose mode of instruction is English, Duolingo test, IELTS indicator. They are also waiving the need of hard copies of documents,” he added. “To make sure students do not lose time universities have introduced blended learning — remote and classroom learning. As remote learning has come into play, several universities are waiving standardised tests. This helps attract more students during times of pandemic,” said Surya Ganesh Valmiki, chairman, Valmiki Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sigh-of-relief-as-us-univs-waive-gre-requirement/articleshow/76376491.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Shanghai chain removes photo of 'princess' from menu card after kin in UP object and Indian envoy intervenes||Rampur: A restaurant in China’s Shanghai has removed the photographs of a former Indian princess from its menu card after Indian Ambassador to that country, Vikram Misri, took up the matter following protests from her family in UP. The princess, Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan, is the daughter of the last nawab of Rampur. Misri pursued the matter after former UP minister and four-term MLA Nawab Kazim Ali, her nephew, sent a letter to India’s consul general in Shanghai on June 11, saying that the restaurant, Masala Art, did not take permission from the erstwhile royal family or from Mehrunnisa to use her photo. He also said it was “derogatory”.In the letter written to India’s consul general to Shanghai Anil Kumar Rai on June 11, Ali said it was an “invasion of privacy”. He wrote: “This is to bring to your notice that Shri Rajesh Prabhakar, owner of Masala Art restaurant, 397 Dagu Road, Shanghai, is using the photograph of my aunt Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan of Rampur in the menu cards of all his restaurants. This is being used in a derogatory manner without our permission. Copies of news cuttings from the local press are enclosed for your perusal. We are terribly distressed as this is a total invasion of our privacy. I shall be grateful if you can take appropriate action in this matter through your good offices."He added, “For your information, Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan is the daughter of the last nawab of Rampur state, Nawab Syed Raza Ali Khan, who was the first ruler of undivided India to merge his state in the Union of India in May, 1949. Due to this gesture, half of Gandhi Ji’s ashes were sent to Rampur from Delhi by the then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. She is also the sister of my father, Nawab Syed Zulfquar Ali Khan, a six-term MP from Rampur.” The action was swift. On June 12, Misri reverted and told Khan that the menus have been withdrawn.“Dear Janab Kazim Ali Khan. Please refer to your letter of June 11, 2020 regarding the misuse of your aunt’s image by an Indian restaurant in Shanghai. Our consul general in Shanghai had immediately taken up the matter with the restaurant owner, who has confirmed that these menus have been withdrawn with immediate effect and will not be used any further. He has also conveyed regret for unintentionally hurting your sentiments,” Misri wrote.Mehrunnisa was married to Rahim Khan, who was the commander-in-chief of Pakistan Airforce during the 1971 war. While Khan is no more, Mehrunnisa, almost 90 and ailing, lives in Washington DC. Nawab Kazim told TOI, “After the action taken by the Indian Ambassador in China, the owner of Masala Art has removed the pictures of Mehrunnisa Khan from the menu cards of all the six restaurants in Shanghai, and he has apologized for it. I am thankful to Ambassador Misri for the swift action he has taken in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/shanghai-chain-removes-photo-of-princess-from-menu-card-after-kin-in-up-object-and-indian-envoy-intervenes/articleshow/76374666.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||34 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death in U’khand||Dehradun: With 34 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday, the state tally has now shot up to 1,819. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 positive patient died at AIIMS Rishikesh on the day, taking the death toll of the virus in the state to 24. The hospital has claimed that the victim, a 61-year-old man, died due to "Septic Shock" and the underlying cause of the death was community acquired Pneumonia. The state has reported 800 cases in the last fortnight. Most of these were reported from hill districts. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that 14 new Covid 19 cases were reported in Dehradun on June 14, followed by nine in Tehri, five in Haridwar, three in Uttarkashi and one each in Chamoli, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts. “Among the total 1,819 cases of the virus, 687 are from hill districts which is around 35% of total cases in the state,” said Pant while adding that Tehri has the highest number of Covid-19 cases among the hill districts. Tehri also tops the list of hill districts in terms of the number of containment zones. At present, Tehri has 10 containment zones, Haridwar has 39, and Dehradun has 21 such areas. “AIIMS administration also informed that a 42-year-old woman, who had visited the hospital emergency on Saturday morning from Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh), died on the same night. Her sample was collected by the hospital but the patient left the hospital after 2-3 hours. The sample was found positive for Covid-19 late in the evening and when the hospital authorities approached the family, they were informed that the patient had already died,” added Pant. In some good news, 34 positive patients defeated the disease on Sunday, taking the tally of recovered cases in the state to 1,111.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/34-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-ukhand/articleshow/76375538.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Bengali Market takes the bitter with the sweet as Delhi unlocks||NEW DELHI: Bengali Market near Mandi House is deemed a neighbourhood market — the directive about shops opening on alternate days, therefore, doesn’t apply to it. Just as well, because though its reopening a couple of weeks ago delighted the locals, it actually draws people from across the capital. During a visit, TOI saw a number of cars parked at the market that contours itself around a roundabout, but there wasn’t much going on in the shops, indicating that the market is only warming up for a later run. The market, which opened in the 1930s, has always been the haunt of sweet lovers, with the tables at Bengali Sweet House and the two Nathu’s outlets always occupied. But there are other stores and salons, even a photo studio, that caters mainly to the upmarket Babar Road residential area and the regulars who visit the art galleries, theatres and office complexes at ITO, Mandi House and Barakhamba Road. Almost all the major shops have re-opened, and though the shop owners admit sales are low, they are optimistic of a turnaround. “We are looking forward to more customers coming. Each shop here is now equipped to deal with the Covid-19 norms,” said a salon worker. But for the time being, the businesses are thinking financially and making changes accordingly. The famous eateries of Bengali Market, for instance, have changed tack. Varjesh Aggarwal, managing director, Bengali Pastry Shop & Snack Bar, said sales were just a tenth of what they were pre-lockdown, and there is a limited menu for those walking in. Items like bread, biscuits and pastries, prepared in the hundreds every day, are now made only to satisfy the demand of a much fewer customers. “Their shelf life is not long. Before the lockdown, we had to give much of such items to NGOs,” said Aggarwal. “In fact, it does not make financial sense to operate the shop right now, but we are listening to the government and trying to take steps to restore normalcy, which may be some months away.” At Bengali Sweet House next door, part of the same family but run as a separate unit, Girish Aggarwal said favourites like chole bhature, dhokhla, chaat and samosas are what people are coming for, so they have limited the Chinese menu to noodles and vegetable Manchurian. The south Indian menu has been dropped, and even among sweets, only the most popular sweets are available. “We have trimmed our menu to offer only items that see takers. We hope things will improve by Diwali,” he said. Nathu’s Pastry Shop, however, is up and running, having resumed business on May 20, and offering the pre-lockdown menu more or less. However, Nathu’s Sweets, located in the corner of the market, hasn’t yet opened its doors, perhaps financial logic being the reason. Gopinathan, the cashier at Nathu’s Pastry Shop, said that daily earnings have dropped, and though customers are coming, the numbers are nowhere close to what they were earlier. “People are naturally cautious about coming out and sitting together, but things are likely to improve soon,” he said. While the pharmacy shops and the daily essentials supermarket are attracting the most people, local residents largely, some shops, like Rama Color Kodak Express photo studio, are looking at other options to survive. With little interest in photo items at the moment, the studio is stocking the more-in-demand Covid-19 products like face shields, masks, hand sanitisers and gloves, all of these occupying prominent places on the display counter next to cameras and memory cards. “We know people will not come to get photographs clicked or to buy cameras. Therefore, we decided to cash in on the pandemic,”said Raj Kumar at the studio. “We have even ordered a sanitiser-powerbank that can be carried in your pocket and performs a dual purpose. When people come to the pharmacy next door, they notice our products and we have been able to draw in some of them.” Meanwhile, the ever-popular Bee-Kay Dry Cleaners, in operation since 1957, is now offering a pick-and-drop service for customers within a 5-km radius. The staff is very careful about the clothes that come for cleaning. Each item is disinfected before it enters the shop. Everything is similarly disinfected and wrapped in plastic before being returned to the customer. “Business is slow and people are not willing to risk coming here,” said Rajendra Prasad, one of the oldest employees of the dry-cleaning facility. “We have been calling everyone in our customer base and assuring them that everything is safe because we are taking precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bengali-market-takes-the-bitter-with-the-sweet-as-city-unlocks/articleshow/76376159.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Paravai mkt complex to be shut||Madurai: The Madurai Central Market Vegetables and Perishable Commodities Coordinated Association has announced that it is closing the Paravai market with immediate effect as some of their members have tested positive for Covid-19. They would now function at an alternative site near the market. In a statement, association president Dr S Manuel Jeyaraj said that the Madurai District Association and Madurai Corporation have done a lot of efforts to ensure the safety of the citizens in wake of the Koyembedu cluster. The authorities have closed and sealed shops that did not maintain social distancing and fined those who violate the norms. Recently, three people who were working in the market tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. Even during the lockdown period only 400 of the 700 odd shops functioned in order to control the crowd and maintain safe distance. Now it was further being reduced to 250, he said. They would function at a site close to the market complex. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/paravai-mkt-complex-to-be-shut/articleshow/76376678.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chennai||Five CISF personnel posted at Madras HC test positive||CHENNAI: Five Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. They have been taken to the centre at IIT-M for treatment. The five personnel were posted at the Madras high court for the past four months. They were allotted a room at Chennai Port Trust Housing quarters in Tondiarpet. After one of their room mates, a CISF jawan from Andhra Pradesh, tested positive, the five were quarantined and tested. After the jawans were taken to the Tondiarpet government hospital, the living quarters were sanitized. On Saturday evening, the men were shifted to the Mahanadhi Hostel on the IIT-M campus. One CISF jawan said they were asymptomatic and stable. “We were asked to follow safety measures while on duty. We never stepped out without masks and used hand sanitizers. Since our room mate tested positive, we were affected,” said the jawan. “Even in rooms, we maintained social distancing and hardly spent time together. Four of us were given one room,” he said. Sources said the jawans who were in contact with the infected five are now being traced and tested. At IIT, they jawans will be under restricted diet apart from medication. “We have restricted non-vegetarian food except boiled egg for these personnel,” said a police officer. Sources said only CISF men posted at airports are given protective suits while others have protective gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-cisf-personnel-posted-at-madras-hc-test-positive/articleshow/76376677.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Apply for post-matric scholarships till June 30||The social justice and empowerment department has extended the date to apply for post-matric scholarships to June 30. The applicants can apply online through the website www.scholarship.rajasthan.gov.in. The new date for reopening the portal is June 16 and last date to apply is June 30. The principal secretary of planning department Abhay Kumar asked heads of all the departments not to send progress reports of all the flagship programmes directly to the CMO and the planning department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/apply-for-post-matric-scholarships-till-june-30/articleshow/76377089.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Meerut||UP: 57 foreign Jamaatis freed in Saharanpur||MEERUT: A local court in Saharanpur has set aside the visa norms violation charges slapped by UP Police against 57 followers of Tablighi Jamaat paving way for their return to their countries after two months of incarceration. These Jamaat followers belonged to Kyrgyzstan, Bhutan, Thailand, Indonesia and several other countries. They had come to India on tourist visa to participate in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz which was held in mid of March. Later, the area became a hotbed of Covid-19 and all those who came from outside the country were booked. Police in Saharanpur had filed charge-sheet against the 57 foreigners on June 8. They were booked for violating visa norms under the Foreigners Act and under section 188, 269, 271 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Epidemic and Diseases Act. The court convicted them under IPC section 188 and epidemic act and sentenced them for one month. Since they have already served two months in temporary jail, they were set free, Saharanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar P confirmed. According to sources, the incarcerated Jamaatis decided to give a written confession in favour of the charges framed against them instead of putting the case for trial as police had presented its charge-sheet in the court on June 10. “The court found some charges against the accused did not hold. The court spoke to them via video-conferencing and asked how they would like to proceed with the case. They unanimously agreed to tender apology and requested for return to their own country. Their confession was recorded, following which they were convicted under section 188 and relevant sections of the Epidemic act,” Jaanisaar Ahmed, lawyer representing the foreigners said. “Having already served more than two months in the temporary jail, the foreigners were released on Saturday evening,” he said. “The administration in Saharanpur including the local intelligence unit is in touch with respective embassies to send them back to their respective countries. Some embassies have made temporary arrangements for stay before they board the plane back home,” lawyer Ahmed said. Last month, a delegation led by Kyrgyzstan ambassador Asein Isaev, first secretary Toktobolot Zhumaliev had visited the temporary jail in Saharanpur to meet 21 Kyrgyz nationals lodged here. The visiting ambassador had assured all possible help to bring them back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/57-foreign-jamaat-followers-released-in-saharanpur-after-court-sets-aside-visa-violation-charges/articleshow/76374671.cms||Piyush Rai
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt seeks arrears as mine operators falter in paying fee||LUCKNOW: With UP government expediting construction activities, the department of mining and geology has taken up the issue of non-deposition of fee by some mine operators for various months, including May, when the lockdown was in effect. The non-deposition of fee has caused a significant loss of revenue to the state exchequer. In a communiqué sent to all district magistrates, mining secretary Roshan Jacob said the government has received complaints of mine operators not depositing trimester mining fee in the months of July, October and January 2019, and May 2020. “In the wake of the Corona pandemic, the availability of mining material is of extreme need to carry out construction activity for which more and more mines need to be operated. However, non- deposition of fee is constraining the state government from carrying out mining of sand and morang, the key materials for construction activity,” Jacob said in the letter dated June 12. She said though the miners are depositing fee online, they are faltering in payment of due fee for the months of various trimesters. The pendency, she said, often extended till May. The state government had asked the mine operators to deposit fees online through a government order dated May 28 this year. Jacob said the mine operators were also required to deposit fees in advance for June. Jacob said the DMs would be required to get mining activities stopped immediately if miners fail to deposit the fee timely. The department also set a deadline of September 30 for fee deposition till the month of January. The mining department has asked the DMs to enforce the directions strictly. Officials in the mining department said that mining activities need to be expedited to make up for lockdown period when construction activity was halted. “Some of the mine operators were not depositing the due fee forcing the department to enforce stringent measures and launch a crackdown,” officials said. Last week, CM Yogi Adityanath had directed all divisional commissioners to make field visits of the districts under their jurisdiction and get the construction and developmental activities expedited. Mining department sources said the commissioners have also been apprised about the situation while asking them to take adequate steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-seeks-arrears-as-mine-operators-falter-in-paying-fee/articleshow/76376684.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 15, 2020||Chennai||34 Tamils among 153 sailors stranded in Sri Lanka||CHENNAI: A total of 153 Indian seafarers, including 34 from Tamil Nadu, who had disembarked at Galle port in Sri Lanka are stranded as a charter flight that was to bring them to Chennai was cancelled on Sunday. The flight had to be cancelled because the state government did not want more international travellers landing at Chennai airport as already a flight from Singapore under Vande Bharat mission had brought stranded passengers on Sunday. Steps are on to ensure that flights could be operated on June 16 or 17. Shipping agencies in the city had been evacuating crew from Sri Lanka by chartering aircraft and was also sending fresh crew to replace them. One such flight brought back some seafarers last week. The charter flights were being arranged from Chennai after ministry of shipping gave permission to ferry crew. However, chartering planes and getting approvals from ministry of civil aviation, DGCA, Indian high commission and Sri Lankan government is not easy. Moreover, quarantine requirements have hit the operation. Sri Lanka is objecting to bringing more crew from India because their quarantine house is full with 300 sailors. The Indian government is fine with sending out seafarers but is discouraging crew from returning to India, said shipping sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Captain Sanjay Prashar, who is coordinating the crew exchange by arranging charter planes, said, “We understand the constraints of the government here but we need to look at the needs of the industry too. The crew who want to return have been waiting for three days. As the flights are cancelled there is a delay. More seafarers are waiting to return. We are planning to arrange flights on June 16 or 17.” He also says ships would have to take a deviation to reach Chennai to disembark crew. “It will cost more and is also time consuming. Galle is conveniently located and crew exchange is faster there.” Many shipping companies who ply on the east-west route prefer Sri Lanka to disembark crew whose contracts have expired and receive new crew. This exercise has been delayed because of the shutdown and need for quarantine of crew before boarding them and other precautions needed for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/34-tamils-among-153-sailors-stranded-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/76376154.cms||V Ayyappan
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Kota malls, restaurants see 80% dip in footfall||Kota: Despite following all the safety measures against Covid-19 as per the Central government’s guidelines and offering attractive packages to woo the customers, the shopping malls and restaurants here are witnessing at least 80% dip in footfall following their reopening after over two-and-a-half months. Not the business but safety of the customer and staff is the top priority at these commercial hubs, where one first sees not the price tags and offers but a sequence of safety measures and norms. Every customer is allowed into the malls and restaurants only after thermal screening and sanitization at the entrance. He is allowed exit from the single gate as soon as the purchasing and billing is over. Only essential admission is allowed in the malls while entrance of children below 15 years and people over 65 years is banned. “Following the reopening on June 8, people have started visiting markets but only 20% customers are turning up for shopping at malls. Hopefully, the situation will improve and the business would gain its usual rhythm soon,” said Nikhelish Dhing, manager of a mall, claiming all safety measures were being followed. Unlike shopping malls in the city, restaurants are receiving encouraging response from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-malls-restaurants-see-80-dip-in-footfall/articleshow/76377092.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Trichy||Karur farmers hail plan for drumstick powder unit||Trichy: The farmers engaged in drumstick cultivation in Aravakurichi in Karur district welcomed the state government’s announcement to set up a drumstick powder making unit. The transport minister M R Vijayabaskar, at a party meeting on Friday, had announced that as chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami gave his nod, the state government will be setting up the unit at the cost of Rs 3.25 crore. While drumstick cultivation is done on more than 5,000 acres of land in Aravakurichi, a processing unit to produce value-added products out of drumstick was a long-pending demand from the farmers. The farmers prefer the crop as this is a draught-resistant crop and requires less water and maintenance. “Establishment of a cold storage for storing the produce and a factory for producing value-added products has been a long-pending demand,” said S Jegatheesan, a drumstick farmer from Aravakurichi. Vijayabaskar also announced that the formation of seller’s welfare association will help farmers get good price for their produce. An association for the production of gloriosa superba seeds which is also picking up in Aravakurichi, will also be formed, he said. The whole idea is to integrate farmers who are cultivating drumstick and gloriosa superba seeds for their welfare, he added. R Selvaraj, farmer from Aruvai Murungai Vivasayigal Nala Sangam – a farmer agro producers company- said there is no doubt that value-added products will bring more profit to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-farmers-hail-plan-for-drumstick-powder-unit/articleshow/76376685.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Smart city has enough funds for projects: Thavil||Nashik: Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) CEO Prakash Thavil on Sunday said that the body has received enough funds from the state, centre and civic body to carry out necessary developmental work. Thavil said that they have already given work orders worth Rs 539 crore developmental projects, which are expected to be completed in the next two years. “We have received total funds of Rs 484 crore for smart city projects. Out of which, we have received Rs 186 crore from centre, Rs 98 crore from state and Rs 200 crore from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC),” he said. Thavil said that the body has spent 56 crore so far out of which Rs 428 crore funds are still pending for future projects. “The projects over Rs 500 crore are underway and payment are to be given to the concerned contractors as per the development stages of the projects over a period of two years,” he added. Some of the projects include the Godavari beautification project, internal roads in gaothan or core areas, installation of CCTVs, etc. The development of internal roads in gaothan areas has been started after the relaxation of lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/smart-city-has-enough-funds-for-projects-thavil/articleshow/76376158.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Man, 58, held for raping 10-yr-old||Madurai: A 58-year-old man near Periyar Bus Terminal in Madurai city was arrested on charges of raping 10-year-old girl. The accused has been identified as S Jagangir, 58, a daily wage worker. Police said the accused’s granddaughter used to play with the girl. Last week, he took the girl to his house after informing her that his granddaughter wanted to see her. He sexually assaulted her and left her at her home. As girl did not complain it to her parents, he repeated the offence two more times. The girl complained of pain on Saturday and on enquiry, she narrated the incident to her mother, who lodged a police complaint. An FIR was registered on Sunday. Station inspector Stella Bhai conducted an inquiry and arrested the accused the same day. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-58-held-for-raping-10-yr-old/articleshow/76376683.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||RU research students facing fund crunch due to lockdown||Research students of Rajasthan University are facing an economic crunch as during lockdown they haven’t got their NET-JRF amount. Since the university was closed since March, it has not uploaded JRF bills on UGC website. Every student clearing NET-JRF receives Rs 31,000 per month from UGC. Ram Singh Samota, a research scholar of Rajasthan University, said, “I have not received my scholarship amount since March. It takes one month to complete the process. If the university applies for the scholarship in June, we will receive it in July end. Research scholars are in crisis.” Rahul Chaudhary, another research scholar in mathematics, said that scholarship helps them to bear their own expenses in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-research-students-facing-fund-crunch-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76377093.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||As cases spike, Telangana to conduct 50,000 tests in and around Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Under fire from the Telangana high court for fewer novel coronavirus tests, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said the government will conduct 50,000 tests over the next 10 days and also prepare testing guidelines for private hospitals and labs. A total of 50,000 tests in 30 constituencies, as decided by the government, would mean that less than 1,700 tests would be conducted in every assembly segment having a population of over 3 lakh on an average. Greater Hyderabad has seen a spurt in cases in the past few weeks. “Though the spread of coronavirus is less in the state, more number of positive cases are being reported from Hyderabad and its surrounding places. There is a need to put an end to this,” KCR said on Sunday after holding a review meeting. “Hyderabad is like the heart of Telangana state. It is a city with a big population. It is the responsibility of all that the health of citizens, the image of the city and the progress and development of it should be maintained on a permanent basis,” he added. The CM also instructed the officials to prepare guidelines for private hospitals and labs to conduct Covid-19 tests, offer treatment and the charges to be paid by the patients. These guidelines should be framed strictly keeping in view the Covid-19 conditions. The ICMR has already approved 14 private labs to conduct Covid-19 tests, apart from a go-ahead by the Telangana high court. They were all waiting for a government nod before they begin doing tests. Experts said a beginning has been made to conduct more tests by a government which was criticised for its strategy to conduct less number of tests. Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Kumar Mishra told TOI that while it is difficult to say whether 50,000 tests were enough for 30 Assembly constituencies, it was certainly a good beginning, at least now. “If you conduct more tests, you can plan better to effectively deal with the pandemic based on the test results. More tests would give a better view to the government on planning to contain the spread of covid-19. But we also need capacity to conduct so many tests. Increasing the number of tests will certainly help. But it should be done continuously and not stop it at that,” said Rakesh Kumar Mishra. In the next 10 days, as a precautionary measure, 50,000 people from Uppal, LB Nagar, Maheswaram, Ibrahimpatnam, Rajendranagar, Serilingampalli, Chevella, Pargi, Vikarabad, Tandur, Medchal, Malkajgiri, Quthbuallapur, Kukatpally, Malakpet, Amberpet, Musheerabad, Khairatabad, Jubilee Hills, Sanath Nagar, Nampally, Karwan, Goshamahal, Charminar, Chandrayangutta, Yakutpura, Bahadurpura, Secunderabad, Secunderabad Cantonment, Patancheru Assembly constituencies would be tested for coronavirus. “Utilise the services of the rivate labs and hospitals in this regard. The officials should finalise the guidelines for conducting tests, fee collected by the private labs and hospitals. Offer home quarantine for those who tested positive but have no serious symptoms,” the CM said. “We have taken a decision to conduct tests on 50,000 people as a precaution to protect Hyderabad. People should not panic. However, everyone should follow personal hygiene and take precautions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-cases-spike-t-to-conduct-50k-tests-in-and-around-city/articleshow/76377099.cms||Roushan Ali
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon district registers 202 cases in 48 hours||Nashik: North Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district continues to reel under Covid-19 pandemic as 202 new positive cases were reported in the district in the last 48 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,728. A total of 724 patients have recovered from the contagion so far. The fatalities in the district have swelled to 136 with three more patients succumbing to the infection on June 13. According to the data provided by officials of district administration’s health department, 75 new cases each were reported on June 14 and June 13 and 52 on June 12. Officials said that surveillance and contact tracing of positive patients have been stepped up due to which more coronavirus cases are coming to the fore. According to officials, the administration would flatten the Covid curve soon. Jalgaon city, Bhusawal, Amalner, Chopda and Raver blocks continue to be the hotspots in the district with majority of cases being reported from these places. While Jalgaon city and Bhusawal have 312 and 309 cases respectively so far, Amalner has registered 227 cases, Chopda 118 and Raver 126. The highest number of deaths have been reported from Bhusawal (32) followed by Jalgaon city and Amalner with 22 deaths each and Raver 12 deaths. Recently, state health minister Rajesh Tope reviewed the situation in the district and directed the administration to set up a task force to guide the administration in curbing the rising number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-district-registers-202-cases-in-48-hours/articleshow/76376163.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||In 24 hours, Telangana records 237 fresh cases, three deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 237 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases have surged to 4,974 and death toll mounted to 185. Authorities said the recovery rate continues to be very low, with 15-20 patients recovering per day. “The pace at which new cases are rising is a matter of concern as we are expecting to hit a peak in the month of July. It might even reach the 400 cases per day mark by the end of this month. The fact that recovery is slow means that the pressure on health infrastructure is likely to be heavy,” said a senior official from the state health department. Among those who tested positive on Sunday is also a health department officials who was overseeing the state, fight againt Covid-19. “The official is running high fever and is currently in isolation at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences,” said a source. An MLA from Nizamabad rural assembly constituency also tested positive on Sunday. However, his wife has tested negative. The MLA is being transported to Hyderabad for further tests. The maximum of cases cases continue to come from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits where 195 new cases were reported were reported on Sunday. Overall, 16 districts reported new cases on Sunday. A total of 2,377 patients have recovered so far and 2,412 patients (active cases) are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-237-fresh-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/76376179.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Parts of Nashik city to face water cuts on June 16||Nashik: Parts of city, including Satupur and Nashik West, will face water cuts on June 16 (Tuesday) as the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will be undertaking some repair works related to water distribution lines. Water to the affected areas will be supplied with low pressure on Wednesday, officials of the water supply department of the municipal corporation said, adding that the supply will be restored to normalcy from Thursday. According to NMC officials, the water supply department of municipal corporation will be undertaking repair works at the water distribution pipeline connected to the water treatment plant at Shivaji Ngar in Satpur division of the city on Tuesday. Moreover, the main distribution pipeline had developed leakages at two locations in the city — near Nasardi River and Ashok Nagar police post. “The civic body will also undertake repair works to remove those leakages,” said NMC officials. Water will not be supplied in two 10 and 11 wards of Satpur division. It includes Satpur Colony, Ashok Nagar, Jadhav complex, housing colony, Satpurgaon, Swarbaba Nagar, Mahadevwadi, J P Nagar, Santoshimata Nagar, Samtanagar, Khode Park, Aath Hajhar Colonyk Vis Hajhar Colony, among other areas. Moreover, water will not be supplied in parts of Nashik West division, including Lavhate Nagar, Sambhaji Chowk, Ushakiran Society, Patrakar Colony, Tidke Colony, Kalika Mandir area, Sahawas Nagar, Rahul Nagar, Milind Nagar, Matoshri Nagar, Mahesh Nagar, Vanvihar Colony, among other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parts-of-nashik-city-to-face-water-cuts-on-june-16/articleshow/76376169.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Pvt bus operator in Kovilpatti starts free service||Madurai: While many people from Kovilpatti travel to the neighbouring districts for work, most have them find it difficult to pay the ticket amount daily post lockdown. Noting this, a private bus operator in Kovilpatti has come forward to offer free rides to these people so that they can reduce their daily expenses and save some money. R Srithar, the owner of the SSRBS bus service and his brother Muthalraj, who have been operating services in this region for 50 years, came to know about the hardships being faced by such passengers post lockdown through their drivers and conductors. They then decided to help these people. Many people were finding it difficult and bringing the money for the ticket as coins that they had taken from their small home savings, Srithar said. “Many didn’t even have currency notes. We discussed with our family members and decided to offer the free service to the passengers for the next ten days, or till we can afford it, as we too were affected by the lockdown,” said Srithar. This service was launched on Saturday. The fleet of seven buses has been sanitized, passengers are asked to sanitize their hands before boarding the bus and only 35 passengers are allowed per journey, Srithar said. The ticket from Kanyakumari to Sankarankoil costs Rs 30 and for the other routes like Tenkasi, Thiruvedagam, Kalugumalai, Tirunelveli, Kuruvikulam and Sivagiri, the tickets cost about Rs 40 for a one way journey. Each bus does about eight to nine trip per day and about 800 to 900 passengers are benefitting from this move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-bus-operator-in-kovilpatti-starts-free-service/articleshow/76376692.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Four cops injured in road accident||Madurai: Four police personnel including a special sub-inspector were injuries when a speeding van hit stationary vehicles lined up on roadside for police checking on the Trichy-Madurai highway at Kottampatti on Sunday. The injured were identified as SSI Kalasekar and constable Alaguraja, both attached with Melur traffic police station, and Eswaran and Silambaran from battalion police force. Three vehicles were lined up on road side for checking. The speeding van hit the first one, resulting in a chain reaction. They mostly suffered head injuries and were shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital. A police officer said that the injuries were not serious. Inquiries revealed that the van laden with fish was on its way to Thiruvananthapuram from Poompuhar in Mayiladuthurai district. The van driver was identified as Shameen who injured his leg and was shifted to a hospital. South Zone IG K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran visited the incident spot. Police officials said that checking point will be shifted to another nearby place, where more space is available from Monday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-cops-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/76376686.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation plans to seal smaller areas in new strategy||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to contain much smaller areas than now where Covid-19 cases have been reported. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI that options such as sealing only an affected floor instead of an entire building are being actively considered. “We are planning to contain as little area as possible so that the restrictions apply to a minimum number of people. We plan to allow movement of people and, at the same time, keep the spread of the virus under control,” he said. Gaikwad said a decision about the PMC’s new strategy and details of the redefined containment zones will be taken by Wednesday. A basic plan will be finalised by Tuesday in consultation with the police and other departments. “We are also talking to traders on allowing business operations in containment zones,” he said. Gaikwad said, “We may consider containing the movement of people only in relation to a specific house or floor of a building where a positive patient is found. We may adopt a different approach for containment and non-containment zones when it comes to sealing. Factors such as the number of positive patients, population density and history of spread of infection in that locality will be considered while finalising the new strategy.” Presently, a building is sealed when a positive case is detected. The local ward office in association with the PMC’s health department carries out the sealing process. The positive patients and their family members are shifting to institutional quarantine. The other residents of the building are not allowed to venture out till they test negative. In the first week of June, the PMC had effected major changes to the list of containment clusters. It added 28 new localities — mostly from the densely populated Hadapasar, Parvati, Satara road, Shivajinagar and Kothrud areas. It excluded 27 localities which had no new cases in the last fortnight of May. The city has 66 containment zones as of today. Only essential services are allowed in the containment zones between 9am and 2pm. The first phase of unlock 1 started on June 3, the second on June 5 and the third on June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-to-seal-smaller-areas-in-new-strategy/articleshow/76376689.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Converted English medium schools to hit Hindi students||JAIPUR: The government’s move to come up with Mahatma Gandhi Government English Medium schools at every block level is being criticised for being set up in places where there are no Hindi medium schools for students who are weak in English. According to government plans, Hindi medium schools will be converted into English medium and students who can’t cope with the Queen’s language will be shifted to nearby Hindi schools. However, there are many places where there are no Hindi schools in 1km to 3km radius. In Narehada village in Kotputli, a government senior secondary school has been converted into English school but there is no Hindi school nearby. A teacher of the school said, “We have started receiving calls from parents. There is a secondary school for girls but it will not be able to accommodate all girl students. In a nearby village, there is a higher secondary school but only for science subjects. In another village there is a school but with only arts subjects are taught. There will be problems which the government should have thought before taking this decision.” There are more than 300 blocks in Rajasthan where English medium schools will be opened. The government has already opened 164 English medium schools and the rest will be covered soon. A senior government official, however, said the students who are currently studying in Hindi medium schools that are being converted into English schools will not be forced to shift.  “Last year, when English medium schools were opened in every district, students were given extra classes to adjust to English. Moreover, this year schools have been opened till class VIII. From class 9 to 12, students will remain in the same school and every year we will add one more class. If still there are certain problems regarding schools’ distance, we will talk to teachers and students to find a solution for it,” said a senior official. Spokesperson of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh Narayan Singh Sisodia termed it to be against the Right to Education (RTE) rules. “It is against the rules of RTE as schools should be within 1 km to 3 km. Though the government is saying they will not force students out of the school, but they have made rules to keep the strength in a classroom from 30 to 60. How are they planning to admit more students? It is a confusing scenario. Government should keep all the factors in mind before converting a school in English medium because it is going to be difficult for students,” said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/converted-english-medium-schools-to-hit-hindi-students/articleshow/76377094.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Trichy||Headmistress, son among 3 arrested for poaching wild animals||Trichy: A government school headmistress and her son were among three people arrested for poaching wild animals like wild boar, hare and jackal for their meat in Trichy on Sunday. They had been engaged in the illegal activity for quite some time, but the incident came to light only after the forest department received secret information about a Facebook page with contents on poaching activities in the Trichy region. Acting on the tip, forest department personnel searched the house of one A Kavi Kumar, 30, of Padalur, Perambalur district, who runs a laptop repair shop. They recovered a head lamp, sickle and other accessories used for poaching activities. On checking his laptop, they got details about his poaching activities and his Facebook links with similar people. On further investigation, they found that his 53-year-old mother A Lakshmi, headmistress of a government middle school in Pullambadi, knew about his activities. She was also arrested as she helped him cook the meat of the poached animals.  While no carcasses were recovered, Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said they have sufficient evidence about their poaching activities in Nedungur reserve forest. Kavi Kumar had hunted wild hare, wild boar and jackal on several occasions using a dog in the reserve forest area and managed to get away with it, she said. The duo was booked under wildlife protection act 1972 r/w 66 (A) the information technology act 2000. A senior forest official said Kumar was in touch with wildlife hunting groups in Pakistan through his FB page. The department has also recovered his conversation with them on the requirements for arms for poaching. Based on the information from Kavi Kumar, a 58-year-old man who helped him in several poaching sessions was also arrested. Identified as Mahalingam, a countrymade gun and material used for poaching were seized from him. He was booked under section 20 and 27 of Arms and Ammunition Act 1959 for possession of unlicensed weapon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/headmistress-son-among-3-arrested-for-poaching-wild-animals/articleshow/76376690.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand residents recall Kedarnath star as a man dedicated to his craft||DEHRADUN: Residents of Uttarakhand who worked with actor Sushant Singh Rajput during his month-long stay in the state for shoot of the 2018 film “Kedarnath” recall an easy-going person and an actor dedicated to his craft. Rajput spent more than a month in Kedarnath and nearby towns and villages, and spent good time with residents of the hill state who contributed to making of the film. Dehradun-based theatre artiste Pratap Singh, who played a small role in “Kedarnath”, said, “I spent 10 days at the shoot (of “Kedarnath”). My scenes were shot around the Triyuginarayan temple. We stayed with the cast and crew at a hotel in a nearby village. Rajput would put a lot of effort into his scenes. He hardly had any airs or tantrums you usually associate with a star. He would have his meals with us. For a particular scene, we had to act in artificial rain at 5am. All of us struggled and complained about it, except Rajput, who did the scene without flinching.” Anuj Nautiyal, who owns a tourism company in Dehradun and arranged for stays of the film’s cast and crew, said Rajput was an accommodating person when it came to working with the limited facilities available in the hills. “Rajput was fond of going to the gym but we didn’t have one on the set, so we gave him a bicycle instead. He used to ride it along hill roads for several kilometres,” Nautiyal said. “ We spent six months with the team of “Kedarnath”, from March to September 2017. Rajput arrived in July and during his stay, we had a lot of sessions with him and director Abhishek Kapoor. We had to recreate the market of Ram Bara village, which was completely destroyed in the 2013 floods. For that, we had to carry a lot of equipment from Rishikesh to construct the pre-flood set. Although, the actual flood scenes were shot in Mumbai. I arranged several horses for the film and one of them was selected to be Rajput’s steed. They named him “Rustom” in the movie,” Nautiyal added. Abhinav Thapar, a local resident, who does coordination work for Bollywood films shot in the state, said, “Rajput’s death is a big loss for the film industry. He was a talented actor. I had invited him to visit Uttarakhand again and shoot another film here, preferably around Tehri Lake, as it is a picturesque spot. He promised to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sushant-singh-rajput-no-more-ukhand-residents-recall-kedarnath-star-as-a-man-dedicated-to-his-craft/articleshow/76375620.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 15, 2020||Pune||Remote learning for kids burdens parents already weighed down by work and chores||Pune: Monday Blues have never been so bad before for parents like Rita Gupta, and it has little to do with her office.For the past two weeks, she has had to dedicate four hours of all her weekdays to sit with her eight-year-old son, Riyansh, for live classes conducted by his school.She said she has gone back to her school days. “I am learning poems, mathematical concepts like expansion, how plants grow, from science to planets and the universe from social studies books of my son,” she added. Parents of young children are re-learning school lessons as they are made to attend live classes conducted by schools. Those in nuclear families are taking turns to sit through the class with their kids, carefully taking down notes and understanding concepts. Most older children are able to attend classes independently, but parents of young children require assistance and many are voicing their frustrations on social media groups as they had to balance between work, home and school of children.Many parents said young children had very little attention span and after the first 30- 40 minutes, it was mainly the parents who were only audience to the class while children left the screens.Kirti Burad, a parent, said working parents have to make a big effort to sit for 3-4 hours with kids and then get the homework done. “On top of it all, we are paying the full fees and are being the teachers and setting up all the infrastructure too,” she added.Nuclear families with two young children are having the toughest time. Mangesh Shetty, said he sits with his nine-year-old son for the classes while his wife does so with their six-year-old. “We are working, so managing school and office is most difficult. We don’t even have a domestic help. Our productivity at office has decreased drastically,” he added. Hemal Chandaria said she had two kids, one in standard I and the other in LKG. “Presentations and worksheets are uploaded on the school’s app which we have to download and run through them with the children. It gets difficult with no maid, my own office work and then children’s education. My husband’s office started full-time so no help from him during day time.”Another parent Farida Daruwala said, “My daughter is in preparatory class and I have to sit with her because it is new. I have another younger one as well who also wants to sit with me, and that distracts the elder one. Right now, I am managing one child in one room and the second in another room. If I don’t sit with the elder one, I miss out on lot of things taught by the teacher. The most annoying part is the internet connection. On some days, the Wi-Fi refuses to connect and we miss classes.”Raheela Shaikh, another mother of two children, said her son is in UKG and she has a six-month-old daughter, while her husband is is working. She finds herself stretched between chores, attending to the baby and ensuring that her son sits still during his classes. “The idea of staying home and studying is absolutely absurd as children of pre-primary are not focused,” she added. Educationist Mukund Kirdat, said online classes are not a solution but an option with many limitations. “Overemphasis on online education will be more damaging especially in case of children in primary schools. Physio and psychological effects of this mode of education are not studied yet. The pandemic has shown our own limitations and disparity in the education system. We shouldn’t consider online education as instant food,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remote-learning-for-kids-burdens-parents-already-weighed-down-by-work-and-chores/articleshow/76376700.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||13 succumb to Covid-19,PMR toll 2 short of 500||Pune/Pimpri Chinchwad: Altogether 13 deaths were reported from the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday, taking the Covid-19 toll to 498. The number of Covid-19 patients in the region went up to 11,925 with 365 new cases being reported during the day. Of the fresh cases, 316 were reported from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC limits. 28 from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), 11 from Pune rural and 10 from the cantonment limits. Nine of the 13 people who died on Sunday were from the PMC limits. Five of them succumbed to the contagion in private hospitals, while four persons died at Sassoon General Hospital. Health officials said all of them had comorbidity factors such as respiratory issues, high blood pressure and diabetes. PMC officials said eight of the deceased were men and one was a woman. They were a 76-year-old man from Bibwewadi road, a 74-year-old woman from Pandavnagar, a 60-year-old man from Wanworie, a 79-year-old male from Baner, a 75-year-old man from Kothrud, a 59-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth, a 67-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 55-year-old mab from Gultekadi and a 36-year-old man from Wadarwadi. According to the medical report of the PCMC’s health department, two deaths were reported on Sunday. The silver lining in Pimpri Chinchwad was that the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 overtook the active cases. The PCMC; s real-time dashboard data revealed that the twin towns had 487 active cases as against 673 people who recovered from the contagion. The total number of positive cases until Sunday evening was 1,181. The first Covid-19 positive case in the PCMC limits was reported on March 11 at PCMC. The surge in the cases was mostly reported since the announcement of Lockdown 4.0 on May 18. “The recovery rate and the active number of case data is very dynamic and is likely to change on a day-to-day . Since we lifted many curbs in the Lockdown 4.0 and 5.0 (June 1), there was a surge in cases. But the period saw many recoveries as well,” PCC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI. “People who mostly contracted the contagion were aged between 22 and 39. As a result, the recovery rate was also impressive. The number of active cases in the PCMC limits is relatively low compared to neighbouring Pune city and Mumbai because of the senior citizens and the children’s less exposure to the virus,” he said. The dashboard data revealed that until June 14, as many as 140 children (0-12 years) and 132 senior citizens (60 years and above) had contracted the infection. “We can say that the citizens' cooperation has been quite effective so far and the pattern should continue in the coming days when there can be a spike in the positive cases. The trend of the youths recovering from the contagion can also help in the herd immunity. The casualty rate in the PCMC limits has also been low at 2%,” he said. Patil said the Covid-19 cases have started showing a downward trend in the slum areas that were in the containment zones from the past few weeks. He said, “We have got confirmation from the health department that the cases in the Anandnagar slum area are going down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-succumb-to-covid-19pmr-toll-2-short-of-500/articleshow/76376694.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP sounds alert in 7 districts as man dies in Nepal firing in Bihar||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Police has sounded an alert in seven districts bordering Nepal after firing from the Himalayan kingdom country killed one person in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district on June 12. The alert has been sounded in Maharajganj, Bahraich, Balrampur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Shravasti, Pilibhit, and Siddharthnagar ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar told TOI that police in all the seven districts are on alert and coordinating with the Sashastra Seema Bal which mans Indo-Nepal border. He said vigil has been stepped up in the border areas and police are using night vision cameras and drones. “All the district police chiefs have been asked to increase patrolling on the check-posts towards Nepal and increase the strength of cops on the borders,” he said, adding that as per Covid protocol, the movement of people and goods is already banned from Nepal. SP Bahraich, Vipin Mishra, told TOI: “The day shelling from Nepal killed a civilian in Bihar and injured two others, we spoke to the Nepalese officials on the borders of Rupidiah to maintain dialogue,” he said. “We are maintaining vigil as per the prescribed protocol,” said SP Maharajganj Rohit Sajwan. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: “On the one hand the government has failed to handle the Corona crisis within the country, on the other it is not coming out clean on reports of tension and intrusion in Ladakh along the India China LAC. Bitterness is also increasing in India’s relations with Nepal.” Pillars along border missingSashastra Seema Bal (SSB) officials said they have informed the home department and Lakhimpur Kheri DM about the “missing” pillars on the Indo-Nepal border that served as demarcation. Nepal has also inaugurated five new border outposts in the area where members of Nepal’s armed police force have been deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-sounds-alert-in-7-districts-as-man-dies-in-nepal-firing/articleshow/76376698.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Pvt schools to govt: Reimburse RTE fee arrears||Mangaluru: Private schools which have admitted children under the RTE Act have appealed to the government to reimburse the pending money. They are under financial distress owing to the Covid crisis. Mohammed Beary, president of DK and Udupi District English-Medium Schools’ Association, said the government owes reimbursement of two years’ fee for some schools, and one year’s fee for all schools in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district. The total dues run into Rs 8 crore. “The amount is crucial for us to sustain in this hour of crisis. Salaries of staff and others have to be paid,” Beary told reporters here on Saturday. Private schools are yet pay salaries to their teachers, the uncertainty over the school reopening looming large notwithstanding. This apart, the school managements must also pay rent and EMIs and meet other expenses. “The government has not reimbursed RTE money, and this adding to our troubles. We request the government to bail us out by reimbursing the dues at the earliest,” he said. Stressing that private schools are supporting the government decisions in tough times, the association requested interest-free loans under the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. “This will help us sustain. We will pay it back in 10 years,” Beary said. Explaining why they are under financial crisis, he said that fee dues of 2019-20 academic years are usually collected by March. “However, this has not been possible due to lockdown. Fees for the next academic year have also not been paid. All these factors have resulted in cash crunch in private schools. Because of this, they are not in a position to pay salaries for staff,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-schools-to-govt-reimburse-rte-fee-arrears/articleshow/76374703.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Over 43K farmers yet to get Rs 14.05 cr as relief from state govt||Nashik: Over 43,000 farmers in the district are yet to get Rs 14.05 crore as relief from the state government for crop failure due to the unseasonal rain and other calamities that the farmers have been facing. As many as 43,108 farmers had been affected due to heavy rain across Nashik district in 2018 and 2019. Unseasonal rainfall was witnessed in October and November 2019 and the damage caused was worth Rs 578.13 crore. The state government has provided funds to the farmers and the same has been delivered to the farmers in their accounts, said the officials But the relief for the farmers of the preceding period (July to August) is still awaited. 43,108 farmers across 971 villages have been affected in the two years. The loss of crop across 14,935.02 hectare has been noted and the loss has been valued at Rs 14.05 crore. The officials from the district administration said that the issue has been raised with the government at various levels and that they were waiting for the funds. As soon as the funds are released, it will be transferred to the farmers online. The loss faced by the farmers due to unseasonal rain is comparatively limited, the officials from the district administration said. A total of 8.20 lakh farmers had suffered losses due to unseasonal rain, heavy rain and other natural calamities. As many as 7.76 lakh farmers suffered losses in October 2019, which is the highest number of farmers who faced losses in these years. The major losses faced are from July to August, largely due to the heavy rain and the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-43k-farmers-yet-to-get-rs-14-05-cr-as-relief-from-state-govt/articleshow/76376173.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 15, 2020||Chennai||Uncertainty over Class X board leaves Tamil medium students in Mum worried||CHENNAI: Living in Dharavi, Mumbai’s Covid-19 hotspot, Nivedha had been preparing hard for the Class X board examinations. Her goal was to score high marks to join the commerce group in a junior college to pursue her dream of becoming a chartered accountant in the country’s economic capital. But the Tamil Nadu government’s delay in conducting the exams for private candidates is threatening her dream. The TN education department has been conducting exams for the Tamil medium students in Mumbai since 1996, but it categorised the students as private candidates. Nivedha and 170 other students of three schools in Mumbai have been spending sleepless nights over the delayed exams. Bowing to pressure from the Madras high court, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on June 9 announced the cancellation of board exams for 9 lakh-odd students and declared them all to have passed. For the private students, however, the education department announced that the exam would be held, but without announcing a date. The same day, the state education department sent a circular to the Mumbai schools, informing them of the state’s decision. “The TN government’s decision is nothing short of harassment,” said Selvaraj, a native of Tirunelveli district, whose daughter would be taking the exam. Egambaram is worried about his only son’s future. He hails from Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district and lives with his family in Aarey Milk Colony close to Dharavi. These parents are worried that their wards would end up losing a year of their academics, if the online admission for junior colleges commences immediately in Maharashtra. “The evaluation for the board exams is almost completed here and the admission process for junior college will start soon,” said one of the teachers of the students. An official in the TN state education department said it would be difficult to conduct the examination for the students in Mumbai under the present circumstances. The department has also communicated the same to the school managements. “We may keep the examination in July, but the decision is yet to be taken,” he said. The TN government should treat the Tamil students in Mumbai on a par with their counterparts in the state and follow the same yardstick to evaluate them, based on their quarterly and half-year exams along with the percentage of attendance, the teacher added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/uncertainty-over-class-x-board-leaves-tamil-medium-students-in-mum-worried/articleshow/76376164.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
June 15, 2020||Goa||Study: 50% industries in Goa generate hazardous waste||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) said that the inventory of hazardous waste report points out that around 50% of industries generate hazardous waste in the state and that emphasis have been given to create facilities for its treatment within the state. Member secretary of GSPCB Shamila Monteiro said that the report states that of the 3,340 industries in Goa, hazardous waste was generated by 1,587 industries. “Emphasis is laid to create treatment facilities of this hazardous waste in Goa itself instead of sending this waste to neighbouring states,” she said. The report said that regular updating of information is also needed to find if any non-hazardous waste units may need authorisation for hazardous waste in the future. The report also stressed on organising training programmes to handle hazardous waste and any steps to minimise production of such waste. Monteiro also said that the report has been sent to the central pollution board as per the Supreme Court’s directions. She informed the board members that the state board will receive data from operators of facilities for disposing hazardous and other waste and an annual inventory of the waste generated, recycled, recovered, as well as an inventory of waste re-exported and disposed will be prepared. This inventory will be submitted to the central pollution control board by September 30, every year. “The state pollution control board shall also prepare an inventory of hazardous waste generators, actual users, and common and captive disposal facilities, and shall submit the information to the central pollution control board every two years,” as per the report. The central board has also directed the Goa pollution board to ensure that the inventory of hazardous waste generators, actual users, and common as well as captive disposal facilities is carried out and submitted to the central board every two years as per Rule 20(3) of the HOWM Rules (Hazardous and Other Waste Management and Trans boundary Movement).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/study-50-industries-in-goa-generate-hazardous-waste/articleshow/76376688.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Temple guard killed in explosion in Theni dist||Theni: A 37-year-old temple security guard was killed after an explosive went off at Andipatti pass in Theni district on Saturday. Another guard, who suffered injuries in the explosion, is undergoing treatment at Theni Medical College Hospital. The deceased was identified as T Andi, from Thimmarasanayakkanur village near Andipatti. He was working as a security at Dharmasasatha Temple at Andipatti pass. On Saturday, he was on duty along with P Sivaraman. The two had gone for a stroll and had reached a spot a few metres away from the temple when an explosive, kept to break rocks for laying a railway track, went off in the vicinity. Splintered pieces of rocks from the blast hit the duo, injuring them. Andi and Sivaraman were rushed to Theni medical college hospital for treatment. Andi was later shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai since he had sustained serious injury to his head. He died at the hospital, not responding to treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temple-guard-killed-in-explosion-in-theni-dist/articleshow/76376695.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Suicide bid: Minor girl dies, youth critical||JAISALMER: A minor girl and a youth attempted suicide by consuming poison in Lathi police station area in Jaisalmer early on Sunday. The girl died during treatment, while the condition of the youth is serious. He has been referred to Bikaner. Postmortem of the girl was done by medical board. A case has been registered. An FSL team from Jodhpur inspected the spot. On the other hand, the girl’s family has lodged a case against the youth and 8-9 others for giving her poison after gangraping her. The deceased is a Muslim while the youth is from Bhil community. The youth was to get married on June 29. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang said that Birbal Bheel (21) and a minor Muslim girl (16) were having a love affair since last one year. Both consumed poison near a temple at Lathi town on Sunday. Later, the youth called his friends to inform about the incident. His friends and police reached the spot. Both were taken to Mohangarh CHC where the girl died during treatment while the youth was referred to Bikaner. “Looking to the seriousness of the case, FSL team from Jodhpur was called. Prima facie, it is a case of suicide as a bottle of poison was found on the spot. The matter is being investigated. The family members of the girl have lodged a murder case stating that the girl was first gangraped and then given poison. They have demanded a high-level inquiry,” the SP said. Lathi SHO Om Prakash Chaudhary said that one Jameen Khan has lodged a case that Birbal and his friends abducted his daughter and gangraped her and thereafter gave her poison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suicide-bid-minor-girl-dies-youth-critical/articleshow/76377095.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Food, livelihood, school fees weigh on Bhavani Peth residents as the hot-bed shows signs of normalcy||Pune: Nearly half of all residents of Bhavani Peth — a population 1.95 lakh — rely on a daily wage. But this neighbourhood has been under one of the longest, most devastating Covid-19 lockdowns in the city. Bhavani Peth shut down early in April, nearly 70 days ago. The curbs on movement crushed livelihoods. Anita Ovhal, a domestic help, lost her job almost immediately after the start of the outbreak. She has used up all her savings and soon, may not have enough for school fees. Wasim Shaikh, a keymaker, hasn’t been able to open his tiny shop in nearly three months. His family has been surviving on ration kits that are being handed out by relief groups. Suresh Surawate, a security guard, has an ailing wife at home. His salary stopped coming long ago. Without jobs, thousands of families here are faced with an uncertain future. For the record, Bhavani Peth has had 901 positive cases and 73 deaths so far. It's still registering sporadic cases in the single digits. "The Covid-19 lockdown, though well-intentioned, has badly affected the urban poor here, said corporator Ganesh Bidkar. "Prolonged restrictions that have lasted over two months have strained households that depend on daily salaries."Many residents here work as autorickshaw drivers, mechanics in automobile garages, vegetable vendors and domestic helps. Some were employed at construction sites. "Their savings were meagre to start with. Many began selling off whatever valuables they had at home. Then started the lending and borrowing of money. Most families are now neck-deep in debt. They are groping in the darkness; clueless on what lies ahead," Bidkar said.Some help has been coming. Bidkar and a few citizen groups have distributed rations and food kits worth Rs 30 lakh so far. "We are not alone. The PMC and a few NGOs have also been delivering ration kits. But the demand is far greater than supply. The lockdown has been unending," the corporator said. The Kashewadi slum within Bhavani Peth was among the first such residential zone to report cases of Covid-19, very early in April. Common preventive measures such as physical distancing have not been quite possible here. In the middle of May, for example, officials scrambled after one building of the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) project emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with over 30 positive cases.The PMC swung into action, collecting swabs of all residents within a few days. Residents were then shifted to another SRA building, located in the same premises to ensure social distancing and to prevent further spread of the coronavirus.There are five SRA buildings located in the area, of which three building are meant for transit housing. The building in which the residents were found to be positive for Covid-19, was sealed and the administration worked overtime to collect the swabs of all 600 residents as a precautionary measure. Grocery were distributed to every household to ensure residents stayed indoors.But not everyone here has been moved into SRA housing. The slums pockets have tiny rooms and there’s almost no space between houses. For one of the most infectious viruses the world has ever seen, Bhavani Peth made for perfect transmission ground. “How long can people stay holed up inside 10x10 homes? Residents here are stepping out to look for food for their children," said health activist Sanjay Dabhade.But despite the challenges, residents and officials have been making progress. The number of cases has been steadily dropping. Awareness campaigns are starting to have effect. Many now know more about the outbreak than the early days. And there is some hope the PMC’s micro cluster containment strategy will limit the size of the areas that will be locked down for prevention and control of Covid-19. Nevertheless, the toll on local commerce and earnings has been unprecedented. "The restrictions that came with ‘containment’ tag did reduce the number of cases here. But the curbs destroyed households. Thousands here were on a hand-to-mouth existence,” said local corporator Yogesh Samel. He added:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/food-livelihood-school-fees-weigh-on-bhavani-peth-residents-as-the-hot-bed-shows-signs-of-normalcy/articleshow/76376706.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Locust containment training starts today||JAIPUR: In a bid to control locust attacks and combat the crisis in Jaipur, the administration will be conducting training sessions by experts (entomologists) for the block-level officers from Monday. The training programme will start from Jothwara, Sanganer and Shahpura on Monday and will continue till June 24. There have been 13 locust attacks in Jaipur in less than a month. According to the schedule, the training will be held on June 15 in Jhotwara, Sanganer and Shahpura. On June 16, the training will be conducted in Sambhar, Chaksu, Jamawa Ramgarh; on June 17 in Jalsu, Phagi and Viratnagar. On June 22, training sessions will be held in Govindgarh, Bassi and Kotputli; on June 23 in Amber and Paota and on June 24 in Dudu.  “In these camps, training will be provided by the master trainers to the officers involved in the block level committees, headed by subdivisional officers (SDOs), for locust control and management,” said the collector. “Extensive publicity of the advisories issued by the master trainers for controlling locust attack in the district will be done,” he added.  B R Karwa, deputy director, agriculture, zila parishad (extension), said, “The master trainers include experts and entomologists from various institutions - Dr B L Jat (Agriculture University, Jobner); Dr Arjun Singh Baloda (Rajasthan Agricultural Research Institute (RARI), Durgapura); Dr K C Kumawat (Agriculture College, Jobner); Dr Shaitan Singh Rathore (Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Chomu); and Dr Bhanwar Lal Jakhar (RARI, Durgapura).” “During the training sessions, officers will be educated about the behaviour of the locusts and how they could be controlled. Training will be conducted in all the 15 blocks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locust-containment-training-starts-today/articleshow/76377097.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nashik||WRD to update wireless system across dams||Nashik: The Water Resources Department (WRD) has decided to update its wireless system across all the major and minor dams in the district to ensure a backup plan is ready in case of a failed communication. Till very recently, the WRD had been communicating with its various offices across the district with the help of wireless sets until mobile phones came into the picture. Yet, the need for wireless communication is being felt and the WRD has, therefore, decided to reinstall and repair the wireless systems as an alternate channel of communication. “We are now using mobile services for communication. Since all our sites are now under communication coverage of the mobile services, the reliance on the wireless is next to nil,” said a senior official from WRD. All the major dams now have proper offices. With the development of mobile connectivity, not only has communication improved but even the Internet has made data transfer easier. Now, on any given day, the information on rain gauge and the dam water level can be gathered any moment by communicating with the person on duty. The WRD’s wireless communication was handled by Command Area Development Authority, Aurangabad. Now, there are not enough technicians to repair the wireless systems. “We have decided to get the wireless systems ready. We will also be using the HAM radio system in the future,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wrd-to-update-wireless-system-across-dams/articleshow/76376176.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Text alerts to remind citizens about tax payment||Nashik: The civic administration has decided to send text alerts to citizens on their mobile phones reminding them to clear their property tax dues. An official from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said, “We have already started updating mobile phone numbers of property tax payers for the past two years. So far, we have updated mobile phone numbers of over 3 lakh of the 4.5 lakh property tax payers in the city.” “In the first phase, we have sent SMS alerts to over 1 lakh tax payers on their mobile phones. We will send SMS alerts to the remaining tax payers shortly,” said the official. “Our objective is to increase property tax collection. This initiative is one of the many measures being implemented to increase NMC’s revenue collection,” he said. “This year, the concession of upto 5% that is offered to those who clear the property tax dues within the first quarter of the fiscal year will be extended to those who clear the payments by July 31 because of the Covid-19 outbreak,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/text-alerts-to-remind-citizens-about-tax-payment/articleshow/76376181.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 15, 2020||Chennai||Bikers fall after loose cardboard lands on one’s face, run over||Chennai: A loose piece of cardboard picked up by the wind landed on the face of a biker, killing him and his friend who was riding pillion instantly near Nazerethpet on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Lokesh, 22, of Annai Teresa Nagar and his friend Shiva, 20, of Quaid-E-Millat Street. Lokesh was a mechanic while Shiva water-washed vehicles. On Saturday, police said, the duo was on the way to the house of Lokesh’s relative. “They were on Chennai-Bengaluru highway when a thin sheet of cardboard lying on the roadside, flew up and fell on Lokesh’s face. Lokesh lost control of the vehicle, and the two fell on the road,” an investigating officer from the Poonamallee traffic investigation wing said. A container truck which was plying behind them ran over the two, killing them on the spot, police said. After being alerted by passersby the Poonamallee traffic investigation police registered a case of causing death due to negligence against the truck driver, Narasimhan, 40. He is being questioned. Police sent the bodies for post-mortem to Government Kilpauk Medical College hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bikers-fall-after-loose-cardboard-lands-on-ones-face-run-over/articleshow/76376172.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||Austerity measures put already delayed Sal desilting on hold||Panaji: Just as authorities were getting ready to desilt a 6km stretch of the Sal, the state’s most polluted river, the state government’s austerity measures have thwarted the already delayed process. Sources said the paucity of funds will also delay the construction of the Rs 25 crore terminal building. With the government putting all capital expenditure on hold, the Captain of Ports (CoP) department will have to shelve the recent desilting tender floated till the state’s finances improve. Sources in CoP said that siltation is obstructing the movement of vessels with the depth of the river channel decreasing to less than a meter at some locations. The government wants the depth of the river to be increased to a navigable 3 meters. On June 6, CoP floated a tender to desilt the stretch of the Sal from the Telaulim – Varca bridge up to Shatmalley, as part of a phased-manner clean-up. The river rejuvenation committee, in its action plan dated February 2019, had said that the desiliting process was supposed to commence in November 2019 and was meant to be completed by March 2020. In 2016, COP had desilted a 6 km stretch from Khareband to Telaulim. Similarly, the project to build a new port terminal has been stuck since 2015 due to various administrative hurdles. A delay in obtaining permissions from the Corporation of the City of Panaji, Goa State Pollution Control Board and Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority, followed by confusion over GST pricing calculations, delayed the construction of the CoP building. “Though work has started, payments have to be made in tranches and we may not be able to do it. The work will get stuck,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/austerity-measures-put-already-delayed-sal-desilting-on-hold/articleshow/76376702.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Trichy||Nothing to hide on deaths: Health min||Trichy: The state health minister C Vijayabaskar, in Pudukottai on Sunday, said that there is no need for the state government to hide details on Covid-19 deaths. He said the government is functioning in a transparent manner and leader of the opposition M K Stalin must stop criticizing the government over Covid-19. He said that no one should raise false allegations against the government and added the state is not in such a position where it would hide the numbers. He was carrying inspection at the newly-created Covid-19 ward with 200 beds in Ranees government hospital in Pudukottai. It is easy to ask questions but difficult to get on to the field and face the challenges, he said. The government is trying its best to tackle challenges posed by Covid-19 outbreak. I n such circumstances, Stalin must avoid unnecessary criticism, said Vijaya Baskar. This is not the time for political parties to criticize but to register their comments to encourage field-level staffs, he added. The minister said that the state government is carrying Covid-19 prevention activities at rapid pace. Block-level hospitals have been equipped to treat Covid-19 positive patients apart from all district-level hospitals, he said. The bed facilities in all the hospitals have been doubled recently. Since Covid-19 outbreak, 12,480 medical staffs including doctors have been recruited. Further, 2,000 nurses have been given appointment letters, who will be joining shortly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nothing-to-hide-on-deaths-health-min/articleshow/76376704.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 294 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 294 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike yet. With this, the tally in the state has risen to 6,152. AP also saw two deaths one in Kurnool and another in East Godavari Rs taking the death toll to 84. As many as 131 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals on Sunday. There are currently 2,752 active cases in the state with 3,316 cumulative recoveries. The state has tested 5.52 lakh samples as of Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-reports-294-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76381154.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Covid, shut schools, colleges take toll on blood donations||Madurai: The usually busy blood donation drives that are organized across the district during the ‘World Blood Donors Day’ on June 14 have turned out to be damp squib this time owing to the Covid-19 scare. This year blood banks were pleading public to come forward to donate blood as part of the drive. Though the blood banks have managed to keep the required stocks so far, fear of Covid-19 and lack of student donors have hit the drive this year. “It is a tough situation. We have to call up donors and mobilise them with the help of NGOs. We have a donor list of 50,000 people and are calling up at least 100 of them every day over phone. The donors have apprehension now because of the Covid-19 spread. At the same time, the demand is also less since elective surgeries are done less in numbers,” said Dr M Sintha, blood transfusion officer, Madurai Medical College (MMC). Despite the difficulties, around 15 blood donation camps were held at the hospital since the lockdown that began in March and as much as 1,200 units have been collected. Dr Sintha says it is usual in April-May, when colleges and schools are closed and student volunteers don’t come to donate. “As much as 80% of the blood donors are students. Blood banks cannot survive without their contributions for long. The onus is on the public to come forward and donate blood for those in need. We should dispel the fear of Covid-19 due to blood donation,” said S Ravi, manager, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC) Blood Bank. MMHRC is in need of around 50-70 units of blood per day as of now and only regular blood donors are coming forward, Ravi said. For those with chronic illnesses such as thalassemia or haemophilia, there is a need for blood every day and blood banks have to plan in advance. “We have two chronic patients who also have a rare blood group of O negative. We have to plan much in advance for them. Amid lockdown, it is doubly difficult. We also have to maintain a cordial relationship with our regular blood donors so that they are encouraged to donate blood,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-shut-schools-colleges-take-toll-on-blood-donations/articleshow/76376699.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Two deaths, 119 more cases in south TN||Madurai/Trichy: Madurai and Virudhunagar districts recorded one death each due to Covid-19 even as the ten southern districts reported 119 new cases on Sunday, of which only seven were imported ones. The central region added 30 new cases taking its total to 1,241while the southern region’s tally stood at 2,326. According to the daily medical bulletin, a 56-year-old woman from T Vadipatti in Madurai district died on Friday afternoon at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). She had tested Covid-19 positive on June 3 and had diabetes and hypertension. The district reported 16 more cases taking its tally to 426. The 16 included a 26-year-old man who had travelled from Madurai to Chennai and is currently admitted to a private hospital there. All remaining cases were of those who showed influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and contacts of Covid-19 patients. The second Covid-19 death in the region was that of a 34-year-old man from Virudhunagar who had travelled to Tuticorin and was admitted to Thoothukudi MCH on June 8 and tested positive the next day. He had diabetes, diabetic keto acidosis, myocarditis and viral encephalopathy. Though the death was in Tuticorin, it has been recorded as the first death in Virudhunagar since the patient’s permanent residence was there. As many as six districts in the region reported more than 10 new cases, including Ramanathapuram (23) and Tirunelveli (21). Sivaganga district reported its highest single-day spike of 15 cases on Sunday while Tenkasi also saw 16 new cases, the first time the district is witnessing more than 10 cases in a day. Dindigul had 11 cases, Theni eight, Virudhunagar seven and Kanyakumari two. The total cases in Tuticorin district shrunk from 427 on Saturday’s bulletin to 398 after cases of those from other districts were reconciled. There were no fresh cases in Tuticorin on Sunday. In Trichy, seven patients from the city limits and two from Manachanallur and Manapparai tested positive on Sunday, taking the total in the district to 163. Nagapattinam district recorded seven more cases taking the count to 113. In Tiruvarur, the tally has gone to 128 with eight more cases. Four positive cases, all women, took the Covid-19 tally to 155 in Thanjavur district. A 65-year-old woman tested positive in Perambalur while Ariyalur reported no case on Sunday. The total cases in Ariyalur district stand at 392 and at Perambalur 146. A 62-year-old woman tested positive in Karur, the 94th case in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-deaths-119-more-cases-in-south-tn/articleshow/76376703.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||MBBS students set to return from Russia on Wednesday||Nagpur: Around 400 MBBS students from Maharashtra are set to be evacuated under the third-phase of Vande Bharat Mission from Moscow, Russia, on June 17. Of them, 200 students are reportedly from Nagpur alone. The students were stranded in Russia following the lockdown and restrictions on international flights. The students are scheduled to embark on Moscow-Nagpur flight at 12.40pm on June 17. This would be the second Vande Bharat Mission flight from Russia. This first batch of stranded Indian nationals would fly out from Russia on a Moscow-Kochi plane on June 15. Ten more flights from the same departure point will reach Hyderabad, Mumbai, Chennai, Gaya, Vizag, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Bengaluru. As per the Indian Embassy in Moscow, additional flights will be considered in due course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mbbs-students-set-to-return-from-russia-on-wednesday/articleshow/76376705.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 294 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 294 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike yet. With this, the tally in the state has risen to 6,152. AP also saw two deaths one in Kurnool and another in East Godavari Rs taking the death toll to 84. As many as 131 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals on Sunday. There are currently 2,752 active cases in the state with 3,316 cumulative recoveries. The state has tested 5.52 lakh samples as of Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-294-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76376196.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 15, 2020||Madurai||Educationists call for cancellation of JEE and NEET||MADURAI: With rising Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu and India, educationists are calling for scrapping of all India-level entrance exams like NEET, JEE and CLAT this year for admission to colleges. They propose for an alternative assessment for providing seats to students. “Everyone is under distress during this Covid-19 pandemic and the cases are only expected to increase in July and August. An examination for crores of students across the country would be highly impossible to be held safely. At least for this one year, the exams must be scrapped for students’ sake,” said Dr R Murali, Tamil Nadu secretary, Save Higher Education Movement. He added that students are also facing mental pressures during this pandemic. “Postponement until Covid-19 cases come down is also not an option since it will only affect mental health of students. The students can instead be admitted based on their board exam scores in relevant subjects. It will be more appropriate to consider school board exam scores than entrance exams,” said another educationist, V Jayendran Mani, president, Tirunelveli matriculation schools’ association. He suggested the normalization of board exam scores pointing to how in Kerala, engineering college admissions are made using common entrance test scores and normalized board exam scores. The normalization of board scores involves arithmetic mean and standard deviation, he said. Further, there were also calls for more priority to be given to local students for admission in colleges. READ ALSO:Can rural India fulfil its JEE Main, NEET aspirations through Abhyas app?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/educationists-call-for-cancellation-of-jee-and-neet/articleshow/76378160.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Ban corporate edu apps: Khader||Mangaluru: Welcoming the Karnataka government’s ban on online classes up to class V, former minister U T Khader demanded that all education apps that offer online coaching should also be banned. The government is in a hurry to discuss about online classes even before SSLC examinations have been conducted. “Make necessary arrangements for children to appear for their examinations without fear. Let the government discuss about online courses after holding SSLC examinations. I welcome the government’s decision of banning online classes up to class V. I would like to know why education apps of corporate companies are allowed to continue when schools are banned from conducting online classes. Why has the government not banned education apps that offer online classes? Private schools in the state may commence their online classes through such apps of corporate companies if the present situation continues,” Khader said. Not all parents in the state can afford buying smartphones required for online classes, he said. “Only 30% of the schoolchildren in the state have access to smartphones. Most of the parents cannot afford to buy smartphones for their children. The government should take into consideration the mental stress being endured by academically brilliant children from poor families. Such children may fall prey to depression when they do not have access to online classes. The government can cancel some of the schemes like distribution of bicycles, and reserve such funds to find solutions to the problems faced by poor students,” Khader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ban-corporate-edu-apps-khader/articleshow/76374719.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon civic body reels under financial crisis||Nashik: The cash-strapped Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has sought Rs 50 crore financial assistance from the state government as it is reeling under severe financial crisis. “The civic body has just about Rs 3.20 crore in its kitty as it has been spending heavily for testing and treatment of patients amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Unless we get financial aid, it would be difficult for MMC to manage things,” sources in the civic body said. MMC’s fixed monthly expenses is over Rs 2 crore which include salaries of employees, payments of energy bills and other essential expenses. In addition, MMC has to make yearly payment of Rs 5 crore to buy water for the city from irrigation department and pay about Rs 4 crore as instalments for the loans it has taken in the past for its various projects. The civic body also runs a hospital where over 200 deliveries take place every month. It also manages around 30 clinics in the textile town. “What has compounded our woes is that about 40% of the property and water taxes due of the last fiscal are yet to be recovered as the civic administration got busy on the Covid issue. And during the first two months of this fiscal, the civic body’s property and water taxes collections were abysmally low,” said NMC sources. MMC’s yearly property tax collection is about Rs 15.70 crore and water tax is about Rs 7.26 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-civic-body-reels-under-financial-crisis/articleshow/76376189.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana police destroy 2-lakh litres of illicit liquor||LUDHIANA: Cracking the whip on the trading and smuggling of illicit liquor, Ludhiana police on Sunday destroyed more than 2 lakh litres of ‘lahan’ (illicit liquor) on the banks of the Satluj. The cops said that some wine contractors, who indulge in liquor smuggling, were also on their radar. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said the department had launched a special drive 20 days ago to take strict action against all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor in Ludhiana. For this purpose, an anti-smuggling cell has been constituted with dedicated manpower of 30 persons. The department is also working in close coordination with the excise department to stop smuggling and bootlegging of liquor. The CP said that during this period Ludhiana ccommissionerate of police had lodged a total of 150 FIRs under the Excise Act and arrested as many as 171 smugglers. Agarwal said that many liquor smugglers have either been caught or shifted to other districts. Police have also made lists of infamous liquor smuggles. Activities of these smugglers are also being monitored through ‘Safe City’ cameras installed in the district. Special inter-district check posts are also being setup. Agrawal said that strict action will be taken if any police official was found supporting any illegal activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-police-destroy-2-lakh-litres-of-illicit-liquor/articleshow/76375623.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Dungarpur village mourns kids’ deaths||UDAIPUR: A pall of gloom has descended on Peeth village under Dhambola police station limits following the death of four kids by drowning in a pond in Dungarpur district on Saturday night. The children drowned when they had gone to gather wood for kitchen fire and stopped at a village pond to bathe. Residents could not hold back their tears when the bodies were brought to the village on Sunday morning and were buried. No fire was lit in any of the kitchens in the settlement as people mourned over the untimely deaths that had come as a big shock for everyone. Two of the kids were siblings and their parents wept inconsolably. Among the deceased are Kalu and Sanwali, children of Amritlal Dholi, while another girl identified as Kudri was their cousin. The fourth kid, a girl identified as Zinal Tabiyad, was their friend. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dungarpur-village-mourns-kids-deaths/articleshow/76377100.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: First case under new cow laws registered, 7 held||LUCKNOW: Barabanki district becomes the first in the state to register a case under the recently amended act for prevention of cow slaughter after police nabbed seven persons and recovered four quintal beef from their possession early on Saturday morning. SP, Barabanki, Arvind Charurvedi said that an intensive night surveillance has been started to nab habitual offenders of cow slaughter in the district. He said that the NSA will be invoked against all the seven arrested persons. The SP further said that following the state government's directives “a database of habitual offenders (accused in cow slaughter cases) has been prepared and, so far, 50 persons have been included in it.” The district has as many as 168 habitual offenders, he said and added that the police has also set up teams for surveillance of 'dark spots' where incidents of cow slaughter are common. Explaining the modus operandi, the officer said that during the daytime miscreants spot the cows which are not part of any herd. Then they took the cattle to a semi-forest area and in the night services of butchers were taken to do the job. Later, a convoy of about three vehicles was engaged in transporting the meat to the destination. While the meat was loaded in a vehicle other vehicles provided backup to the main vehicle, alerting their occupants about the police movement along the route, the SP added. Early on Saturday morning the police noticed movement of two four-wheelers near Mohammedpur Majra in Kotwali Nagar and intercepted it. “The arrested persons have been identified as Raaes and Shakeel of Barabanki and Mohammed Azad, Mohammed Nasem, Mohammed Amir, Mohammed Taufeek and Rinku Singh, all residents of Lucknow,” the officer said adding that the accused were planning to take the cow meat to Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-case-under-new-cow-laws-registered-7-held/articleshow/76376725.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||City receives heavy rain, more expected this week||Nagpur: Heavy rains lashed the city on Sunday evening along with thunder and lightning, recording a total of 34.4 millimetres rainfall. The weather turned pleasant with the maximum temperature of the city dropping to 35.1 degree Celsius, which was nearly two degrees below the normal mercury levels. The minimum temperature too saw a fall and was 24.8 degree Celsius. Bhandara was the wettest in the region on Sunday with a total rainfall of 62.3mm. Next in line was Malkapur in Buldhana which received 60.8mm rains. Akola and Amravati received 49.5 and 41.7mm rain respectively while Gondia received 24.4 rainfall. Other districts in the region too saw rain at isolated places. According to the forecast issued by the Regional Meteorological Centre, Nagpur, more rains are expected in the region in the coming week. In Nagpur, rain and thunderstorm are predicted from June 18-20. The maximum temperatures are expected to stay between 40-41 degree Celsius while minimum temperatures will be between 27-30 degree Celsius. The southwest monsoon set in over Vidarbha three days back, three days before the normal date for onset of monsoon. The overall season rainfall is likely to be 103% over Central India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-receives-heavy-rain-more-expected-this-week/articleshow/76376742.cms||Manka Behl
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Man held for slitting wife’s throat||Nashik: A 32-year-old man was arrested after he allegedly slit his wife’s throat with a sickle following an argument on Saturday night. Their 11-year-old daughter also sustained a injury on her right hand as she tried saving her mother. The deceased has been identified as Meena Shivaji Mali (27), a resident of Jakhori village in Nashik Road. Her husband Shivaji Mali has been arrested and remanded in police custody till June 18. A complaint was registered by Vishwas Kalamkar (42), a farmer and a resident of the same village, at Nashik Road police station. According to Kalamkar,a friend called him and informed that there was some mishap at Mali’s house around 9.30pm on Saturday night. “I rushed to the spot and found Meena lying in a pool of blood with a sickle lying beside. When I questioned Shivaji, he said that they had an argument which snowballed into an ugly fight and he killed her,” said Kalamkar in the FIR registered with police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-slitting-wifes-throat/articleshow/76376215.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||For GFP, BJP died the moment Manohar Parrikar died, says Vijai Sardesai||MARGAO: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Sunday chose the occasion of his 50th birthday to apologise to the people of Goa for having extended support to the Pramod Sawant-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government after the demise of Manohar Parrikar. “I apologise to the people. I am asking for forgiveness for the major political mistake I have done in my career - the mistake to not come out of the government after the death of Manohar Parrikar. Today whatever hardships people are made to endure in this government is because of (that mistake)...And so we have taken a stand that we will not be a party, any which way, to bring such a government to power (again),” Sardesai said. At a function held to mark the opening of ‘Goemkar Ghor’, Sardesai said, “For us, the BJP died the moment Parrikar died. From this ghor (house), we would endeavor to bring all Goemkars together and ensure that the BJP would never be able to rule the state again.” Addressing media persons, he justified his decision that led the BJP to form the government by saying that “there was no other option” under the prevailing situation then in view of the Congress party’s indecision. Asked, however, if there could be a possibility of such an ‘option’ again, Sardesai hinted that he would have no truck with the BJP in the near future. “The sentiment of the people is that all those who are opposed to the anti-people government of chief minister Sawant should come together,” he said. Coming down heavily on Sawant for his “inefficient and non-transparent government with no accountability,” Sardesai said that the chief minister was devoid of a “Goan heart.” “Goa’s future cannot remain safe in the hands of people who don’t have a Goan heart,” he said. Significantly three months after he was ousted from the Sawant-led BJP government, Sardesai, speaking at the Navratri celebrations in October 2019, had announced that his party would chart a new course by the beginning of the new year 2020, as he was yet to find the reasons for his “betrayal” by the BJP. “When Parrikar died, should we have withdrawn our support to the government; did we err by extending support to some new person? Because I have been attacked on social media for having extended support to this government,” the Fatorda MLA had then said. Sardesai, with two other GFP MLAs, had extended support to the BJP-led government post 2017 polls on the condition that Parrikar would be made the chief minister so as to enable the BJP to form the government. While Sardesai had all along stressed that his support was solely for Parrikar-led government, GFP had extended support to Sawant-led government following Parrikar’s demise with Sardesai as the deputy chief minister. Sardesai was dropped from the Sawant-cabinet after 10 Congress MLAs defected to the BJP in July 2019. However, he has since maintained that GFP is still a part of the NDA. At a press briefing on Sunday, however, Sardesai, replying to a query, said, “Regional parties cannot be allergic to mainstream national parties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-gfp-bjp-died-the-moment-parrikar-died-says-sardesai/articleshow/76376718.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 cases surge in rural AP||Visakhapatnam: The novel coronavirus, which was largely restricted to urban pockets until now, has found a new hunting ground in the rural ramparts of the state. While urban areas such as Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur, Kakinada are reeling under the rising number of Covid-19 cases, now the virus has started to show its impact in the rural pockets as well, informed a senior health official of Andhra Medical College (AMC), on condition of anonymity. Many rural areas have started reporting a spike in cases. “This trend can be attributed to the return of migrant workers to their villages and the free movement of people from high-risk areas such as Maharashtra to relatively safer zones such as Andhra Pradesh,” the health official added. A senior revenue official from Srikakulam said that Konarak Express, AP Express, Falaknuma Express and Godavari Express are three trains carrying passengers from high-risk zones to relatively safer areas, such as the district of Srikakulam. Railway sources say that no less than 10,000 people are arriving in Andhra Pradesh from various parts of the country every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-cases-surge-in-rural-ap/articleshow/76376226.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Schools for slow, steady approach to start classes||NEW DELHI: Inviting Class XII students first to check preparedness, a class with maximum 12 students, three-four-hour sessions — these may be the way forward if Delhi government accepts some common suggestions of its principals on how to reopen schools after the pandemic lockdown. In a recent meeting with the principals of over 1,000 government schools, education minister Manish Sisodia asked them to come up with individual plans. Now the suggestions have been submitted to the district deputy education (DDE) officers and the department will soon start reviewing them, a senior official said. Yashwant Singh Negi, principal of Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School at Ghitroni, agrees with Sisodia that one central policy cannot be implemented in the current situation. “We need to call the Class XII students to school as soon as possible. In each school, there aren’t more than 100 students in this class. As they are senior children, they will be able to follow rules,” Negi said. “With around 12 children in one classroom, social distancing can be followed.” His school has 84 students in Class XII. “They have already lost some months. The school can also check its preparedness to handle the situation with this,” Negi added. A K Jha, principal of Government Co-Ed Sarvodaya Vidyalya in Rohini’s Sector 8, has planned a four-hour session with senior school students without any long break. “Before the school opens, there will be three days’ training for teachers and staff to bust any myth and fear about the virus,” he said. Jha also wants to involve 60% of the staff in teaching and the rest in implementing safety norms at the gate and on the premises. “Even for teachers, the school will be over in five hours,” he said. The school is already getting around 1,000 cloth masks for students. Most of the principals have opined against any extracurricular activity and suggested adjusting the school expenditure to buy hand-washing stations and sanitisers. Rajpal Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Dwarka Sector 10, has made plans to buy a spraying machine for sanitising the premises. “We will call all children every day and hold five 45-minute periods. Students from classes VI to IX will be called from 8am to 11am and the rest after an half-hour break,” said Singh. “Teachers will also have staggered timings. During the break, sanitation staff can easily clean the building with the machine,” he added. The school has a collaboration with Microsoft to provide online supplementary classes. Most principals are also in favour of calling the children of primary classes too. “These children should be called at least once a week as they require regular reinforcement,” said Ritu Singhal, principal of Laxmi Nagar’s Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-for-slow-steady-approach-to-start-classes/articleshow/76376230.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Four Bengaluru hospitals lose licence||BENGALURU: Bengaluru urban district authorities have cancelled licences of four private hospitals for failing to inform relevant authorities on patients they treated for Covid-19, influenza like illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). As per the rulebook, all private medical establishments have to update Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME) wed portal on any suspected, confirmed Covid-19, SARI, ILI cases that they treat in their hospitals. On June 5, the district administration issued show cause notices to 17 private hospitals for not adhering to the guidelines. Of these, 13 hospitals had replied with satisfactory answers. On June 12, KPME licences were withdrawn for the remaining four hospitals, including three clinics that failed to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/four-bluru-hospitals-lose-licence/articleshow/76374746.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru rly division completes infra works during lockdown||Mysuru: Lockdown period was effectively used by Mysuru railway division to undertake several safety related infrastructure works. In a significant step towards safety, the division has eliminated manned level crossings and completed canal crossings between Ajjampura and Shivani stations in Tumkur Hubballi line, and girdening of smajor bridges. The level crossings (LCs) of meter gauge line were retained even after gauge conversion. However they greatly hinder the movement of both road and rail traffic. In 2018, Indian Railway became completely free of unmanned LC’s and has taken up the mission of eliminating all the manned LCs in a phased manner by constructing low-height subways, road under bridge and road over bridge depending upon the feasibility. Ravindra Biradar, senior divisional engineer, west, Mysuru division, said: “There were 311 manned LC’s on Mysuru division of which 30 were eliminated last year and 16 are targeted for completion in the current year. In line with these targets, three level crossings were taken up for elimination by construction of low height subway during the lockdown period in Mysuru-Hassan section despite the minimum resources due to lockdown. The work, which involved insertion of pre-cast boxes under the track, was completed in a matter of hours which in normal times would have translated to cancellation/regulation of a number of passenger trains.” Butchi Venkata Rao, senior divisional engineer, north, Mysuru division, said: “Canal crossing work between Ajjampura and Shivani stations on the Tumkur- Hubballi line, which was earlier planned with blocking of track for few hours over a period of 90 days, has now been taken up by temporarily diverting the track within a short period of time. This project would facilitate the supply of water from Bhadra river to drought hit regions of Chitradurga. The division took up the project as a challenge and work is in progress throughout day and night. Once the canal works get completed, more than 2 lakh acre will get receive water.” ***** BOX International Level Crossing Awareness Day held Mysuru division has launched an awareness campaign for observing the International Level Crossing Awareness Day to raise awareness about the dangers associated with the road/rail interfaces (level crossings). Divisional safety officer T Venkateshwara Rao along with staff conducted awareness campaigns at level crossing near Holalkere and counselled road users to obey all railway warnings and signals. He cautioned road users to always use designated railway crossings to protect themselves and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-rly-division-completes-infra-works-during-lockdown/articleshow/76374734.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||BJP slams Goa lockdowns but ministers, party MLAs support them||PANAJI: Even as several panchayats have declared self-imposed lockdowns to combat the spread of Covid-19, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Sunday called these decisions illegal. “Village panchayats cannot go for self-lockdown, it is illegal,” he said. However, his party found itself in a Catch-22 situation, as these lockdown decisions have the full support of BJP legislators and ministers. A vast majority of the villages that so far have announced lockdowns fall in assembly constituencies represented by BJP. Sources said that these panchayats have the full backing of local MLAs. The decision of the village panchayats of Sattari’s Guleli and Keri, for instance, have the backing of health minister Vishwajit Rane. The same is true for Sancorda, where PWD minister Deepak Pauskar is the local MLA. On Saturday, state BJP vice-president Anil Hoble said that CM Pramod Sawant supported his call for a self-lockdown in Chimbel. Even after former MP Narendra Sawaikar raised the issue of the legality and legitimacy of these orders in a tweet a few days ago, more panchayats — Cumbarjua, Sanvordem, Sancorda, Merces, and Aldona, all in BJP-represented constituencies — followed the lockdown trend. Sarpanchs have justified the need for these lockdowns on one of two grounds — that the state government has failed to arrest the spread of the virus, or to supplement government efforts. However, now, as public sentiment turns against the government after the spike in cases, Tanavade strongly criticised the panchayats’ decisions. Speaking to TOI, he said that the panchayat’s decision for self-lockdown is illegal. “The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) takes the decision for a lockdown, and the collector then issues an order,” he said. “Using the word self-lockdown, passing resolutions on it and blocking roads is illegal.” Tanavade said that the sarpanchs and panchayat secretaries do not have the powers to issue lockdown orders, and the person issuing them can get into trouble. “If some villagers come together and decide willingly to stay indoors, they can do it,” Tanavade said. “However, they cannot block the roads or fine people.” On Sunday, the Agarwada panchayat, which reversed its lockdown decision, had earlier decided to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on shopkeepers not adhering to the lockdown. But the BJP MLAs say they’re firmly with the people. Pauskar, for instance, said that the state government supports local-level lockdowns instead of the entire state being locked down. He said that the panchayats and the people have the right to pass resolutions to go for self-lockdowns to avoid the spread of Covid-19. “Self-lockdown is a good concept,” he said. St Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes agreed. “The panchayat can take any decision in the interest of the village and villagers in an emergency situation,” he said. “This is an emergency situation. Panchayats are autonomous bodies and the sarpanch is the first citizen of the village. The panchayat decision, however, can be challenged.” Fernandes stressed that the local MLA “has to be with the people”. He said he supports the voluntary lockdown in Merces. “I cannot go against my people,” he said. Pauskar further explained that a prior announcement is made so that villagers can purchase essential commodities and have sufficient stock at home. “After Covid-19 cases are found in a village, the state government tests other villagers, and it takes 2-3 days for the results,” he said. “In the meantime, the villagers don’t know who else or how many more are Covid-19 positive, so the village goes for a lockdown to avoid the spread of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-slams-state-lockdowns-but-mins-party-mlas-support-them/articleshow/76376720.cms||Murari Shetye
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Children present thank you cards to Covid Warriors||Nashik: An art teacher, Darshana Rajput, along with some children on Sunday presented Thank You cards to various frontline Covid Warriors, including police, health, revenue and cleanliness workers. The cards were also presented to commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre-Patil who accepted them on behalf of all the police personnel. “These are wonderful pieces of art from children of various schools who met us today and presented the cards to us. They came up with exclusive ideas to thank the Covid Warriors across the police department,” Nangre-Patil said. With the concept in mind to bring out the creativity among the children during the lockdown, Rajput contacted the children and asked them to contribute to the idea of thanking the Corona Warriors. “I initially called for e-greetings from the children who made and sent them to me. I then tried to get the phone numbers of the officers and Covid Warriors and asked the children to send the same to them. Now, I took a couple of children and came to meet the police commissioner to thank him and his team in person,” Rajput said. The children were also excited with the idea. Tanvi Ghule, a Class VI student, said, “The activity not only helped me kill the time but also brought out the best in me. I got a chance to think beyond myself, when I was locked up in the house and also focus on what the Covid-19 warriors are doing. How they were battling it out in the field and how they were ensuring people stayed safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/children-present-thank-you-cards-to-covid-warriors/articleshow/76376204.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Ramesh Meena stays away from camp, keeps Cong guessing||Jaipur: The curious case of food and civil supplies minister, Ramesh Meena has left both the state government and the party guessing. Most of the MLAs toed the party line by checking in the hotel ahead of the Rajya Polls scheduled for June 19, except Meena, who is reportedly in Jaipur at his official residence. He has kept his cards close to his chest while denying even the central party leaders a peek into his mind making the game go down the wire. The absence has caused embarrassment for Congress who is claiming its party MLAs stand together in the presence of the central leaders. Since June 10, the contingent of Congress MLAs, two BTP MLAs and at least 10 independents and central party leaders are lodged in a hotel, while Meena has created a buzz by his absence for the fourth straight day. His absence was kept under the wraps for the first two days, but blown out on the third day. Congress party’s observer for Rajya Sabha Polls T S Singh Deo admitted that ‘Meena is unhappy over something’ and ‘matter has been communicated to the party high command’ on Saturday. TOI repeatedly called and sent text messages to him, but he was not available for a comment. Sources confirmed that Rajya Sabha Congress nominee K C Venugopal and other senior party leaders have contacted Meena, but failed to convince him to join the MLAs. Considered a close aide of deputy CM Sachin Pilot, Meena’s absence in baffling the latter. Reports of his displeasure with CM Gehlot and some ministers were making rounds in the political circles soon after the party came to power. Recently, in the video conferencing with all party MLAs, Meena had asked Gehlot to follow and learn from what is being done in the other states. Several project proposals under his portfolio have been axed by the government. Also, he has been vocal in criticizing his own government on various occasions which has kept him under the disgruntled lot. Sources said as per the Congress party rule it is a clear case of indiscipline and put his case on hold till voting. “If he directly turns up for voting, it will still be considered as infighting and if he didn’t turn up action will follow,” said a party source. A political player in eastern Rajasthan since 1993, Meena achieved electoral success in 2008 on BSP ticket from Sapotra constituency in his home district Karauli. Thereafter, he joined Congress and has been winning polls from Sapotra constituency in 2013 and in 2018. Even since he joined Congress in 2013, he has been given free hand to expand his influence in districts like Dholpur, Bharatpur and Karauli. He aspires to create his own space in eastern Rajasthan, much on the lines of Jat leader Hanuman Beniwal and Meena leader Kirori Lal Meena, say sources who are close to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramesh-meena-stays-away-from-camp-keeps-cong-guessing/articleshow/76376223.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Many opt for marker tests to check infection risk||HYDERABAD: Thousands of people in the city with mild Covid-19 symptoms are opting for CT scan (thorax) and chest X-ray in private hospitals to find out whether they are infected with coronavirus. As government hospitals are not testing people with mild symptoms, every day around 2,500 such patients are going for these self-referred tests and spending Rs 5000- Rs 8000 for these marker tests in 10 big corporate hospitals and three big diagnostic centres of the city, ahead of the actual test for Covid-19 RT-PCR swab test, private hospital association estimates revealed. “We see at least half of the patients turning up at the facility having the HRCT report with them, especially if they are returning for a test after having been turned away. Since we have limited testing capacity, patients who are asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cannot be tested,” said a top health department official. These tests serve the purpose of an indicator in the absence of access to the swab test. If the Chest X-ray shows massive infiltration (patches), the patient is referred for an HRCT test, which is now treated as a surrogate marker for Covid-19. The fact that patients are making multiple rounds to diagnostic centres, government labs and doctors for prescription and assessment of these Covid-19 screening tests, even before the actual RT-PCR test is done, is precisely the reason why the state government should allow private sector to test, say experts. “I learnt about the test from a friend and then went to a private lab for testing since I had cough and fever. Now I am asked to go to the government lab again for the final Covid-19 test,” said a patient from Mehdipatnam, who suspects he was infected but was turned away initially at the King Koti lab. “Apart from patients who are lined up surgeries, suspected patients are also being tested which has resulted in an increase in numbers. Moreover, when private hospitals can treat patients affected with the virus, there is no harm in allowing the test. Now with a spurt in cases, it is more necessary,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Hyderabad. Among the self-referred patients many are not seeking any treatment, even if their markers hint at a positive. “Many symptomatic patients are not willing to even consult doctors for their condition in the Old City owing to many rumours, including one that patients are deliberately left to die in government hospitals,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, founder helping hand foundation that works in the public health sector. “Many are sitting at home or at the most consulting small private clinics for treatment. Even on finding a positive report in the marker tests, they are not going back to hospitals and in the process, might be infecting others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fear-rules-many-opt-for-marker-tests-to-check-infection-risk/articleshow/76377103.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 15, 2020||Nashik||Sinnar taluka tops Nashik district’s rain chart||Nashik: The otherwise parched Sinnar taluka that often reels under water crisis has so far received 233 mm rainfall, a whopping 189% of its average rainfall for June alone, making its way to the top of the chart during this rainy season. The taluka receives 123 mm rainfall on an average in June. “As cyclone Nisarg passed the area, Sinnar taluka received very heavy rain affecting about 141 hectares of crops in the otherwise dry taluka. On Saturday, it received 82 mm rainfall, ensuring that the taluka received 189% rainfall” senior officials from the district administration said. Interestingly, Sinnar is the second taluka in the district to receive high amount of rainfall after Igatpuri which has received 543 mm rain. On an average, Iagtpuri receives 495.7 mm rainfall in June. “Usually, we get good amount of rainfall only during the returning monsoon. Sinnar usually has tankers supplying drinking water to its residents. Also, water tankers are called in for supplying water to fields/farms,” Satish Chavan, a resident of Sinnar taluka, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sinnar-taluka-tops-nashik-districts-rain-chart/articleshow/76376234.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Online painting exhibition pays tribute to Covid-19 victims||Almora: An online solo painting exhibition, paying tribute to those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, was unveiled on the occasion of World Blood Donor Day on Sunday. The show featured "nail paintings" of professor Shekhar Joshi, dean of the Visual Arts department at SSJ campus Almora. It was launched by WAYSAC, an organisation working in the field of art and culture. “The exhibition features 42 nail paintings. It will run online for a week and after that, can be accessed at the website uttarakhandarts.com. We planned to hold it in a gallery but under the present circumstances, an online show seemed more appropriate,” said Chandra Prakash, one of the conveners of the show. “The havoc the coronavirus has wreaked across the country inspired me to create these paintings. The lockdown provided me with the isolation an artist needs to create,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-painting-exhibition-pays-tribute-to-covid-19-victims/articleshow/76375685.cms||Rohit Joshi
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Flu patients turn to quacks in Haridwar, officials worried it may aggravate Covid-19 situation||Haridwar: Authorities in Haridwar fear quacks in the district treating patients with symptoms of cough and cold, without sharing any information with officials, might aggravate the Covid-19 situation. While registered medical practitioners and pharmaceutical store owners have been asked to share data of people approaching them with flu-like symptoms, in order to keep track of potential Covid-19 patients, quacks have no obligation to follow the order. People who practice medicine without license or expertise, claiming to cure any ailment, abound in the rural and slum areas of the district, say district officials. Being inexpensive and easily accessible, the quacks attract a sizeable number of the rural poor. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, “We have issued guidelines to all registered medical practitioners and private hospitals to share the data of patients who visit them for cough or fever. Medical store owners have been asked to not give medicine without a prescription. We have received details of 195 patients so far, whose conditions were tracked by health officials. We have also opened 22 flu clinics at government hospitals, where around 700 patients have been treated so far. Quacks are a challenge for us and we are taking stern steps against them. Several raids have been conducted in the past few days to bust their clinics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/flu-patients-turn-to-quacks-in-haridwar-officials-worried-it-may-aggravate-covid-19-situation/articleshow/76374751.cms||MS Nawaz
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||New MC commissioner Sabharwal to join today||Ludhiana: Pardeep Sabharwal has been named the new commissioner of Ludhiana Municipal Corporation. He has replaced K P Brar, who was here since July 2018. The new MC commissioner is expected to join on Monday. Sabharwal has joined at a time when already many challenges are waiting for him. The first and the most important challenge for him will be to save the city residents from the waterlogging caused by monsoon rains. Managing a cash-strapped institution (MC) will be his second biggest challenge. Before assuming the charge, Sabharwal has served Taran Taran and Gurdaspur as deputy commissioner. He has also served as the MC commissioner of Amritsar. He was also given the additional charge of DC, Amritsar, for 42 days. Sabharwal has also served as deputy director of local bodies department. "There will be new challenges, but I am prepared. About priorities in Ludhiana, I will be able to comment once I will join and understand the system of the Ludhiana MC," Sabharwal said.The outgoing commissioner, K P Brar, who is now the director of tourism department, said, "In the last two years, I have worked a lot. I am satisfied with what I have done for the city. The new commissioner brings with him a lot of experience. I am hopeful that he will handle the city with best of his efforts.” Challenges aheadWaterlogging issues: After his joining, the new MC commissioner, Sabharwal, will have to resolve waterlogging issues that give a tough time to the residents every year during the monsoon rains. Similarly, cleaning of Buddha nullah is another important task. Managing cash crunch: The civil body has remained in financial distress from a long time now. Brar had managed to bring the civic body on track but due to the lockdown, the situation has again turned bad. Not only this, the new MC commissioner will have make way for funds to support developmental works.Garbage collection: This is a major challenge for the city as heaps of garbage can be seen everywhere. The NGT has also taken a strict note of this issue. Solid waste management will be a major challenge for the new MC chief. Encroachments: Whether temporary or permanent, encroachments have been key in spoiling the image of the civic body. Recently a sub-committee was formed to settle the issues of building branch and EDC. Not only this, enough hue and cry happened over rampant corruption among MC officials. Political pressure: In the working of the civic body, 95 councillors and MLAs have an equal say, and sometimes political pressure also create hindrance in the smooth functioning of the department. Although, Brar had somehow managed to create a balance, some politicians still hold grudges against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-mc-commissioner-sabharwal-to-join-today/articleshow/76375662.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad families return to roots||AHMEDABAD: Gordhan Kasadia, now at Sardarpur village in Amreli district, has lived in Surat for the last 40 years. Covid-19 and the lockdown has taken him back to his roots. He decided to go back to his village and work his 10 bighas of land himself. Kasadia has sown groundnut and cotton on his land this season. “This year, the rains set in early and my son and his family are also here in Sardarpura. With no labour available, we decided to sow the crops ourselves.” “We have been living in Surat for the past 40 years, but the Covid outbreak took us back to our roots. We first we strayed with my brother, Nanu Kasadia, but later got our own house renovated and have begun living in it,” said Kasadia. Earlier, he gave the land to his brother to cultivate, but this this has taken up the cultivation himself. Kamla Chavda, sarpanch of Sardarpur, said, “In our village, at least 10 families have come back from places like Surat, Ahmedabad and Rajkot and resumed farming.” Chavda says 40% of the farmers in the village have opted for early sowing this year because of the early rains. For some, the availability of family members for work was also a factor. This year, for the kharif crop, groundnut has already been sown on 1.12 lakh hectares in the state against just 5,261 hectares at the same date in 2019 and 14,286 hectares in 2018. Cotton has been sown on 78,400 hectares against 40,000 hectares last year and 47,907 hectares in 2018. Vilas Vala, the sarpanch of Baliyavad village in Junagadh, said, “Due to the shortage of labourers in the village this year, local families area now coming together to help with each others’ sowing. The tradition is locally known as ‘Dhad’ which means helping each other. The families come to an arrangement among themselves and help each other out.” Arvind Chunara, a farmer from Dhari in Amreli district, said, “We were four brothers and the land was divided among us. Each got four bighas. Earlier, we would get labourers and get the work done but this time, with no labour available, the families decided to do the sowing ourselves and work together for this purpose. In the first week, we sowed one field and expect to finish the remaining three by June 20. We have two tractors between us and the work got done quicker.” Laji Mepha Kathad, sarpanch of Anandpur village in Jungadh district, says, “Many farmers, especially those who are related, are getting together and helping each other out. Neighbours are also joining hands to do the sowing work and this year we have seen a trend of relatively early groundnut and cotton sowing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-families-return-to-roots/articleshow/76376261.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa set to test up to 2,500 samples a day: Vishwajit Rane||MARGAO: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Sunday that the state was prepared to enhance its Covid testing capacity to 2,500 a day, even as he assured the state that the government is geared up to face all challenges posed by the pandemic. Speaking to reporters after holding a review meeting at Hospico hospital, Margao, with Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, deputy director of health services, Dr Ira Almeida, and other health officials, Rane said that with the installation and commissioning of the new high-capacity testing machine at the GMC’s virology laboratory, the results of the tests would also come out quicker. In view of several personnel from the Covid hospital testing positive for the virus, Rane said that the residents of the area in the vicinity of the ESI hospital would be screened. The screening exercise will begin with Azadnagar on Monday. Meanwhile, Kamat, on Saturday, expressing concern over the health of residents staying in the ESI hospital neighbourhood, demanded that swab samples be taken of all residents in the surrounding areas for testing. He feared that “the Covid bomb will explode, which will lead to the complete collapse of the Covid healthcare mechanism”. Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Council for Margao, who also met Rane, demanded sanitisation of the ESI quarters complex, and also raised the issue of long working hours of the staff of the Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-set-to-test-up-to-2500-samples-a-day-rane/articleshow/76376729.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: For the Makadmare tribe, a roof and electricity remain distant dreams||MARGAO: On April 23 last year, Gopal Pawar, along with 39 other Makadmare (Wanarmare) tribals from Nirankal, near Bethora, Ponda, cast his vote for the simultaneous election of South Goa Lok Sabha seat and the Shiroda assembly constituency. Before exercising his franchise, Gopal had just one prayer to whichever candidates cared to lend him an ear — “a roof over our heads, and an electricity connection to help our kids study at night”. Fourteen months later, Gopal and the rest of the Makadmare are still without a home they can call their own; and with no electricity to light up their thatched huts, darkness envelopes their settlement by sunset. The situation becomes worse in the monsoon, when rainwater from the streams gushes forth into their hutments, making life miserable for the tribals, many of whom are elderly and kids. For the political class and the officialdom, the existence of the tribe is confined only to the electoral rolls. The tribals voted for the first time in the 2017 state assembly election, after a spirited movement by social workers to get them enfranchised bore the desired result. The 20-odd families live in 17 thatched huts, the roofs of which get blown away or damaged during heavy rain. “We are really indebted for all the help provided to us by several social workers and the government in helping us get ration cards, election cards and Aadhar cards. This has enabled us to enroll our children in schools,” Gopal acknowledges with gratitude. “But in the absence of proper huts that will withstand the heavy rains, we have to spend all our earnings on repairing the huts several times during the monsoon. In the absence of electricity, our children are unable to study after dusk.” Moreover, in the absence of any toilet facilities, the tribals answer nature’s call in the open, thus inviting the wrath of locals. “When so much has been done under Swachch Bharat campaign to eliminate open defecation, one fails to understand how the government machinery can remain so insensitive to the plight of these tribals. Providing proper hygiene facilities and an electricity connection to the Makadmare settlement is the primary responsibility of the state,” said Dilip Naik, a Curchorem-based high school teacher. Naik, alongwith Abhiraj Shetkar and Suraj Parab, had taken the initiative to supply essential grocery items to the Makadmare tribals during the initial phases of the lockdown. The tribals eke out their livelihoods working as farm helps and casual labourers. “We want to earn our living by the sweat of our brow,” says Alshi Pawar, who has recently undergone training in coconut climbing provided by the state agriculture department. Gopal still remembers BJP’s slogan during the poll campaign — namumkin ab mumkin hai (Now even the impossible will be possible.) He earnestly hopes that the BJP government will make his dreams — and that of his tribe — possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-the-makadmare-tribe-a-roof-and-electricity-remain-distant-dreams/articleshow/76376732.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Bus scam: 15 scrap vehicles reached Telangana||HYDERABAD: The scrapped buses scam, involving former TDP MLA JC Prabhakar Reddy, has links in Telangana too, investigations have revealed. According to Anantpur districts transport commissioner N Sivarama Prasad, 15 scrap Bharat Standard (BS) III vehicles were brought to Telangana as BS IV vehicles and registered here. However, Telangana joint transport commissioner (vigilance) C Ramesh has said they were awaiting further inputs from their Andhra counterparts. “We are yet to receive information regarding this from our Andhra counterparts. We will take action accordingly. So far, nothing regarding the scam has come to our notice,” said Ramesh. Anantpur police had on Saturday arrested former lawmaker JC Prabhakar Reddy and his son JC Asmith Reddy for alleged irregularities in their transport business. The duo is accused of purchasing BS III buses sold as scrap from Ashok Leyland and running them as regular buses. “As per rules, BS III vehicles cannot be manufactured, registered and sold after March 31, 2017. Ashok Leyland in Chennai was selling these vehicles as scrap and the accused were getting them registered as BS IV in Nagaland. After receiving an NOC from there, they were bringing these vehicles back to Anantpur. They sold some of these vehicles in Telangana and Tamil Nadu too,” said Sivarama Prasad. The application for these registrations were made by JC Diwakar Reddy’s wife JC Uma Reddy. The AP transport department has filed 24 complaints at Anantapur Two Town police station and three in Kurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bus-scam-15-scrap-vehicles-reached-t/articleshow/76376245.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||6 BSF jawans who returned from holiday test positive||JAISALMER: Six Border Security Force (BSF) jawans belonging to 115th battalion, who returned to base after vacation in Barmer, have tested positive on Sunday. One jawan was tested positive on Saturday. All have been placed under quarantine. Meanwhile, at a spa in Balotara in Barmer district, a woman was tested positive and went missing which put the district administration on its toes. The woman had returned from Maharashtra and later she was caught and taken to Covid hospital. In all, 11 persons tested positive in Barmer on Sunday. With relaxation in lockdown by the Centre and with starting of trains, buses and air services in many parts, the jawans and officers who had gone on leave and stranded in their states due to lockdown have started returning. So far around 2,500 personnel of different security forces have returned to their place of deployment in Jaisalmer. Now, these personnel are being kept in 14 day quarantine at the centre made by the security forces and also in government buildings with the help of district administration. Barmer CMHO Dr Kamlesh Choudhary said that BSF jawans after the relaxation in lockdown have started returning to Barmer and are being kept in quarantine at the centre in BSF headquarters. Samples of others who came in contact with these jawans are being collected, he said. BSF Gujrat Frontier DIG M LGarg confirmed that seven jawans have tested positive in the last two days. Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha said that over 1,000 personnel have returned to the base. Arrangements have been made at the battalion headquarters for quarantine. At many places, where personnel are more, they are being quarantined in other buildings with the help of district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-bsf-jawans-who-returned-from-holiday-test-positive/articleshow/76376246.cms||Vimal Bhatia
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: In home isolation, Covid patients left to fend for themselves||HYDERABAD: Close to 1,300 Covid-19 patients in home isolation across the city are struggling to get essential supplies at home and facing discrimination from neighbours, health department sources, and patients said. On June 6, 310 patients were discharged and asked to stay at home, but with the condition of some of them deteriorating, many got admitted at private hospitals seven days later. “Home isolation is a big challenge if the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines are not followed properly,” said a source in the government. As per ICMR guidelines, patients must be sent back in ambulances from hospital after being there for two or three days. Just like in containment zones, the families need to be supplied all essentials without anyone stepping out and must be monitored. A patient, who is under home isolation in Saidabad, was found to be sending his son outside for essential purchases, while two patients TOI spoke with in the city, said they went home in auto rickshaws. Some patients said they received no follow-up calls from the health department. “The police called, but not one from the health department to check on me,” said a male patient. “The medical and health department officials called for supplying medicines, but help did not reach us,” the patient in Saidabad said. The isolated families can purchase things online, but patients who do not use online platforms or mobile for payments are facing a big challenge. “Government should make sure there is proper tracking of such patients and underprivileged families where patients are under isolation in high-density areas and don’t have proper facilities,” an activist said. There is also the problem of social discrimination and resistance for home isolation of patients, especially in districts. “People are objecting to home isolation of patients, they are asking us to keep them in public institutes which are vacant,” a district medical health told TOI. Earlier this month, a few Covid-19 patients were forced out of their homes in the city and the government had to take them back to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-alone-in-isolation-covid-patients-left-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/76377106.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cujira school tops in science talent search||PANAJI: The State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) declared results for the Goa science talent search examinations 2020. And students of the Cujira-based Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School have swept most of the top spots in the Class XI and XII categories. The school’s students bagged 19 of the 20 top scores in the Class XI category and 16 out of 20 best marks in the Class XII category. “Once again there was no match for our school students. I am extremely proud of my students and faculty members,” said school director Vyankatesh Prabhudesai. The top ten ranks for Class XI went to R Hariharan, Agrajah Bhobe, Abhinn Tari, Ratan D, Aditya Bhat, Harsh Khandeparkar, Lance Barreto, Nilay Kamat, Swatit Valaulicar and Mahadev Shirodkar, all students of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary . Similarly, in the Class XII category, seven of the first ten ranks were bagged by students of the school, Gaurav Awasthi, Siddhant Govekar, Aayushi Nachinolkar, Shaikh Rubiya Abdussalam, Yash Tar, Aaron D’Souza, and Kalyan Salkar. The third, seventh and tenth spots went to Kruthik Patel and Ameya Tilgul of GVM’s Adarsh School, Ponda, and Rupit Bhandari of DM’s Kushe Higher Secondary School, Bardez. In the Class IX category, the ranks were bagged by Varun Shastry, Pratham Nayak, Mahima Anklekar, Atharv Naik Desai, Aditya Madkaikar, Harsh Dagare, Samruddh Mantravadi, Sumukh Naik Kurade, Dyaneshwar Hawal and Vaisnavai Potekar. In the Class VIII category, the top ten ranks went to Nupur Narvekar, Koyal Kamat, Mohammed Lashkarwale, Coutinho Sinoi Edwin, Aadya Gaitonde, Andrea Mascarenhas, Preet Bhati, Advait Mudras, Sakshi Naik and Supash Chodankar. In the Class VIII and IX categories, most of the ranks were bagged by students of A J De Almeida High School, Ponda, among others. The first rank in the Class VIII category was bagged by student of LD Samant Memorial High School, Porvorim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cujira-school-tops-in-science-talent-search/articleshow/76376719.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Woman doesn’t want to keep child of ‘Love Guru’||AHMEDABAD: After returning home in Chotila, the woman does not want to keep ‘love guru’ Dhaval Trivedi’s child and told the Gujarat high court that she intended to give away the 11-month-old to an orphanage. She also claimed that she had desired to terminate the pregnancy. The woman, a school student, had eloped with a former school principal Trivedi in 2018. Trivedi was a life convict for eloping with and raping two of his students. He was out on parole and giving tuition to this woman. Last year, the high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to trace and arrest Trivedi after the woman’s father filed a habeas corpus petition. Two years later and after having a spat with Trivedi, the woman left him and took shelter with a person in Bihar before the lockdown in March. After the lockdown ended, she could take train to Ahmedabad. She reached home in the first week of June. Upon the woman’s return, the high court heard the habeas corpus petition on Friday. The HC did away with the procedure of calling the corpus before the court to know her wish in light of peculiar facts of this case. But after the hearing, the lawyer for the petitioner, the woman’s father, submitted before the court that the woman was constrained to carry the child in her womb, although she was desirous to abort the child. But now, she is willing to give away the child to the orphanage. Upon this submission, CBI’s counsel ensured the HC that the administration would extend necessary assistance to the woman. The court said, “If the corpus is so desirous, let the same be communicated to the learned Counsel of CBI within eight weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-doesnt-want-to-keep-child-of-love-guru/articleshow/76376259.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Over 4,500 fined for not wearing mask in Bareilly; Rs 5.8 lakh recovered||Bareilly: More than 4,500 people across the Bareilly city have been fined for not wearing protective face masks in public places. Since May 22, the Bareilly police intensified its enforcement drive and took action against those violating the Covid protocol. So far, 4,563 challans have been issued while Rs 5.08 lakh has been recovered as fine. “Wearing face masks has been made mandatory across the state and strict guidelines have been issued to ensure proper implementation and penalise those not adhering to the rule. While people are aware of the rules, many are still not adhering to the protocol. People with no face mask are being intercepted and given a warning not to step out without a face cover,” Bareilly superintendent of police (SP), city, Ravindra Kumar said. According to information shared by the Bareilly police, both civil as well as traffic police have been taking action against people for not wearing face mask in the city, but challans are being primarily issued by civil police under their respective police station limits. A fine of Rs 100 is imposed for not wearing a face mask at public place while Rs 500 is levied for repeated offence. Apart from the city police, Bareilly Municipal Corporation is also checking people for not wearing face masks or spitting in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-4500-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-bareilly-rs-5-8-lakh-recovered/articleshow/76374786.cms||Maria Khan
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panaji market reopens today without restrictions||PANAJI: Even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state, the Panaji municipal market is set to open from Monday with no curbs. “The entire complex comprising the fish, meat, and vegetable and fruit markets will be opened with no restrictions on timing from Monday,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said. Madkaikar said that around 50% of the vendors come from Chimbel, which has seen several cases over the past few days. “Vendors from Chimbel will have to get tested and produce Covid negative certificates to be able to return to business,” he said. He said that all those seeking to enter the vegetable and fruit market will be checked with a thermal scanner. “Only one gate will open, and thermal scanning will be done there. This will make it easier to monitor those entering.” However, there will be no checking at the fish and meat markets since these are open markets. “It’s not possible to have thermal scanning at the fish market,” he said. The market, which was sanitized on Friday, will again be sanitized on Monday. The complex was shut on Friday after a tavern vendor who tested positive for Covid-19 went missing. Another vegetable vendor, from Chimbel, was suspected to have been infected, but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. After initially declaring the market shut for four days and following pressure from the Panaji market association, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) opened the market on Saturday and Sunday for five hours, between 7am and 12 noon. Around 70 workers engaged in garbage and road works of the CCP are from Chimbel. They have all been told to take a week off, and report back to work only after a negative certificate. Madkaikar admitted that garbage collection and drainage work has thus been hampered. He also said that none of those who tested positive at Chimbel to date are CCP workers, but added that more reports are awaited. Meanwhile, the CCP office will function normally from Monday. Two staffers from Chimbel have been told to report to work only after testing negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mkt-reopens-today-without-restrictions/articleshow/76376735.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||T Cong leaders hunger strike against govt||Hyderabad: Senior Congress leaders V Hanumanth Rao and Ramulu Naik observed a day long ‘deeksha’ (hunger strike) at the former’s residence on Sunday, protesting against the arrest of party leaders who were trying to visit the site of pending irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers. “KCR has become inaccessible. We will not hesitate to go to court seeking directions for a date to meet CM and bring to his notice the problems plaguing the people of Telangana,” Hanumanth Rao said. “The chief minister is scared that the failures of TRS government will be exposed if the Congress members are allowed to hold protests,” Rao added. Former CLP leader K Jana Reddy and TJS president M Kodandaram extended their support for the deeksha. Sangareddy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cong-leaders-hunger-strike-against-govt/articleshow/76376254.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Accused sent threat msg to settle score with rivals, arrested||LUCKNOW: Gonda police on Sunday arrested two brothers for threatening to blow up the residence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and 50 other establishments. The brothers, Swadesh Gaur (22) and Manish (18), were arrested from Tikar village in Chhapiya police station area in Gonda. Cops recovered a broken mobile phone and a diary from the accused, who told the police that they had posted the message to frame their rivals. The entire police machinery in Lucknow went into high alert on Friday evening after the WhatsApp group of police control room, UP 112, received a message from an unidentified number, threatening to blow up the residence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and 50 other establishments. Police said Gaur broke the phone after sending the message to UP 112. Superintendent of police, Gonda, Raj Karan Nayyar, told TOI that on the basis of inputs from the crime branch of Lucknow police, the number was traced to Tikar village. “Our surveillance teams traced the location and nabbed Swadesh who confessed of having sent the message on UP 112. Swadesh disclosed that he had an enmity with a villager and wanted to settle score with him,” Nayyar said. Police said Swadesh got access to the internet connection of his rivals and in an attempt to frame them, he sent the threat message to UP 112. However, he was traced through the location of his mobile phone. He said on the insistence of his younger brother Manish, Swadesh not only deleted the message but also broke his mobile phone. “The duo will be questioned by Gonda cops as well as the crime branch of Lucknow police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/accused-sent-threat-msg-to-settle-score-with-rivals-arrested/articleshow/76376737.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||‘Study of abuse of senior citizens in state needed’||Panaji: As World Elder Abuse Awareness Day is observed on June 15, local NGO, Goa Civic and Consumer Action Network (GOACAN) has written to the director of social welfare that a study need to be done to understand the nature of abuse suffered by senior citizens in Goa. GOACAN coordinator Roland Martins said that the number of elderly as well as the number of senior citizens living alone in Goa is rising. Adding that during the lockdown there have been several cases of verbal abuse of the elderly. “GOACAN, in a letter to the director, Umeshchandra Joshi has called for an action plan for Goa. Goa Rules 2009 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007 provides the necessary framework for implementing such an action plan. GOACAN has recommended that the directorate undertake a study of the number of senior citizens living alone in Goa and the challenges they face that could make them vulnerable to abuse,” said Martins. GOACAN has also suggested a survey by speaking directly with the elderly at old age homes in Goa which will help better understand issues of abuse that have already taken place and that may potentially occur, as well as institutional mechanisms to tackle these. “District level workshops for senior citizen volunteers of police stations can be organized to help create awareness on elder abuse and the steps to be taken to prevent the same in the jurisdiction of village panchayats and municipal councils. GOACAN has also requested that district welfare officers review cases of elder abuse regularly during the quarterly meetings of the district committees for north and south Goa, which are chaired by the respective district magistrates,” said Martins. It may be noted that Goa has the second highest proportion of elderly in the country, after Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/study-of-abuse-of-senior-citizens-in-state-needed/articleshow/76376733.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bengaluru||In Karnataka, people are now recovering faster from Covid-19||BENGALURU: An analysis of hospitalisation data of Covid-19 patients in the state shows those who recovered from an infection spent an average 13 days in hospital, while those who died after being infected by the SARS-Cov2 virus did so after an average six days of treatment. The analysis conducted by the Karnataka Covid-19 War Room suggests people who died spent almost twice the time fighting the virus — it was 3.5 days last week — before succumbing, while those who recovered needed fewer number of days — two — to overcome the infection compared to 15 days last week. Also, the number of beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients has increased to 22,872 this week from 21,728 last week. Most of the increase has been recorded in isolation beds category, while beds with oxygen, ICU and ventilator facilities have remained more or less the same. Many officials and doctors TOI spoke with underscored the importance of patients, especially senior citizens and those with comorbidities, securing treatment as soon as they notice Covid-19 symptoms so as to prevent fatalities. A vast majority of those infected in Karnataka are under the age of 50 years and this has, so far, kept the fatality rate at under 2% of all positive cases. As on Saturday, only 13% or 915 of the 6,824 cases in the state were aged 50 years of more. And, only 6% of the 915 patients are aged 60 years or more. Another analysis carried out by the government shows that as of Sunday morning, nearly 14% of all active patients in the state were categorised as high-risk, compared to only 12% last month. In some districts though, the percentage of high-risk active cases are much higher than the state average. For instance, it is a staggering 55.6% in Koppal, 27.3% in Ramanagara, 25% in Tumakuru and 19.8% in Bengaluru Urban district. “There will be some high-risk cases, those with respiratory disorders or influenza among other things. And we will need to start treating them aggressively and keep the number of deaths under control, which will be the priority,” Dr MK Sudharshan, chairman, Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, had told TOI earlier. Besides the number of dedicated beds for patients infected by the virus, bed occupancy in the state too has increased. From about 13% of 21,728 beds last week, it is now 14% of 22,872 beds. Nine districts have reported bed occupancy rates higher than the state average and five of them are districts in North Karnataka. Experts said the increasing number of cases in the state — led by the massive surge in cases in North Karnataka and coastal districts — has resulted in a higher bed occupancy as the government sees hospitalisation or clinical intervention as the best way to keep the fatality rate under check. As on Sunday, the state’s fatality rate stood at 1.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-karnataka-people-are-now-recovering-faster-from-infection/articleshow/76374673.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||SFIs want cut-off to engineering colleges lowered to 40%||AHMEDABAD: Self-financed institutions (SFIs) have demanded from the state government to relax the eligibility criteria for admission in engineering colleges. In a recent meeting between the state education department and the Technical Colleges Management Association, the issue of a large number of engineering seats going vacant was also discussed, among others. The association has demanded that the eligibility criteria for engineering colleges be lowered from 45% to 40% to address the issue of vacant seats, said sources. The association has also reached out to the All India Council of Technical Education for the same, said sources. This year, as many as 65% engineering seats are likely to go vacant. The reason being that only 26,287 students in Class XII Science (A group) have got 40% and above marks. Only students who have got 45% marks in science subjects (physics, chemistry and mathematics) are eligible for admission in engineering courses. The association members have also demanded that presently students with 80 percentiles are eligible for Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojana which should be revised to 60 percentiles due to the financial crisis faced by parents in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The new academic session will begin from June 21 for semester 3, 5 and 7 students. Initially the classes will be conducted online till the situation becomes normal in view of Covid-19. The academic session for semester 1 students for undergraduate and postgraduate courses will commence from August 1, as per the notification. The colleges and varsities had to shut down in March due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation. As a result, the summer holidays for all universities and their affiliated colleges in the state, except for medical and dental courses, got extended till June 20 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had earlier fixed summer vacation from April 25 till June 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sfis-want-cut-off-to-engineering-colleges-lowered-to-40/articleshow/76376249.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||With 14 deaths, Covid toll rises to 399 in state||Lucknow: The Covid-19 tally for UP increased by 499 on Sunday with new cases surfacing in different districts. While Gautam Budh Nagar contributed the most with 83 cases in 24 hours, Ghaziabad followed with 30 and Lucknow bagged the third place with 29 cases. Health officials stated that over 3,000 cases were added in the past week and that the total reached 13,715 on Sunday. The state also recorded 14 fresh fatalities taking the total death toll to 399. Among the 14 fatalities, six were reported in Meerut, two each in Agra and Sambhal and one each from Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Rae Bareli and Hardoi. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that of the total cases, 4,948 were active infections, while 8,268 had been discharged. “As many as 393 persons recovered from the infection in 24 hours. Also, majority of the active cases are migrants. With 93 fresh cases, the total number of migrants suffering from Covid-19 reached 3,636,” he said. Officials stated that districts, which saw ouble-digit entries, included Meerut and Jaunpur where 27 cases each were reported, while Bulandshahr saw 23 cases. Others were: Kanpur (18), Aligarh (17), Agra (15), Barabanki (15), Gorakhpur (14), Hathras (13), Etawah (11), Farrukhabad (10), Mathura (10) and Firozabad (10). Health department officials stated that the number of tests increased to 4.67 lakh on Sunday and efforts were on to achieve the daily testing target of 20,000 soon. Over 18,000 tests were done in 24 hours. Surveillance activities continued in full swing across 1,700 containment zones where diseases control protocols prescribed by the Indian council of Medical Research were being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-14-deaths-covid-toll-rises-to-399-in-state/articleshow/76376749.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||Teacher held with fake notes||VADODARA: A government school teacher from Lunawada taluka of Mahisagar district was arrested in temple town Pavagadh on Sunday with fake Indian currency notes (FICN) of Rs 9,500 face value at a forest checkpost. Ramkishan Patel, the teacher, was asked about the purpose of his visit to Pavagadh, but he could not give a satisfactory reply. When his car was checked, police found wads of Rs 100, 200 and Rs 500 denomination notes. Patel belongs to Raghavna Muvada village in Mahisagar. “On touching the notes, they seemed to be different. He admitted that they were fake and said he had come to Pavagadh to exchange the notes,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teacher-held-with-fake-notes/articleshow/76375534.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC inter-state services yet to resume as Covid-19 cases surge||HYDERABAD: Inter-state bus services between Telangana and other states, including neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, have not resumed though people have started travelling between states in private vehicles since June 1. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is yet to resume its inter-state bus services to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. The corporation used to operate nearly 700 bus services to various parts of Andhra Pradesh before the coronavirus-forced lockdown. Though the transport department officials of the AP government had written to their counterparts in Telangana a few days ago on holding talks to resume bus services between the two Telugu states, no concrete decision has been taken so far. Though it is loss of revenue for RTCs of Telangana and AP, the management of the TSRTC is taking its own time to hold full-fledged negotiations with their APSRTC counterparts keeping in view the rising cases of Covid-19. “TSRTC is suffering huge losses since bus services resumed within the state. Though the daily revenue, which was just Rs 2 crore per day 10 days ago, has now increased to over Rs 4 crore per day, it is far from giving profits to the corporation. TSRTC used to earn Rs 12 crore per day before the lockdown and yet was in losses. So, imagine the present financial condition given the rising prices of diesel almost every day from the last one week,” a senior official said. However, TSRTC officials are confident they would bounce back to touch Rs 12 crore revenue per day once inter-state services resume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-inter-state-services-yet-to-resume-as-covid-19-cases-surge/articleshow/76376272.cms||Roushan Ali
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Rickshaw pullers in Mussoorie struggling to make ends meet||Mussoorie: Cycle rickshaw pullers in the Queen of Hills are struggling to make ends meet due to lack of customers on the streets. They say that their business greatly depends on visitors from other states but as this tourist season has been whitewashed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it has become challenging for them to earn their living. “With no income in the past three months, we are barely left with enough to buy essentials. I do not know how I will sustain my family in the coming months,” Sampatti Lal, a rickshaw puller, said. Rickshaw pullers have urged the state government to provide jobs to the literate ones among them and help the illiterate ones set up businesses. They also want soft loans to be provided to them. “Such loans could help rickshaw pullers tide over the current crisis for a few months.” said Mangal Singh Negi, vice-president of the town’s Mazdoor Sangh (Labour Union). At present,122 cycle rickshaws ply on the Mall Road, Municipal Gardens, and Camel’s Back Road in Mussoorie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rickshaw-pullers-in-mussoorie-struggling-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76374807.cms||Anmol Jain
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Gope gives away masks with SP symbol||Lucknow: Former minister and general secretary of the Samajwadi Party Arvind Singh ‘Gope’ distributed 5,000 face masks with the party’s symbol bicycle printed on them inBarabanki on Sunday. On the occasion, the SP leader also reminded the people about an appeal made by party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav for extending a helping hand to the poor in the Covid crisis. Rebutting the BJP's charge that the Opposition is not playing a constructive role in corona crisis, he said that in two months lakhs of SP workers had fanned out in various districts of the state to distribute foodgrains, masks and sanitizers among migrants. “Not only SP workers, but our national president and his wife Dimple are also reaching out to migrants,” Gope said, adding that the government had totally failed in checking spread of Covid cases in the state and its claims of providing employment to lakhs of workers are baseless and fake.” Gope further said that reports of starvation deaths and suicides are pouring in from all parts of the state and the insensitive BJP government is doing nothing to provide succour to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gope-gives-away-masks-with-sp-symbol/articleshow/76376758.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chennai||When can you hug a friend?||The novel coronavirus refuses to go away and we are learning the hard lesson to live with it. Despite tonnes of expert advice, we remain unsure of many things. Is it safe to go to a salon or a restaurant? Is it ok to take a walk in the park? What about a visit to a mall? When do we get to go to the movies? When will be our next vacation? When do we shake hands and hug again? We asked five medical experts when they would feel safe to do these things in their personal lives. Read the entire story on TOI+When can you hug a friend?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-can-you-hug-a-friend/articleshow/76376268.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||British dy high commissioner appointed||Panaji: The UK government has appointed Alan Gemmell as the new British deputy high commissioner for Western India for all diplomatic engagements in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Goa. He will also serve as trade commissioner for South Asia to bolster UK trade and investment relations with the region, the UK high commission stated. Gemmell succeeds Crispin Simon who served as the British deputy high commissioner and trade commissioner. “I am happy to be back in India to support greater trade and investment between our countriesand help deliver an ambitious partnership between Britain and India. Mumbai and London are financial capitals of their countries and some of the most dynamic cities in the world,” said Gemmell. He has started virtual engagement with key stakeholders with a focus on the Covid-19 response and business engagement supported by the Confederation of Indian Industry, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce, the UK India Business Council as well as with the lord mayor of London. British international trade minister Ranil Jayawardena and minister for state for commerce and industry Hardeep Singh Puri discussed methods to keep trade flowing during Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/british-dy-high-commissioner-appointed/articleshow/76376753.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||‘Use gloves when picking out fruit, vegetables’||Q: How do I ensure that food items like wheat, rice, sugar or vegetables are sanitized and safe to consume? | Manoj Srivastava, Alambagh A: Grains or sugar and other items are not required to be sanitized because you cook them and heat kills the virus. Also, they come in a packaging. When you bring a packet inside your house, leave it in the open for an hour and sanitize its surface before taking out the material in a container. Q: My mother has been scared while buying vegetables after several vendors were found Covid positive. What precautions do we need to take while buying vegetables and fruits? | Pranjali Srivastava A: The first and foremost thing is to wear a mask and carry a hand sanitizer when going out. Use disposable gloves while picking out vegetables or fruits. Avoid going to a vegetable market where there is too much crowd. If you see a vendor with no mask, advice him to wear one. Once back home, leave the shopping packages outside for a while. Wash your hands and feet. The simplest way of cleaning fruits or vegetables is to wash them properly under running water or leave them in salt or lemon water for a few hours. Wash them and dry before use. All answers by TN Dhole, veteran virologist, SGPGI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/use-gloves-when-picking-out-fruit-vegetables/articleshow/76376766.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||Landlord waives rent of 70 students for three months||JAIPUR: In view of the crisis faced by aspirants of competitive exams and students due to the lockdown, a landlord, who is a high court advocate, has waived three months’ rent of 70 students staying at his PG amounting to Rs 7 lakh. So far, total room rent amounting to around Rs 10-15 lakh has been waived off by many landlords after the campaign launched by Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh. “I own two PGs – one at Gurjar ki Thadi and the other at Maharani Farm. Most of the students who stay at my PG study at the coaching centres. I waived their rent for three months (March, April and May). They pay Rs 3,000 each for a bed and if they opt for food, we charge them Rs 6,000 each,” said Rohit Gautam, who stays at Gurjar ki Thadi and practices law at the high court. He has been running the PGs for the past three years. “None of them has come back yet. So, I have decided to waive their rent till they return – be it up to July or August. The parents of these students are poor. So, how can we charge them when there is a lockdown in the state? This would be very insensitive and against humanity. We all are facing difficulties in this situation; hence, we should understand their problems as well. I feel, all the landlords should do the same,” he added. Gautam’s father is also an advocate at the high court. He has seven members in his family. Convener of Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh Upen Yadav said, “Had the political leaders ran such a campaign, then the problems of the students would have been solved easily.” “Two landlords of Jyoti Nagar, Devendra Hada and Sohan Lal, waived a total amount of Rs 1.90 lakh of 21 students staying at their PG for three months and another landlord waived a total amount of Rs 1.60 lakh of the students,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/landlord-waives-rent-of-70-students-for-three-months/articleshow/76376278.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||With WFH, women eye second innings on new career pitch||HYDERABAD: The emergence of work from home (WFH) as a viable business model seems to be emerging as an opportunity for women who quit jobs due to family commitments to get back into formal workforce. Companies have been quick to grab the WFH opportunity. “WFH gives companies the flexibility to hire the best talent in any part of the country and will be a game changer for women employees who want to stay at home to cater to their personal commitments and also pursue their careers and excel in that,” said Nidhi Arora, director (people) at S&P Global India. “My personal experience is that women employees are more loyal and bring emotional intelligence into play. This benefits the company by way of higher EQ. WFH means I can hire lots of women, significantly improving my gender diversity as well,” said Sesha Rao, board member, InsideView Technologies, a company that’s looking at an over 70% WFH play. Attesting to this trend, Deepthi Ravula, CEO, WE-HUB said: “A lot of heads of companies we have been interacting with, specifically in the engineering & IT products and services sectors, have been taking a relook at their workforce and see WFH as an opportunity to diversify it.” Women-specific job portals such as JobsForHer too are seeing an uptick in the number of jobs and roles for women in the WFH scenario. “We have seen a big spike in WFH opportunities post Covid-19. More companies are realising that women are a talent trove and are looking at leveraging their skills,” said Neha Bagaria, founder & CEO, JobsForHer, which helps women get back to the workforce after a break. “Also, earlier it was more of the content writing and graphic designing type of jobs, but today many more tech roles such as software developer, QA engineer, SAP consultant, Oracle consultant, Salesforce developer are also being posted,” Bagaria added. And women too are seizing the WFH opportunity for a second shot at careers. Talent500 by ANSR, a talent acquisition firm for Fortune500 companies, said it is seeing a considerable increase in the number of women applicants for roles with WFH. “Almost 60% of roles that opened in the last month offer WFH. We have seen an almost 40% jump in the number of women applicants. Interestingly, we are seeing a lot of women applicants for leadership roles as well in the WFH scenario,” said Vikram Ahuja, Co-Founder, Talent500 by ANSR. TeamLease Services senior vice president Neeti Sharma said the number of women registering for jobs on their portal has gone up by over 10% from 25% in March to 36% in May. “We have observed a 50% increase in the number of candidates applying for jobs. If this trend continues, we may witness a rise in not just the number of women in the workforce, but also a boost in the country’s GDP,” added Bagaria. However, Bagaria said although women today are making a re-entry and juggling their personal and professional lives, the number needs to increase significantly to reach any semblance of gender parity. Ravula also pointed out that employers need to ensure that women working from home are paid comparably to their peers so that it doesn’t go back to the gender pay gap that took decades to overcome and is still a challenge. Another critical issue is that of upskilling. “Who will take the onus of upskilling women who are ready to return to the workforce?” said Ravula, pointing out that WE-HUB identified this gap and started a programme to upskill, train and certify women in virtual technologies. “The immense response to it shows that women are more open to getting back to work,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-wfh-women-eye-second-innings-on-new-career-pitch/articleshow/76377113.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 15, 2020||Chennai||Five CISF personnel test positive for Covid-19||Chennai: Five Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. They have been taken to the centre at IIT-M for treatment. The five personnel were posted at the Madras high court for the past four months. They were allotted a room at Chennai Port Trust Housing quarters in Tondiarpet. After one of their room mates, a CISF jawan from Andhra Pradesh, tested positive, the five were quarantined and tested. After the jawans were taken to the Tondiarpet government hospital, the living quarters were sanitized. On Saturday evening, the men were shifted to the Mahanadhi Hostel on the IIT-M campus. One CISF jawan said they were asymptomatic and stable. “We were asked to follow safety measures while on duty. We never stepped out without masks and used hand sanitizers. Since our room mate tested positive, we were affected,” said the jawan. “Even in rooms, we maintained social distancing and hardly spent time together. Four of us were given one room,” he said. Sources said the jawans who were in contact with the infected five are now being traced and tested. At IIT, they jawans will be under restricted diet apart from medication. “We have restricted non-vegetarian food except boiled egg for these personnel,” said a police officer. Sources said only CISF men posted at airports are given protective suits while others have protective gear. In Mumbai and New Delhi, more than 50 CISF personnel posted at the airports have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-cisf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76376280.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bengaluru||200th Shramik Special train leaves Bengaluru for Guwahati||Bengaluru: The Bengaluru division of South Western Railway (SWR) on Sunday operated its 200th Shramik Special train. Running these trains from Karnataka has helped SWR earn Rs 28.9 crore. The train to Guwahati, commissioned on request from the Assam government, departed KSR railway station in Bengaluru. It will reach Guwahati at 6am on Tuesday. “The SWR operated 229 trains to ferry around 3.3 lakh migrant workers to their hometowns,” read a release issued by SWR on Sunday. The highest number of workers travelled from Bengaluru division. According to SWR, 194 Shramik Special trains were operated from Bengaluru, ferrying 2.8 lakh passengers. From Hubballi division, 30,580 travelled in 21 trains and 16,974 passengers set off in 12 trains from Mysuru division. As per the release, the SWR transported the first one lakh passengers in 13 days and the next one lakh in just six days. Shramik Specials were run every day from May 3, except two days (May 6 and 7), it added. According to official figures, over 1 lakh migrant workers returned to Bihar, 73,498 to UP, 40,395 to West Bengal, 30,962 to Jharkhand, 24,357 to Odisha, 14,363 to Assam and 10,837 to Rajasthan. The Centre recently stated that it ran 4,228 Shramik Special trains till June 3 to transport 57.2 lakh migrant workers and the maximum number of trains originated from Gujarat, followed by Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/200th-shramik-special-train-leaves-bengaluru-for-guwahati/articleshow/76374700.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Noida||Noida: Mother ill, brother jobless, boy quits studies to sell fruits||NOIDA: Around 8am, when others in his class groggily turn on their computer screens to begin the day’s online session, 13-year-old Krishna is two hours into his work for the day. He has five more hours ahead of him, pushing a fruit cart so he can meet the family’s expenses. When customers haggle, he lets it slide. He wants to get done, get home and get some sleep. Two years ago, a local NGO got Krishna enrolled at a private school in Noida after his father, a rickshaw-puller, died of a heart attack. His mother, Meena, was a masseuse for geriatric patients. His brother, an auto driver. When the lockdown began, his mother got too sick to work and his brother, Raman (25), had no job. So in April, Krishna had to take over. “We bought the cart with Rs 1,000 borrowed from a neighbour. My elder brother steps out before dawn to buy fruits from the mandi. After he gets back, he gets some sleep and I leave home with the cart. I start around 6am, taking my cart to sectors 25, 26, 30 and 31. By 1pm, it gets too hot and I get back to sleep for a few hours,” Krishna said. Home is a single room at Nithari village in Sector 31, where five of them live — Meena, Raman, his wife, their year-old son and Krishna. But with money drying up, they have not been able to pay the Rs 3,000 rent they owe for the past three months. Covid takes a toll on Noida boy’s dreamsThe family is from Begusarai in Bihar. So they don’t have a ration card. “We didn’t get the relief for migrant workers we heard the government had promised. Free grains for two months, we were told. But we didn’t get any,” said Meena. “An NGO helped once and another time, someone from Sector 25 bought us some rations. That was it.” After her husband died, Meena had been trying to take on more massage clients. “I would make about Rs 300 for each session. Money would be inconsistent, depending on how many calls I’d get. But we managed. That stopped in January,” she said. That was when the stomach ulcer the 49-year-old had got worse. She would struggle to breathe, push through fatigue. Sometimes, it would get more serious — she’d lose consciousness if she so much as walked. Continuing with work was no longer an option. Raman had been driving a rented auto to transport commuters for the past two to three years. “But that also stopped with the lockdown. People were not going out. The rent for the auto, Rs 350 a month, also kept adding up,” she said. When the lockdown was relaxed earlier this month, Raman tried driving his auto again for a few days but did not get too many customers. He gave up. In April, they had decided they would have to fall back on something else. This was around the time Krishna ’s online classes had just resumed. On a tiny phone screen, he would join in every morning. But he had to stop. “My friends tell me it will be difficult to catch up. I am missing out on a lot. The mandi is shut on Tuesday, so I try to cover as much ground as possible in that one day. It’s not enough. But I don’t want to drop out,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-mother-ill-brother-jobless-boy-quits-studies-to-sell-fruits/articleshow/76377296.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Servitors against use of machines, elephants to pull chariots||Bhubaneswar: The question as to who will pull the chariots in Puri on June 23 has become the talking point in the state a day after the Orissa high court asked the state government to explore the feasibility of deploying heavy machinery or even elephants to pull the giant wooden chariots instead of manpower due to the Covid-19 crisis. “Our tradition and the Jagannath culture do not allow machines to pull the chariots. Chariots have been pulled by devotees for centuries. We will raise objection if the government deploys machines to pull the chariots,” said Premananda Dasmohapatra, secretary of Suddha Suar Nijog (an association of servitors in Jagannath Temple). Some servitors also expressed doubt on the feasibility of using elephants to pull the chariots. “We know that elephants were used earlier to pull the chariots. They used to add grandeur to the festival, but we have also heard that many devotees were injured in elephant attacks in the past. We do not know how the plan to use elephants would work this time,” said Bhagi Pujapanda, a servitor. Most residents, including youngsters, in Puri are at a loss as to how the chariots would be pulled. “I am curious to know about the government is planning to do. The use of elephants looks unlikely. The government may use heavy machines or cranes to pull the chariots. To keep the tradition alive, a symbolic pulling of the chariots could also be done,” said Rajesh Mishra, an engineering student. “We neither need machines nor elephants. Police and servitors should be allowed to pull the chariots. If the government can allow congregations in markets, there is no harm in allowing some people to pull the chariots,” said Debasis Das, a senior lawyer. Wildlife experts said deployment of elephants may pose danger as the animals could turn wild hearing the ear-splitting sound of gongs and cymbals atop the chariots. “We need trained elephants and mahouts for this tough task. Untrained elephants may cause damage to the chariots as well,” a wildlife official said. Sanjib Kumar Das, an animal welfare activist, echoed similar views. “I respect the high court’s order. But, we have a little over a week left for the Rath Yatra. We do not have adequate trained elephants and mahouts in the state,” said Das, adding, many could also raise the question about cruelty to animals. A temple source said Hati Seba (elephant service) used to add grandeur to the Rath Yatra in the past. Elephants used to escort the chariots as well as the Puri king’s palanquin. But the practice is believed to have been discontinued in 1972. While servitors demanded that the chariots be pulled by them and police personnel, temple administration said a final decision is likely to be taken in a day or two. “We will examine the proposal by the Orissa high court and discuss it with Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati and the servitors. At least 600 people are required to pull each chariot. The practice may put social distancing norms at stake. The state government fears Covid-19 cases may peak this month and has already banned any form of congregation in or outside religious places till June 30,” a temple officer said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/servitors-against-use-of-machines-elephants-to-pull-chariots/articleshow/76375772.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE students with special needs can skip board exams||Nagpur: CBSE students with special needs can skip board exams starting July 1 and their results will be declared using a formula which will be made public soon. Though CBSE had announced about this in its earlier communication regarding board exams, there has not been much clarity among parents and schools. In a detailed notification released on June 2, CBSE spelt out their plan to handle requests from such students. The notification went on to say that “In case children with special needs availing the facility of scribe do not wish to appear in the forthcoming examination because of non-compliance of social distancing norms, their result will be declared as per the assessment scheme to be decided by the Board.” As of June 14, the assessment formula has not been made public yet. An official told TOI, “Students have the option of skipping the exam. Results will still be declared for the exam based on assessment guidelines of the Board.” The issue of using scribes by children with special needs comes from concerns over Covid-19 pandemic. A school principal said that one parent expressed concern over immunity of such children. “Children with special are mostly those with lower immunity level. In such dangerous times it is best to avoid exposure to uncontrollable environment,” said the principal. Std XII board exams start from July 1 across the country for leftover papers. In North East Delhi, even Std X leftover papers will be held. They were postponed there earlier due to deteriorating law and order situation because of riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-students-with-special-needs-can-skip-board-exams/articleshow/76376770.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Week-long celebration of Pride, but virtually||NEW DELHI: Raheem Payne-Mir, a contemporary Kathak dancer, is excited to be performing a classical Thumri, “Mohe panghat pe”, from the movie Mughal-e-Azam. The 27-year-old hopes to enthral the audience with grace resembling Madhubala’s. But his performance on Monday celebrating “pride week” will be with a difference. He’ll be dancing in front of an audience spread across the globe on a virtual screen. People from different parts of the country and the world will be coming together online to celebrate the “Digital Pride Festival”. The initiative of Queer Muslim Project in partnership with British Council to celebrate diversity and inclusion through theatre, films, dance, different art and meaningful discussions will be held till June 28. The events will be held on the council’s Facebook and Instagram pages with the hashtag #prideathome. The project is a global community of over 17,000 people. Payne-Mir, a queer artist based in London, said, “It’s a wonderful platform providing a moment of safe space representing inclusivity and co-existence. At a time when people are stuck due to the pandemic, it is a nice idea to experience inclusivity at the touch of a button.” Along with the Thumri, Payne-Mir will also be giving a medley performance. He is only left to decide on whether to perform in his garden or the basement. Vikram Phukan, a theatre practitioner, is equally pepped up as his play “No Spring Chicken”, which he had written a few days ago, will also be showcased. Even for him this is new as his play was recorded on Zoom and there will be a live run of it at the festival. The play is about a university professor who comes to terms with his public outing in a portrait session with an artist during a webinar. “The virtual space is democratic and people from across the country will be able to see the kinds of stories being shared. With theatre, dance and films, the online festivity will be a kaleidoscope. Visibility has always been a problem for the queer,” said Phukan. Rafiul Alom Rahman, founder and director of the project, said, “Apart from the exciting line-up of events, the festival will also feature educational resources and spotlight queer art initiatives in India, such as Aravani Art Project.” The festival will also have #MoreFilmsForFreedom, a global collection of three short films that showcase new film-making voices supporting creative collaborations that explore LGBTIQ+ themes. “In the Covid-19 lockdown, we have all experienced isolation in different ways. We hope the Digital Pride Festival will unify many diverse communities in celebration of LGBTIQ+ arts to celebrate Pride Month and its culture in India,” said Jonathan Kennedy, British Council, director (arts), India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/week-long-celebration-of-pride-but-virtually/articleshow/76376279.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government shifts focus from Covid-19 cases to curbing deaths||MUMBAI: With 1,544 deaths registered due to Covid-19 across the state in the first 13 days of June, the focus of public health officials in Maharashtra has shifted from ‘Covid numbers’ to a strategy of curbing ‘Covid mortality’. In May, 1,827 people had died due to Covid-19 across the state. Maharashtra has so far accounted for more than 40% of India’s total deaths. “Instead of only looking at testing and tracing (the strategy so far), we now have been told to ensure that deaths in hospitals come down,” a senior state health official said. “Mortality is our main concern at this moment,” he added. In Mumbai, which is the country’s worst hotspot, the mood is similar as the city has reported 834 deaths between June 1 and 13, as against a total of 989 deaths in May. A ward officer told TOI that his team has been asked to conduct house-to-house surveys of the elderly and check their oxygen saturation. “We have been told to catch cases early enough for senior citizens to be helped,” he added. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the rise in mortality is worrying. “The number of cases have more or less been steady at less than 1,500 a day, except for a couple of days in May, when the count was higher,” he said. BMC officials have, in fact, asked the state task force on Covid-19 for suggestions or changes in treatment policy if necessary. “They will let us know within a day whether we are on the proper track or need to tweak our treatment methods,” Kakani said. An officer from a ward where over 100 Covid-related deaths have been reported said, “Many Covid-19 positive persons who have died in the ward have been those who came with some health ailment already and were 60 years and above. Therefore we decided on screening these elderly persons so that the mortality rate could be kept under control.” Meanwhile, a senior state medical education department official said that the focus in government medical colleges was to ensure that the most serious Covid-19 patients get access to medicines. “We have allowed the use of tocilizumab, and a clinical trial of oral antiviral Flavipavir that was started in the Aurangabad government medical college will now be taken to other medical colleges too,” he said. The state has also started its own clinical trial with plasma convalescent therapy in which blood component plasma from a recovered patient is given to moderately ill Covid-19 patients. “When the Ebola drug remdesivir is approved by the Centre for use, we will certainly make it available for our patients as the challenge right now is to check deaths at all costs,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-shifts-focus-from-covid-cases-to-curbing-deaths/articleshow/76376773.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 15, 2020||India||Abuse has increased during lockdown, say 71% of elderly||NEW DELHI: Ahead of World Elder Abuse Awareness Day on June 15, a survey with focus on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic found 71% elderly respondents are of the opinion that cases of abuse against them increased during the lockdown period and after.  A majority 56.1% of the respondents said they were suffering abuse in their families or by society. The forms of abuse include a wide range from disrespect and verbal abuse, silent treatment (not talking to them), ignoring their daily needs, denying proper food, denying medical support, cheating financially, physical and emotional violence and forcing the elderly to work. The survey was steered by volunteers of civil society organisation Agewell Foundation between June 1 to June 12 and is based on responses of 5,000 elderlypeople in different parts of the country, including metro cities - Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai.  Of the 2,804 respondents who said they were facing abuse, 79% said elderly face mistreatment in old age mostly due to financial reasons .  The study further indicates that the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown related rules have forced most senior citizens above to live in isolation. A very high 69% of elderly respondents said their lives have been affected by the situation arising out of the pandemic. A significant 71% of elderly respondents said that they believe cases of elder abuse have increased during lockdown period and after. Among them 58% claimed interpersonal relationships are the major factor behind increasing incidence of elder abuse in families. Besides this, 63.7% of elderly respondents said they were facing neglect in their life.  Himanshu Rath, chairman of Agewell Foundation, said Covid-19 has created a negative atmosphere around older persons. "Older people are not only facing social restrictions but also family restrictions. Many are not being able to visit their doctors. They also aren't being able to share their worries with friends/relatives," he added.  Rath feels there is a need to sensitise and build awareness among families and elderly people themselves need to be educated about facilities, support systems, legal provisions and non-formal support networks. He emphasised on the need to have dedicated helplines for people facing abuse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/abuse-has-increased-during-lockdown-say-71-of-elderly/articleshow/76377324.cms||Ambika Pandit
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||42 die in Jaipur in 14 days of Unlock 1.0||JAIPUR: Covid claimed 10 more lives while 293 others tested positive in the state on Sunday taking the casualty count to 292 and infected tally to 12,694. While six persons died in Jaipur, two died in Bharatpur while one each succumbed in Sriganganagar and Pali. With Sunday’s casualties, Jaipur’s toll touched 133, Bharatpur (17), Pali (8) while Sriganganagar reported its first death. In the last 14 days, 42 people have died in the state capital after Unlock 1.0 was introduced. In the same period, 13 people died in Bharatpur, which is one of three worst-affected districts of the state. Districts which reported cases are Bharatpur (61), Dholpur (44), Jodhpur (30), Jaipur (27), Sirohi (19), Nagaur (14), Pali (14), Alwar (12), Sikar (12), Barmer (11), Ajmer (9), Bikaner (9), Dausa (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Bhilwara (3), Karauli (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Udaipur (3), Chittorgarh (2), Churu (2), Hanumangarh (2), Kota (1) and four from other states. On Sunday, 229 persons were cured of Covid-19 taking the total number of recovered people to 9,566. There are 2,836 persons who are still positive. Bharatpur has the highest number of active cases at 539, followed by Jodhpur (530) and Jaipur (409). In Jaipur, 18 places have reported 27 new cases. The areas which reported new cases are Jawahar Nagar (4), Bani Park (3), Pano Ka Dariba (3), Sanganer (2), Shastri Nagar (2), while each case was reported from Benad Road, Chandpole, Surdas Wali Dhani in Kotputli, Sodala, Bas Badanpura, Jhamota, Bhrampuri, Tripolia Bazaar, Ghat Gate, Tonk Phatak, Ramganj Mod, Tulsi Das Marg and Shivaji Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/42-die-in-jaipur-in-14-days-of-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76376292.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Beer sale in departmental stores: Delhi government to clear stand||NEW DELHI: The AAP government has sought time from Delhi high court to place its stand on the policy to again allow departmental stores to sell beer and wine. Justice Navin Chawla has accordingly given the government time till June 22 to convey its stand on a plea seeking direction to the government to renew the licences under the L-12 & L-12F category which are granted to departmental stores to sell liquor. Standing counsel Ramesh Singh last week submitted that he would take instructions if the government was in the process of releasing a policy for this category of licencees. The high court was hearing a plea by a departmental store challenging the decision of the government not to invite any L-12/L-12F licencees for renewal for the year 2020-2021. The petitioner also challenged the decision of the Delhi cabinet taken in December last year where licences of all 125 such stores were withdrawn on the ground of alleged violation of the excise rules. Appearing for the store, senior advocate AS Chandhiok and advocate Rushab Aggarwal submitted that there was alleged violation by only 41 licencees yet the government had refused renewal to all the stores, impacting their business. They also pointed out that starting every summer, such stores see massive sales for the next six months but this time three months have already been lost due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “The loss of peak season is resulting in extreme financial losses and consequent hardship to the petitioner,” the plea added. Immediately after the government’s decision, the licencees had moved the high court last year challenging the decision of the excise department to cancel 125 licenses mid tenure on the basis of raids conducted by it. The court had then granted a stay on the withdrawal of these licences for the year 2019-2020 whose time period ended on March 31, when it was to be renewed. The plea also informed the court that total excise revenue generated from sale of beer and wine under these two categories of licences was around Rs 170 crore for the government with a VAT generation of Rs 60 crore. TOI had earlier reported that the decision was taken by the Delhi Cabinet last year following complaints that several permit holders had turned their stores into full-fledged liquor vends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/beer-sale-in-departmental-stores-govt-to-clear-stand/articleshow/76376290.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: IISc researchers find 29 drugs that could be used to fight Covid-19||BENGALURU: Researchers at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have identified at least 29 drugs that have the potential of being repurposed to treat Covid-19 patients. “Covid-19 has almost brought normal life to a standstill in most parts of the world. With our research interest on repurposing known drugs/drug candidates targeting various diseases, we decided to analyse the available data on the deadly pathogen,” the team said. The team, comprising Prof Narayanaswamy Srinivasan (leader), Sohini Chakraborti and Sneha Bheemireddy, has identified 29 potential repurpose-able agents that are either approved and/or investigational drugs. This was achieved using a simple in silico (performed on computer) approach based on the principle of ‘neighbourhood behaviour’ in three-dimensional (3D) space and two-dimensional (2D) space of protein and small molecules respectively. “Using this, we identified potential drugs/drug candidates which can be repurposed against protein targets encoded by the SARS-CoV-2 [the virus that causes Covid-19] genome,” the researchers said. “And, based on our preliminary analysis, we have so far prioritized more than 20 known drugs/drug candidates which might elucidate anti-coronavirus properties by binding to the main protease of the pathogen.” The team also said they have identified nine other investigational drug molecules. These drugs belong to diverse therapeutic areas such as antiviral, anticancer, antibacterial agents etc. Their research has been published on ChemRxiv, an open access preprint archive for chemistry, and is yet to be peer reviewed. “The sole purpose of making these preliminary findings openly available to the community is for experimental biologists and biomedical researchers to investigate our predictions in experimental set ups and for clinicians to evaluate the potential of these findings for anti-Covid-19 treatment,” the researchers added. Notably, apart from many synthetic molecules, their analysis also hints that phytochemicals obtained from vinca plant (vinca alkaloids) and camptotheca tree (camptothecin and its derivatives) have the potential to bind to main protease of SARS-CoV-2. “...In-depth investigation on our findings are currently on-going. Our findings should only be used for research purposes and we strongly urge that no individual should interpret these findings for any self-diagnosis or self-medication without the prior approval from competent international health/medical regulatory agencies,” the team said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iisc-researchers-find-29-drugs-that-could-be-used-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/76374716.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||With no buyers, Kashmiri garment traders in Mussoorie mull shutting shops||Mussoorie: With tourist inflow to the hill town severely restricted in the wake of Covid-19 threat, Kashmiri traders running garment shops on the Mall Road are facing huge losses. Some of them — not being able to pay heavy rentals — are even thinking of shutting their shops and going back to the Valley. “More than 90% of our sales come from tourists but as tourism activities have been suspended for almost three months now, there is hardly any business for us. How will we sustain our families if this trend continues?” said Mushtaq Ahmed, a trader from Srinagar. He added that he hasn’t been able to sell a single product in the past one week. Ishfaq Khan, a native of Kashmir’s Kupwara district who runs three garment shops in Mussoorie, told TOI, “The lockdown period brought our business down to zero but even after the lockdown, things haven’t become any better as tourists are still not coming.” The traders say that if tourist activities do not resume soon, they will have no other option but to shut their shops. “We will go bankrupt if we keep on paying rent and salaries to our staff without generating any revenue. In such a scenario, many of us would have to shut shop and return to Kashmir,” said another shopkeeper from the Valley. There are around 20 shops run by Kashmiri traders in Mussoorie and the rentals of these shops are in the range of Rs 4 lakh-to-Rs 10 lakh per annum. The traders have also asked the government to consider a financial package for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-no-buyers-kashmiri-garment-traders-in-mussoorie-mull-shutting-shops/articleshow/76374850.cms||Anmol Jain
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to regularise illegal water connections||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has notified a voluntary disclosure scheme (VDS) for consumers with unapproved water connection in rural areas. Under the scheme, the water supply and sanitation department is offering an opportunity to consumers for voluntary disclosure and free of cost regularisation of their unapproved connection. As per the policy, no charges will be taken from consumers for previous usage of water if any. Punjab water supply and sanitation minister Razia Sultana said the scheme would be launched on June 15 and the last date to apply under VDS was July 15. She said new connections could also be applied for during this period. Details of the scheme could be obtained from the department’s website, pbdwss.gov.in, from 8 am to 6 pm. Sultana said consumers could also apply by calling on the toll-free number 1800-103-6999. Applicants can download a copy of application form from the department website and can also submit an online request there. It can be filled up by scanning QR code printed in the advertisement of VDS. Application form can be obtained and submitted physically to the nearest water works, section office or sub-division office of the department. The minister said the department had planned to conduct a third-party, comprehensive survey of all rural households in Punjab from July. During the survey, if any consumer is found with unapproved connection after closure of VDS, the connection will be disconnected and charges collected. The minister said the department of water supply and sanitation was hopeful of getting a huge response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-regularise-illegal-water-connections/articleshow/76376297.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Jaipur||1,000 Rajasthanis to return from various countries in 7 flights||JAIPUR: Around 1,000 Rajasthanis, including medical students stranded in various countries, will start returning from June 16 by availing the ‘Vande Bharat’ services. Earlier it was fixed that a flight from Kyrgyzstan was to arrive on Monday, however authorities late on Sunday evening confirmed that the civil aviation authority of Kyrgyzstan did not give permission to Air India. Though this will be the third phase of Vande Bharat mission for the country, this is the second phase for Rajasthan as flights would start bringing the non-resident Indians to Rajasthan. Airports Authority of India (AAI) confirmed that seven flights from different countries will start arriving in Jaipur from June 16 “ Earlier it was scheduled to start from Monday, however this would now start from Tuesday onwards when seven flights from the countries including Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Abu Dhabi, Ukraine and Tajikistan will arrive till June, 29. These flights will start arriving in Jaipur from Monday,” said a senior officer of AAI. “For the Monday’s flight from Kyrgyzstan there is some issue in permission which would be solved. However, our schedule from Tuesday onwards is unchanged,” said an officer. Additional chief secretary Dr Subodh Aggarwal said from Monday onwards Rajasthani people living in various countries will come to Jaipur in seven different flights. In the first phase of Vande Bharat, at least 3,000 Rajasthani people stuck in various countries, including United Kingdom, were brought to back. Also, operators like Air India have opened booking from United States of America (USA) and Canada to Delhi. Many Rajasthanis have also applied for the flights up to Delhi which are also starting from June 16. Meawhile, 343 passengers from various countries came in two separate flights from Dubai and Dusanbe of Tajikistan on Sunday. So far, 3,805 migrant Rajasthanis living in various countries have returned to Jaipur on 27 flights. All these passengers underwent thermal screening at the airport and after their medical checkup were sent to institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1k-rajasthanis-to-return-from-various-countries-in-7-flights/articleshow/76376313.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Agra||Heavy metals in water take toll on this Agra village’s health||Barauli Ahir (Agra): Ten years ago, Seema and her family moved to Pachagi Kheda in Barauli Ahir block of Agra, dreaming of a better life due to the hamlet's proximity to the city. She never imagined that she would have to hobble about with the help of a bamboo stick for the rest of her life. She has developed arthritis just at 29. Seema is not alone. The problem is widespread among residents of the village. Like Seema, 35-year-old Reenu, a mother of three, has developed a bent spine, while her brother-in-law Rajkumar, 29, has grave teeth pigmentation and his fingers have become deformed. Rama, 25, is physically handicapped since birth. Speaking with TOI, Narendra Kushwaha, her brother, said, “I’m just 28 years old, but every morning, when I wake up, there is severe pain in my knees. Almost every villager has one or the other bone-related ailment due to drinking this hard groundwater.” The problem has been traced to consumption of groundwater which has excessive heavy metal content like calcium, fluoride, sulfate and iron. Scores of villagers of this Agra village suffer from arthritis, fluorosis, teeth pigmentation, blurred vision, anaemia, renal problem and other ailments. A recent groundwater toxicology study in nine districts of west UP by CSIR-IITR, Lucknow, has found that Agra's groundwater in 23 villages/urban areas has excessive calcium and 19 others have heavy iron content. The fluoride content is also beyond the desirable limit in all the 25 locations of Agra from where water samples were taken for tests. Furthermore, 10 locations in the district (the highest in West UP) have excessive sulfate up to 513.83 mg/l against the desirable limit of 200 mg/l. Radhye Shayam, gram pradhan of Pachagi Kheda, said, “Over 150 villagers are physically challenged due to heavy calcium consumption via hard water, while over 70% of the village population has arthritis and tooth pigmentation. The problem persists for many generations.” He said repeated demands for water supply either from Ganga Jal project or from Chambal river basin have fallen on deaf ears. Speaking with TOI, R K Sharma, executive engineer of Jal Nigam who is looking after the water tank project at the village, said, “We have bored two tubewells at the village which have fresh water with permissible limit salts. The same was checked by our Lucknow-based lab. A third one is being developed. The tubewell is expected to provide water for at least 20 years, and the tank will be in service till 2050.” According to Jal Nigam sources, although the Pachagi Kheda has hard groundwater (over 400 mg/L of calcium), it also has certain patches of fresh water sources. The residents of Pachagi Kheda will start getting fresh water supply in six months, says Jal Nigam. Till then, villagers will have to depend on RO water that they purchase for Rs 5 per 20 litres from private vendors. Block development officer (Barauli Ahir) Ankur Kaushik said, “The area has an excessive heavy metal presence in the groundwater.” Agra chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “I have recently taken charge and am not aware of the health issues villagers are facing due to the presence of heavy metals in the groundwater. I will check the records and required treatment will be provided to those in trouble". The local MLA, however, said efforts are on to deal with the problem. Agra (rural) MLA Hemlata Diwakar Kushwaha said, “I am aware of the problems being faced by the villagers. Recently, I have got one overhead water storage tank approved from chief minister Yogi Adityanath. It will be connected to a freshwater source available in a nearby village. Besides, two tubewells have already been developed on my proposals and another one is under development. I am also trying to get the Ganga water supplied to the village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/heavy-metals-in-water-take-toll-on-this-agra-villages-health/articleshow/76374864.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Danilimda firing: Man shot self to frame enemies in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Danilimda police have determined that a man who had on Friday accused two persons of firing at him had actually shot himself. Police say that the man then named the two persons in his complaint, spurred by his enmity with them. Police say that Shoebazam Rangrej had turned the gun on himself after a quarrel with his wife, Rukhshar. Later, Rangrej and his brother chalked out a plan to fix their old enemies, identified only as Mohsin and Nasir. Rangrej lodged an FIR against them. The city crime branch team picked up the two suspects. Meanwhile, the inspector of Danilimda police, V R Vasava focused on questioning Rangrej’s wife. “She broke down during questioning and confessed that her husband had shot himself after a quarrel,” Vasava said. “Rangrej, a right-hander, shot himself on the back of his left shoulder. Had he been shot by someone else, the trajectory of the bullet would have been straight.” Vasava said that as Rangrej had shot himself, the trajectory of the bullet was downwards. “That raised our eyebrows,” Vasava said. Vasava said police picked up Rangrej’s brother Salim and questioned him. He admitted the truth. “We recovered a country-made revolver and bullets from Faisalnagar near Bombay Hotel,” Vasava said. “The search revealed three more weapons. A revolver, two country-made pistols, and about 20 live rounds have been recovered from Jamaluddin Shaikh and Ali Hussain Ansari.” Vasava said police have rounded up Salim, Shaikh, and Ansari while a team of policemen have been deployed at LG Hospital where Rangrej has been admitted. They will be made accused in the case now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/danilimda-firing-man-shot-self-to-frame-enemies/articleshow/76376309.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vadodara||Dilapidated house collapses on sleeping family, 5 rescued||VADODARA: A slab in their dilapidated house in Wadi area collapsed on a family fast alseep early on Sunday morning. Five persons of a family were rescued, said fire brigade personnel, adding that the slab in the house of Suresh Soni collapsed around 6 am while the family was on the ground floor. It is believed that the structure of the house had weakened due to heavy rains that had been pouring incessantly in the city since early hours of Sunday. The loud noise woke up the neighbourhood, who called the fire brigade immediately to rescue the trapped family members. Fire department said that staff from Dandiya Bazaar, Panigate and Gajrawadi fire stations were involved in the rescue operations. “The slab of the first floor came down and the family was sleeping on the ground floor,” said fire officer Amit Chaudhari of Panigate fire station. He added that the building, several decades old, was quite weak. Fire officials said that the Soni, his wife Kajal and their two children Neela and Harsh did not suffer any injuries. But Soni’s 70-year-old mother Bhagwati had to be taken to the hospital as she received injuries on her leg. Soni runs a watch repairing shop in the front portion of the house on the ground floor. The electricity connection and gas line of the house was snapped and the building was sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dilapidated-house-collapses-on-sleeping-family-5-rescued/articleshow/76374998.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur and Akola surpass 1,000-mark of Covid cases||Nagpur: Both the coronavirus hotspot districts in Vidarbha — Nagpur and Akola — surpassed the 1,000-mark of Covid-19 cases on Sunday. While Nagpur took 95 days to cross the undesirable milestone, Akola surpassed 1,000 cases in just 67 days. Akola also reported five deaths in a day on Sunday with which the Covid-19 death toll of Akola is now 51 against Vidarbha’s 98. Vidarbha also inched closer to 3,000-mark with the total number of cases reaching 2,945 on Sunday. With 40 patients recovered today, total 1,906 of them have been discharged so far. Recovery rate of Vidarbha once again remained around 65% (64.71% to be precise). Nagpur reported 31 new cases in a day from NMC as well as rural (district) areas, while Akola reported 22. With this, Nagpur’s total reached 1,002 and Akola’s 1,007. With this, Nagpur and Akola together account for 2,009 cases out of Vidarbha’s total of 2,945, which is 68.71%. These two districts together have registered 67 deaths till date out of the 98 in Vidarbha, which means nearly 70%. Third worst-hit Amravati has 17 deaths till date. Amravati also registered 14 new cases on Sunday to take its patient tally to 338. Yavatmal and Washim saw unusual spike of 10 and 11 cases, respectively, on Sunday. After a gap of three days, Chandrapur registered three new cases today. A man, who returned from Dubai as part of Vande Bharat mission, tested positive in Gondia, while two Delhi returnees tested positive in Bhandara. Buldhana continued to report five new cases and its total reached 118. A woman from rural Buldhana, who died two days ago, tested positive on Sunday and became 5th Covid-19 death from Buldhana. Wardha and Gadchiroli reported no new case on Sunday. AMRAVATI: Old City and the New City area of Badnera collectively contributed seven of the 14 new cases detected on Sunday to take the district’s Covid-19 count to 338. On the other hand, 13 patients got discharge from Covid Hospital today to take the number of recovered patients to 250. There are now 71 active cases, including five under treatment at Nagpur. Besides the 14 found positive, two from the district tested positive in Nagpur and are taking treatment here, according to reports reaching here. They include a 40-year-old woman from Garba Chowk locality in Amba Gate area and a noted sculpturist from Paratwada, who had returned from Mumbai. The Old City of Badnera, which has been reporting patients for the last three days, today registered six new cases, all males aged 78, 72, 57, 46, 30 and 20, while New City saw one, a 52-year-old woman from Railway Quarters near hockey ground. This has taken Badnera’s count to 24, with 12 of them coming since Friday. Chandur Bazar town and Ghatladki reported second case today, both women aged 25 and 30 respectively, taking this taluka’s count to 11 cases with one death to date. RukminiNagar in Amravati reported its sixth case, a 37-year-old male, while Narayan Nagar close to it registered two, a couple aged 59 (M) and 54 (F). The virus also made its debut in Pathan Chowk with a 33-year-old testing positive while Paratwada posted its fourth case, a 42-year-old man. CHANDRAPUR: Three more Covid patients were found in the district on Sunday taking the total cases to 47. All three of them have contracted the infection from local contacts and they have no travel history. The new patients include two women, wife and daughter of a Covid positive from Sumitra Nagar in Tukum locality of city. Officials claimed that 47-year-old wife and 30-year-old daughter tested positive, but their condition is stable. The third new patient is from Talodhi Khurd village in Bramhapuri. The 30-year-old person has contracted the infection from positive patients from Adyal Tekdi, also in same teshil. Out of total 47 patients in Chandrapur, 24 have been treated and discharged. There are presently 23 active cases. YAVATMAL: Once again there is sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus patients in the isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal on Sunday which has created panic among the officials. Total 10 patients tested positive in a day. Two each of them are from two families and four from another single family of Ner while one is from Pusad. Currently there are 40 persons admitted in the GMC isolation ward of whom 34 are active positive patients. One patient was discharged on Sunday. One naik constable, attached to Darwha police station, has also tested positive which caused panic among the people who gathered in front of the police station. The crowd turned violent and they started pelting stones. Timely intervention by the police brought the situation under control. An offence under relevant sections of IPC was registered against the culprits. Further investigation is in progress, said the SP M Rajkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-and-akola-surpass-1000-mark-of-covid-cases/articleshow/76376774.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 15, 2020||Agra||UP's teachers’ appointment scam: Third 'Anamika' arrested in Kanpur||AGRA: The ongoing investigations in UP’s Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) teachers’ appointment scam has led to the arrest of another woman who had allegedly claimed a consolidated salary of Rs 95,350 using the name of Anamika Shukla. She is the third woman to be arrested, so far, in the scam in which 25 women were appointed as science teachers under the same name. The third Anamika — identified as Babli Yadav — was arrested by Aligarh police on Saturday, almost a week after the first Anamika (Supriya) was arrested from Kasganj on June 6. All 25 women involved in the KGBC appointment scam got jobs in the past one year using forged documents in the name of Anamika, said police. After her arrest, Babli disclosed the identities of two more Anamikas, including that of her sister-in-law Sarita Yadav, who was appointed in Allahabad’s Soraon block, while the second woman lives close to her house in Kanpur (Dehat) and was appointed in Baghpat’s KGBV, said police. A science graduate, Babli told police that she had paid Rs 3 lakh to the main accused, Pushpendra Yadav, for her appointment at Aligarh’s KGBV. Babli claimed that she met Yadav through a woman, Rajbeti, whom she had met at a medical centre in Kannauj. Incidentally, Babli’s brother-in-law Ballu Yadav was also known to Pushpendra as both hail from Mainpuri, said police. Babli claimed that she was provided with all fake documents, including Aadhaar Card, at the time of counselling in Aligarh. A fake bank account was also opened at Central Bank’s Rasulabad branch in the name of Anamika Shukla, said police, adding that she was appointed at Bijauli block’s school on October 21, 2019. Aligarh superintendent of police (crime) Arvind Kumar said that all her claims were being verified. “Teams are being formed to nab the accused involved in the scam,” said the SP, adding that an FIR was registered against the accused under various sections of the IPC. Aligarh basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) Laxmikant Pandey, meanwhile, told TOI that Babli had sent her resignation on WhatsApp on May 25 after the department called her for the verification of her documents. Later, she also sent her resignation by a registered post, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ups-teachers-appointment-scam-third-anamika-arrested-in-kanpur/articleshow/76374854.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: District panel fails to spot CRZ offender||PANAJI: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has pulled up the South Goa district level committee for being unable to identify an offender who illegally felled coconut trees and erected structures without the necessary permissions in CRZ area at Palolem in Canacona. A complaint in the matter was received by the authority from a Palolem resident in September 2018. However, the district level committee could not identify the offender till date, even though the committee itself has told the GCZMA in its report that in the meantime 23 structures of three metre height have come up at the site. GCZMA has also been told that the structures are just 267 metres from the high tide line. “The authority after perusal of the report of the district level saw that there are multiple structures erected in the property bearing survey no 104/1 of village Nagorcem-Palolem. The district level committee report has failed to identify the offender. The report should have spelt out as to who owns the said structures because they seem to have been erected without approval of the authority,” the GCZMA stated. The authority has therefore referred the report back to the district level committee with instructions to identify the offender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dist-panel-fails-to-spot-crz-offender/articleshow/76376772.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Deal with phone thief fails, FIR filed||AHMEDABAD: A Kalupur resident has filed a complaint of theft against a man who had stolen his daughter’s cellphone on June 3. The delay in filing the complaint was apparently caused by the complainant’s negotiation with the thief. The negotiation evidently failed. In his FIR filed with Kalupur police, Aslam Mansuri, 47, a resident of Hum apartments near Saudagar Pol, states that his daughter Afreen Mansuri had gone to a nearby shop with her cellphone. He said the phone was worth Rs 15,000. At the shop, the accused — identified as Sarfaraz Shaikh, 35 — stole the cellphone. Mansuri filed the complaint based on the CCTV footage from a school adjacent to the shop. The footage allegedly catches Shaikh, from the same area as Mansuri, in the act. Later, Mansuri asked Shaikh if he would return the cellphone or pay its value. Shaikh agreed to pay within a week. But as Shaikh did not pay, Mansuri went to the cops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deal-with-phone-thief-fails-fir-filed/articleshow/76376299.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: This official has donated blood 65 times||MANGALURU: K Lakshminarayanan, 55, joint director, Bankers Institute of Rural Development (BIRD), has been recognized by the Indian Red Cross Society, Dakshina Kannada, for donating blood 65 times. He began donating blood in 1981, when he was in college. He said, “I took up blood donation seriously, after Arvind Mahajan, an officer from NABARD, explained about its importance to me. Since then, I have been donating blood once every three months. The only time I took a break was from 2003-2008. I was posted in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh then, and the area lacked medical facilities,” he said. He has worked in various departments of NABARD in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Maharashtra. “In Chandigarh, blood donors enjoyed small perks like priority parking. Hospitals even recognized blood donors and felicitated them regularly. Recollecting an incident, he said, “In Chandigarh, after donating blood, and reaching the parking area, I realised that blood was oozing out from my hand, and I immediately rushed back to the hospital. Though there was nothing to worry about, the doctor in-charge was so embarrassed about this incident, that she even offered to get my shirt washed. This incident only made me stronger. Blood donors earn a lot of respect,” he said. Blood donation monthOn account of World Blood Donor Day, A J Hospital is organising voluntary blood donation month in the hospital from Sunday to July 14. Camps held during lockdownBlood Helpline Karnataka has organised two blood donation camps during the lockdown, and collected 117 units of blood. Apart from blood donation, the organisation, in association with Indian Red Cross Society, helped in contact tracing of quarantined people and supplied food kits and medicines to the needy at their doorsteps. For Eid, 53 volunteers came forward to donate blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/this-official-has-donated-blood-65-times/articleshow/76375337.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 15, 2020||Hubballi||Idols made by Vijayapura artisan to be worshipped in US||VIJAYAPURA: In what is well and truly a transcontinental connection, Ganesh idols made by an artisan based in Vijayapura will be offered prayers in faraway United States of America. The idols are made by 70-year-old Manohar Pattar, a Rajyotsava awardee and member of the Karnataka Shilpa Kala Academy. Pattar is currently occupied preparing eco-friendly clay idols, and has been making models for the past four decades. “Each year, I start preparing Ganesha idols three months before the chaturthi. When the lockdown was announced, I made seven paintings at home and subsequently started making idols of Ganesha to utilise my time better,” he said. Pattar told TOI that his son Kalidas Pattar and his daughter-in-law Sheetal joined him each year in the preparation of the idols, while his wife Sharada and daughter Suvarna too were involved in the preparation of clay statues. “Unfortunately, my son and daughter-in-law owing to the Covid-19 crisis,” Pattar said. Kalidas, a resident of Chicago in the United States of America, however, expressed their wish to have as many as 25 Ganesha idols. “Accordingly, I began preparing the idols towards the end of April,” Pattar added. Owing to the non-availability of clay from Mumbai, which he used to work with every year, but he had to make do with local clay this time around. “There was some clay left over from last year, which I mixed with the locally available clay,” Pattar added. However, Pattar said that additional precautions would be taken to prepare the idols. He said that once the mould was prepared, any number of idols could be modelled using it. “Each Ganesha idol generally weigh 250g, but I intend to reduce the weight by 100g. For this very purpose, clay has removed from the idol. So far, I have prepared six pieces. No colour will be used on the idols. If those getting the idols need any colour, my son will paint the idols,” Pattar added. He, however, said that the idols would be packed systematically using special paper, which he said was used for packing medicine. “The idols will be sent via air parcel, or along with my son’s friends who might be going to the US. I am proud of making idols that will be worshipped in the US,” said Pattar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/idols-made-by-vijayapura-artisan-to-be-worshipped-in-the-us/articleshow/76376000.cms||Sushilendra T Naik
June 15, 2020||Agra||60-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Agra, ASP tests +ve in Bareilly||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: A 60-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College in Agra on Sunday. And the west UP's two Covid "hotspots" of Agra and Meerut continued to report a high number of daily cases. An additional superintendent of police (ASP) also tested positive in Bareilly. Covid-19 cases in Meerut remained in the high 20s with at least 27 fresh cases reported on Sunday, taking the total tally to 633, including one found in Kanpur. One more death was also reported, taking the toll to 47, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. In Agra, 18 new cases surfaced till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 1,053. The new cases included a 62-year-old cancer patient and a six-year-old suffering from pneumonia. Also, nine Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,053 cases, 83.71% have recovered and there are 123 active ones in the district. The deceased Agra resident belonged to Pratap Nagar colony. He was a hypertension patient with bilateral pneumonia and suffered respiratory failure. The man died due to a co-morbid condition. Besides the ASP in Bareilly, nine other people were found positive with five having no travel history. The ASP said that he was asymptomatic and had opted for Covid-19 test as a "precaution". Now, the entire police department is on health alert and all the officials, police and administrative, who recently came in contact with the ASP have been advised home quarantine. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The people who are leading from the front such as doctors and police are always vulnerable to infection. We should take this situation positively and shouldn’t panic. The total cases reported from Bareilly district are 133, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/60-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-agra-asp-tests-ve-in-bareilly/articleshow/76374858.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Agra||PWD to complete road repairing work by June 30, state govt approves Rs 7.2 crore||Agra: The state government has directed the public work department (PWD) to complete road repairing work by June 30. The state has approved Rs 7.2 crore to make roads pothole-free in Agra district. Of this, the first instalment of Rs 1.1 crore has been released. PWD executive engineer SC Pawar said, “We have started the road repairing work. The required funds to make the roads pothole-free has been approved by the state government. Our target is to finish the work by June 30.” Meanwhile, ahead of the monsoon season, Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) administration has increased the pace of patchwork to cover the potholes. This time, the AMC administration has not issued a tender for road repairing. The work is being done by the AMC workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pwd-to-complete-road-repairing-work-by-june-30-state-govt-approves-rs-7-2-crore/articleshow/76374872.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Kochi gas plan moves at snail’s pace||KOCHI: The deadline for completing the city gas project is fast nearing. With just four months left, IOC-Adani Gas Private Ltd (IOAGPL) could give just around 1,900 piped natural gas (PNG) connections so far while the target was around 40,000 connections in five years starting October 14, 2015. This has resulted in a stalemate over the fate of the project which would have been instrumental in providing cooking gas to thousands of households. “We could provide around 1,900 PNG connections so far. We have completed the plumbing works in around 15,000 households,” an official with IOAGPL said. Once the tenure is expired, IOAGPL will require permission from Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board for continuing the project. “There is no clarity regarding whether we should give 40,000 connections in five years or set up the infrastructure for providing that much connections. If setting up infrastructure required for providing 40,000 connections is enough, we have arranged the required infrastructure,” the official said. However, laying of pipelines for supplying the gas is yet to begin in many of the local bodies. IOAGPL officials blame the local bodies, which failed to provide approval for digging up roads for the purpose, for the delay while authorities of various local bodies allege that the apathy on the part of the agency is the reason for the slow pace of the project. “Initially, there was a dispute regarding the low road restoration charges fixed by the government. Later, the government revised the order fixing reasonable charges. So, we all want the project, which is beneficial to the public, to be implemented,” said Kochi corporation works standing committee chairman P M Harris. “We have cleared all the files related to the road cutting permission sought by the firm,” Harris said. But IOAGPL hasn’t started the work in Kochi Corporation limits, let alone giving PNG connections. Following back to back delays and disputes in implementing the project, Ernakulam district collector intervened. Then, approvals were given for digging up roads in some of the wards in Thrikkakara municipality. District administration informed IOAGPL that the digging up of roads in other local bodies like Eloor and Tripunithura also can be started once the work in Thrikkakara is over. But the IOAGPL couldn’t register much progress in the work in Thrikkakara municipality. “There were various technical reasons. Now, there is the shortage of workforce due to the restrictions as part of Covid-19 situation,” an official with IOAGPL said. Even if the restrictions are lifted, the firm will have to wait for the monsoon to be over. By that time, declarations for local body elections will be out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-gas-plan-moves-at-snails-pace/articleshow/76374882.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Crooks play mind game with psychiatrist, steal Rs 59,000||AHMEDABAD: Playing upon the faith of people in numerology and their weakness for specific numbers cybercrooks managed to cheat a city psychiatrist of Rs 59,000. In his complaint lodged at the cybercrime police station on Saturday, Vishwamohan Thakur, 54, of Water Lily Adani Shantigram near Vaishnodevi, stated that in January, he had received a message on his phone giving him the option to purchase any of four mobile numbers given in the message. Thakur, a practising psychiatrist with his chamber in Juna Vadaj, stated the message contained an email address and a phone number for contact. “The message had also stated that it would cost Rs 50,000 to buy a number and in total it will cost Rs 59,000 including GST at 18%,” said a police official. Interested in buying a number, the psychiatrist had made a call on the number mentioned in the message, but it had gone unanswered. After about an hour, a man called up from the number and told the psychiatrist how to send the money and purchase the phone number he wanted. “Following his instructions, the psychiatrist sent him details of his Aadhar card, email address and details of the phone number he wanted. The name of the message sender was mentioned as Varun on the WhatsApp number from where the message had come. The psychiatrist also transferred the money from his bank account to the account given by this Varun, who sent an invoice and told the psychiatrist he will get the sim card soon,” said inspector V B Barad of cybercrime police station. When the sim card failed to arrive within the given time, the psychiatrist called up Varun who said his daughter had met an accident and he couldn’t send the sim card in time, but Thakur will receive it in the next three days. Not only did Thakur never receive the sim card, but he said that the same man had been sending him messages from different phone numbers offering him sim cards with numbers of his choice. “The psychiatrist then realized that he had been cheated and approached police. We are tracing the numbers from where he received messages and calls,” Barad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crooks-play-mind-game-with-psychiatrist-steal-rs-59000/articleshow/76376316.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||CM office orders probe into ‘foul play’ in UP soccer sangh||LUCKNOW: The chief minister’s office has ordered a probe into allegations of large scale foul play at the Uttar Pradesh Football Sangh (UPFS) following a petition from a group of players. Their allegation is that the sangh has been ‘hijacked’ by a don-turned-politician, who is calling the shots from jail. His aides are managing the state football and the situation has reached such a low that without their permission nobody can organise a football tournament in the state, the petition says. Members of a probe team recently visited Varanasi, where the UPFS headquarters is based, to probe the charges. They are likely to submit their report to the government soon. In the past also, a few footballers had raised the issue with former sports minister Chetan Chauhan, but before he could intervene, he was shifted from the ministry. When both sports minister Upendtra Tewari and sports director RP Singh were asked about the state of affairs at the sangh, they expressed their inability to deal with the ‘football mafia’. “This is the matter of the association. We cannot do anything,” they said. Those who have approached the CM office for probe allege that the UPFS is still under tight control of its former secretary Shamsuddin alias Babu Khan, who was arrested four years ago under POCSO Act for assaulting a minor female player. The victim has been fighting the case against Babu Khan, who is said to be close to an imprisoned mafia don-turned-politician. Babu Khan is on bail in the case. Last year, when the victim had held a protest at the office of the sports director here seeking action against her tormentor, she threatened to withdraw her complaint. Another girl has also lodged a sexual harassment complaint in Varanasi, alleging that when she went to meet Babu Khan along with her father he called her inside and tried to molest her before handing her over sports certificates. Later, following complaints by the player, the National Commission for Women (NCW) asked the Nadesar police in Varanasi to lodge a complaint against him. “They swindled tournament fees, confiscated sports certificates and issued life threats to players. Nobody has the courage to speak against the injustice being meted out to footballers,” lamented Mohammed Atif, once a Santosh trophy player and now auditor with the Central government. A state-level footballer Mohit Singh said that “after facing sexual harassment charges, Babu Khan handed over reins of UPFS to his son. They all are hand in glove with the don.” Despite repeated attempts, Babu Khan could not be contacted for his version. Recently, in reply to an RTI query, the sports department has stated that in its records the UPFS does not exist, while for over a decade it has been granting budgets and providing its best grounds to the association for holding tournaments. A large-scale embezzlement of funds of the sports department by the UPFS has also come to light and an FIR has been lodged. A few years back when K Ravindra Nayak was sports director he had sought action against Babu Khan. He had ordered suspension of the association, but after his transfer the sports department did not implement his order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-office-orders-probe-into-foul-play-in-up-soccer-sangh/articleshow/76376775.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal attacks Bhagwant Mann over Delhi Covid-19 crisis||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) questioned Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Bhagwant Mann for his silence over mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The SAD also accused Mann of being party to the conspiracy of fudging data to cover up the failures of the Delhi government. The SAD asked Punjab AAP convener to speak up and force the Delhi government to either go for a course correction or resign. In a statement issued on Sunday, former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the Delhi government started fudging data to show low Covid-19 casualties in early May. “The Covid-19 deaths recorded in crematoria and burial grounds did not match the official numbers put out by the Delhi government. The Supreme Court stated on record that Covid-19 patients were being treated worse than animals in Delhi,” said the Akali leader. Dr Cheema said the whole point of the lockdown was to prepare medical infrastructure for the coming onslaught of Covid-19 patients. He said the Delhi government did not improve infrastructure in its hospitals and was not providing proper treatment to Covid-19 patients. “Now it is finding scapegoats in private hospitals even though it is the Delhi government which is to blame if private hospitals are turning away patients or over-charging them.” The SAD leader asked Mann to explain why he did not condemn the Delhi government’s decision to deny healthcare to outsiders. He said this step was anti-Punjab also as Punjabis falling sick in Delhi would have been denied treatment had the Lt Governor not overruled this decision. He said while this revealed the anti-Punjab face of Mann, it also proved that he is a mere puppet in the hands of Delhi AAP leadership. Dr Cheema said if Punjab AAP leaders have “any humanity left in them,” they should speak up against the deliberate under-testing for Covid-19 in Delhi. “Even frontline workers and symptomatic contacts of confirmed Covid-19 patients are being denied tests,” alleged Dr Cheema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-dal-attacks-mann-over-delhi-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/76376307.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Indore||Indore: Hotels want safety hallmark from government||INDORE: As part of revival plan for hotels and resorts hit hard by outbreak of pandemic, Indore Hoteliers Association has asked government to conduct a safety audit for all property. Indore Hotelier Association, an umbrella group of 103 hotels of Indore, has suggested a slew of measures to state and Centre to aid industry resume operations. The association has suggested government to conduct audits for all hotels and resorts of the state and upon completion allot a ‘safety tag’ to those fulfilling all safety norms. Sumit Suri, president, Indore Hotelier’s Association, said “Trust is a very crucial element in hotel industry. The government approved ‘safety tag’ will help property showcase that they are safe and ready for hospitality. As the economy is opening up gradually, it’s high time that the government initiates an audit for the hotel industry to monitor safety checks.” In audit, hotels will be graded on basis of safety measures such as sanitization, social distancing norms, use of masks and gloves, cleanliness and arrangements for guests. With the hotel and travel segment barely breathing since outbreak of Covid-19, most hotels have re-engineered spaces to follow social distancing, kitchen and food serving patterns have changed, masks have become mandatory for visitors and staff besides a series of other safety norms are being followed. The association of hotels has also demanded a GST holiday for one year, reduced fee for liquor licence, exemption from fixed electrical charges for the closure period, waiver from property tax, diversion tax and lease rents. Travel Agents Association of India MP and CG chapter chairman, Hemendra Singh Jadon said, “The sector will be the last one to revive because unless customer confidence is back they will not step out of houses. It’s very important for hotels to highlight their safety measures and convenience visitors a safe holiday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/hotels-want-safety-hallmark-from-govt/articleshow/76376314.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Hitherto untouched by Covid-19, Araku worries as tourists flow in||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as the novel coronavirus spreads through the country, Araku Valley in Visakhapatnam has managed to keep a clean slate with no Covid-19 cases registered in the area. But now, with restaurants and hotels reopening in one of the biggest tourist destinations in the state, locals are worried that tourists may bring along and spread the novel coronavirus in the hitherto untouched region. With the Visakhapatnam rural police has been giving permission to reopen businesses in and around Araku Valley since June 10, over 60 per cent of guesthouses, hotels and restaurants have resumed business. Tourists, although far fewer in number than usual, have started flowing in. This has local communities, mostly consisting of tribals, worried that the inflow of tourists may spread the dreaded Covid-19 in the region. Consequently, many in the region, including some business owners, are appealing to the government to enforce a strict lockdown in the area for some time. LB Venkateswara Rao, who runs Vikas Resorts in the Valley, said that he and some other business owners have appealed to public representatives and officials to continue the strict lockdown and not allow tourists in the area. “But our requests have fallen on deaf ears. Tourists from various parts of Andhra Pradesh have been coming in since June 10. Some of them are not even wearing masks or maintaining social distancing norms. Some business establishments haven’t been able carry out sanitisation and other aspects of the SOP. For me, people’s lives matter more than business, so I haven’t opened my resort,” Rao said. Araku Valley MLA Chetti Palguna agrees with the concern. Speaking to TOI, Palguna said that most of those visiting Araku are returning in the evening. “But we suspect that tourists may spread the virus in the region, which has a predominantly tribal population. We are asking people to take precautions so as to not spread the virus,” the MLA said. Moreover, it is not just tourists making their way into the Valley. Traders and moneylenders too are coming to attend weekly markets in Visakhapatnam Agency. Killo Surendra of the CPI(M) said, “The weekly markets in tribal pockets have resumed illegally. We are appealing to the district administration and other concerned officials to extend the lockdown in the Araku region for one more month.” Locals said a few days back, a group from Guntur district, one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the state, attended a marriage ceremony in Araku Valley. Restaurants and hotels are prioritising business over caution, they complained, and in some cases ignoring the SOP laid down by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hitherto-untouched-by-covid-19-araku-worries-as-tourists-flow-in/articleshow/76375819.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Woman ‘forced’ to drag elderly mother to bank||By-Avinash Mohanty BALANGIR: A video clip showing a 60-year-old woman dragging her 80-year-old bedridden mother to a bank in Nuapada district to withdraw Rs 1500 from her Jan Dhan account has gone viral, forcing district collector Madhusmita Sahu to seek answer from the bank manager. The 37-second video shows the elderly woman, lying on a cot, being dragged through the streets of Bargaon village, under Khariar block of the district, to Utakal Gramya Bank. It also shows Gunja Dei berating the bank officials for forcing her to drag her ailing mother, Labhe Baghel, to the bank to withdraw the money. The incident came into light after the video went viral on social media on June 10. “I requested the bank manager to allow me to withdraw the amount on behalf of my mother as she is not able to come to the bank. They refused to do so, saying they need physical verification. I was told a bank staff would visit our house to pay the money,” Gunja said. She claimed she waited for some days for the bank staff to show up, but no one came. On June 8, she again went to the bank. She had an argument with the bank manager Ajit Kumar Pradhan after he refused to hand over the money to her. “The manager told me that a bank staff will visit our house the next day,” Gunja said. When that didn’t happen either, she decided to drag her mother to the bank. “I had told Gunja that one of our staff would visit her home and give her the money. But due to the work load, the person could not go. Next day, Gunja arrived at the bank with her mother lying on a cot even before the bank opened,” said Ajit, defending their action. Sources said Gunja lives with her husband and ailing mother. Every month Gunja withdraws Rs 500 deposited in her mother’s account under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) to meet her medical expenses. Watch Odisha: 70-year-old woman carries her centenarian mother on cot to avail pension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/woman-forced-to-drag-elderly-mother-to-bank/articleshow/76375814.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Spurious liquor: SAD seeks Congress MLA’s arrest||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday demanded the arrest of Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, alleging that he was protecting the main accused in the Ghanaur illegal distillery case. Former minister and SAD kisan wing president Sikander Singh Maluka claimed that the Congress legislator had made two party workers accompany Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh when he went to surrender at Shambhu police station on Saturday. “Another accused was shown to be arrested in Banur, indicating that the surrender of both was planned by the MLA after wiping out all evidence ,” he said. He said Jalalpur, if arrested, could throw light on the case, saying the distillery was partly responsible for the Rs 5,600-crore revenue loss suffered by the excise department during the last three years. He alleged that Jalalpur had admitted to Amrik being his aide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spurious-liquor-sad-seeks-cong-mlas-arrest/articleshow/76376315.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Fighting Covid-19 Gandhian way: Khadi keeps PPEs cool||Nagpur: Working in the town from where Mahatma Gandhi preached the philosophy of self-sufficiency inspired these doctors to create something much needed for the Covid warriors on the frontline. Doctors from microbiology department of Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sevagram, have come up with a unique idea of a cooler, reusable and cost-efficient PPE kits for doctors working in Covid hospitals and technicians who collect swab samples and later conduct Covid-19 tests in laboratories. These kits, made with a material on which the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) is working, can be reused at least 20 times after washing. Each personal protective equipment (PPE) kit costs not more than Rs250, and above all, Sevagram’s speciality — khadi — has been used in such an innovative manner that these kits keep users cool from inside. “The idea clicked in our mind in the beginning of the pandemic when every hospital was facing crunch of the PPE kits. These kits are costly, and made only for one-time use. Wearing them for hours during extreme hot temperatures in Vidarbha was like a nightmare for doctors,” said Dr Vijayshree Deotale, head of department of microbiology of the college. It was Professor Rahul Narang who initiated the talks with DRDO for some solution on the issue. “Dr Rajiv Narang at DRDO told us they are working on selection of such material for PPE. Through them, we got in touch with AjyTech, Surat, manufacturer of cloth for reusable PPE kits,” said Professor Narang. The Surat-based vendor claimed that the cloth, made of polyester-coated with polyurethane, could be reused at least 20 times after washing. But, for clinical use, all necessary tests were must. “We bought a small piece of this cloth and conducted tests for impermeability, various decontamination procedures, integrity and durability. Finally, when it came to acceptability by end-users, they requested us to make it in such a way that air should pass through it,” said Professor Narang. After brainstorming, it was decided to make it in the form of gown to allow air to pass from below. An important improvisation came when they introduced khadi (homespun cotton) vest with four large pockets in the PPE. “Users must wear khadi vest. Moreover, each of the four pouches of vest contain phase change material (PCM) that we keep in refrigerator before use. Khadi absorbs sweat in warm humid climate while the PCM keeps user cool from inside,” he added. MGIMS dean Dr Nitin Gangane said we will introduce the kits first in non-Covid labs. “We have Covid-19 testing lab functioning since long. But, initially, these home-made kits will be introduced in other labs,” he said. Dr Gangane was not sure about market reaction on this efficient but cheaper option. “We can’t predict about mass production and market apprehensions about this product as it is quite cheaper than PPE kits available in markets,” he said. Being Atmanirbhar Reusable | MGIMS PPE kit is made of polyester-coated with polyurethane cloth and could be reused at least 20 times after washing Khadi brings cool | Users of this PPE wear khadi vest with four large pockets; it absorb sweat PCM makes it cooler | Refrigerated phase change material in each pocket in khadi vest keeps wearer cool all the time Cost effective | Cost of one gown is Rs250 against Rs800 to Rs1,200 of disposable PPEs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fighting-covid-19-gandhian-way-khadi-keeps-ppes-cool/articleshow/76376779.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 15, 2020||Goa||600 Dodamarg locals seek Sawant’s nod to enter state for work||Panaji: At least 600 individuals from Dodamarg in Maharashtra have written to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, asking for his assistance to enable them to travel to Goa to report for their jobs. The petition states that besides the 564 persons from Dodamarg, another 2,000 from Sawantwadi, Vengurla and Kudal areas of Maharashtra are employed in Goa. Living in the border area adjoining Goa, citizens from these areas depend on Goa for many services as it is more accessible to them than the district headquarters in Maharashtra. They also find it more convenient to travel to Goa for work. Most travel to and fro every day to their place of employment. But now with the lockdown, many are unable to report to their place of work, which gives rise to the possibility of losing pay or jobs. “We have also submitted a petition to Ratnagiri MLA Uday Samant, who is now a minister in the Maharashtra cabinet. We have told him that while people from Goa are free to enter Maharashtra, residents of Maharashtra cannot easily enter into Goa. We have also conveyed to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant that we are ready to get our Covid-19 tests done and produce our certificate at the border area to be allowed to cross over. He is sympathetic, but we are yet to hear about any concessions for us,” said one resident of Dodamarg. On June 4, Sawant had said that almost 5,000 residents from Sindhadurg and Karwar districts sought daily entry passes to come to Goa for work. Stating that Goa is yet to grant the permits, he had in turn urged local manufacturing facilities to hire locals, offering bus services for all shifts as an incentive. “Almost 2,500 people from the Konkan area in Maharashtra depend on jobs in Goa for their livelihood. Many have not been given their salaries for the months before the nationwide lockdown was imposed,” said another resident of Dodamarg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/600-dodamarg-locals-seek-sawants-nod-to-enter-state-for-work/articleshow/76376776.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Transport Nagar drain project hanging fire||Ludhiana: Despite the state government’s tall claims to cover the seasonal drain from Transport Nagar to Dharampura, three years ago, the project has been hanging fire. And now, the lockdown has only pushed it further in the limbo. Despite several claims by Congress MLA, Surinder Dawar, till date not even a single brick has been deployed at the site. The project started during the SAD-BJP regime and former cabinet minister Satpal Gosain had even announced to complete the project, but nothing was done. This project has remained an election agenda for many. Even Congress MLA Dawar had also taken up the project when he was elected in 2017. If completed, the covered drain is expected to give relief to more than 25,000 people living in the surrounding areas. Since the project did not kick off and monsoon is about to start, residents are worried. Two years ago, the civic officials had taken help from some experts of IIT Roorkee. They even released a design for the same. MLA Dawar had also claimed to get permission for this project. A company was also selected for the project but could not start the work. Meanwhile, MLA Dawar said that funds have been approved for the project. He said that the administration will start the work and complete the project as soon as the sanctioned funds are received. Superintending engineer of MC, Parveen Singla, shifting of electricity poles and wires was going on at the site. He added that the project will pick up pace in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/transport-nagar-drain-project-hanging-fire/articleshow/76374878.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Indore||Huge difference in fatality rates of hospitals||INDORE: Case fatality rate of Covid-19 in five hospitals treating positive patients in city ranged between 0.4% and 8.52%. The hospitals include Sri Aurbindo Institute of Medical Sciences, Index Medical College, Choithram Hospital and Research Centre, MRTB and MTH. The information came to fore through compiling hospitals record of total admitted patients, discharged, admitted and death received from hospital official. The lowest case fatality rate was reported from Index Medical College at 0.4% and highest was from MTH at 8.52%. There are also only two hospitals among five with case fatality rate below or at par with city’s rate of 4.18%. Index and SAIMS managed to have CFR below this rest all were above this mark. Dr VP Pandey, member of state Covid-19 management task force said, “Index has admitted only patients without or mild symptoms below the age of 50 years of age i.e. low age group so the low fatality rate.” The private hospitals treated mostly stable patients while government facilities functioned as ICCU in city so high fatality rate is reported from there, said Pandey. Even in developed countries the fatality rate in ICCU in case of Covid-19 is over 30% and even as high as 60%. Also, the number of patients admitted is low because stable patients aren’t admitted, said Pandey. Pandey said, “These private hospitals are admitting stable patients for longer duration for monetary benefits. We have raised the issue before CM and higher authorities.” The record also suggest around 72% load of Covid-19 positive cases were shared by only two private hospitals - Sri Aurbindo Institute of Medical Sciences and Index Medical College. The government hospital just treated 10% of Covid-19 patients till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/huge-difference-in-fatality-rates-of-hospitals/articleshow/76376328.cms||Antriksh Singh
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation launches weeklong dengue awareness drive||KOCHI: Kochi corporation has launched a weeklong dengue awareness and cleaning campaign on Sunday with the support of residents’ associations. As citizens are reluctant to let Asha workers and health workers enter the homes, the local body had sought the help of residents’ associations to check the presence of active breeding sources of Aedes aegypti, the main vector that transmits the viruses that cause dengue, in houses and flats. “As Asha and health workers are in charge of monitoring Covid-19 related quarantine, the public is not keen to welcome them to their homes,” said health standing committee chairperson Prathibha Ansari. Corporation secretary R Rahul Pillai said the focus is on urging citizens to keep their premises and neighbourhoods dry by removing open sources that collect freshwater. When it rains, the water gets collected in discarded utensils, tyres, flower pots, grow bags, sunshades, etc. Aedes aegypti breeds in freshwater. “Identifying and removing the breeding sources is the primary step in addressing the mosquito menace,” he added. The awareness and cleaning campaign will be carried out in all the 21 health circles of the local body. According to the corporation the regions around Pottakuzhy and Kaloor need special attention. Elamakkara South, Palarivattom, Ernakulam South and Vyttila are other regions which reported dengue fever cases. Officials say that despite providing awareness people are not responding favourably. “Without the cooperation of the public the local body cannot find solutions,” Pillai said. The corporation area so far reported 119 cases. Of the 74 divisions, dengue fever has been reported from 41 divisions this year. Meanwhile, the Ernakulam District Residents Association Apex Council (Edraac) and All Kerala Apartment Owners Apex Association (AKAOAA) expressed their willingness to associate with the local body’s efforts. Edraac president P Rangadasa Prabu and AKOAA president V K Shankarankutty said that the corporation is yet to approach them for suggestions in tackling the mosquito menace. “The local body needs to take the issue of waste disposal seriously. Many vacant plots have become dumping yards. Hardly any waste disposal takes place on Sundays when there is complete lockdown. Moreover, the drains and canals need to be cleared to ensure smooth flow of water,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-launches-weeklong-dengue-awareness-drive/articleshow/76374891.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for beating lawyer in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Khokhra, Krunal Vaghela, was held by cops for beating a lawyer over an altercation on Saturday afternoon. “We have sent him for Covid-19 test and will formally arrest him after the test report arrives,” said an official of Khokhra police station. According to the complaint lodged by the lawyer, Ashokkumar Surti, 60, who practises in Gheekanta court, Surti was standing at a tea stall near Shivam Footwear in Khokhra with his clients Raju Vadhiyar and Manu Parmar. At the time, Vaghela, the accused, was talking loudly on his phone and shouting at somebody. “Meanwhile, Surti received a call and asked Vaghela not to talk so loudly so that he too could attend to his call. At this, Vaghela got angry and began abusing the lawyer and then started beating him. He warned he would kill Surti if he didn’t leave the spot,” said a Khokhra police official. Surti then called the police control room. “Khokhra police station sleuths held Vaghela,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-beating-lawyer/articleshow/76376325.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Six private bus drivers caught transporting migrants on fake passes, arrested||MANSA: Six bus drivers were arrested and their vehicles impounded by Sardulgarh police of Mansa district. The drivers were taking migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh by fraudulently preparing inter-state passes issued by additional district magistrate(ADM) Bathinda.A total of 345 migrant workers, including 150 men, 80 women and 115 children, all brick kiln workers, were being transported out of Punjab. After making the migrant labourers alight from buses late on Saturday night, police made boarding and lodging arrangements for them. Police also made bus drivers return the nearly Rs 3 lakh charged from the migrant workers to take them to Mahoba town in UP. The district police arranged buses for the migrants. After medical examination and screening, they were allowed to move on to Mahoba in UP. Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav said they are investigating how the bus drivers or owners prepared the passes. A case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188(disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) against six drivers; Paramjeet Singh, Bunty Seth and Jasbir Singh of Noor Chahal bus transport, Gomy Singh of Jogi Peer Bus transport, Balbir Singh of Sohal Bus and Amrik Singh of Bhai Behlo Bus service and transport owners Surinder Kumar, Harminder Singh, Balkaran Singh and Manpreet Singh, all from district Mansa. The six drivers have been arrested. According to the SSP, bus owners and drivers did not maintain social distancing in buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-pvt-bus-drivers-caught-transporting-migrants-on-fake-passes-arrested/articleshow/76376323.cms||Neel Kamal
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||A third don’t want to be in hospital if infected: Survey||Nagpur: With treatment for coronavirus at private hospitals not affordable for many, 61% citizens want the hospital charges for Covid-19 to be standardized or capped, while 32% citizens don’t want to visit government or private hospitals and stay home if infected with Covid-19. These are the findings of a survey conducted by LocalCircles, country’s leading social media platform, results of which were declared on Saturday. The survey received over 40,000 responses from citizens from 237 districts of the country. Covid-19 cases in India are increasing at a rapid pace. The average daily cases being reported have steadily moved from 2,000 a day in early May to almost 11,000 a day. Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are among top 5 states with patients.Citizens have been regularly discussing pandemic updates, concerns, risks and experiences among each other. To get an in-depth understanding of citizens’ perspective on the pandemic, they were asked about its prevalence among their social networks. In response, 7% said they have at least one positive patient in their social network i.e. family, friends, colleagues, neighbour etc, 89% did not have any such person while 4% did not have an opinion. “Many citizens consider private health care system in the country to be better than the government run hospitals in terms of quality. The general notion among many in top metros is that most government hospitals are for the underprivileged section and are badly maintained,” says Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles. People were also asked if they were to become Covid-19 positive, where would they prefer to go for treatment? In response, 32% citizens said private hospital, 22% chose government hospital, 32% said they would not to get hospitalized while remaining 14% were unsure. “However, in red zones, especially high virus load districts, many citizens were concerned about limited capacity in private hospitals and long waiting time for admission in government hospitals. That explains why 32% citizens say that they would rather stay home and take treatment at home and not go to the hospitals unless it is an emergency situation,” says Gupta. The third question was about the top concern with government hospitals. In response, 46% said it was chances of secondary infection due to crowd and poor adherence to standards. However, 32% pointed to lack of adequate infrastructure and resources while 16% said long waiting time and inefficiencies. Only 3% said it was quality of staff. In cases reported from Mumbai on LocalCircles, government hotlines confirmed patients about availability of a bed which became unavailable when they reached the hospital. As a result, some patients were made to stay in ambulance for 6-8 hours outside the hospital or take admission in the general ward instead of ICU. One of the other top issues has been exorbitant charges imposed by private hospitals for treatment. Citizens have shared screenshots of private hospital lobbies where ICU charges of as much as Rs30,000 a day were quoted and charged from patients. Relatives of patients shared multiple bill copies, which revealed a charge of Rs9 lakh for a 12-day treatment for Covid-19 is not uncommon. To ensure that such charges by private hospitals were in fact not an exception, When citizens were asked about their top concern with private hospitals, 57% said exorbitant charges, 14% said unnecessary tests, 7% said lack of knowledge of Covid-19 treatment protocols and 5% said difficulty in getting admission. Those who had other concerns made up 5% while 12% were unsure about it. On addressing issue of exorbitant charges by private hospitals, 21% respondents said government should cap per day ward/room and ICU charges, while 40% said government should standardize or mandate per day Covid-19 ward/room and ICU charges based on hospital category. Around 28% said government should take over 80-100% of the capacity of private hospitals under the Epidemic Disease Act, while 2% said it should set up complaint redressal mechanism specifically for Covid-19 and impose heavy penalties. Maharashtra was first one to cap charges after patients shared reports of overcharging via LocalCircles and other social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-third-dont-want-to-be-in-hospital-if-infected-survey/articleshow/76376331.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Jail staffers attacked while trying to seize mobile phone||LUDHIANA: Some staff members of Ludhiana Central Jail were assaulted by two inmates — Gurjant Singh and Jagroop Singh — on Friday evening when the jail authorities tried to seize a mobile phone from their possession. This is not the first time that such an incident has happened here. Ludhiana jail is infamous for many reasons and, due to this, often remains in the news. Ranging from incidents like violence inside the jail premises, recovery of mobile phones to inmates running drug nexus from inside, the crime list only seems to be growing. Not only this, in a recent case, a fight between two jail inmates resulted in a firing incident in Dharampura area. The assistant superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail, Shiv Kumar, said that during a surprise check on Friday evening, they seized a mobile phone from the possession of Gurjant Singh and Jagroop Singh. All of a sudden, the inmates became violent and attacked the staffers. Following this, they were overpowered and a complaint was filed against them under the Prison Act. Meanwhile, Division number 7 police also registered a case against three jail inmates Manwinder Singh, Balwiner Singh and Amarbeer Singh. The jail security had seized three mobile phones from their possession on June 10. Since the lockdown, the jail staffers have confiscated over 40 mobile phones from inmates. Last year, a special task force had brought a total of 11 jail inmates on production warrant for running drug nexus from inside the jail. In a similar incident, on February 9, an STF team arrested a drug peddler, Jatinder Singh, with 840 grammes of heroin. The contraband was worth Rs 4.20 crore. A jail inmate, Varinder Thakur, was also booked in the case. According to the STF, Varinder used to contact Jatinder and a Delhi-based smuggler from inside the jail. On the instructions of Varinder, the Jatinder used to procure drugs from the Delhi-based smuggler and then would sell it to Varinder’s customers in Ludhiana. On March 28, four jail inmates escaped the jail. Their cell was later found unlocked. The inmates were later arrested from different areas. Despite repeated attempts jail superintendent Rajeev Arora could not be contacted for his comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jail-staffers-attacked-while-trying-to-seize-mobile-phone/articleshow/76374886.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to post Covid bed info on website||CHANDIGARH: With Haryana recording a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to start a system of giving ventilators on loan to private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and also post a statement of availability of beds for Covid-19 patients on the official websites. The directions were issued by Haryana health minister Anil Vij to the health department officials while reviewing Covid preparedness on Sunday. According to directions, while accepting ventilators, private hospitals will give an undertaking to use them for Covid-19 patients referred by government hospitals or Covid centres. Vij directed that details of district-wise bed availability in isolation and institutional quarantine centres be posted on website daily. On Sunday, 10 deaths and 459 new cases, mostly from NCR districts of Haryana, took the state Covid-19 count to 7,208 and 88 deaths. The tally includes 47 critical patients on oxygen support or ventilator support in Covid centres. Besides, 200 patients were discharged after treatment, raising the number of recovery cases to 3,003 and recovery rate to 41.66%. Six deaths were reported from Gurgaon, two from Rohtak and one each from Panipat and Jhajjar. Meanwhile, in relief to around 12,000 contractual staff on house-keeping and security duty at government hospitals, Covid and health centers across the state, Vij has directed that their service contracts be extended till September 30. He also directed that fourth and final year students of medical colleges of the state and doctors of Ayush department be attached with regular doctors on Covid duty and other medical services. In Karnal, six cops were among the 15 persons who tested positive in the district on Sunday, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-post-covid-bed-info-on-website/articleshow/76376343.cms||Manvir Saini
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mother beaten by son for demanding rent||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Gomtipur Khadawali Chawl, Champa Chauhan, 60, has lodged a complaint at Gomtipur police station on Saturday alleging that her son Jairam and his wife Sunita had beaten her up for demanding rent for the current month. According to the complaint, Jairam and his wife live on the first floor of the house while Champa lives on the ground floor. Jairam pays rent every month to Champa and when she went to ask for this month’s rent on Saturday night he refused and started abusing her. “Jairam got agitated and pushed his mother so she fell on the floor. Then he started beating her. On hearing cries for help, neighbours rushed in and saved Champa,” said a police official. Champa then dialled the police control room and lodged a complaint of assault against her son Jairam and his wife Sunita. “We have registered the complaint and are investigating the case,” said an official of Gomtipur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mother-beaten-by-son-for-demanding-rent/articleshow/76376341.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Saliva on pages could be used for DNA as evidence in criminal cases’||Shimla: A study conducted by forensic scientists has revealed that most people have the habit of dabbing saliva to turn pages, which can be important evidence in criminal cases as DNA profiles could be successfully developed from the substrates. According to the study, saliva can help identify individuals who handled the document. The study was conducted to determine whether the habit of moistening pages with saliva to turn them can provide evidence in cases pertaining to handling of documents in forensic investigations. The sample size comprised 200 volunteers, 50% men and 50% women. Volunteers shuffled through the pages of three substrates (registers, books and magazines). An attempt was made to detect transfer of saliva onto the substrate while shuffling and generation of DNA profiles from the transferred saliva. The presence of salivary stains was confirmed using iodine fuming test and starch iodine test. Afterwards, DNA was recovered with the substrate cutting method. This study was conducted by Dr Mukesh Thakar and Aman Bhambara of the department of forensic science, Punjabi University, Patiala and Dr Vivek Sahajpal, Dr Deepika Bhandari and Dr Arun Sharma of the directorate of forensic science, Shimla. It has been published in the Egyptian Journal of Forensic Science. Dr Vivek Sahajpal, assistant director, DNA division at SFSL Junga in Shimla said results revealed that almost 83% of the individuals moistened their fingertips with saliva. An individual moistened his or her fingertips while going through a 100-page document a maximum of 16 times and a minimum of three. The mean for the number of pages on which saliva was applied was calculated to be 8.33. He said about 90% of women used saliva to moisten finger tips and 66% men did the same. On average, women were found to moisten their fingertips with saliva eight to 16 times while men used saliva three to 11 times. The iodine fuming test was found to be positive until six to seven pages while starch iodine test was positive for salivary stains till four to five pages. Once the presence of saliva was confirmed, DNA profiling yielded good results, he added. He said complete DNA profiles could be generated successfully from paper substrates till almost five pages of the document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/saliva-on-pages-could-be-used-for-dna-as-evidence-in-criminal-cases/articleshow/76376340.cms||Anand Bodh
June 15, 2020||Indore||Corona hospitals to have counselling unit for patients & family||INDORE: District administration on Sunday claimed to have started counselling centres in all Covid-19 hospitals in city to assist relatives of patients. District collector Manish Singh said that managements of both private and government run Covid-19 Hospitals of Indore have been instructed to share details and health conditions of patients to their respective relatives without delay. The administration has made it compulsory for every Covid-19 hospital to have a counselling centre at entrance for assistance of relatives of suspected and positive Covid-19 patients. Divisional commissioner Pawan Sharma had earlier issued an instruction directing all district collectors of Indore division to ensure compliance of this arrangement at Covid-19 hospitals. The hospitals have been instructed to appoint two senior employees, counsellors or doctors at their respective counselling centre in two shifts starting from morning 08.00am to 02.00pm, and from 02.00pm till 10.00pm night. These employees and doctors will have to attend and clear queries of relatives on the health condition of suspected and positive Covid-19 patients who are being treated at their respective hospital. This announcement comes apparently after relatives of suspected and positive Covid-19 patients raised allegations against management of one of the Covid-19 hospitals of Indore of not sharing details and health condition status of patients. Meanwhile, district administration on Sunday announced to start work at 30 Aadhar Enrolment Centers of Indore. There are around 50 such centers in the city, and enrolment, change or address and other aadhar related works have resumed at 30 of these centers, said an official note from administration on Sunday. The note further said that work at the remaining 20 enrollment centers would also be started within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corona-hospitals-to-have-counselling-unit-for-patients-family/articleshow/76376339.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: All that glitters is gold as more people seek loans in strained coronavirus times||PUNE: At a time when there is a cash crunch in most families, and banks are hesitant to offer personal loans lest they sour, people are taking gold loans to meet their immediate requirement for money. The availability of gold jewellery at home and the ease of availing such a loan with minimum paper work and its short duration work in its favour, banking experts said. The fear of a sustained economic loss due to the pandemic and the need for quick money for basic needs is fuelling the gold loan demand, lenders said. Moreover, more money is disbursed per gram of gold depending on the carat which has customers in need of funds applying for such loans. “Gold loan can be availed in the quickest and simplest way with easy documentation. Due to increased rates of gold, our bank is financing a higher amount per gram, Rs 3,150 per gm,” Pune-based Bank of Maharashtra said. “We can also say that in June, the demand has increased compared to the pre Covid-19 situation,” the official added. Lenders said many micro and small businesses are resorting to gold loans to crank up their businesses. TOI, in an earlier instance, had reported that many other loan schemes intended for MSMEs remain on paper. “In the current situation, gold glitters as a ray of hope to re-start many micro and small businesses. This is a viable option for SME & MSME businessmen. It fulfills the immediate need for capital. An increase in the value of gold helps the customer raise a better loan amount against the ornaments,” Praveen Kutty, head of retail and SME banking, DCB Bank, said. Gold loan lending non-bank finance company, Manappuram Finance, said there was no unusual spike in people seeking gold loans with them but more people closed their loans to sell the gold in the market for higher realizations. “After the first phase of lockdown, we observed that there was a spike in gold loan redemptions. We understand that many of our customers were settling their loans in order to sell their gold to jewellers and take advantage of the high price of gold,” V P Nandakumar, managing director and CEO, of Manappuram Finance Limited said. “Many existing customers increased their borrowings against what they have already pledged,” he added. Pune-based chairman and managing director of PNG Jewellers, Saurabh Gadgil said, the current crisis and resultant consumer behaviour shows that value of gold as a hedge against tough times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-that-glitters-is-gold-as-more-people-seek-loans-in-strained-coronavirus-times/articleshow/76376337.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Panchayats want to expedite canal cleaning||Kochi: Despite the state government issuing orders asking collectors to ensure desilting and removal of debris from flood-affected rivers, it has not been carried out in Ernakulam, especially in the islands. The Covid situation has delayed the work further, say officials. As a result, local bodies have started raising the issue. Alangad panchayat has already passed a resolution seeking immediate steps to desilt a portion of Periyar river flowing through their area while residents on Vallarpadam project side have given representations to the collector. “We had issued a tender in January, but we couldn’t complete the work as most guest workers who used to do it left the state due to the pandemic. All the projects under MNREGA are over,” said Radhamani Jaisingh from Alangad panchayat adding that cleaning of some of the major canals have begun. “We hope to finish it before rain intensifies.” “Though some panchayats and municipalities cleaned the inner canals and drains, no dredging work has taken place in major portion of Periyar River along Alwaye-and Pachalam belt,” said Santosh Jacob, an RTI activist. He said that post the construction of Vallarpadam Container Terminal rail line, a large amount of sand has got accumulated in the western side of Vaduthala Don Bosco. Though the irrigation department initiated steps to dredge the mud from the river, they could not find a place to dump the dredged mud,” he said. However, works have begun at several coastal panchayats including Kadamakkudy, Varapuzha, Cheranalloor and Aluva and Eloor municipalities. “Five of our canals are yet to be cleaned. A major one is under private land and we haven’t been able to get the owner’s nod to clean the canal which has several inner canals linked to our panchayat. In 2018, we had to shift from here because of intense flooding,” said Shalini Babu, Kadamakudy panchayat president adding that they have written to the collector who has asked them to get the work done because it is for larger public safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panchayats-want-to-expedite-canal-cleaning/articleshow/76374903.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Pune man’s organs benefit Mumbai woman, Pimpri Chinchwad grocer||Pune: Family members of a 38-year-old brain-dead man donated his vital organs, including his liver, pancreas, and a kidney at KEM hospital in Rasta Peth on Saturday. The organ donation benefited two patients the same day. One of them, a 40-year-old woman, resident of Mumbai, underwent a kidney-pancreas transplant surgery at Jupiter hospital. The man’s liver went to a 52-year-old grocer from Pimpri Chinchwad. The transplant surgery took place at the Sahyadri hospital, Deccan branch. Both the transplant surgeries took place late on Saturday night. “This is the fifth organ donation in Pune that led to successful life-saving transplant surgeries during the ongoing lockdown phase,” said transplant coordinator Aarti Gokhale of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), an apex body that decides on the allocation of donated organs. Transplant surgeon Gaurav Chaubal at Jupiter hospital said, “The woman who successfully underwent the combined pancreas-kidney transplant has been living with type I diabetes for the last 20 years. Prolonged diabetes led to pancreas and kidney failure. She enrolled for the combined transplant with us in February this year.” Sahyadri hospital’s transplant surgeon Bipin Vibhute said, “The grocer who underwent the liver transplant surgery suffered obesity-induced liver failure in 2016 and had been in a bad shape since then. The surgery has benefited him immensely." “The donor and recipients tested negative for Covid-19 and only then did the doctors start the process of transplantation. Standard procedures to avoid Covid-19 infection were followed with extra precautions and minimum staff,” Gokhale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-mans-organs-benefit-mumbai-woman-pimpri-chinchwad-grocer/articleshow/76376345.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Testing to be tripled in Delhi, 500 rail coaches turned into care centres||NEW DELHI: In a bid to urgently address increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital, testing is set to be doubled in the next two days and tripled in six days while 500 railway coaches with 8,000 beds will be made available as care centres and a house-tohouse survey will be conducted in containment zones. The decisions were announced by home minister Amit Shah on Sunday after a long discussion with Delhi LG Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on the Covid-19 situation in the city where it was pointed out that testing was being carried out at just about one-third of the available capacity. The need to ramp up testing quickly and earmarking of beds in large private hospitals, as well as fixing rates for testing and treatment, was discussed while some senior AGMUT cadre officers posted in Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh have been recalled to assist the state government. The projections for Delhi over the next couple of months were examined and an assessment of preparedness carried out, given the Delhi government’s recent statements that cases could run into several lakhs. The meeting laid down an “immediate and comprehensive roadmap” that seeks to closely monitor emerging infections by ramped up testing and aggressive contact tracing in containment zones, increasing bed capacity and central assistance with resources like oxygen cylinders and ventilators. Will fight Covid together: CM after meetIt has been decided that bodies will not be allowed to pile up in mortuaries and the state government will put in place an effective system to disseminate information. Sources said the discussions proceeded cordially and all participants exhibited a sense of urgency in dealing with the situation in Delhi. Shah urged BJP-run municipal corporations to activate all resources to ensure that contact tracing and testing was carried out at the ward level. It was also decided to rope in Scouts and Guides, NCC and NSS volunteers and NGOs. In a tweet after the meeting, Kejriwal said, “Extremely productive meeting between Delhi government and Centre. Many key decisions taken. We will fight corona together.” Shah has convened another meeting on Monday morning with leaders of all political parties in Delhi, as part of his consultations on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Stating that the Narendra Modi government was committed to containing the spread of Covid-19 in the Capital, Shah said in a series of tweets that the Centre would help the Delhi government in dealing with the shortage of beds. In view of citizens complaining of overcharging by private hospitals, the Centre constituted a committee under Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul to ensure availability of 60% of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals at lower rates and also to fix rates for testing and treatment. The committee will submit its report on Monday. As directed by Shah, the health ministry on Sunday evening set up three teams of four doctors each from AIIMS, DGHS, and health departments of central and Delhi governments. Assisted by officers, the teams will inspect all major Covid-19 facilities in the city and make recommendations for improvement. “After a few days, testing will be started at every polling station in containment zones,” Shah said. For improved monitoring, Aarogya Setu app will be downloaded on every such person’s mobile. The Centre also decided to constitute a panel of senior doctors in AIIMS to provide telephonic guidance to small hospitals on Covid-19 systems and best practices. The helpline number was released on Sunday evening. In view of Supreme Court’s adverse observations on the Delhi government on handling of bodies of dead patients, the Centre will revise the guidelines for funerals to reduce the waiting period for last rites. Shah calls all-party meetUnion home minister Amit Shah has called an allparty meeting on Monday with the state representatives of four major parties that have presence in the capital — AAP, BJP, Congress and BSP — to review management of the Covid-19 situation in the city. The decision to call the all party meeting was taken hours after Shah held high-level parleys with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and CM Arvind Kejriwal, along with his cabinet colleagues. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was also present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/testing-to-be-tripled-in-delhi-500-rail-coaches-turned-into-care-centres/articleshow/76377292.cms||Bharti Jain
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Who will release scholarship funds, ask college panels||Ludhiana: A joint action committee (JAC) of 13 associations held a meeting on Sunday to discuss issues related to Post-Matric Scholarship (PMS) funds worth Rs 1,850 crore.Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA), said that out of Rs 1,850 crore, the Centre had given Rs 309 crore to the state in March and April. “However, the state government did not release the funds. Why is the state not releasing the funds when the Centre has already paid,” Kataria questioned. The senior vice-president of Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions Association (PUTIA), S Manjit Singh, said that the Centre and the state should decide that which of the two will release Rs 1,541 crore pending for the last three years. “Due to the non disbursement of the funds, colleges are under huge financial distress and poor students are finding it difficult to continue their studies,” Singh added.President of PUTIA, Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal said the Centre and the state should also clear if colleges should give admissions to SC students in 2020-21 without fees under the scheme — if yes, then when would the funds for such students be disbursed?The meeting was attended by President of B.Ed Federation Jagjit Singh; president of Punjab Unaided Degree Colleges Association (PUDCA) Sukhmander Singh Chatha; president of Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions Association Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal; president of Nursing Colleges Association Charanjit Singh Walia; Rajinder Dhanoa of Polytechnic Association; Shimanshu Gupta of ITI Association; Nirmal Singh of ETT Federation; president of PUCA Anshu Kataria; Vipin Sharma of Confederation of Unaided Colleges Association; Anil Chopra of Confederation of Punjab Unaided Institutions; Jasnik Singh of B.Ed. Association, PU; Satwinder Sandhu of B.Ed Association GNDU Colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/who-will-release-scholarship-funds-ask-college-panels/articleshow/76374895.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Man says no to illicit liquor business, shot dead||JIND: A 34-year-old man was shot dead after he allegedly refused to sell illicit liquor in his village in the wee hours of Sunday. Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Nidana village in Julana sub-division of Jind district, is survived by his wife and two children. The incident took place when the deceased was sleeping near his weighbridge, a tool used for weighing bulk items, on the village outskirts. Sandeep’s brother Amandeep said he and his brother owned a dhaba and a weighbridge. “We both stayed at the dhaba due to bad weather last night. The assailants came in an SUV and barged in. They shot my brother in the chest three times and fled,” he said. Amandeep said Sumit and Devender from Shamlo Kalan village, and Sudhir, Naveen and Ajay from Nidana — are liquor contractors and had approached his brother to sell illicit liquor. “The accused had been pressuring my brother to work for them, but he refused and so they planned his murder,” Amandeep said in his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-says-no-to-illicit-liquor-biz-shot-dead/articleshow/76376346.cms||Vijender Kumar
June 15, 2020||Indore||Water supply hit for third day in a row||INDORE: Narmada water supply on Sunday continued to remain affected in nearly 20 residential areas of city for third consecutive day. Residential colonies connected with overhead tanks of Scheme-54, Sadar Bazar and Cotton Adda complained about shortage of Narmada water supply. Short circuits related issues were reported at power grid station of Jalood pumping station due to heavy rains and winds on Thursday and Friday evening, and since then, supply of Narmada water to the city was getting affected. While there was no supply from the overhead tank of Scheme-54, overhead tanks of Sadar Bazar and Cotton Adda could not be filled to their full capacity causing poor supply pressure in localities connected to these tanks. “We had been facing shortage of Narmada supply for the last three days, and there are no alternate arrangements made by IMC,” complained Ritu Verma, a resident of Sadar Bazar. IMC’s Narmada project executive engineer Sanjeev Shrivastava said that bad weather conditions at Jalood had caused short circuits on Thursday and Friday evenings. “Though faults were rectified on the same day, it ultimately led to reduction in overall supply,” he said adding that Narmada supply to around 20 residential areas was affected on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/water-supply-hit-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/76376349.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||77 infected, 3 deaths as Punjab Covid-19 cases rise to 3,140||CHANDIGARH: The Covid-19 pandemic continued to spread in Punjab on Sunday as the state reported 77 new cases, including three deaths, taking the state’s tally to 3,140 and casualties to 67. While two deaths took place in Sangrur, the third is of a 68-year-old man in Pathankot. A fourth death was reported in Amritsar, but it was yet to be added to the state bulletin. Even on Saturday, the state got 77 new cases. Among the new cases, 12 are of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 31 are contacts of positive cases. The source of infection in 13 cases, including two from Delhi, is outside Punjab. Two police officials were also tested positive. Ludhiana recorded 22 cases, which included 12 contacts of positive cases and four cases of ILI. Thirteen cases were reported from Amritsar, 10 each from Mohali and Patiala, five each from Sangrur and Pathankot, two each from Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, and one each from Jalandhar, Ropar, Moga and Muktsar. Also, 29 patients were discharged after they recovered. The Pathankot man died in Ludhiana and was cremated in his hometown on Sunday. In Amritsar, the man who died was diabetic and aged 66. Also, two more cases were reported from Amritsar, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/77-infected-3-deaths-as-punjab-cases-rise-to-3-1k/articleshow/76376365.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||AI-based thermal screening system at Pune railway station to keep those with high fever at bay||PUNE: The city station will soon get ‘FebriEye’, an artificial intelligence-based thermal screening system, for a real-time automated monitoring system that will ensure persons with high fever do not enter the premises. “The Central Railway has set up the body screening facility (FebriEye) at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) to effectively scan passengers for Covid-19 symptoms, This ensures contactless entry for passengers to avoid the spread of the infection. The Central Railway plans to extend the facility to other stations, including Pune, under its jurisdiction,” a railway official said. Central Railway chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said the FebriEye thermal cameras could cover large areas and detect the temperature of multiple people entering a premise at once and automatically record their temperatures. “At present, all passengers boarding the mail and express trains at CSMT and LTT are being scanned by FebriEye at the entry point before they can reach the platforms for boarding. All railway staffers and officers reporting for duty at these two major stations are also being screened via the AI-based camera,” he said. While stations such as CSMT and LTT at present have a considerable number of trains, only one train, Pune-Danapur Express, is originating from the Pune railway station. A few other trains also stop at the station. “FebriEye is equipped with a ‘black body, which is a constant temperature source that ensures accuracy in temperature readings of up to 0.3 degrees Celsius. Some of its features include measuring forehead temperature, social distance monitoring, no contact detection, dual (thermal and vision) camera, and real-time alerts," an official said. "The camera uses heat sensors that can record heat generated by a person’s body or an object to create a 2D image with differing temperature levels. When passengers pass the cameras, anyone with temperature above the set range will be shown in a different colour pattern than the rest of the computer screen connected to the cameras,” the official said. “A decision on how many cameras to be installed at the Pune station will be taken and announced soon,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ai-based-thermal-screening-system-at-rly-station-to-keep-those-with-high-fever-at-bay/articleshow/76376352.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 15, 2020||Goa||Migrant workers get till tomorrow to sign up for journey home||Panaji: In a notification issued late on Sunday, the state government gave migrant workers who are keen on returning to their native states two more days to re-register themselves. The deadline for registration is now Tuesday, June 16. “Migrants can register their names through the prescribed physical application form at local panchayats and urban local body offices. The form is also available on goa.gov.in for download,” the notification reads. Meanwhile, after the intervention of labour minister Jennifer Monserrate and the two district collectors, most panchayat offices remained open on Sunday to enable stranded migrant workers to re-register. Based on Supreme Court directives, June 14 was set as the last date for the re-registration of such workers and accordingly their travel back home was to be arranged by June 22. On Saturday, when many workers turned up at panchayat offices to register themselves and found that most were shut, citizen volunteers who were assisting them in the re-registration process, tweeted to Monserrate and also alerted the two district collectors. Workers who had to walk to the panchayats were relieved at being able to re-register with the local bodies. Most of these workers are those who missed the Shramik Special trains scheduled earlier. Some said they had registered earlier too, but had remained in Goa after not receiving the call or SMS from the government about the train schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrant-workers-get-till-tomorrow-to-sign-up-for-journey-home/articleshow/76376784.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Indore||Landlords, tenants on collision course, police plaints on the rise||INDORE: Tensions have started to mount between landlords and tenants over rent collection in Indore as the nation entered the first phase of Unlock 1. Many such disputes have been reported at various police stations. While students claim that they have been receiving threat calls from their renters, landlords claim that showing compassion in times of financial hardships is proving to be very difficult. Several such calls have panicked Vatsal Shekhar, an engineering student from Shahdol, who had been living in a rented accommodation in Bhanwarkuan. “I had left the city in March and returned on June 1 but he is expecting the pending two months’ rent. The man has threatened that he will throw away my belongings if I don’t pay the dues immediately,” Vatsal told TOI. He added that he had been taking care of his rent and college fees by working in a call centre but that isn’t working out anymore. To address the tenants’ woes, district collector Manish Singh had issued an order in which it was stated that the landlords should be considerate towards the tenants and should give them time to pay the dues while understanding the situation. This was, however, misunderstood by many tenants who started fighting with their landlords claiming that there was a waiver of at least one month rent. ADM BBS Tomar cleared this by saying that the order did not say that there was a waiver. “It advised the landlords to be considerate towards the tenants,” he said. Shrishthi Verma (25, name changed) from Ashok Nagar had faced a breakdown when suddenly her landlady had asked her to leave during the lockdown pointing out that she never cleaned the common area and did not keep the room clean. “I had nowhere to go. Even police officials from Bhanwarkuan police station couldn’t help me when I called them for help. It was only after I called my husband and other relatives that they made her understand that it was impossible for me to switch rooms during that time,” said Shrishthi. DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra said that they are addressing such complaints that are being received with an amicable discussion between both the parties. “If the dispute goes out of hands, a case is registered,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/landlords-tenants-on-collision-course-police-plaints-on-the-rise/articleshow/76376347.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Pathanamthitta youth arrested for stealing bike||KOCHI: North police on Saturday arrested a 20-year-old Pathanamthitta native for stealing the bike of a Kollam native from Ernakulam Town railway station. The arrested person has been identified as Vaishakh Balachandran. According to police, the accused was caught with the bike during a lockdown enforcement checking. “He had then paid the fine, left the bike at the station, and went home in the guise of returning with the documents. Two days later the owner turned up with a complaint that his bike was stolen. His bike was at the station premises the whole time, however the accused had escaped,” said an officer with the North police. Police later launched a probe and tracked him down from Pathanamthitta. A team of sub inspectors Anas and Denny and ASI Vinod Krishna made the arrest. The accused was presented before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pathanamthitta-youth-arrested-for-stealing-bike/articleshow/76374918.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath draws plan to create 1 crore job opportunities||LUCKNOW: Expediting the process for providing employment to migrant workers, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday hammered out a plan to generate 1 crore jobs by asking officials to increase work avenues under the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Scheme (MNREGS) as well as industries, including construction units. While pitching for raising employment opportunities under MNREGS from the existing 50 lakh to 60 lakh, the CM directed officials to create 40 lakh jobs under Micro, Small and Medium Scale Industries (MSMEs). The directions came four days after the CM flagged MNREGS as the biggest job provider as it alone has the potential to generate nearly one crore mandays. Additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi said that the state government was committed to provide social security to labourers and daily wagers. For this, he said, labourers should be linked with insurance schemes. He also laid stress on the need for expediting the process of making ration cards for the distribution of foodgrains among them. The CM also emphasised on engaging women workers in the self-help groups for production of household related items. Already the state government has roped in the rural development department to impart training to nearly two lakh women in various sectors. Awasthi said that the process of engaging more women in the SHGs would be further expedited. The state government is also looking at the possibility of engaging workers in various MSMEs and cottage industries. Yogi has already coined an idea of making a vacancy in each of the 90 lakh MSMEs to generate that many jobs. The state government seeks to engage workers in various projects, including expressways, medical colleges and universities. On Saturday, the CM had passed on the financial grant of Rs 1000 each to labourers and the destitute. Awasthi said that till date more than 33 lakh labourers have been given a financial relief to the tune of Rs 336.42 crore. This included over 18 lakh labourers associated with construction projects, nearly nine lakh labourers in urban areas and about seven lakh destitute. Awasthi said that the state has already brought 22 lakh people with the help of 1,647 trains in about 30 days. Moreover, thousands of buses which were roped in to bring back migrants who got stuck in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-draws-plan-to-create-1-crore-job-opportunities/articleshow/76376789.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen hail separate head for taxation||Ludhiana: In a first-time move, Punjab government has appointed separate chiefs for excise and taxation charge. On Saturday, the government appointed Nilkanth S Avhad as the taxation commissioner, Punjab, while Rajat Aggarwal has been appointed as the excise commissioner, Punjab. Earlier, there used to be one top boss for taxation and excise portfolios, who was designated as excise and taxation commissioner, Punjab. Meanwhile, the move to appoint separate head for the taxation department is being widely hailed by the taxation professionals and city businessmen, as according to them this will help in resolution of taxation related issues at a faster pace. Earlier, the excise and taxation commissioner had the double responsibility of looking after both charges, which have equal workload. City businessmen are demanding that the taxation commissioner’s first priority should be to resolve the issue of processing of pending GST refunds. According to Sumit Sharma, an electricals trader, “It is really a great move and we now have separate top boss for taxation in the state. The move will definitely help resolve the taxation related issues faster. As till now the top boss had both responsibilities of excise and taxation as well and there was huge workload under both the charges. We are hoping that the new taxation commissioner, Punjab, will resolve the issue of pending GST and VAT refunds on priority as this is the biggest problem being faced by the tax payers.” Rajesh Mahajan, a hardware trader, said, “Both taxation and excise are very wide subjects with almost equal work in both. There are huge problems being faced by the tax payers across the state as far as taxation is concerned, so having a separate head for the taxation will bring more promptness in formulation and implementation of the policies related to taxation matters.” According to Sanjeev Gupta, a food products manufacturer, “The state government has taken a very big initiative in the right direction for the tax payers and we welcome it. However, it is our request to the newly appointed taxation commissioner to streamline the process of disposing of GST refunds and also expedite the pending VAT and GST refunds and give relief to the taxpayers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-hail-separate-head-for-taxation/articleshow/76375870.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Construction sector hit by sand scarcity: Former MLA||Visakhapatnam: Former MLA and BJP leader P Vishnu Kumar Raju said sand scarcity in the state has hit hard the construction sector. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Vishnu Kumar Raju said the scarcity has affected those wanting to construct homes. Contractors who had executed works under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana are yet to receive payment, he added. Expressing displeasure over poor adherence to social distancing norms, the BJP leader said crowds are gathering outside liquor outlets. On the arrest of former minister and TDP leader Kinjarapu Atchannaidu for his alleged role in the ESI scam, Vishnu Kumar Raju said the manner of arrest was objectionable as Atchannaidu had undergone surgery. Meanwhile, BJP MLC PVN Madhav demanded a high-level medical team conduct tests for persons affected in the styrene leakage tragedy. Madhav also demanded the government ensure that only non-hazardous industries are allowed to operate in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/construction-sector-hit-by-sand-scarcity-former-mla/articleshow/76375872.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Invoking ‘corona devi’ in fight against Covid-19||KOLLAM: According to Hindu belief, god is omnipresent and can be seen even in a virus. For a temple priest in Kadakkal, Kollam district, this was inspiration enough to start worshiping ‘Corona devi’. And he has installed an idol in a makeshift shrine attached to his house to ward off fear of the virus. Anilan fashioned the ‘deity’, with its red spikes and sitting on a pallival (sacred sword), from thermocol and set it up against the backdrop of chempattu (red linen cloth). “My worship of the devi is dedicated to the well-being and longevity of all those engaged in the fight against Covid-19. It is also part of a protest against those who are looking to creating confusion and chaos during these tough days,” he said. Regarding criticism that he is looking to milk the pandemic to exploit devotees for monetary gain, Anilan said he has no intention to claim any money from anyone in the name of puja or prasadam. “Nowadays, many people use temples to suit their political interests. While some people want temples to be opened for worship, others oppose it. Behind the opposing points of view is the politics of it all,” he said. "In fact, the shrine is my attempt to relay a message: That rulers and general public stand united in the fight against the pandemic. Till the time scientists develop a vaccine, we have to continue the fight and pray to ward off fears,” he said. Anilan said the shrine is not open to the public for worship or darshan. As everyone is involved in the struggle to save their lives, it is not the time to visit temples, he said. Anilan denied that his intention is to mock certain temple traditions. “I am a true devotee. Being a Hindu, I can worship anyone or anything as god. What matters is faith. I am not asking anyone to follow me," he said. On whether the shrine could become a source for ridiculing and belittling temple traditions and the time-honoured practice of worshipping various forms of nature, Hindu Aikya Vedi state chief KP Sasikala told TOI that there was nothing wrong in Anilan worshipping ‘corona devi’. “Everyone knows that corona is a virus and proper treatment is required to cure oneself, if infected. If anyone worships anything in the name of faith it is not wrong, according to Hindu tradition,” Sasikala said.  She said there were several temples dedicated to animals, ethereal beings and even rituals named after diseases like small pox. “There is still an offering called vasoorimala at the Kodungallur Devi temple,” Sasikala said. Watch Kerala priest invokes 'Corona Devi' in fight against Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/invoking-corona-devi-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/76374925.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Private schools pester parents for fees||Mangaluru: Sumithra (name changed), the parent of a child studying in a private school in the city, was dismayed after the school management asked her to pay the next academic year’s fee in advance, though the government is yet to decide on opening schools. She said that the school management had sent an SMS asking her to pay the fee for the next academic year, to ensure that her child had a seat and got books. Hundreds of parents are facing a similar situation. They have no idea when classes will begin, but schools are pestering them for fees. “Dear Sir/Madam, Kindly pay the fees of 2020-21 by NEFT/ RTGS to our Bank A/C and mail the UTR/TXN number with student name, class and father’s name without fail to update our records. Annual Fees (VIII STD) is Rs 48,600,” reads the message a private school sent to a parent. “Most of the schools in the city have been collecting the first instalment of annual fee, though the government is yet to decide on opening schools,” a parent said, adding that complaining against schools may affect their children’s future. Deputy director of public instructions Malleswamy said the department has been receiving complaints from parents that private schools are forcing them to pay the fee for the next academic year. “We have received many complaints from parents in the district. As per the government circular, schools should not collect fees from parents, who are either unable to pay or refuse to pay, till further orders from the government. Schools should not put pressure on parents in any manner, with regard to the payment of fees. Action under the Right To Education Act will be taken against schools if they deny admission to children for non-payment of fees. Further, a report will also be submitted to the district level education regulating authority in this regard,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/private-schools-pester-parents-for-fees/articleshow/76374920.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Use of digital technology in the functioning of courts here to stay||The Supreme Court and various high courts started adopting virtual courtrooms in March due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Court hearings through videoconferencing have, so far, been seamless.  On June 15, Justice D Y Chandrachud, chairman of the Supreme Court’s e-committee, will inaugurate the electronic filing project of the Kerala high court. The project will enable functioning of virtual courts, online issuance of certified copies of judgments, e-filing facility for bail applications, land acquisition appeals and motor accident case appeals with the high court as well as district courts. This will ensure that adoption of digital technology in the functioning of courts continues even after the lockdown. Information technology is being integrated into various court operations, fundamentally changing functioning and helping to deliver quick relief to litigants and lawyers. It definitely involves a culture change, challenging the status quo with regard to lawyers and their clerks. Physical functioning will give way to operations using electronic tools, systems, devices and resources. Quick delivery, convenience, paperless operation, etc, are important to improve the performance of courts as a vital public service  Virtual court (VC) hearings provide an opportunity to lawyers to argue from anywhere: Lawyers in Kochi can argue their case before the Supreme Court in the comfort of their homes without traveling to Delhi. A young lawyer will be sitting on the veranda of his house at Kannur and moving a bail application before the Kerala high court through his mobile phone. Lawyers in subordinate courts also can livestream submissions before the high court and even the Supreme Court.  Not everyone, though, is happy with the telephone argument format. Some lawyers, appearing in VC hearings before the apex court, are of the opinion that virtual courts were not serving their purpose, except to the extent of granting interim relief on pressing matters at a time when courts were not accessible. Is the new format better? True, VCs will never be a substitute to open courts. They will also not displace physical courts. However, Justice Chandrachud has pointed out that everybody enjoys the same platform during virtual hearings. According to him, technology has been extraordinarily enabling and empowering for young lawyers.  Bar bodies, in general, are pressing for reopening of courts for physical hearings, especially considering that there were some technical glitches during VC hearings. Moreover, bar associations and lawyers’ chambers must ramp up their electronic infrastructure, including uninterrupted Wi-Fi. Courts will have to provide well-equipped VC facilities satisfying safety and security mandates. The future potential of promoting technological reform was well taken note of by the courts while deciding on the online format.  Open-court principles assure the public (including media) free and fair access to court proceedings. At the same time court access is ensured by VC hearings even when physical presence is not possible – especially in emergency situations, like the one we are in now. Livestream hearings must go on to ensure justice.  We are at a transitional moment. Let the old and new go together. The combination will have something for everyone. The simple act of changing things around will improve the system for the benefit of all. (Writer is a senior advocate who practises in the Kerala high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/use-of-digital-technology-in-the-functioning-of-courts-here-to-stay/articleshow/76374938.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Celebrated indoors, Raja festival lights up social media||BHUBANESWAR: Due to restrictions on religious congregrations owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, people in the state marked the beginning of the Raja festival on Sunday mostly by staying indoors and wishing friends and relatives on social media platforms. Unlike previous years, the three-day agrarian festival - celebrating womanhood and the onset of monsoons - began on a low-key note, without any gatherings or community celebrations. Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Naveen Patnaik conveyed their wishes and greeted people of the state on social media. “Greetings on the occasion of Raja Parba! During this three-day Odia festival, people celebrate the advent of monsoon and worship Mother Earth. May this Raja Parba bring peace, prosperity and good health for everyone,” tweeted Vice-President Naidu. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Greetings on the very special festival of Raja Parba. May this occasion strengthen the spirit of joy and brotherhood in society. I also pray for the good health and well-being of my fellow citizens.” Chief minister Naveen Patnaik requested people to make this year's festival special by observing it at home in adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. “This festival implies our unique tradition which respects nature, earth and womanhood,” the CM tweeted. This year's Raja festival has coincided with the weekend lockdown in 11 districts of the state. In several districts, administrations have imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 to dissuade people from congregating at religious places. However, social media platforms were flooded with pictures of young girls decked up in their best and enjoying mouth-watering delicacies at home. “The situation is different this year. We have celebrated many Raja festivals and will celebrate several others too, if we manage to survive this pandemic by following guidelines issued by the government. We did everything that do for Raja every fear except meeting people and going out,” said Aparna Das, an engineering student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/celebrated-indoors-raja-fest-lights-up-social-media/articleshow/76375852.cms||Minati Singha
June 15, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 waste surge breaks down Pune’s only incinerator||PUNE: The daily generation of biomedical waste directly linked to the Covid-19 pandemic has increased to 3,000kg in the city. The city was generating just 250kg of Covid-19 waste every day in March. Officials attributed the increase in waste generation to the surge in coronavirus cases that Pune has been registering since the early days of the outbreak. The amount of daily Covid-19 waste is now at par with general biomedical waste. Before the outbreak in Pune, the daily generation of general biomedical waste in the city was nearly 5,000kg, which reduced after a drop in admission of non-Covid patients in hospitals during the lockdown. The combined strain of both streams of medical waste — nearly 6,000kg per day — has already overwhelmed disposal infrastructure. An incinerator on the premises of the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBMWT) at the Kailas crematorium, near Naidu hospital, broke down a week ago. It’s the city’s only incinerator for hazardous medical waste. Since then, authorities have been transporting some of the Covid-19 biomedical waste (BMW) to Taloja in Mumbai for proper disposal. The remaining is being sent to facilities in Satara and Ahmednagar. Covid-19 waste mainly consists of discarded personal protective equipment such as masks, gloves and goggles. Authorities say they are working round-the-clock to get the incinerator working again. Manisha Naik, head of the bio-medical waste treatment at the Pune Municipal Corporation, said, “We are also trying to see if we can segregate and separately dispose non-biomedical waste, which includes infected patients’ plastic food plates, glasses and water bottles. All these items are currently incinerated along with PPE and other medical disposables. This will avoid strain on the facility.” The PMC has outsourced treatment and disposal work of such waste to a private firm, Passco Environmental Solutions, which has been operating two full-fledged facilities at the Kailas crematorium in Pune since 2009. It has another facility in Pimpri Chinchwad, next to the YCM hospital. Sunil Dandawate, director of Passco Environmental, said, “A minuscule amount of Covid-19 waste, including plastic face shields and goggles, are not incinerated. Instead, they are disinfected and sent for recycling. This waste is kept in red-coloured bags. But nearly 95% of the Covid-19 waste is incinerated because it is considered highly infectious. The hospitals keep this waste in yellow bags for identification.” Dandawate said nearly 25% of non-Covid biomedical waste is recyclable. “About 75 workers are involved in handling and disposal of Covid-19 waste in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. They are given a new PPE set every day at work. Workers are also regularly checked for illness. So far, none of the workers have tested positive,” Dandawate said. Dandawate said the company is doing its best to restart the incinerator facility at Kailas crematorium. “We are now shelling out money for waste transport and incineration at other facilities based in Taloja, Satara and Ahmednagar,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-waste-surge-breaks-down-citys-only-incinerator/articleshow/76376370.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 15, 2020||Goa||All 30 corporators part of CCP’s monitoring team||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has formed a group comprising all 30 corporators, the commissioner, and also representatives from the departments of municipal administration and health services to monitor those in home quarantine. The group was formed last week, after chief minister Pramod Sawant, via teleconference with elected members of the corporation, municipalities and panchayats, asked them to take responsibility and ensure that those who opt for home quarantine are not found violating the rules. Corporators are periodically informed via WhatsApp about domestic returnees who have opted for home quarantine and are figuring out how to ensure compliance. However, some of them say it is not possible to keep a check on the returnees. “Although we know people in our ward better, why would they listen to us? The police should have been put in charge. People would have been more afraid of them,” a corporator said. Mayor Uday Madkaikar told TOI that the corporators have been asked to report violations directly to the police. A corporator said that there was no way of finding out if those in home quarantine get out at night. “It’s hot and humid, and people don’t want to be at home anymore. They have been at home for three months now, and people can’t bear it anymore,” the corporator said. They are also trying to rope in neighbours of those home quarantined. “We are looking for ways to inform only the immediate neighbours, so that they can stay safe. At the same time, we don’t want to publicise the names of those on home quarantine or bring any stigma on them,” another said. The government’s new SOP permits those entering from other states via air, road and rail to opt for home quarantine if they don’t want to pay Rs 2,000 and get tested. If they don’t have a place to isolate themselves during home quarantine, they have been given the option of quarantining themselves at paid facility quarantine hotels. Those on home quarantine also include those who have returned from abroad and have completed the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-30-corporators-part-of-ccps-monitoring-team/articleshow/76376787.cms||---
June 15, 2020||India||UP 'princess' photo goes off menu at Shanghai eatery||RAMPUR: A restaurant in China's Shanghai has removed the photographs of a former Indian princess from its menu card after Indian Ambassador to that country Vikram Misri took up the matter following protests from her family in UP. Princess Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan is the daughter of the last nawab of Rampur.  Misri pursued the matter after former UP minister and four-term MLA Nawab Kazim Ali, her nephew, sent a letter to India's consul general in Shanghai on June 11 saying that the Masala Art restaurant did not take permission from the erstwhile royal family or from Mehrunnisa to use her photo.  In the letter written to India's consul general to Shanghai Anil Kumar Rai on June 11, Ali said it was an "invasion of privacy". He wrote: "...Shri Rajesh Prabhakar, owner of Masala Art restaurant, Shanghai, is using the photograph of my aunt Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan of Rampur in the menu cards of all his restaurants. This is being used in a derogatory manner without our permission. ...We are terribly distressed as this is a total invasion of our privacy". He added, "For your information, Nawabzadi Mehrunnisa Khan is the daughter of the last nawab of Rampur state Nawab Syed Raza Ali Khan, who was the first ruler of undivided India to merge his state in the Union of India in May, 1949. Due to this gesture, half of Gandhi Ji's ashes were sent to Rampur from Delhi by the then PM Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. She is also the sister of my father Nawab Syed Zulfquar Ali Khan, a six-term MP from Rampur." The action was swift. On June 12, Misri reverted and told Khan that the menus have been withdrawn. Mehrunnisa was married to Rahim Khan who was the commander-in-chief of Pakistan Airforce during the 1971 war. While Khan is no more, Mehrunnisa, almost 90 and ailing, lives in Washington DC.  Nawab Kazim told TOI, "After the action taken by the Indian Ambassador in China, the owner of Masala Art has removed the pictures of Mehrunnisa Khan from the menu cards of all the six restaurants in Shanghai, and he has apologised".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-princess-photo-goes-off-menu-at-shanghai-eatery/articleshow/76377333.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||UGC asks univs, colleges to study impact of Covid on villages||Bhubaneswar: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all universities and affiliated colleges to conduct study on the impact of Covid-19 in nearby villages. It has also asked the institutions to facilitate parallel study on the impact of Spanish Flu or the 1918 pandemic on India. In a letter to the vice-chancellors of universities and college principals, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said there is a pressing need to sensitively analyse the impact of the pandemic as well as the role played by communities in agrarian parts of the country. “To effectively address the need, the institutions can facilitate the study of 5-6 villages adjoining their institutes or adopted by them,” the letter read. The UGC has asked each higher educational institution to constitute a dedicated research team which will focus on three major points – the awareness level in villages regarding Covid-19, how villages have withstood various challenges posed by the virus and the best strategies or measures adopted by them to take on such obstacles. Besides this, the institutions may also conduct a parallel study on the impact of the Spanish Flu. The team will focus on two major issues — how India handled the 1918 pandemic and what measures the country took to boost the economy after the pandemic. The UGC has asked the institutions to submit their findings on the University Activity Monitoring Portal by June 30. It has also urged authorities to ensure that the facilitation of the study strictly adheres to the guidelines/advisories issued by the Centre and the respective state governments in respect to Covid-19. “The current focus in the fight against the pandemic is to contain the increasing number of cases and to avoid further escalations of situations. However, the pivotal in this fight has also been protecting the village community which hosts millions of inhabitants,” said the UGC communication. Utkal University vice-chancellor Soumendra Mohan Patnaik said they will conduct the study in their rural campus at Chandikhole in Jajpur district. “We will try to find out the socio-economic and health impact of Covid-19 on rural people. We will also focus on impact of pandemic on gender and other marginal communities like the physically challenged and the downtrodden. This study will help our policymakers to understand the impact of the pandemic,” Patnaik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ugc-asks-univs-colleges-to-study-impact-of-covid-on-villages/articleshow/76375873.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Ophthalmic care badly hit by lockdown||KOCHI: A study on the impact of Covid-19 on ophthalmic care during lockdown by researchers at Amrita University showed that the percentage of ophthalmic activities across different service providers like teaching hospitals, speciality clinics and standalone clinics went down by 100% in speciality and standalone clinics which it fell by 95% in the full lockdown period on March 24-April 30. It also noted that these service providers would have to invest as well as re-plan on how they could compensate for the missed visits of their patients in the new normal which is likely to continue for some time. “Services in ophthalmology outpatient new visits, revisits, outpatient procedures and surgeries were reviewed for the last three months before the lockdown started and during the lockdown (Jan – April 2020). Based on mathematical modelling, backlog of case activities and economic impact in immediate post lockdown month were calculated for each service provider,” said Dr Dinesh T, professor of hospital administration, Amrita university. The researchers said that huge backlog of cases demands change in planning capacity to meet the demand. “Most important is the need to change from static to. It is our readiness to change and strategizing our priorities that hold the key to reduce economic impact. We believe that a synergized role between government, decision makers and individual ophthalmologists will see us sail through this pandemic and beyond,” said Vidya Jha, co-author of the study. She said that the mathematic modelling was done assuming that the lockdown will result in a backlog of cases that will require treatment. Three scenarios were summarised based on a massive surge of patients, medium surge and low surge of patients that will have to be treated post lockdown. “These backlogs will have to addressed by increasing visits and seen people in a period of within 0-10 days, 10-15 days and 15-20 days. On an average, the pre-lockdown outpatient numbers for the three service centres were 913 (new visit) and 2,290 (revisit) for teaching medical hospitals, 2,275 (new visit) and 5,275 (revisit) for specialty clinics and 339 (new visit) and 744 (revisit) for standalone clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ophthalmic-care-badly-hit-by-lockdown/articleshow/76374946.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||26 booked for vandalising under construction property||Ludhiana: About 26 residents of Vardhman Park have been booked by Jamalpur police for creating ruckus and vandalising water supply pipe lines, sewerage under construction at a colony in Mundiya on Saturday night. The accused also damaged foundation of several under construction houses. According to cops, a case between the building construction company sand residents is in court. The accused have been identified as Naveen Ghai, Seth Kumar, Pardeep Kumar, Pardeep Bhalla, Kumar, Sahil Gupta of Vardhman Park and their 20 unidentified accomplices of the same locality. The FIR has been lodged following a statement of Rohit Sood of Sukhdev Nagar, who is director of Vardhman Amrante, a construction company. Rohit Sood said the accused had damaged water supply pipes and sewerage lines of the colony. They also damaged the foundation of various under construction houses. When a security guard intervened, the accused threatened him also. Thereafter, on getting information the police reached the spot. SI Harbhajan Singh, in-charge at police post Munidya, said a case between the company and residents was in the court over some dispute, but the colony residents vandalised the property and created a ruckus. A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to orderly duly promulgated by public servant), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. The police will arrest the accused soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/26-booked-for-vandalising-under-construction-property/articleshow/76375876.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur slowest among large districts to reach 1k||Nagpur: Though Nagpur district is fifth in the state by population, it was 10th to register 1,000 positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. The district’s mortality and positivity rates are also low compared with nine other districts. Only worry is that latest 500 positive cases were registered in just 16 days whereas previous 502 cases took 80 days. On Sunday, 31 new positive cases were reported taking the tally to 1,002. Cases from within Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limit are 875 while 99 are from rural. Remaining 28 cases are from other districts and states but being counted here as they got admitted and were tested positive here. Despite having 1,002 positive cases, Nagpur saw only 16 deaths which means a mortality rate of 1.59%. The state’s mortality rate is more than twice 3.66%. Of total 16 deaths, 11 are from NMC limit, one from rural and remaining four from other districts and state. Over 18,400 samples were tested in the district between March 11 and June 14 for a positivity rate of 5.44%. The state’s positivity rate is around 17%. Already, the central government’s Rapid Response Team and experts had credited lower mortality and positivity rates to NMC’s mass quarantine, testing model and other innovative measures implemented by the team led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai, Dr Praveen Gantawar and others. Actually, 716 cases (71.45%) of total came from three containment zones-- Mominpura (338), Naik Talao-Bangladesh (240) and Satranjipura (138)— which was a result of civic body’s mass quarantine and testing model. It helped in keeping mortality rate low as positive patients were identified early and got treatment from initial stage itself. It also helped in checking transmission of disease to other parts of the city. Cases started to rise in the city as well as rural areas only after easing of lockdown and permission to travelers in May third week. Remaining cases of the city were registered from 66 different areas. The recovery rate of the district is also better than others. Total 604 corona positive patients have been discharged so far for a recovery rate of 60.27%. In all, 382 patients of which many have tested positive in the last few days are undergoing treatment at isolation wards. Only three government-run hospitals—Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital, Government Medical College and Hospital and AIIMS Nagpur— have managed isolation and treatment of all patients in these 96 days. The district had even kept ready over 15,000 beds that can be roped in if there is a surge of Covid-19 cases. The team of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, collector Ravindra Thakare and NMC managed institutional quarantine of over 9,300 people so far in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-slowest-among-large-districts-to-reach-1k/articleshow/76376373.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 15, 2020||Goa||BJP govt taxing people heavily: Cong||Panaji: Increase in power tariffs and fuel prices coupled with the halt in financial aid for the needy highlights the BJP-led government’s insensitivity, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Congress has accused the BJP government of looting the common man at a time when household budgets have shrunk. Chodankar said that chief minister Pramod Sawant needs to explain to voters where the money collected is spent. “The BJP government has increased the tariffs in electricity, hiked rates of petrol and diesel, and is literally looting the common man during the Covid pandemic when household budgets have completely collapsed due to economic crisis,” said Chodankar. He also said that while on one hand the BJP government was “heavily taxing people”, on the other hand all social welfare schemes providing financial assistance to the needy have been stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-govt-taxing-people-heavily-cong/articleshow/76376790.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dawn downpour, flood of complaints||AHMEDABAD: The city recorded nearly 45mm rain between 4am and 6am on Sunday. The downpour flooded 62 spots in the city and trees were uprooted at 228 sites. Sunday’s rainfall was the highest received in this season so far. The total rainfall recorded in the city till Sunday is 184.70mm.  Even as most parts of Gujarat are reeling from a wet spell, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday announced that the southwest monsoon season has officially set in. “Southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of Gujarat, the remaining parts of the Central Arabian Sea, Maharashtra (including Mumbai), and some parts of Madhya Pradesh,” the IMD said in its Sunday bulletin. “Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of the monsoon into some more parts of Gujarat and North Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours.” Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in some southern parts of the state over the next five days till June 19, the IMD said. On Sunday, waterlogging led to the closure of all of the city’s underpasses. Mithakhali, Akhbarnagar, and Shahibaug underpasses were among those closed for traffic. However, AMC officials said that since heavy rain hit the city in the wee hours of Sunday, citizens did not have to endure any hardship. At any rate, movement in the night is not permitted because of the Covid curfew. As for the complaints from 62 areas, an official said that rain spells for the second time proved that the monsoon action plan — including the cleaning of catchpits — exists only on paper. The official said that last week, the city was flooded after just 25mm of rain. On Sunday, the city control room received eight complaints of waterlogging and 114 complaints of trees being uprooted from the western part alone. Amul Bhatt, the standing committee chairman of the AMC, said that the civic body’s teams from the engineering and solid waste department were pressed into service from 4.30am. He said that the 62 complaints were resolved by 7.30am and all roads were opened for traffic. Meanwhile, the IMD said that the city over the past 24 hours — ending at 8.30am on Sunday —has received 75.2mm of rain. The IMD said that maximum temperature on Sunday was 34°C, 5.5° below normal. The night temperature on Saturday was 22.2°C, 5.7° below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dawn-downpour-flood-of-complaints/articleshow/76376434.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Mysuru||Only a handful of private schools offer free seats under RTE||Mysuru: The Right to Education (RTE), which is intended to help poor students get admission in private schools, is not serving the purpose in the state. Only a few private unaided schools in Karnataka are offering RTE free quota seats this year. For example, only 2 seats are available in Bengaluru North academic district under RTE quota for Class I, according to the document shared by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) RTE cell, a copy of which is with TOI. According to DPI authorities, only those wards where government schools or government aided schools do not exist, RTE seats are created in private unaided schools. “This policy was introduced last year itself,” an officer said. DDPI Bengaluru (North) C B Jayaranga said that there is no reduction in RTE quota seats compared to last year. “The number of seats are less in private unaided schools as most of the wards in our academic district are either government aided schools or government ones,” he explained. According to activists, the “meagre number is shocking” as private schools are now off the RTE hook. “It is the social responsibility of every school to provide seats for poor children. Now, they are not ready to take the responsibility,” said Nagasimha G Rao, convener, RTE task force. Meanwhile, the RTE application link was recently activated on www.school.kar.nic.in to enable eligible students to apply for free seats. D Shashikumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS), said that though the government did not allocate RTE seats in private unaided schools, most of the students are joining these schools by paying full fee as they believe private schools are offering better education. “We never opposed RTE seats in our schools. But the issue is delayed reimbursement of fee money of RTE students,” he said. According to child rights activist Vasudeva Sharma, the real problem lies in keeping private unaided schools out of the RTE ambit. “Private schools shall exhibit their social responsibilities by offering seats. The government decision to keep private schools of those wards which have government or government aided schools out of RTE quota ambit is unscientific,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/only-a-handful-of-private-schools-offer-free-seats-under-rte/articleshow/76374951.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Dehradun||Insecure people targeting me as Patanjali has found a cure for Covid-19: Balkrishna||DEHRADUN: A day after the Nepalese parliament passed a bill to redraw the country’s map incorporating areas in Uttarakhand like Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh as part of its own territory, social media users targeted Patanjali CEO Balkrishna, who hails from Nepal, and started trending the hashtag #BoycottPatanjali. Several social media users alleged that in view of Nepal’s actions against India, products of Patanjali —whose 98% shareholding is in Balkrishna’s name — should be boycotted. However, Balkrishna brushed off the social media onslaught saying that “it is simply the work of people who are insecure because Patanjali has found an Ayurvedic cure for Covid-19.” “They are attacking Patanjali by using me. But we are focussed on our work and therefore not unduly bothered,” he told TOI. He added that the Patanjali Research Institute (PRI), the research wing of the organisation, has devised an Ayurvedic therapy (comprising herbs like giloy, tulsi, ashwagandha) which has proved useful in treating Covid-19-positive patients. Sharing details of the therapy, head and vice-president of PRI, Anurag Varshney, claimed, “We have cured 40 Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad while doing a case study to know the impact of Ayurvedic therapy on Covid-19 patients. In the first week, almost 80% turned Covid-negative while in a fortnight, we found that almost 100% patients tested negative.” He added that the study findings have been submitted to an international journal for peer review. Mayank Bhatt, 57, one of the patients in Ahmedabad on whom the therapy was tried, told TOI over phone, “After I was tested positive for Covid-19, I took the Ayurvedic therapy devised by Patanjali as well as some allopathic medicines and the results proved good. My test results are negative now.” Meanwhile, Patanjali’s claims have found support from state forest and Ayush minister Harak Singh Rawat, who told TOI, “The herbs used in the therapy formulated by Patanjali are time-tested medicinal herbs. In fact, our state has released a Rs 4 crore budget for distributing this special package comprising a powder made up of seven herbs along with two tablets. We are distributing this Ayurvedic packet to all the frontline workers including doctors, nurses, police and municipal corporation staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/insecure-people-targeting-me-as-patanjali-has-found-a-cure-for-covid-19-balkrishna/articleshow/76374966.cms||Shivani Azad
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fresh Rythu Bandhu hope for over 3 lakh farmers who missed sop||HYDERABAD: Notwithstanding the twin blows of economic slowdown and Covid-19 lockdown, the state government has extended Rythu Bandhu scheme to over three lakh farmers who could not get the financial assistance in the earlier two rounds. Several farmers had missed Rs 5,000 per acre under Rythu Bandhu due to non-availability of passbooks or land ownership details not being updated, among other reasons. Now, they have been told to apply to the agriculture department.  “The cut-off date of having the passbooks was January 30 for the farmers. But because of the Covid situation, they can apply afresh. The government has released Rs 7,000 crore on Rythu Bandhu for the current first (vaanakalam) crop,” Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said. An official said the high court had directed the government to submit to it the details of the farmers who did not get Rythu Bandhu assistance. “As a result, the government has started collecting the details of all such farmers. Those who have got passbooks by January 30 can apply to the agriculture department along with Aadhaar card, among other documents,” said the official. In all, Rs 10,000 per acre is given per annum to the farmers. If a farmer owns 10 acres, he is given Rs 1 lakh at the rate of Rs 5,000 per acre for first crop and another Rs 5,000 per acre for the second (yasangi) crop. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao have said that all farmers owning agriculture lands and doing farming on it would get Rythu Bandhu. However, the government order on regulated cropping pattern would be applicable to be eligible for the sop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fresh-rythu-bandhu-hope-for-over-3l-farmers-who-missed-sop/articleshow/76376380.cms||Roushan Ali
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Akola has over half of Covid-19 deaths in Vid||Nagpur: Akola, worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in Vidarbha, registered five deaths in a day on Sunday, which took the death toll of Akola to 51. With this, Akola became the only district in Vidarbha to have more than 50 Covid-19 deaths. Vidarbha’s total death toll is 98, and Akola alone accounts more than half of the Covid-19 deaths of Vidarbha. On Sunday, five patients admitted in Covid-19 treatment died in Akola. This happened for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak in Vidarbha. Deaths on Tuesday included a 68-year-old woman from Akot File, who was admitted on June 3. A 53-year-old man from Shankar Nagar admitted on June 10, a 55-yr-old woman from Balapur admitted on June 13, and a 58-yr-old man from Bapu Nagar admitted on June 10 — all of these deceased were at GMCH Akola. The district administration has acquired two private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. On June 14, a 56-yr-old patient who was admitted in one of these private hospitals on June 12 also succumbed. Doctors at GMCH Akola said most patients who died were brought to hospital in very critical condition and it was difficult to save their lives. A senior doctor from medicine department told TOI that many patients from the hotspot areas in city had severe comorbidities. “Most of the deceased had severe comorbidities. Apart from lifestyle disorders like hypertension and diabetes, many of them were patients of chronic kidney disease, liver failure, TB, and SARI,” said the doctor. Age factor is also visible in the Covid-19 deaths of Akola. Out of 51 deceased, 35 are above 50 years of age. It has been a common trend of Covid-19 that male patients are more than female. Out of 51 deceased, 30 were men while 21 were women. However, when it comes to women, they died at young age. All of the 21 women were below 70 years of age, youngest of them being 36-year-old patient of TB. District administration, on the other hand, claimed that they have enough facilities for Covid-19 treatment and asked people to get admitted at early stage. “Facilities for Covid-19 treatment are established in Akola GMC Multispecialty hospital as well as in the premises of Punjabrao Deshmukh Krushi Vidyapeeth. GMCH Covid Hospital has 150 beds, 30 ICU beds, 12 ventilator beds and a dedicated Covid Operation Theatre. We have more than 1,000 beds and have now acquired two private hospitals too. Patients must come early, as soon as they develop symptoms,” said Sanjay Khadse, resident deputy collector of Akola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-has-over-half-of-covid-19-deaths-in-vid/articleshow/76376386.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 15, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Agro plant served show cause notice||AMARAVATI: Taking serious note of the violations committed by Nandyal based SPY agro-industry, AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has issued a show-cause notice to it with a stern warning of action. The PCB team in its recent inspection at the factory found several violation of safety norms that posed serious environmental and health hazards. Following a TOI report “Agro plant polluting Nandyal? PCB to probe” on June 12, A PCB team of officials inspected the plant. “We found control equipment, such as the scrubber attached to the driers, which are inadequate to control emissions generated from drier. This is leading to the dense and bad odour spreading in the neighbouring areas,” said PCB environmental engineer BY Muni Prasad. As per the Consent for Operations (CFO) order issued in March 2020, an industry has to store the fly ash in a closed shed and utilise it to manufacture bricks. However, the SPY agro-industry was storing large quantities of fly ash in the open, adjacent to the boiler, that was causing air pollution, said Prasad. Similarly, CFO mandates that rainwater shall not be allowed to mix with either trade or domestic effluents and that the factory shall maintain storm-water drains. “However, in this case no such storm-water drains were being maintained, allowing rainwater to mix with trade effluents. Moreover, coal ash runoff and water used at the factory either were found stagnant in the storm-water drains, on roads and around the ETP units thereby causing groundwater pollution,” the inspection panel noted. It also pointed out that its effluent treatment plant was dilapidated. The team said the industry was directed to build a dyke at the process and ETP area for collection of spillage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/agro-plant-served-show-cause-notice/articleshow/76375893.cms||Samdani MN
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways to resume work on boundary walls along tracks||Ludhiana: After work remaining suspended for more than four months following strict lockdown norms, the Northern Railway authorities will soon resume its much awaited project of constructing boundary walls alongside the Sahnewal-Dhandari section to curb rising death cases due to trespassing on the tracks and restrict passersby on unoccupied railway land for their self interests. Apart from that, the Railways will initiate mapping work of constructing boundary walls alongside the Dhuri railway track also. The railway authorities had extended the deadlines of the development project till next year after looking at the present condition. But it will take six months to give it the final shape as the railway authorities had to plug the entry points along the tracks by September 2020. Assistant divisional engineer of the division has said, “After getting a green signal from the higher authorities of Northern Railway, the local engineer department will soon initiate the work on the section from Ludhiana to Sahnewal as of now. In the first phase, Dhandari to Sahnewal section will be covered and then the wall will be constructed from Ludhiana to Dhandari.” He further said, “It is a 15km stretch from Ludhiana to Sahnewal but the wall will be constructed on around 4-4.5km area between the two stations. We have identified some points from where a number of persons and cattle cross the tracks. The most densely populated section along the tracks in this area is Ludhiana-Dhandari section.” “Moreover, the railway department has sent notices to the persons who have encroached upon railway land along the tracks, and asked them to vacate the area. Along with this, we are also going to draw a plan to construct the wall along Dhuri line in the next few months. For this, mapping of the same areas will soon begin to check passersby from crossing the railway lines,” the official further said. The higher authorities will take the help of Railway Protection Force to maintain safety norms among the working community for early completion of the development projects. Meanwhile, sources in the railway department said, “Lack of manpower in the construction wing of the railway department has become a major problem for lack of action against the people occupying railway land near Dhuri railway line.” Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “The Railways have resumed most of its development work after following all safety standards. We have already completed the work of dismantling a closed part of foot overbridge at the railway station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-to-resume-work-on-boundary-walls-along-tracks/articleshow/76375894.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 15, 2020||Goa||Several torn between wages & train home||Panaji: Sunsuma Boro was looking forward to the Shramik Special train that would take him back to his family. With tourism coming to a grinding halt due to the Covid-19 pandemic, his family in Rangia, Assam, wanted him back home. But Boro had one worry; his wages had yet to be paid. Toiling for six months at a shack in Baga, the 27-year old wanted to take back his earnings. But his employer - facing his own losses - was unable to pay the wages. On June 10, Boro was paid all his dues but by then, the train had long gone. “There are 18 of us who have to go to Assam and though we got calls for the train, we chose to stay behind till we got our salaries,” Boro said. The Covid-19 pandemic and the crisis triggered by the lockdown has pushed many like Boro into a dilemma - choosing between a train to go home or waiting for their wages. Rahul Chouhan, who works as a construction worker with MVR Constructions, also deliberately missed his train home. “If I leave, what guarantee do I have that I will get my money,” the Bihar resident said. Chouhan was brought to Goa by an acquaintance to work on the national highway expansion project on the outskirts of Mapusa. Seven of the workers are from Bihar and three from Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur, a seat once represented by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Most of the workers did not receive their wages for April and May and they did not want to leave the state till they collected the same. “We used to work for a labour contractor, but it is not his fault that we didn’t get paid. The main contractor for the highway work has not paid him, so we can’t even demand for our money,” Chouhan said. Most construction workers and daily wage labourers have left Goa for home. But not all workers opted to miss the train. Construction worker Vijay Singh made the difficult choice to forego Rs 10,000 in wages and decided to head home to Morena district in Madhya Pradesh. “The labour contractor has not paid me Rs 10,000 for earlier work. He said that since the site work is pending, he has not been paid,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/several-torn-between-wages-train-home/articleshow/76376792.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath orders drive to check documents of UP govt teachers||LUCKNOW: Stung by the fraud in which several imposters were found working as teachers at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas on the basis of academic records of one Anamika Shukla, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday ordered the constitution of a dedicated team to launch a state-wide drive to check documents of government teachers across the state. Announcing the decision during a high-level meeting of officials of ‘Team 11’ at his official residence, the CM said strict action should be initiated if a teacher was reported to be working on fake documents. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said: “The team will start functioning at the earliest. It will conduct inquiries in social welfare, basic, secondary and higher education departments as well as KGBVs.” TOI had reported earlier that at least 25 imposters used Anamika’s name and educational qualification to bag jobs in KGBVs. One mastermind, two fake Anamika Shuklas arrestedWhile nine FIRs have been lodged in this connection, one of the masterminds, Jaswant Jatav, and two fake ‘Anamika Shuklas’ have been arrested. On June 6, police had arrested a woman, Supriya, in Kasganj for working as a full-time teacher under the fake identity of Anamika Shukla. Though the woman had sent her resignation to the basic shiksha adhikari, Kasganj, through a friend who was detained at the office, she was caught and handed over to the police for questioning. A native of Mainpuri, she was working as a full-time science teacher at KGBV in Faridpur area of Kasganj and also simultaneously at schools in Ambedkar Nagar, Baghpat, Aligarh, Saharanpur and Prayagraj districts. On Friday, Anita Devi, was also arrested from Mainpuri for working as a part-time teacher in the name of Anamika Shukla in KGBV, Alapur, in Ambedkar Nagar. The real Anamika Shukla was found to be a housewife in Gonda whose documents were used by fake teachers. When the case was reported in the media, she met the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) in Gonda to lodge a complaint on the basis of which a case was registered in this connection. On Saturday, the real Anamika got a job offer from a government-aided private school in Gonda. The UP STF was on Saturday handed over the probe to look into larger conspiracy in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-orders-drive-to-check-docus-of-up-govt-teachers/articleshow/76376797.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam man’s death takes Covid death toll to 11||Bhubaneswar/ Berhampur: A 50-year-old man died of Covid-19 in Ganjam on Sunday, taking the death toll from the virus in the state to 11. Odisha reported 186 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total count of infected persons to 3,909. Of them, 171 were from quarantine centres and 16 were local cases. “Regret to report that a 50-year-old male Covid positive patient of Ganjam district passed away while undergoing treatment in hospital. He was suffering from underlying co-morbidities of diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,” the health and family welfare department’s update said. To check the spurt of the Covid-19 cases in Ganjam, the district administration on Sunday extended the lockdown till June 30. There will be restriction on the movement of people, except medical emergencies and the supply of essential goods and services in Ganjam. People will be allowed to venture out of their homes between 7am and 12 noon for essential purposes as shops will be permitted to open during this period only. “Total lockdown will be followed in Ganjam from today (Sunday) onwards up to June 30. Till today, there is no community spread of corona in Ganjam. We have to prevent future community spread,” district collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange said. He added, “Before taking this stringent decision, the administration took the feedback of different sections of people in the district, including elected representatives, social activists and others.” The district has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases (684) and six deaths so far. “More than two lakh returnees, who came here from across the country, mostly hotspots, were put in quarantine. Many of them completed the quarantine period. A further 15-day lockdown will be helpful in deactivating the virus and save many lives,” Kulange said. He added, “During the lockdown, there will be no vehicle movement, unless it is a health-related issue. The district administration has asked people to avoid travelling and crowds. Buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis will not be allowed to ply. Vehicles coming from the railway station and airport will be allowed as per the guidelines. Banks and government offices will function as usual. People are allowed to carry out livelihood projects like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and agriculture-related works.” Among the 186 fresh cases, the highest (22) cases were reported from Kandhamal followed by 21 from Khurda, 16 each from Kalahandi and Bargarh, 15 from Gajapati, 13 from Mayurbhanj, 12 each from Jajpur and Cuttack, 11 each from Keonjhar and Jagatsinghpur, seven from Puri, four from Ganjam, three from Sundargarh, to each from Jharsuguda, Dhenkanal and Balangir and one each from Bhadrak, Malkangiri, Angul and Kendrapada. Besides, 13 more NDRF, ODRAF and fire service personnel, who had gone to West Bengal after Cyclone Amphan, tested positive on Sunday. Moreover, Bhubaneswar reported 16 new corona positive cases taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 122. Of the fresh cases, 14 were reported from home quarantine and two were local cases. In addition, 114 Covid-19 patients recovered on Sunday of whom 30 patients were from Sundargarh district, 23 from Khurda, 17 from Ganjam, 11 from Cuttack, 10 from Mayurbhanj, eight from Gajapati, five from Bargarh, four from Nayagarh, three from Balangir, one each from Balasore, Koraput and Sambalpur, the health and family welfare department informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-mans-death-takes-covid-death-toll-to-11/articleshow/76375885.cms||Minati Singha
June 15, 2020||Kochi||Over 1k passengers reach Kochi airport||Kochi: More than 1,000 passengers stranded in the Middle East and the Central Asian country of Tajikistan landed at the Cochin International Airport (Cial) in seven different flights on Sunday. The first flight to land at the airport was one from Dubai, which landed at 1.56am with 180 passengers, followed by a flight from Tajikistan’s Dushanbe Airport with 170 passengers. Tajikistan is the third Central Asian country after Armenia and Kazakhstan from where repatriation flights are being operated to Kochi. Two flights arrived from Kuwait. While Go Air flight (G8 7084) with 180 passengers touched down at 7.04pm, Air India Express flight (IX 1496) landed at 6.46pm. Jazeera flight (J9 1405), also from Kuwait, was scheduled to land at 11.17pm. Go Air flight (G8 7080) reached from Abu Dhabi with 180 passengers at 5.33pm and Air India Express flight (IX 1476) from Doha landed at 5.10pm with 180 passengers. The Indigo flight (6E 9371) from Dammam landed at 8.14pm. The Air Arabia flight from Sharjah (G9 425) was scheduled to land at 9.05pm. As many as 1,400 expatriates are expected to reach Kochi on Monday in another seven flights operated from Middle East, Malaysia and Sri Lanka. There will be two flights from Kuwait, one each from Jeddah, Colombo, Doha, Muscat and Kuala Lumpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-1k-passengers-reach-kochi-airport/articleshow/76374988.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||100 RPF men rejoin duty after quarantine period ends||Ludhiana: After completing of the home quarantine period by more than 100 local Railway Protection Force (RPF) officials, the high command of the RPF have assigned them duties at the city railway station check post for managing the issues related to the security there and handling the crowd of migrant workers, so that they do not leave the station without undergoing medical screening process. All officials of the RPF have completed their pre-medical health check-up before rejoining their duty following the railway authorities’ demand of increasing the number of security personnel to coordinate with the team of district health department. They will help in restricting the flow of migrant workers from exiting the station without ensuring their proper medical screening before they enter the city premises. The local check post was sealed by the health department team after 57 officials tested positive during their throat swab testing process at a city government hospital. Moreover, the railway health department of the Railways had placed hundreds-plus local officials in home quarantine. Although, the railway authorities have also taken the help of Government Railway Police force for patrolling at various unmanned railway crossings and restricting the flow of unauthorised travellers from boarding trains by using illegal means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/100-rpf-men-rejoin-duty-after-quarantine-period-ends/articleshow/76375900.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||Video plea works, over 600 seamen on way to Goa||Panaji: After their distress video seeking the government’s nod to return to India, over 600 Indian seafarers including 270 Goans aboard a Marella cruise in South Hampton are on their way home. The seafarers will arrive on Monday on two flights to Goa and Mumbai, which have been chartered by the company. While the flight to Goa will land early morning with 303 passengers including Goans and Maharashtrians, the second flight to Mumbai will land later the same day. “Authorities immediately took action after our video went viral. We are relieved to be going home as we have been in the middle of the sea and haven’t seen land for almost three months now. We were fed up and stressed. Some crew members had medical emergencies and deaths in their families,” a Goan crew member told TOI. After the charters arranged by their company got cancelled on two occasions in the past, the seafarers made a video while holding up the Indian flag and posters requesting the Indian government to permit the charters to land in India. A total of 505 seafarers returned on special flights on Saturday and Sunday. A TUI flight from Belgium brought 225 seafarers who were stranded in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. “TUI Fly, the twelfth repatriation flight brought in 225 stranded seafarers from Amsterdam to Goa. The flight landed at 11.10pm on Saturday. Smooth arrival and exit was ensured while following all health and social distance protocols,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. He also said that there are plans for more repatriation flights to land at Goa in the coming days with a Vande Bharat flight expected from Dubai around June 20. “Now that approvals are being given, the boys have been told to remain ready as the flights are leaving within a day,” said founder president of Goa Seamen Association of India Dixon Vaz. Domestic flights could also increase in the coming days with IndiGo seeking permission to start flights to Kannur, Ahmedabad, Hubbali and Chennai. Flights between Goa and Mumbai have yet to commence due to the lack of landing slots at Mumbai International airport. Goa airport has four slots for flights to Mumbai but they remain unutilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/video-plea-works-over-600-seamen-on-way-to-goa/articleshow/76376794.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Local body panels to track home-quarantined citizens||PANAJI: The state government has constituted three-member committees across all wards of panchayat and municipal areas to keep a close watch on those who have opted for 14-day home quarantine instead of the Covid-19 test while entering the state. Goa has 91 panchayats and 14 municipalities, including the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). The committee, which comprises a ward member, talathi and police personnel, will pay random visits to residences of those in home quarantine and report their observation to the collector, a senior officer at the collectorate said. “If the person who has been quarantined is not found at home or is found roaming in the area, then a first information report will be filed against that person for violating the collector’s order,” a senior officer said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that a sticker would be pasted on houses of those people who have opted for home quarantine and that a local representative — panch, sarpanch, secretary panchayat, chief officer of the municipality or councillor — would keep a close watch on them. According to the new standard operating procedure (SOP), which came into force last week, persons entering the state from abroad can now opt for 14-day home quarantine if they test negative for Covid-19. Earlier, persons entering the state from abroad had to complete seven days in facility quarantine and another seven in home quarantine. While this option still exists under the new SOP, it is no longer compulsory. However, after getting tested and till the result is known, the person must stay in paid facility quarantine. The new SOP, that does away with compulsory testing for domestic arrivals, led to a huge uproar. From last week, persons arriving in Goa from within India have three options — 14-day home quarantine, get tested by paying Rs 2,000 and wait at a facility quarantine till the result is out, or produce a Covid-negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab that was issued less than 48 hours prior to arrival. As per the new SOP, all persons travelling to Goa will be screened with a thermal scanner. Earlier, the screening was done with a thermal gun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/local-body-panels-to-track-home-quarantined-citizens/articleshow/76376796.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Pillars along Indo-Nepal border for demarcation found 'missing' in UP, Nepal sets up five new border outposts||Bareilly: Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) officials said that they have informed the home department and the Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate in Uttar Pradesh about the “missing” pillars on the Indo-Nepal border that served as demarcation. Nepal has also inaugurated five new border outposts in the area where members of ‘Sashastra Prahari Bal’ (Nepal’s armed police force) have been deployed. Meanwhile, in India, all border outposts have been put on high alert, with intensified patrolling. The 39th battalion of SSB protects the 62.9-kilometre area on Indo-Nepal border in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Recently, SSB commandant Munna Singh had written a letter to Kheri DM Shailendra Singh to inform him about the missing pillars and encroachment on the Indo-Nepal border. Kheri district shares its boundary with Kailali and Kanchanpur districts of Nepal. After the recent tensions on the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar, all the border outposts here were also put on a high alert. Earlier, tension had prevailed on the border here when officials of Dudhwa National Park were digging trenches along with the border to restrict the entry of poachers and smugglers from Nepal into Indian forests. The issue was later resolved after a meeting between officials of both sides. When TOI contacted the SSB commandant regarding the missing pillars, he said, “We cannot share the information about the number of missing pillars as it is confidential. The encroachment may be because of geographical reasons as Lekhpals in Nepal have allotted land to people in no man’s land in the border areas, and even beyond the border in some cases. It is also likely because of some administrative error, which is why we have written to the Kheri DM to resolve this issue through meetings with Nepal officials.” Asked about the sudden increase in the number of border outposts, Singh said, “Nepal has said that they want to restrict illegal entry of people into Nepal to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. They have stationed armed jawans at a distance of 100-200 metres on the border. We share good rapport with the Nepalese officials and there are no issues, like Bihar or Uttarakhand, here.” “SSB is alert and ready to tackle any situation,” he added. Meanwhile, Kheri DM Shailendra Singh said, “We are in touch with the chief development officers of Kailali and Kanchanpur districts to resolve the dispute over land encroachment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pillars-along-indo-nepal-border-for-demarcation-found-missing-in-up-nepal-sets-up-five-new-border-outposts/articleshow/76374250.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Buffer tourism in Pench, Tadoba from July 1: Rathod||Nagpur: Even as Madhya Pradesh will start tourism in core area amid Covid-19 pandemic fears from Monday, Maharashtra forest minister Sanjay Rathod on Sunday ruled out tourism in core area of tiger reserves in the state. Taking a U-turn from his own statement during his two-day tour of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) that all parks and tiger reserves in the state will be thrown open for tourists during monsoon, Rathod told TOI, “From July 1, monsoon tourism will be opened in select routes in buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Pench.” Rathod said, “Even as the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has issued guidelines to launch tourism with restrictions, lockdown has been imposed in the state till June 30 and hence tourism in core area cannot be started. Tourism in core area will start from October 1.” “As there is no buffer zone earmarked for tourism in Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR), some motorable routes in Pench and Tadoba buffer will remain open as per the directions from district collector,” said Rathod. Pench chief conservator (CCF) & field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “Number of buffer routes and opening of them will be decided after taking stock of the situation and road conditions by June end.” However, even as there is enough scope for buffer tourism in Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati, there is no talk about Melghat. During his visit to Melghat two days ago, many guides and other stakeholders urged forest minister to start tourism in Melghat. They have learnt to have submitted written requests to APCCF & field director MS Reddy. Local MLA Rajkumar Patel too met forest minister requesting him to start tourism as due to lockdown all guides and local stakeholders dependent on tourism have been facing the heat of unemployment. Though Melghat officials are keen to start tourism in Tipeshwar and Dnyanganga sanctuaries, there is no clarity yet. Meanwhile, in MP Pench, amid opposition from local gram panchayats like Turia, Kohka and Satosha, where most of the resorts are located, a meeting was held between resort owners and locals, who were pursued that people need to fight coronavirus with precautions. “We briefed them that individual resort owner will be responsible for implementing the Central and state SOPs. The start of tourism will help boost the dead economy in the area owing to lockdown,” said Sandeep Singh, member, LAC, Pench (MP). However, even as tourism will start in Pench, there is confusion in the minds of visitors from Nagpur that as per rules those entering Maharashtra will have to be quarantine for 14 days. However, Deolapar police station in-charge Pravin Borkute said, “The rule will be applicable for those coming from other states and not for tourists from Nagpur.” In another development, the Communists Party of India (CPI) activists will stage protest at Turia gate against opening of tourism. In a release, CPI leader DD Wasnik said, “Spread of Covid-19 cannot be ruled out with opening of the park.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buffer-tourism-in-pench-tadoba-from-july-1-rathod/articleshow/76376404.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Netas instigate locals to stop shifting of homeless women||HYDERABAD: Politicians, including elected representatives of the Secunderabad assembly segment, allegedly instigated locals citing fear of Covid-19 so that they object the shifting of 25 homeless (all women) to a Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) community hall in Warasiguda. Some locals even locked the gate of the community hall when the shifting was underway. “Politicians asked people to object the move as many people who want to organise events (public and private) approach them for the venue owned by GHMC. They in-turn arrange the venue and earn brownie points. The shifting of the homeless will dent their authority to an extent,” a source told TOI. GHMC wanted to shift the destitutes to the community hall as the state-sponsored shelter in Namalagundu is in a dilapidated condition. When questioned about the incident, Warasiguda corporator B Dhananjana Bai said locals objected the move fearing coronavirus. “Residents living in vicinity of the hall are demanding that the homeless be shifted as they fear spread of Covid-19. The issue has already been escalated to deputy speaker T Padma Rao,” the corporator, who emphasised that locals were not instigated by politicians, added. Civic officials said they can’t risk the life of people. “The monsoon has arrived and we can’t risk lives of people. In case of a building collapse, GHMC will be blamed,” said a GHMC officials. By Sunday evening, the officials were able to shift all the homeless people. Some homeless people shifted the luggage on Saturday but were unable to move to the new place as locals raised objection. Some residents questioned about their safety. “Politicians did not contact me directly but people from my locality asked me to object the move. They said in case homeless people are shifted, there is chance of Covid-19 spreading in our locality. They also said the locality will turn chaotic due to frequent movement by the destitutes and space crunch,” a resident told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/netas-instigate-locals-to-stop-shifting-of-homeless-women/articleshow/76376802.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Weekend lockdown a reminder that Covid hasn’t ended yet’||Amid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases the government faces the challenge of keeping the situation under control. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who represents the west constituency of this industrial town, while talking to TOI’s Nidhi Bhardwaj says the government is taking all measures to bring things back on track. Be it the issue of return of migrants from other states, supply and distribution of food items or speeding up development projects, Punjab government has been setting an example for other states. Regarding the government's decision to impose lockdown on weekends and public holidays, he said the decision was a reminder to the people that the coronavirus spread had not stopped yet and they would have to follow the guidelines Q) What are the plans to streamline the process of food distribution, particularly among the poor, at a time when migrants are coming back to the city. Many of them had left on an account that they did not have the food to eat? A) First of all, there was no shortage of food or ration in the city or in the state. Everybody got food to eat during lockdown as well as now. The arrangements were done to provide groceries or other essential items from door to door. And as far as allegations of migrants were concerned even they did not face any food crisis. For almost two months they remained here in lockdown and no one remained hungry. Along with the government, many NGOs and social organisations distributed food and grocery in large quantities. Now, when we have moved towards opening up everything and migrants are returning, the first priority is their screening and proper check up. Migrants are important for farming sector, industries and construction activities, so at the moment, the maximum thrust is to keep check on movement of public, to and fro from other states so as to control spread of Covid-19 cases. Q) Since you are a cabinet minister, are you taking up issues of industrialists, farmers or other sectors with the chief minister. Locals have been seeking waivers on electricity bills or licence fee? A) No doubt, I have taken up issues with CM. Now, after lockdown was relaxed, many issues were discussed with CM. Recently, a proposal was discussed, whether the government should waive two month rent of shopkeepers for the lockdown period. As far as school fee is concerned, schools are told to take only tuition fee from parents because schools are liable to pay salary to teaching and non-teaching staff. There is a financial management committee at state level and we discuss public issues there. Q) Reacting over this lockdown at weekends and public holidays, the Akali Dal leaders commented that the government was confused and it would disturb already disturbed people who are dependent upon the daily wages system? A) Akali Dal itself is in a confused state of mind. Instead of supporting the government in fighting Covid-19, they are indulging in politics. It was because of cheap politics of Akali Dal with pilgrims of Nanded Sahib that Punjab recorded a spike in cases of coronavirus. The Punjab government has taken decisions at the right time and that is why the disease is somehow under control. This decision of lockdown at weekend and public holidays has been taken because people had somehow presumed that coronavirus has ended. This fight will continue for more time. As far as CM Amarinder Singh is concerned, his decisions are followed in other states. He announced a lockdown at the weekend and now even the MP government had implemented this decision in the state . I will advise Akali Dal leaders that they should not feel insecure or afraid, rather support the government in fighting this disease. Q) Many smart city projects were started in your constituency under the ABD area scheme but due to lockdown, work stopped. The pace is slow. What will be done to ensure that the work for these projects is speeded up? A) Most projects have started, which include ROB/RUB at Pakhowal Road, Malhar Road beautification, Sarabha Nagar beautification, Sidhwan Canal waterfront and solar panels at school and government buildings. Initially, the labour crisis was there but now gradually projects have picked up pace and I am reviewing the smart city projects pace on a regular basis. Hopefully, projects will see completion shortly. Q) Any new projects lined up for coming months? Ans) Though at this moment priority is to complete the ongoing projects, but some more projects will be taken up in the coming days. The projects like second phase of Sidhwan Canal waterfront and ROB at Dana Mandi will be taken up under smart city mission while the National Highway Authority of India officials have also given approval to some more projects for the city. Recently, chairman of NHAI visited the city and he had given the nod for construction of cut at Tajpur Road chowk while some issues were with Ladhowal bypass project were also discussed and rectified. Now, the deputy commissioner will take up the projects with departments concerned. Q) There are allegations from fellow MLAs as well as opposition that only the West constituency is being preferred for development works? Ans) Projects are going on in my constituency because areas were selected under smart city mission and that was based on the public voting. Moreover, every day every MLA is doing one or the other inauguration in their respective areas. Mayor Balkar Sandhu has never adopted a pick and choose policy like the Akali mayor used to do when Congress councillors and MLAs were completely ignored. Now, regular meetings are being taken up with councillors of other parties as well. As far as fellow MLAs are concerned, even they have no problem as in their constituencies as works are being taken up gradually. Q) Funds have remained a major constraint in the development of the city. What are the plans to bring funds for development works ? A Funds were never an issue for the development and this situation was created by a group of contractors who had their own agenda. Even in lockdown the MC was the only institution which paid salary to the employees and now the civic body has liabilities worth Rs 50 to 60 crore against ongoing works. Initially, when we took over, at that time the situation was a little bit problematic but now we have brought stability. The development works are going on in every ward and in every constituency. Q) You represent as MLA from the West constituency and also a cabinet minister. How do you balance responsibilities? Ans) The state responsibilities are there and to meet the requirements I have to be there in Chandigarh to keep check on procurement or other issues of the department. But I have not let it create any impact on my responsibilities for the people in my constituency who elected me. I have kept Friday, Saturday and Sunday for local people, who come with their requests and being an elected member it is my responsibility to get those works done. My wife Mamta Ashu, who is a councillor as well, supports me and handles many things of my constituency. Q) There are allegations against you and your wife that you interfere in the working of the civic body and try to control everything, what you have to say? Ans) Interference is when you try to stop any work, but our aim is to get the work completed. I would not call it interference, rather it is our duty. If we take up the issues of illegal buildings or LED lights, it is not because we want to interfere, rather it is our duty. I would say instead of bringing up allegations, other councillors or MLAs should follow and raise public issues for a logical ending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/weekend-lockdown-a-reminder-that-covid-hasnt-ended-yet/articleshow/76375904.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Naidu, Lokesh behind scams in TDP rule: Dadi||Visakhapatnam: YSRC senior leader Dadi Veerabhadra Rao on Sunday accused former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and his son and former minister Nara Lokesh of playing a role in every scam during the TDP regime. Speaking to the media here, Rao alleged, “Naidu is so scared of the ongoing investigations and the arrests of some TDP leaders. He is trying to gain political mileage by using the BC (backward community) card in the arrest of former minister K Atchannaidu. There is no political vendetta as the arrests were made after due inquiry,” Rao said. “While the state government is intent on weeding out the corrupt, Naidu is trying to derail the process by accusing the government of revenge,” said Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/naidu-lokesh-behind-scams-in-tdp-rule-dadi/articleshow/76375903.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao Hospital is now a Covid-19 facility||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Sunday declared Hindu Rao Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Hindu Rao is the largest civic hospital in the capital. "In view of the projections of surge in Covid-19 cases and the necessity of augmenting bed capacity urgently, Bara Hindu Rao Hospital running under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is hereby declared as a designated Covid-19 hospital," the state health department said in an order. Medical superintendents have been directed to make the hospital beds available to admit Covid-19 patients as per the laid down protocol by June 16, it added.  The hospital would also start accepting samples for novel coronavirus testing, the official said. Early this month, testing was suspended due to backlog and issuing of showcause notice to the concern testing lab for violating ICMR norms by the state government. A senior north corporation official said at present, there are 980 beds in the hospital, of which 37 are unavailable due to the building being declared dangerous. Hindu Rao also has 17 ventilators, 8 ICU beds and 4 high dependency unit beds, along with 250 beds with oxygen administering facilities. Bara Hindu Rao Hospital also has a bank of PPEs and is already running a fever clinic. On Friday, TOI had reported that the municipal commissioner and the state chief secretary attended a meeting to assess the resources in civic body hospitals.  As far as shifting of patients from the hospital is concerned, the official said that around 209 patients, who are currently admitted at Hindu Rao will be shifted to Kasturba Hospital, Rajan Babu Institute of P ulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis and Girdhar Lal Maternity Hospital, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hindu-rao-hospitalis-now-a-covid-19-facility/articleshow/76377336.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Request for food, grocery drop as people return to work||COIMBATORE: With life limping back to normalcy, people in the district seem to be less dependent on community support. During the lockdown, scores of people, including stranded guest workers, used to approach the city corporation, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other volunteers daily for food and other essentials. Now, they receive only a few requests a week, thanks to the unlocking of the lockdown and resumption of businesses. The city corporation, along with NGOs, had set up community kitchens to provide food to the needy during the lockdown. They used to distribute about 15,000 food packets a day. Several other organizations and political parties were also distributing food to the people in the district. Volunteers said the number of requests for food and other essential items has come down to a larger extent now as most of the business activities have resumed in the district. Padmanaban Gopal, founder of No Food Waste, said they had closed the community kitchens about a month ago as the request for food had come down. In April, they used to receive 750-1,000 calls a day, requesting food. They had also identified more than 70 hunger spots in the city. Pointing out that the number of request calls had come down, he said they were now distributing grocery kits that would help a family survive for 20-25 days on request, instead of food packets. His team has so far distributed about 3,800 grocery kits in the district alone and 14,000 kits across the state. Vaishnavee Balaji, founder of Food Bank, also said the number the of calls seeking help has come down. “I get only five to six calls a week, requesting grocery materials. We are continuing the food distribution drive as there is a requirement for the same in orphanages and other homes.” If at all the government imposes another lockdown, she said, the situation would become extremely difficult as people have already spent most of their savings. R Raveendran, secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, said, “Most of the guest workers have gone back to their home states, while others have returned to work. Most of them have become self-sustained. Hence, the drop in request calls.” More than 40,000 guest workers have left for their hometowns from the district after the state government arranged special trains for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-request-for-food-grocery-drop-as-people-return-to-work/articleshow/76376397.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 15, 2020||Meerut||UP: Brother-sister duo dies, four others injured in road accident||AMROHA: A brother-sister duo died and four others from the same family were severely injured when the car they were travelling in rammed into a divider on the national highway in Amroha on Sunday. While the bodies were sent for post-mortem, those injured continue to recuperate at a hospital here. According to police, the deceased were identified as 24-year-old Naziya from Baseli village and her 15-year-old brother Kamran from Badarka village of Amroha district. The injured were identified as Naziya's husband Javed Ahmed, her brother-in-law Furkan, sister-in-law Imrana and mother-in-law Firdosi. The family was on their way to Meerut when their car went out of control and rammed into a divider here at zero point on national highway in Gajraula. Naziya and her brother died on the spot, while four others sustained severe injuries. Amroha superintendent of police (SP) Vipin Tada said, “Two persons died while four sustained serious injuries. They are undergoing treatment and their condition is stated to be critical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/brother-sister-duo-dies-four-others-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/76375001.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal remembers jovial, down-to-earth reel Dhoni||KOLKATA/KHARAGPUR: Out on Covid-special duty, train ticket examiner Satya Prakash Krishna couldn’t believe his ears when his wife called him on Sunday afternoon and said “Sushant Bhai” was no more and that the actor had committed suicide. His phone had no internet connection as the train had just chugged out of Gomoh in Jharkhand. He kept clicking on mobile data option and just as the internet connectivity came, he searched the news and slumped on his seat. “We had a chat few months ago and he seemed extremely jovial and energetic. For me and my wife, Sushant was not a celebrity, but a family member, who used to address my wife as sister and used to text me at odd hours remembering old days. I feel shattered,” said Krishna, one of former India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s colleagues and flatmates during his TTE days in Kharagpur. He had spent several months with actor Sushant Singh Rajput when he was shooting for Dhoni’s biopic — ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story’ — back in 2015-16. Between November 2015 and February 2016, Sushant had spent two months in Kharagpur shooting for the film which was released in September 2016 and remains his most talked-about movie till date. Krishna said he was in touch with the actor over Whatsapp and Instagram Direct. “He used to remember staying at my railway quarters and share simple roti-bhindi bhujia with my daughter Mahi. He even used to go out to have panipuri with my wife and daughter and was extremely fond of litti-chokha my wife used to make,” said Krishna, who, in real life had brought Dhoni from Ranchi to Kharagpur and made him sign a contract with Railways. Equally shocked were Dhoni’s other railway colleagues Robin Kumar and Deepak Singh, both of whom had spent several days with Sushant during the shooting. “I still get goosebumps thinking of the day when me and Sushant were batting during a practice match and the way he was emulating every mannerism of Dhoni,” said Singh. Robin Kumar, MS Dhoni’s team captain during his early days who had spent two months with Sushant during the shooting, said that like Dhoni, Sushant was also fond of biking. Local MLA Pradip Sarkar, who had also played a small role in the biopic, remembered Sushant as a down-to-earth actor. Ghatal MP and actor Dev posted on Twitter: “Thinking that one of his very last films talked about not to succumb to suicide and not being a quitter #Chhechhore... and then this... reel and real life... irony... gone too soon.” Sushant’s other Bengal connect is the Dibakar Banerjee directed 2015 release ‘Detective Byomkesh Bakshy’ that was extensively shot in Kolkata. Director Arindam Sil, who was the film’s line producer, said: “Initially, I wasn’t too convinced because of his height and face. But Dibakar asked me to wait. I first saw him wearing a half-sleeve sweater that was knitted by hand. He just fit into the character so well.” (With inputs from Priyanka Dasgupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-remembers-jovial-down-to-earth-sushant/articleshow/76376415.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Man killed as truck rams car||Coimbatore: A 33-year-old man was killed after a speeding truck rammed his car on Coimbatore-Pollachi Road on Sunday. The deceased was identified as S Aravind from Mahalingapuram in Pollachi. Another passenger Balaji, 30, suffered severe head injuries and was admitted in a private hospital. The Madukkarai police said Aravind was driving his car from Coimbatore to Pollachi. When be reached near a private college, a speeding truck coming from opposite direction rammed his car. Aravind suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. The Madukkarai police have registered a case against the truck driver, Ponram. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-killed-as-truck-rams-car/articleshow/76376407.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||‘Y’ security cover to Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has provided ‘Y’ category security to Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav. The security detail around Aparna, who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly elections from Lucknow Cantonment seat, will now comprise 11 armed guards around her. Aparna, who is married to Mulayam’s younger son Prateek Yadav, hails from Uttarakhand like Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and of late has been making headlines for her stance construed as pro-BJP. “We had approached the state government months ago for security when we were staying with Netaji (Mulayam Singh) at his Vikramaditya Marg government accommodation. We sent a few reminders thereafter and now I am thankful to the chief minister for providing us the Y-category security,” Aparna told TOI on Sunday. Political analysts, however, describe as “conspicuous” the timing of the government offering the elite security cover to Aparna. It has come days after Mulayam’s younger brother Shivpal Yadav hinting at mending fences with SP chief and nephew Akhilesh Yadav. The two had strained relations since the battle of supremacy broke out in the Yadav clan ahead of 2017 UP elections. Till recently, Shivpal was being seen indirectly helping BJP's cause, particularly after he floated a separate political outfit – Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party – Lohia (PSP-L) before 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Yogi government’s decision to allot a palatial government accommodation to Shivpal’s new political outfit had triggered rumours of him siding with the saffron brigade in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Now, ‘Y’ category security to Aparna is also being seen in the same light. Though still a member of the SP, Aparna has left her brother-in-law and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav uncomfortable on quite a few occasions with her occasional praise of PM Modi, CM Yogi and their policies. Aparna and Prateek had called on Yogi Adityanath soon after he was sworn in as UP CM in March 2017. Weeks later, the CM had visited Kanha Upvan, a cow shelter in Lucknow run by a Trust where Aparna and Prateek are patrons. The two meetings had fuelled speculation about Aparna's new political leanings. She, however, had denied any such possibility then. In 2015, her selfie with PM Narendra Modi at a wedding in the Yadav clan in Saifai had also made headlines. Aparna had also courted controversy when she praised Modi’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and even attended Modi’s visit to Dr BR Ambedkar University convocation in Lucknow. She was the only person from the Yadav family to attend the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/y-security-cover-to-msys-chhoti-bahu/articleshow/76376799.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana exports 59,000 tonnes of turmeric in 5 months||HYDERABAD: Though the economy is on a downward spiral in the country and the state due to Covid-19-induced lockdown and aftermath, there is no such fear for turmeric farmers of Telangana as the commodity’s exports from the state created a new record. Over 59,000 tonne of the commodity has been exported in the first five months of the year, a record in the last seven years. According to Spices Board data, the state has exported 59,580 tonnes of turmeric in the first five months of the year, which is highest for the same period in the last seven years. Telangana, which is the biggest exporter of turmeric and its value-added products in the country, has about 30% share in the totals exports of the commodity. The record feat was achieved as the essential services transport was permitted and marketing officials took special care to get requisite permissions to export turmeric through ships and flights, Spices Boards officials said. “Except for a few days during the first lockdown , the exports continued with regular monitoring,” top officials from the board, representing the state, said. There is huge demand for by-products of turmeric, especially for its naturally-occurring chemical compound curcumin, in the pharma industry. Exports were sent to countries like the US, the UK , Sri Lanka and Nepal. Officials said of 130 exporters registered with the government, 30 were active. “Despite the lockdown and Covid-19 crisis, another 20 traders have sought export licence,” they added. Some exporters made good business with export to other states. “ If the crop has hight curcumin percentage, it will reap good dividends, but most farmers in Nizmabad area, where most crop is grown, are not fully aware of it,” the officials pointed out. In the export market, value-added products of turmeric with good curcumin percentage get 50 to 100 per kg. However in the local market, the farmers get 4,800 per quintal (1000 kgs). “ If farmers adopt to good practices of drying the turmeric, they can strike gold,” an exporter from Khammam told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-exports-59k-tonnes-of-turmeric-in-5-months/articleshow/76376408.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Politicos jittery as second MLA tests positive||HYDERABAD: Elected representatives, particularly those from the ruling TRS who have been moving in public, are a worried lot now as another MLA tested positive on Sunday. The Nizamabad Rural MLA of the ruling party tested positive, while his wife’s test was negative. The couple have started from Nizamabad to Hyderabad for treatment. Two days ago, Jangaon TRS MLA and four others, including his wife, had tested positive. Incidentally,the Nizamabad Rural MLA had spent time with the Jangaon representative, who had tested positive for the virus earlier. Sources close to the Nizamabad Rural MLA told TOI that as soon as he received information that the Jangaon legislator had tested positive, he gave his samples for testing as both of them had spent time together at a meeting two days ago. The Nizamabad Rural MLA, who showed symptoms of coronavirus on Saturday, called up collector C Narayana Reddy, who sent doctors for collection of his blood and saliva samples. The samples were sent for examination and on Sunday the MLA was informed about the result. The family members of the MLA have been asked to quarantine themselves. The Nizamabad Rural MLA had attended the inaugural of the double bedroom houses at Bibipur tandai n Dichpally mandal on Saturday. Several district administration officials, ZPTC and MPTC members, sarpanches and followers of the MLA in the constituency were among those who participated in the programme. The collector has asked all these officials, elected representatives and followers of the MLA to home quarantine themselves and work from home. On Saturday, panchayat raj minister E Dayakar Rao and other elected representatives from Warangal district appealed to the people not to come and meet them in person. Though the personal assistant of finance minister T Harish Rao had also tested positive, the minister tested negative. Over 50 people, including officials who moved closely with Rao were also tested. They have been told to quarantine themselves at home respectively||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/politicos-jittery-as-2nd-mla-tests-ve/articleshow/76376418.cms||Roushan Ali
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers make a beeline for city rly station to woo workers||Ludhiana: After hearing news reports of migrant labourers returning to the city on passenger trains, farmer community from different villages of the district are visiting the city railway station to woo these workers for this paddy season as they were struggling to find adequate number of labourers for sowing paddy in their fields. Keeping this thing in mind, the railway authorities have asked the district health department team to deploy the maximum number of health officials for quickly conducting the medical screening and verification of these labourers coming back here. A farmer, Baljeet Singh, from Machhiwara Sahib village said, “We are trying every best possible effort to arrange adequate number of migrant workers for sowing paddy crop in fields as we are facing acute shortage of workers after they left for their home states due to the lockdown.” He further said, “After hearing news reports about migrant workers returning to the city through rail transportation, we have reached the city railway station to woo them for supporting us in the field work by giving them appropriate wages on a daily basis.” “Earlier the migrants did the field work on terms and conditions of farmers by accepting every direction without dissent, but now things have changed totally because the workers are dictating their own terms and conditions to the farmers. We have to accept everything without doing any argument,” the farmer further added. Another farmer, Hardesh Singh, said, “I have been in the farming sector for the past 30 years but didn’t saw a crisis situation where farmer didn’t find adequate number of labourers for commencing the work of sowing paddy in their field as earlier in June a large number of workers used to reach the city in search of work in fields. But now the situation has turned totally against the farmer who are visiting the station for finding labourers to continue their work for their livelihood.” “We have tied up with several auto drivers stationed near the city railway station for getting information about migrant workers, so that we can easily contact them for our work,” he added. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “The railway authorities are prepared to deal with the heavy rush of migrant workers. We are getting daily inputs that the farmer community is booking their tickets on online portals for bringing them back here for resuming their paddy season work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-make-a-beeline-for-city-rly-station-to-woo-workers/articleshow/76375907.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Belur Math set to re-open on Monday; Kalighat gets 5 disinfectant gates||KOLKATA: Belur Math, the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission, will re-open its gates to devotees on Monday with a slew of measures, including hygiene and social distancing norms. Old timings have been revised and devotees will now be allowed to enter from 9am to 11am and again from 4pm to 6pm. Devotees who are more than 65 years old and children below 10 years will be not be allowed. Meanwhile, a monk of Belur Math has reportedly contracted Covid-19. He has been admitted to Peerless Hospital and is reportedly doing well. Sanitisation gates, meanwhile, have been installed at five entry points of Kalighat and the authorities held talks with the police for additional security inside the temple before dates for re-opening are decided. At Belur Math, a shamiana has been erected outside the entrance, where devotees will have to wait in the shade before proceeding for thermal scanning. This is because exposure to the sun might show a higher temperature. Foot-pedal dispensers with sanitizers have been installed at the gate where devotees have to sanitize their hands. Visitors will have to stand and offer pranaam, no lying prostrate on the ground will be allowed. The authorities will also not allow devotees to sit and offer pranaam or meditate. Marks have been made for devotees to maintain six-feet distance and this has to be followed even while taking a round of the main temple. Visitors will not be allowed to visit Swami Vivekananda’s dwelling house, because senior monks meditate there. There will be no distribution of prasad at noon and the museum will also remain closed. “No one will be allowed to touch the feet of senior monks as is the custom in the evenings and even on the day of Guru Purnima, that is on July 5,” said general secretary of RKM, Swami Suvirananda. The sanitisation gates were installed at Kalighat Temple on Sunday morning. The temple committee is, however, not too confident of re-opening the gates without assurance of additional police protection from Kalighat PS, as is done on special occasions like Kali Puja. “The space inside the temple is limited and we have limited manpower. Moreover, we have the custom of moving through a narrow passage towards the ‘garba griha’. The police cannot enter the ‘garba griha’ but till the point of entry into the sanctum sanctorum they will have to help us man the queue and ensure that no more than the permitted numbers enter the temple,” said Bidyut Haldar, vice president of the temple. The officer in charge of Kalighat police station, Shantanu Sinha Biswas, said, “Preliminary informal talks have happened but we would like to get the requisition from the temple committee in writing before acting accordingly. The final meetings are pending.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/belur-math-set-to-re-open-today-kalighat-gets-5-disinfectant-gates/articleshow/76376421.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Man shot at over children’s dispute, critical||Bareilly: A man was shot at allegedly by his neighbour and two others at a busy market in Aonla on Sunday in a dispute between children over a game of Ludo. Police said that the victim Mohammed Zahid was buying clothes from a shop when his neighbours Naushad alias Nanhe, his brother Shadab and Ishrat allegedly opened fire at him. He was then rushed to a private hospital where he is admitted in a critical condition. Heavy police force has been deployed in the area and efforts are on to trace the accused. Aonla SHO Suneel Kumar said, “Zahid and Naushad’s children had fought over a game of Ludo recently and both families were given a verbal warning by police. On Sunday, Naushad and two others attempted to kill Zahid, who is now admitted to a hospital. We have registered a case and are investigating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shot-at-over-childrens-dispute-critical/articleshow/76374286.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Third health worker tests positive for Covid-19 in dist||Thiruvananthapuram: The district reported the third instance of a health worker testing positive for Covid-19 with an ‘Asha’ worker from Kattakada panchayat confirmed with infection on Sunday. The 55-year-old woman who is employed at a primary health centre in Amachal and is a resident of Ettiruthy has been an active field worker in surveillance of homes where persons have been kept under room isolation in the panchayat. She said that she has no clue about the source of infection. She was active with field work and her swab sample was collected on June 11. She is also the first health worker to be tested positive as part of sentinel surveillance being done for healthcare workers in the district. According to her, she visited two banks once in a week. Her daughter, two grandchildren and her husband have been quarantined. Their swab samples were collected at General Hospital. Her daughter is employed at a milk processing plant. She also runs a tea shop along with her husband.  The panchayat authorities said that they have not had any positive cases or symptomatic patients recently from Kattakada panchayat. As many as 74 people are currently under home quarantine and 10 persons are under institutional quarantine in the panchayat. An ambulance driver employed at Navaikulam primary health centre was tested positive on May 25. A nursing assistant at Medical College Hospital was tested positive on June 9.  The epidemiolgical investigation team has been unable to detect source of infection in both cases. It is being cited that the ambulance driver may have contracted infection while transporting expatriates. However, this also raises another concern regarding breach of prevention protocol. In the case of nursing assistant, a series of violations were reported in testing and admission protocol as she was sent back home after collecting samples at Medical College Hospital. Her father and husband are now being treated for Covid-19. The ambulance driver had reported mild symptoms while the nursing assistant had shown clear symptoms before she was tested and confirmed with Covid-19. The Asha worker said that she had taken special precaution even during her field work. “I took care of my grandchildren at home. Hence, I was always cautious during field work. I have no idea as to how I got infected,” she said, adding that she mostly went to Amachal hospital and field work and rarely travelled for other purposes except to the banks once in a week. She has also remained asymptomatic. Three other persons were tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. They include a 39-year-old man who came from Karnataka, a 51-year-old woman from Palayamkunnu, Varkala who came from Dubai and a 37-year-old man from Venjaramoodu who arrived from Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/third-health-worker-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-dist/articleshow/76375033.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers a worried lot as NU asks them to join work||Nagpur: Amid rising Covid cases and concerns expressed by teachers, the Nagpur University (NU) has asked those at its departments, conducted institutions and affiliated colleges to join work from Monday. The teachers are worried mainly because they feel not just them but also their families would be exposed to the virus when they start venturing out for work. They say there is no likelihood of classes as students aren’t likely to turn up. Many colleges are insisting on compulsory five-hour stay even if there’s no work. Acting vice chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar and acting registrar Niraj Khati didn’t answer TOI’s calls. When asked, officiating Pro-VC SR Chaudhari said vacation period is over and the joining of employees would be as per the state government and local administration orders. “Teachers would be required for preparation of e-content, and other assessment works. 15% or 15 employees whichever is more have been asked to come as per the orders. There is possibility that exams may be conducted. In such case, readying the exam centre would be done by teachers,” he said. Chaudhari added that the principals will have to decide on the strength of teachers to be called to colleges and others can work from home. In its order dated June 12, the NU cited the state government and NMC orders regarding Mission Begin Again. The acting registrar ordered the colleges to ensure attendance of teachers in the office at their individual level. The state order states that colleges offices/staff of education institutions (universities/colleges/schools can operate only for the purpose of non-teaching purposes including development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results. However, the NMC bars opening of schools, colleges, educational training and coaching institutions etc. NU officials admitted the notification issued by the registrar lacks clarity and therefore there is resentment among teachers. They said the Marathwada University has specified that teachers can perform non-academic work home from June 16 to 30, which is start of the new academic year. “The word “employees” in the notification has left teachers at the mercy of principals who will take a call. Also, the state government has made it a must for all employees to attend office at least once in a week or he will be marked leave without pay,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-a-worried-lot-as-nu-asks-them-to-join-work/articleshow/76376420.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||NIA arrests Telangana Praja Front vice-president||HYDERABAD: National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested Telangana Praja Front (TPF) vice-president Nalamasa Krishna alleging that he was working for Maoists. The agency also named TPF as Maoist party’s frontal organisation. On Sunday, NIA arrested TPF vice-president Krishna, 41, in Khammam, stating that during investigation into the case booked in 2019 against Bandari Maddileti, president of Telangana Vidyarthi Vedika (TVV) pertaining to Maoist party’s frontal organisations, it came to light that Krishna had played a key role in supporting and furthering the activities of Maoists. According to sources, Krishna was in Khammam to undergo medical treatment for his ailments and the NIA team reportedly picked him up from a hospital on Sunday. The NIA claimed that during their investigation they found that Krishna was regularly visiting the top Maoist leaders in Chattisgarh forests and passed on their directions to TVV president Maddilletti, an NIA official said. “Krishna was also instrumental in directing the frontal organizations like TPF, TVV and others to take up various agitations and activities as per the CPI (Maoist) strategy. Under the garb of agitations for people’s welfare, Krishna misused the democratic set up for the ulterior motive of strengthening the proscribed organisation,” the NIA alleged. On October 8, 2019the , Nallakunta police had registered a case based on the seizure of incriminating documents and other material from the residence of Bandari Maddileti by the Gadwal police. The case was subsequently registered with the CCS police of Hyderabad and later NIA re-registered a case as (RC-04/2019/NIA/Hyd) and took over the probe. Earlier in October 2019, Krishna was arrested by the Gadwal police in a Maoist-related case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nia-arrests-tpf-vice-president/articleshow/76376423.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More than 5,000 people booked till now||Thiruvananthapuram: Since its introduction in the month of April, more than 5,000 people have been booked by the city police under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance was introduced by the government to strictly enforce the lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic as existing laws lacked provisions to deal with violators in a stringent manner. As per the statistics released on Sunday, as many as 5,522 persons were booked in the city in the months of April and May for violating lockdown regulations, invoking provisions of Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. However, the statistics also show that there is a gradual decrease in the figures, indicating that more people have started following rules as days pass. In April, as many as 3,725 persons were booked. The figure came down to 1,797 in the month of May. However, it has to be noted that the city police who were strictly focusing on enforcing lockdown regulations in the month of April, starting focusing on other routine works too such as traffic regulation and crime investigation in the third phase of lockdown that commenced from May 3. This may have affected the number of persons being booked for lockdown regulations, according to sources in the police itself. During this same period, the police also booked as many as 4,375 motorists for not following rules while traveling. In April, the number of cases related to this offence was 3,228 and it came down to 1,147 in May. The police have seized a total of 3,792 two-wheelers, 344 autorickshaws, 208 cars and 31 heavy vehicles, including buses and trucks, till May since lockdown came in force. One worrisome matter for the police is the reluctance of people to wear masks while going out. In April only 789 people were booked for this offence as majority of people were still confined to their homes. In May, when the regulations were relaxed, the figure rose up to 6,989. On Sunday too, when a total lockdown was in force, the police booked as many as 209 persons for not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-than-5000-people-booked-till-now/articleshow/76375041.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Railway lineman killed after being run over by train||Bareilly: A 56-year-old railway employee Suresh Kumar was run over by a goods train in Moradabad on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The government railway police (GRP) said that the body has been sent for autopsy and the matter is being investigated. Moradabad GRP inspector Sudhir Kumar said, “Suicide cannot be ruled out. The deceased’s family members did not want any further action. However, we are still investigating the matter,” SHO Kumar said. It should be noted that Kumar had been on leave for quite some time due to illness and had visited the railway hospital on Saturday. Additional Divisional Railway Managers (ADRM) Maan Singh Meena said that records are being checked to know if he was on duty or still on leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/railway-lineman-killed-after-being-run-over-by-train/articleshow/76374294.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Pangolin poaching rampant in Telangana, officials say trade of its scales may stop||HYDERABAD: The forest staff of Bhadradri-Kothagudem on Friday caught seven people involved in illegal wildlife trade of Pangolin in an undercover operation. The accused, who were sent for a 14-day remand on Sunday, told officials that they trafficked the animal from the forest, killed it and consumed the meat before they got arrested while trying to sell its scales. However, this is not an isolated case of illegal wildlife trade in Telangana. In 2019, the state forest department listed 80 poachers who were involved in illegal wildlife trade of various protected species, but wildlife conservationists claim pangolin poaching is rampant in Telangana. Vikram Aditya, a post-doctoral research associate at the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment said, “Pangolin poaching is quite rampant in Telangana. In fact, it is the most frequently poached animal across the country for trafficking. In Telangana, we have seen people who believe in black magic make rings and amulets out of their scales to ward off evil forces. Here, a lot of pangolins are killed for local consumption. Only a fraction of them are sent abroad.” According to a report in TRAFFIC, a global wildlife trade-monitoring network, the equivalent of 5,772 pangolins were seized during the period 2009–2017 out of which nine per cent were from AP and Telangana. The report further states that this is a conservative estimate since an unknown fraction of illegal wildlife trade is detected while the conversion factor assumed all scales originated from adult Indian pangolins. “The number of pangolins in illegal wildlife trade is of concern, but without accurate population estimates, the impact of such trade is unclear. There is need for a proper estimation of their population in the country to protect them,” said Farida Tampal, State Director, WWF-India. According to a few sources, the average price of pangolin scales is reportedly over 2 lakh per kg in the international market. However, forest department officials believe that this illegal trade might stop in near future. “Most of these pangolins that were being poached here were going to China earlier. Now, since the Chinese government has put a ban on pangolin trade, there might be no takers in China,” said A Shankaran, a senior forest department official. “Pangolin meat is considered a delicacy and its scales and other body parts are believed to have medicinal value in countries like China. Here the people do not know what to do with these scales. The hunting started only after the demand grew internationally,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pangolin-poaching-rampant-in-state-officials-say-trade-of-its-scales-may-stop/articleshow/76376428.cms||Moulika.KV
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water board goes robotic, uses novel technology to clean choked sewers||SECUNDERABAD: Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is using a novel technology to solve the nagging problem of blocked sewage. The water board is deploying a device called ‘Sewer Croc’ to clear the blocked drains in Secunderabad. A couple of months ago, the hi-tech robotic system was first tested at Chilkalguda ward before being put to use at Sitaphalmandi. “This new technology is helping to clean sewerage trunk mains, blocked with waste material. People are dumping all kinds of garbage, mattresses and food into sewer lines. This is resulting in blocked sewer lines, overflow at manholes and inundated roads,” said P Anvith Kumar, manager, HMWS&SB, Sitaphalmandi, adding that there are too many complaints during the monsoon. Talking about the functioning of Sewer Croc, the official said, “it works like a crocodile swimming in the water. This device will not only flush out debris but also clean silt. It clears choked sewer lines within a short span of time,” he said. Narrating the woes of the people during the rainy season, G Phani Kumar, a resident of Sitaphalmandi said, “All of us undergo a harrowing experience during the rainy season as all the main roads and residential colonies in Secunderabad are inundated. Water board should replace damaged manholes.”HMWS&SB’s call centre receives 30 to 50 complaints every day about manholes and overflowing sewage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-goes-robotic-uses-novel-technology-to-clean-choked-sewers/articleshow/76376442.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 15, 2020||India||India-Nepal border posts missing: SSB||BAREILLY: Sa shastra Seema Bal (SSB) officials said that they have informed the home department and the Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate in Uttar Pradesh about the "missing" pillars on the Indo-Nepal border that served as demarcation. Nepal has also inaugurated five new border outposts in the area where members of 'Sashastra Prahari Bal' (Nepal's armed police force) have been deployed. Meanwhile, in India, all border outposts have been put on high alert, with intensified patrolling. T he 39th battalion of SSB protects the 62.9-kilometre area on Indo-Nepal border in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Recently, SSB commandant Munna Singh had written a letter to Kheri DM Shailendra Singh to inform him about the missing pillars and encroachment on the Indo-Nepal border.  K heri district shares its boundary with Kailali and Kanchanpur districts of Nepal. After the recent tensions on the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar, all the border outposts here were also put on a high aler t. W hen TOI contacted the SSB commandant regarding the missing pillars, he said, "We cannot share the information about the number of missing pillars as it is confidential. The encroachment may be because of geographical reasons as Lekhpals in Nepal have allotted land to people in no man's land in the border areas, and even beyond the border in some cases. It is also likely because of some administrative error, which is why we have written to the Kheri DM to resolve this issue through meetings with Nepal officials." "SSB is alert and ready to tackle any situation," the SSB commandant added. Watch Nepal map not based on historical facts, only a political tool, claims Indian govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-nepal-border-posts-missing-ssb/articleshow/76377340.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 15, 2020||Nagpur||Experts spell out business challenges||Nagpur: An informative webinar on ‘Post-Covid Impact and Opportunities’, addressing the challenges in business and scenario of current market, was organized by The Times of India in association with the National Institute of Personnel Management (NIPM), Nagpur chapter on Sunday. Senior strategists and experts from different fields were among the panellists during the successful session which was attended by more than 150 people. The analysts spoke about challenges for the MSMEs, the need to remodel business structures and creation of job opportunities post Covid-19. Director of Dr Phale Medical Entrance Institute Sameer Phale, said, “We are adapting to a new method of online classes. Nearly 320 million students have been affected by the lockdown across the country. Government should reconsider drafting new education policy and implement ‘one nation one syllabus’. Moreover, it should ensure that Internet connectivity reaches even to students in remote areas.” National treasurer of NIPM Anand Taol suggested that instead of allowing a specific percentage of people to come to office physically, government should ask organizations to allow people to work on the basis of size of the premises so that social distancing is easily maintained and the performance of the firm is not hampered too. MD of Rokde Jewellers Rajesh Rokde insisted that we need to regain confidence of migrants who had to leave in unfortunate circumstances. Director of MSMEDI PM Parlewar, said, “We have ample of schemes which are sufficient to fix the issues. We have programmes of skill development to train the manpower. We just want people to act with little patience.” Sanjay Wadhwani, executive director at ONGC, HN Shrinivas, board member of Tata Trusts, Vishwesh Kulkarni, national president of NIPM, Bhupendra Shahane, chairman, NIPM Nagpur chapter were among the keynote speakers. Rajesh Sangare, adviser to NIPM, Nagpur chapter moderated the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experts-spell-out-business-challenges/articleshow/76375050.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Students develop automated sanitizer dispenser||Thiruvananthapuram: Students of College of Engineering, Muttathara, under Cooperative Academy of Professional Education, have developed an automated hand sanitizer machine.  They handed over the machine to the office of cooperative minister Kadakampally Surendran on Friday. The machine was formally launched by the minister in the presence of CAPE director R Sasikumar, college principal G Valsala and head of the department of computer science, Bindhu J S, who led the team of second year students, comprising Binoy, Asif, Abdulla, Roshan, Adithyan and Yassar. The automated machine works on sensor and there is no need to touch the machine to squeeze out the liquid. The sensor would detect the hands once it comes within its range and gives signal to a motor immersed in the sanitiser bottle to dispense the liquid. "Students have been attending online classes due to lockdown. So I suggested them to make the machine as an activity for them which they readily agreed to. We all interacted online and discussed how to make an automated hand sanitiser machine during the Corona outbreak. And they came up with a simple but useful machine within a week," said Bindhu. The machine is made of forex sheet, arduino board and ultrasonic sensor. It works on electricity as well as battery. The machine with a capacity of two litres can be used by around 700 people after complete refill. The cost of the machine is around Rs.2,000. As they have been receiving demands from several institutions, the department has planned to register themselves as a startup to manufacture automated hand sanitiser machines. "We have planned to use acrylic sheets for the body of the machine, which is more durable. The present one works on a sensor which detects the hands, but it cannot be stopped automatically. Also, we will be setting up a time period of three seconds to dispense the sanitiser from the machine. The machine at the minister's office will be replaced with a new one," added Bindu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/students-develop-automated-sanitizer-dispenser/articleshow/76375081.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Shimla||Tunnel below Kunzum pass soon: Ram Lal Markanda||MANALI: The possibility of building an all-weather tunnel for traffic movement below the 15,000ft high Kunzum pass on Gramphu-Sumdho highway is being explored, forest and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda said. He also said Rs 200cr has been sanctioned for maintenance of the highway. The highway near Kunzum Pass is in poor condition and is sinking regularly. Excessive moisture has made its maintenance very difficult. In the winter, the pass is covered with an up to 50ft thick blanket of snow, which makes it impossible to open. After completion of Rohtang tunnel this year, there are chances that the road till the base of the Kunzum can be kept open in the winter. If Kunzum pass is bypassed by a tunnel, maintenance of the highway will be very easy. “Rs 200cr has been sanctioned for the highway. Condition of the road will be improved soon. The possibility of building a tunnel below Kunzum pass is also being explored. This is an important highway. Besides being a lifeline for locals, it is an important route for tourists. All possible efforts are being made to make the highway double-lane,” Markanda said. Transfer of the highway from the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to the Public Works Department (PWD) triggered public rage in Spiti. Residents wanted the road to stay with BRO as they believe PWD cannot improve its condition. The minister said residents will see results very soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/tunnel-below-kunzum-pass-soon-markanda/articleshow/76376439.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Shimla||Patient dies, not added to Himachal Pradesh count||SHIMLA: A Covid-19 patient died of trauma in Shimla on Sunday morning, but the state health department did not add his death to the casualty count. Health department officials said the death was due to “unrelated cause of trauma”, so the death toll would remain unchanged at six. The fatality came on a day the state got 16 fresh cases of the virus and 17 patients recovered from the disease. The new patients include five members of a family from Bilaspur district, four from Kangra, three from Una, two from Shimla and one each from Solan and Chamba. Of the patients who were discharged, six are from Kangra. So far, Himachal Pradesh has reported 518 cases. Of them, 174 are active, 11 have migrated out of state, 326 have recovered and six have died. The deceased was a 19-year-old man who returned from Okhla in Delhi. He died at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) here. He tested positive on Saturday and was brought to the medical college in a critical condition. He expired shortly after reaching IGMCH. His one primary contact has also tested positive for Covid-19. In Bilaspur district, the members of the family had returned from Delhi to Ghumarwin on May 31 and were in institutional quarantine. The patients include a two men aged 60 and 39, a 34-year-old woman, and two boys aged 10 and 2. A member of the family had tested positive earlier, after which their samples were taken five days ago. While their first samples were negative, the repeat samples tested positive. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapti said a 62-year-old man and his 60-year-old wife from Bathalthor, who had returned from Delhi on June 6, tested positive. He said a 27-year-old woman from Passu, who had also returned from Delhi on June 6, tested positive. A 25-year-old woman from Bhanuri, who had arrived from Gurgaon on June 2, was also found infected. He said the six patients who recovered in the district included three men aged 47, 35 and 27, a 49-year-old woman, and two boys aged 17 and nine. A total of 48,886 persons had been put under surveillance in the state till Sunday. Of them, 30,146 had completed their 28 days of surveillance. So far, 53,946 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 52,458 have tested negative and results of 974 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/patient-dies-not-added-to-hp-count/articleshow/76376451.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Pune||Police bank on app to keep tabs on externed criminals in Pune||PUNE: The city police are hoping to keep an effective tab on the externed criminals through an app, christened ExTra, which would be installed in the smartphones of the externees at the time of serving them the externment orders. The externee will have to use ExTra ( (Externee Monitoring and Tracking System) for uploading photographs showing his or her current location. In case an externee uninstalls the app or violates the terms of externment order by entering a restricted jurisdiction, the police would move in to arrest the violator and refer the case to court for further legal action. The police appeared confident that the system would ensure effective monitoring and surveillance of the externees directly from the (city police’s) control room. “Efforts have been made to ensure that there is no infringement of privacy of the externed criminals. An alert is sent to us only when the geo-fence is breached,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “We are also working on a solution regarding monitoring of the externees who do not keep or are not used to keeping cellphones with them. Alternatives such as issuing them pre-used or low-cost phones are being considered.” On Saturday, deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache issued the first externment order, in which the externee was required to download the ExTra app on his cellphone with a one time registration. The police authorities approved the registration, after which the externee now has to mark his attendance through a selfie as per the indicated or surprise-attendance notification. Singh and assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar played a key role in developing the application. “ExTra is a modified version of the home quarantine tracking system (HQTS) implemented in the city to track the movement of the home quarantined people after the lockdown was implemented in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak,” Singh said. A Pune-based private company helped police develop the application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bank-on-app-to-keep-tabs-on-externed-criminals/articleshow/76376803.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Distress calls to counsellors surge during lockdown||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 induced lockdown has led to a surge in number of people seeking counselling over depression and anxiety issues in the city. Ranging from fear of being laid off in adults to anxiety over academics among students, uncertainty due to the lockdown has led to surge in anxiety and depression cases, said experts. Roshni Counselling Center, a city-based NGO, which runs helplines to provide free counselling and emotional support, has been receiving nearly 80 calls a day during the lockdown as against 30 before the lockdown. “Many people are worried about losing their job have reached out to us during the lockdown. We have received calls from college going students. Then there are elderly people, like one 55-year-old who called up over lack of ration, and financial crisis during the lockdown,” said Krishna Kumar, a volunteer and counsellor from Roshni. He said that several callers reached out complaining of anxiety and depression as they were confined to their house. The counsellor said youngsters had reached out to the helpline following failure in love during the lockdown. “Many youngsters said that they broke up during the lockdown because of distance or are unable to meet each other leading to depression,” he said. Kavya Gupta (name changed), 32, was among many such people, who had an emotional break down. “Almost 45 days after the lockdown, I had a major emotional outburst wherein I cried for the entire day. I couldn’t explain to my parents as to what triggered it. I was just having a lot of dark thoughts regarding my job, and my relationship,” said Gupta, who sought help from a therapist and was informed that it was a panic attack. Experts say people should seek help immediately if they observe signs of anxiety or depression. “People often ignore anxiety and depression and fail to seek help due to social stigma related to it. If one is feeling sad, helpless, isolated or if there is constant fear about something, they should come forward and share their thoughts with family, friends or an expert,” said Dr Dipti Reddy, a psychiatrist at Citizens Speciality Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/distress-calls-to-counsellors-surge-during-lockdown/articleshow/76376820.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth slams KCR over TIMS use||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Sunday lambasted chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for not utilising the huge facility of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) near Gachibowli for Covid-19 patients. Revanth, who visited TIMS on Sunday, said that trash was accumulating and stray dogs were roaming inside TIMS with four to five security personal guarding the huge premises. “KCR had announced to use TIMS for Covid-19 patients. What happened? Coronavirus cases are on the rise and as it is the government is not conducting adequate tests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-slams-kcr-over-tims-use/articleshow/76376454.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Yogi Adityanath sets up dedicated team for 11 districts with high viral load||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced a team of senior officers of the rank of principal secretary and secretary, besides senior health officials, to take stock of 11 districts having the high prevalence of Covid-19 cases. Presiding over a review meeting, Yogi said that the team would coordinate with nodal officers appointed by the state government for the purpose. The move comes amid increasing hotspot areas in the state. Till Sunday, the total number of hotspots were 2,265 covering over 9.85 lakh houses having over 58.37 lakh people.. At present, GB Nagar has the highest viral load, with 498 active cases, followed by Kanpur (288) and Ghaziabad (272), Lucknow (198) and Meerut (170). Agra has the highest number of overall cases — 1038, but just 125 of them are active. Out of 13,715 cases, 4948 are active, majority of them in containment zones. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that the number of corona positive cases in these hotspots were 4,929. Besides, over 10,000 people were put in institutional quarantine. The CM directed doctors, nurses and paramedic staff to establish a communication with attendants of corona infected people. He also directed officials to monitor paramedical staff and ensure adequate cleanliness in Covid and non-Covid hospitals. At the same time, the CM directed police to increase patrolling in crowded areas. Awasthi said that the state government was taking all possible steps to enforce guidelines of the Centre during the unlockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-sets-up-dedicated-team-for-11-dists-with-high-viral-load/articleshow/76376805.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Two promising school-going wrestlers transplant paddy||BATHINDA: In the fields of Punjab, the usual farm hands are being replaced by educated, unemployed youth and up and coming wrestlers. Among them are two national level school-going wrestlers from Ransih Kalan village in Moga district. Wrestlers Arshpreet Kaur (17) and Dharamjit Kaur (17) have represented Punjab in the junior national school games. With practice temporarily suspended due to lockdown, the budding sportspersons are supporting families by transplanting paddy, which they also did last year. Arshpreet Kaur, a Class XII student at Kamla Nehru school in Nihal Singh Wala town represented Punjab in junior wrestling at the national level on five occasions. She won bronze medals every time. She also won the gold medal in state school games. At present, she works with her mother, father, brother and sister-in-law in the fields. The family will get Rs 4,000 per acre for paddy transplantation work. “We do not have a permanent source of income. During the paddy season, I work with the family and we run the household with the money we earn this way. As of now, schools are closed and practice has been temporarily suspended due to lockdown. Therefore, I am devoting all my time to paddy transplantation. I will start preparing for next tournaments although no one knows when that will happen,” Arshpreet said. Dharamjit Kaur, also a student of Class XII in the same school said, “I have represented Punjab in the junior national games twice in the 55 kilogram category and have won bronze medals in 2017 and 2018. Now, when it is time to earn money, I go to the fields with my family and transplant paddy. Together, we transplant paddy in nearly 1 acre to earn Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000. Another promising junior player, Sandeep Kaur (17), is also out to transplant paddy to support her family, even though her mind is on wrestling. Sandeep has won medals at the national sub juniors and before the imposition of lockdown, she was getting coaching. The girls’ coach, Bhajan Singh Dhaliwal said, “The girls are promising wrestlers who have represented the state at the national level. As they belong to poor families, they prefer to supplement the family income. If these girls are provided with proper infrastructure, they can achieve so much.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-promising-school-going-wrestlers-transplant-paddy/articleshow/76376472.cms||Neel Kamal
June 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: DIAT develops biodegradable face mask from herbal extracts||PUNE: A team of scientists from the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT), a deemed university of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), has developed biodegradable mask to resist against bacteria or virus. The mask has been made from herbal extracts obtained from Azadirachta indica (neem oil), Curcuma longa (turmeric), Ocimum tenuiflorum (Krishna tulsi), Trachyspermum ammi (ajwain), Piper nigrum (black pepper), Acacia arabica (gum arabic), Ayzygium aromaticum (clove), Santalum album (sandalwood), Crocus sativus (saffron) in the fibre that provides antibacterial and antiviral properties. DIAT vice-chancellor C P Ramnarayanan told TOI, “We have signed transfer of technology and non disclosure agreements with three private manufacturing companies for commercial scale production of these biodegradable masks and we are expecting the product to hit the markets over the next fortnight.” Project head K Balasubramanian, who is also head of DIAT’s metallurgical and materials engineering department, said, “The herbal extacts are the additives that are the immunity boosting agents for self-care as per the guidelines of Ayush ministry. The product is antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral, porous, superhydrophobic (outer layer), hydrophilic (inner layer) and biodegradable.” The product was tested for air permeability/breathability as per American Society for Testing Materials ( ASTM). The nanofibre mat porosity is between 0.1 and 150 micrometre. Its biodegradability is less than 60% weight loss in 28 days under soil based decompost, and mechanical properties as per ASTM standards. “The three-layered mask provides antiviral potential because of the interaction of extract to inhibit viral neutralisation. The product will be extended for infection prevention and control measures as personal protective equipment (PPE) and for waste management materials.This will consist of garments, gloves, gown, face protection, head cover,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diat-develops-biodegradable-face-mask-from-herbal-extracts/articleshow/76376806.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Flight lands with 188 Indians from UAE||PUNE: Bhakti Gaikwad, who had gone to Dubai for work before the lockdown, finally came back home on Sunday as a FlyDubai chartered flight touched down at the Lohegaon airport with 188 passengers. “I had gone there for a project but then got stuck as all flights were suspended following the lockdown. The flight had many people with medical conditions, pregnant women and others. It is good to be back home,” she told TOI. Dubai-based businessman Rahul Tulpule, who is also the vice president of the Gulf Maharashtra Business Forum, arranged for both the flights — one to Mumbai, which landed on Saturday and the other to Pune. In an earlier conversation Rahul had said, “Once we started the work towards arranging the aircraft, approvals from all authorities were almost instant. It took us around three weeks to make the arrangements. The focus was on carrying senior citizens, those with medical conditions, pregnant women and the like.” In Mumbai, Vicky Vaidya and his 7-month-pregnant wife Asha Kunder, landed late on Saturday evening. Vaidya said, “I lost my job due to Covid-19 and things had become extremely tough for us. I had no money or resources to take care of my wife who is expecting. Luckily, this flight was arranged. We are presently under home quarantine for 14 days.” A middle-aged passenger, requesting anonymity, said while he was fortunate to be back home, insecurities and an uncertain future plagued his mind” he told TOI. The passengers who landed on Sunday hail from different cities in the state, including Pune, Aurangabad, Beed, Kolhapur and others. Some passengers are from Gujarat, Karnataka, MP and Bengal. Sources said another chartered flight carrying around 168 passengers was also set to arrive in Pune from Sharjah, soon. “The aircraft was to arrive on Sunday but due to technical reasons, it has been held back,” Santosh Karande, a businessman settled in the US who was arranging the flight, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flight-lands-with-188-indians-from-uae/articleshow/76376812.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 15, 2020||Shimla||Manali-Spiti highway reopens after seven months||MANALI: The Manali-Spiti highway, which was closed since November following heavy winter snowfall, has been reopened for vehicular traffic by the public works department (PWD) after a gap of seven months. After the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) had stopped working on the highway and retreated along with its machinery, the PWD had taken up the task to clear the road earlier this month. The snow was cleared on Saturday evening. However, a massive boulder again blocked the highway near Gramphu following a landslide on Sunday. PWD executive engineer at Kaza, Tashi Giamcho, said, “Snow from the highway was removed on Saturday. Now, a huge boulder has blocked the highway near Gramphu. We are working to remove it.” The strategically important 209-km-long Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road is a vital link between Manali-Leh highway and Hindustan-Tibet Road and is the only road that connects Lahaul with Spiti valley. The condition of road maintained by both PWD and BRO for over five decades is bad. The road between Gramphu and Kunzum stretch is not worth plying the light vehicles with low ground clearance. In monsoon season, even buses and SUVs get stuck at some damaged portions. A boulder blocks the Gramphu-Spiti highway.Similar to Manali-Leh highway, this highway also remains closed during the winter months when 10ft to 50ft of snow blocks it completely. Last year, the highway had opened on June 30. In 2018, it had opened for the first time in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-spiti-highway-reopens-after-7-months/articleshow/76376448.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 15, 2020||Bareilly||Debt-ridden elderly farmer 'kills self' in Moradabad||Bareilly: A 56-year-old farmer, who owed Rs 2 lakh after taking a loan for his daughter's wedding a few months ago, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in his farmland in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad district on Saturday.The debt-ridden farmer - identified as Girwar Lal - had suffered crop losses mainly due to unseasonal rainfall and hailstorm in the state. The incident took place at Sheikhpur village in Kundaraki.After autopsy, police have handed over the farmer's body to his family on Sunday. Bilari SDM Prabudh Singh visited the place and assured the family of compensation as per the beneficiary schemes.Girwar is survived by his wife Pravesh Devi, three daughters Ranjani, Sonam, Swati and a young son Jitendra Kumar. Swati is still unmarried.His son Jitendra said, "My father went to the field at 11am and two hours later, we came to know that he had committed suicide. He had taken a bank loan and had borrowed some money from a money lender during my sister’s wedding. Farming didn't deliver fruitful results due to bad weather conditions. My father was under depression because of increasing debts and he didn’t want to sell his land. We have 1.5 acres of land. This is why he may have taken this extreme step."SDM Prabudh Singh told TOI, "The matter is under police investigation as there is no suicide note. We will ensure necessary compensation for the family as per the farmers' beneficiary schemes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/debt-ridden-elderly-farmer-kills-self-in-moradabad/articleshow/76373569.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||School on Sunderbans mission||KOLKATA: Rammohan Mission distributed dry and cooked food, tarpaulins, blankets, garments, medicines to the victims of Cyclone Amphan in the Sunderbans. Last month , they donated Rs 2 lakh to WB State Emergency Relief Fund for fighting against Covid-19. On June 13, a team from Rammohan Mission, led by the president Sujoy Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission School, reached an island near Gosaba of the Sunderbans, which witnessed devastation by the cyclone. Gnan Ranjan Chakraborty, Arup Banerjee, Ramesh Narayan were part of the team to assess the economic and medical situation of the locals there. The team distributed tarpaulins, garments, rice grain , pulses , potatoes, soybeans, cooking oil , salt sugar and soaps among the affected people living on the island. A few teachers and staff of the school also accompanied the team. “Spearheaded by our principal, the school is the role model, which other institutes should follow. We have undertaken several relief work after the cyclone had wreaked havoc the state. It is time for us to come together and save the people by providing them with daily commodities,” said Ankita Seal, a teacher of the school. She added, “The team went there to assess the economic situation and hygienic condition of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-on-sunderbans-mission/articleshow/76376466.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents call for 50% school fee waiver for first quarter||HYDERABAD: Parents from the city and various other parts of the country, through an online movement on Sunday, demanded that schools waive 50% of their first quarter fee for the tenure of online classes. As part of this movement, parents uploaded a photos and videos with placards listing their demands on social media platforms while also tagging education department officials concerned. “Not just from Telangana, parents from across the country have tweeted about issues related to schools today (Sunday),” said Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) vice-president, Seema Agarwal. She claimed that despite the state government directing schools not to hike fee and collect only tuition, many schools continued to collect fee for various other activities. Parents said that schools should stop pressurising them to clear dues and collect only tuition fee. “Even schools are aware of the fact that people have lost jobs and some have salary cuts...then why are they pressuring the parents for fees. Request @narendramodi to take some action and help parents,” read a tweet from user, @SunitaB93662115 The other demands of the parents include a ban on online classes for young children, implementing a uniform curriculum for the entire country and making use of NCERT books mandatory across all schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-call-for-50-school-fee-waiver-for-first-quarter/articleshow/76376458.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Hyderabad||240 Shramik Spls operated till date: SCR||Hyderabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) on Sunday said it has operated 240 Shramik Special trains to transport migrant workers, stranded tourists and students and passengers to their homes till date. It said that catering services have generally been rendered by state governments. “Till date, 960 catering services have been provided for 648 Shramik special trains passing through SCR. The initiative drew further strength with several non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and voluntary bodies coming forward to lend a helping hand in preparing and distributing food to the traveling migrant workers.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/240-shramik-spls-operated-till-date-scr/articleshow/76376468.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||In Bokaro, pregnant women, elderly & kids can’t attend marriages||Bokaro: Persons above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years will not be allowed to attend marriage ceremonies, ruled Bokaro district administration on Sunday. There will be no exception even if it comes to marriages within families, the administration clarified. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar empowered circle officers to provide permissions for organising marriage ceremonies in their respective blocks on conditions, including no marriage will be solemnised in guest houses, marriage halls or hotels. Meanwhile, all police station in-charges have been directed to ensure strict compliance. The move comes in the wake of applications for marriage permissions flooding district and sub-divisional offices after there were curbs on ceremonies in view of Covid-19 outbreak. Kumar said, “ For the prevention of coronavirus, as per the instructions of the ministry of home affairs, all circle officers of the district have been authorised to issue permissions for marriage.” Kumar added, the number of guests at wedding ceremonies should not exceed 50. “For safety, persons above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years will not be allowed to attend the ceremony,” the DC said. The organisers will also have to ensure adequate sanitizers at the entrance and other appropriate places of the venue. “Every person entering the venue should undergo thermal scanning. If a person has a travel history in the last one month or has come in direct contact with a Covid-19 patient or is suffering from some incurable disease, he/she will not be allowed to attend the ceremony,” Kumar added. The guidelines also mention that if any person has symptoms like fever, cold, cough, difficulty in breathing, then they will not be allowed to attend the ceremony. All persons, including the bride and the groom, will have to wear face masks. Social distancing should be followed while laying out seating arrangements at weddings. Proper arrangement of handwash, soaps and water should also be ensured in the bathrooms of the venue. The use of liquor, paan, gutkha, khaini and other tobacco at the venue will be strictly prohibited. Use of songs or music through amplifiers will remain valid till 10pm as per the rules. Video recordings have to be done by the organiser at the venue and has to be made available to the district administration on demand, Kumar explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-bokaro-pregnant-women-elderly-kids-cant-attend-marriages/articleshow/76375550.cms||Divy Khare
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||2 Rims docs among 37 fresh cases in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Sunday detected 37 cases of Covid-19, a dip of over 50% in the daily fresh cases for the fourth consecutive day. Among the fresh cases are two junior doctors of Rims in Ranchi. The state has now 1,761 total cases of which 848 are active and 905 have recovered while eight persons have succumbed to the disease. Of the 37 fresh cases, nine were from reported from the Rims testing laboratory. Simdgega detected the highest cases at 14 followed by East Singhbhum with 10 cases. Gumla, Hazaribag, Chatra and West Singhbhum detected one each. Meanwhile, 89 people were cured in different districts and were discharged from hospitals. In Rims, healthcare workers are continuously facing the risk of infection as patients continue to flock to OPDs and various departments. The two doctors, who tested positive on Sunday, had come in contact with a positive patient. This is the fourth instance of Rims staff being exposed to the virus. It happened a day after two other junior doctors, who had tested positive on June 2, were discharged on Saturday. An official of the hospital said, “Two of our junior doctors have tested positive for the virus. Seven other patients from different departments, including medicine and surgery, have also tested positive. All are shifted to the Covid block and we have started a contact-tracing exercise on the campus.” Earlier in May, the neurosurgery department was sealed after a patient, whose family members had hidden the Covid-19 status, was treated by Rims doctors and health workers without taking any protection measures. In April, the gynaecology department was sealed after two pregnant women, who had also hidden their addresses that fall in the red zone, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-rims-docs-among-37-fresh-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76375694.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jamshedpur mourns death on social media||Jamshedpur: Netizens of Jamshedpur, who met actor Sushant Singh Rajput during the shoot of MS Dhoni — The Untold Story at Keenan Stadium in Jamshedpur in 2015 expressed shock over the actor’s death. Hari Singh Rajput, a resident of Jamshedpur, shared a post on his Facebook page and recalled how Sushant was a lively person. He also shared photographs of him meeting Sushant at the stadium. Like Hari, others from the city also poured their hearts out on social media with many remembering the time Sushant camped in the city during the shoot. Debasish.Chatterjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jamshedpur-mourns-death-on-social-media/articleshow/76375939.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand agri minister bats for bio-products||Ranchi: State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh has asked farmers to take up bio-farming and emphasised that bio-products can strengthen immunity to help fight the coronavirus infection. Speaking in a webinar of Sai Nath University on the topic ‘Jharkhand Rajya Me Jaivik Kheti Ka Karyanvyan (Implementation of bio-farming in Jharkhand)’ on Saturday, the minister said value-based products could be grown, if farmers learn the right bio-farming methods. He said the state government is striving to implement a new agriculture policy incorporating bio-farming methods. Birsa Agriculture University director (research) Dr D N Singh said farmers are using chemical fertilizers and insecticides to increase production,but these practices are adversely affecting human health and polluting air, land and water. The university’s vice-chancellor professor S P Agrawal said his institute was preparing a project for triple cropping in the state. Several other experts, including FCI director Rajiv Kumar Singh spoke during the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-agri-minister-bats-for-bio-products/articleshow/76375524.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Electronic gadgets fly off shelves in Bokaro, courtesy online classes||Bokaro: The demand for gadgets like Webcams, headphones and laptops has soared in recent times as most private schools here have launched online classes. The scale of the demand can be gauged from the fact that many electronic shops have already sold off their stocks within a few days of reopening during Unlock 1.0. The proprietor of Vishwaraj Computers, Sujay Kumar, said, “After we reopened our showroom, the demand for computers and related gadgets has increased manifold. All our stocks got sold off. But that hasn’t dampened the enthusiasm and people are booking in advance.” The high demand has also led to price escalation, and each gadget is now costing 30-50% more than its usual price. “ In the past seven days, I have sold more than 110 Webcams and several laptops. Now, all my stocks have got exhausted,” Sujay said. Manoj Kumar of Akash Computer said, “Webcams were earlier available from Rs 500 to Rs 1,100, but the higher models are now costing around Rs 2,000.” Nand Kishore Vidyarthi, a hardware engineer dealing with the sale and maintenance of computers, said ,“I have installed webcams and headphones in more than 90 houses in the past five days. Most of the demand is from households where children are required to attend online classes.” A parent, whose two children are studying in Chinmaya Vidyalaya, said, “Online classes have created a lot of problem for us. We had to arrange two separate laptops for the kids. Otherwise, their studies were getting affected.” Another parent, Ranjan Kumar, said: “We thought that state government will support the parents and waive off tuition fees for the lockdown period. But that did not happen, and on top of that we now have to spend extra money for theses gadgets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/electronic-gadgets-fly-off-shelves-in-bokaro-courtesy-online-classes/articleshow/76375915.cms||Divy Khare
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Party & alliance in good shape in J’khand, says state Cong prez Oraon||Daltonganj: State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon on Sunday said the party and its alliance with the JMM and RJD in the state government is in good shape and hoped that they will do well together in the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls. Elections for two RS seats in Jharkhand will be held on June 19. While JMM has fielded party patriarch Shibu Soren, its ally Congress is betting on Shahzada Anwar. Opposition BJP has named its state president Deepak Prakash. Going by the numbers, political observers believe that both JMM and BJP are expected to clinch one seat each. Oraon. however. said that they aren’t dwelling on win or defeat. Talking to reporters at the old circuit house here on Sunday, Oraon, who is also a minister of finance, food and civil supplies and consumer affairs, said, “A political party fields its candidate in an election and winning or losing is part of politics.” When if the party members in Jharkhand are wary of the developments in Madhya Pradesh where BJP allegedly played a coup to dethrone the Congress government, Oraon said, “We are very strong here and there is no problem with our alliance government.” In Rajasthan too, Congress is staring at a political turbulence now with the party struggling to keep its flock of MLAs together. But Oraon said that no such thing will happen in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/party-alliance-in-good-shape-in-jkhand-says-state-cong-prez-oraon/articleshow/76375973.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant, Raghubar mourn actor’s death||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday took to Twitter to share his thoughts on the demise of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “Absolutely shocked to hear about the untimely demise of #SushantSinghRajput. May the departed soul rest in peace and God give strength to family members to bear this loss. 2020 has been a tough & terrible year and let's all pledge to support each other as much as possible,” Hemant tweeted. Former chief minister Raghubar Das also offered his condolences on Twitter and wrote, “It is very painful to learn about the demise of such a fine actor at a young age. He played diverse characters in his short career.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-raghubar-mourn-actors-death/articleshow/76375985.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||RPF ASI helps infant on Shramik train||Ranchi: An assistant sub-inspector of the Railway Police Force (RPF), who was on duty at Hatia railway station on Sunday morning, went out of her way to feed a starving infant who arrived in a Shramik Special train. ASI Sushila Baraik was on duty at the station when the Gorakhpur-bound train arrived from Bengaluru at 6am. While overseeing the disembarking of Jharkhand passengers, Baraik was approached by Mohammad Shehzada, who was travelling in S-16 sleeper coach of the train to Barauni in Bihar, saying his four-month-old is hungry and crying. Speaking to TOI, Baraik said, “The man came up to me and said the infant is hungry. He was looking for some milk and asked whether I could help.” With all shops on the platform closed and no milk booth outside the station premise, Baraik dashed for her home in her scooter to bring some milk. “In a flash, it came to me that it was the only way to help the child. I reached home and brought some warm milk just in time before the train began its onward journey,” she added. Baraik’s effort and presence of mind was appreciated by the Ranchi railway division and promised her a cash reward. She is resident of Simdega and a mother of two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rpf-asi-helps-infant-on-shramik-train/articleshow/76375995.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Kharif crop sowing begins in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The state government asked its officials to ensure social distancing norms are maintained to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among farmers during the distribution and sowing of Kharif crops. State secretary of agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries Aboobacker Siddiqui on Sunday told the TOI: “Farming is a time-bound activity and cannot be stopped. Hence, the district agriculture officers and all district administrations have been instructed to ensure social distancing during seed distributions. They have also been asked to step up awareness campaigns at block and panchayat levels so that farmers are aware of social distancing protocols while working in fields.” Around 5 lakh quintal seeds are to be distributed this year through Lamps and Pacs. In Jharkhand, sowing of Kharif crops is to be done across 28.27 lakh hectare this season. Of it, paddy is to be sown across 18 lakh hectare while pulses will be soon across 6 lakh hectare. The target sowing of maize is over 3 lakh hectare. The target sowing of oilseeds is over 70,000 hectare while coarse cereals will be sown in the remaining area. The state has a cumulative cultivable land of 38 lakh hectare. The department data showed that as on Saturday, sowing was done over 29,103 hectare since June 1. This accounts for just 1.03% of the state’s gross sowing target. However, even amid a threat of Covid-19 which looms large over rural Jharkhand, the farming community has reasons to be hopeful as monsoon is on their side this year. The southwest monsoon currents, which set in over Jharkhand on Saturday, will spread over the state in the next 48 hours. With its timely onset, farmers will face no shortage of water during the sowing season, experts at Ranchi’s Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) said. “Unlike other years, Jharkhand received good rain between April and May in 2020. This has helped farmers plough their land for sowing in advance,” Dr Abdul Vadood, chairman of BAU’s department of agrometeorology and environment science, told TOI. “Over the years, pre-monsoon showers shrunk in volume, leading farmers to plough their land only after the onset of monsoon. This cost them time. This year, however, the timely onset of monsoon has made conditions favourable for sowing, which usually takes place between June 15 and July 1. Intermittent rains and partly clear skies will help retain moisture in the fields, which is perfect for transplanting and direct sowing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kharif-crop-sowing-begins-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76375610.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Sushant Singh Rajput spent hours perfecting batting: Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s first coach||RANCHI: Even though it was a brief stay to shoot MS Dhoni — The Untold Story in 2016, Sushant Singh Rajput’s time spent in Ranchi led to many in the city on Sunday to feel like it is a personal loss after news of the actor’s untimely demise flashed on television channels and flooded social media feeds. The 34-year-old actor left an indelible mark among peers of the former World Cup winning Indian captain — Mahendra Singh Dhoni — as most of them remembered him as a hard-working man after his death. Dhoni’s first coach, Keshav Ranjan Banerjee, at the Indian captain’s school JVM-Shyamli, recalled how Sushant spent hours perfecting his batting and wicket-keeping skills for the camera even after packing up his shoot. “He used to come to the school’s nets every evening after shooting and practice hitting helicopter shots and other strokes which are Dhoni’s signature shots,” Banerjee told TOI. Banerjee remembers Sushant as a humble and hard-working man who agreed to his suggestion of practising wicket-keeping. “The school’s players, who did not recognise him as an actor, gave him throw downs. Sushant practised a couple of hours every day. It is very sad that a man like him ended his life,” Banerjee added. Dhoni’s childhood friend Shabbir Hussain, who is also a former Ranji team mate of ‘Captain Cool’, recalled speaking to Sushant for hours before the movie went to the shooting floors. “He camped at Radisson Blu hotel and invited me one evening. He was curious to know every little detail about Dhoni’s early days and how he was as a teenager. I went to the shooting sets a couple of times and he greeted me warmly. He was down to earth and we became good friends. It feels like a personal loss,” Hussain said. However, Dhoni, who is confined to his farmhouse on the outskirts of Ranchi since the lockdown was imposed, did not issue any statement on his social media accounts till late Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sushant-spent-hours-perfecting-batting-dhonis-first-coach/articleshow/76375660.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to ramp up testing, 15,600 a day from next week||NEW DELHI: Between June 1 and June 14, the capital has conducted 73,055 Covid-19 tests, which translates to about 5,218 tests daily. The Centre and the state in a meeting held on Sunday have decided to scale up testing to twice the current capacity, approximately 10,436 tests daily within two days. In six days, this number will be further increased to thrice the current capacity, approximately 15,654 tests daily. “A series of meetings has been planned for Monday to prepare the strategy on how to increase the number of testing. It will soon be worked out,” a senior Delhi government functionary said. In a statement, Delhi government on Sunday said that its meeting with the Centre was “very productive”. “This pandemic is among the worst to have happened in the history of mankind and it is imperative for all of us to come together to fight this pandemic,” it said. The meeting on Sunday was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal with his cabinet colleagues. Experts say scaling up testing capacity in Delhi was urgently needed. “The rate of positivity of Covid-19 samples in Delhi is 27%, which is very high. Every fourth person being tested is positive for Covid-19. This means that we need to test more people to be able to identify more positive cases in time and provide medical intervention, where needed,” said an expert. At present, 40 labs—17 government-run and 23 private—are approved in Delhi for Covid-19 testing. While the ones being run by the government are working in full capacity, the private labs say they can expand their capacity further to meet increased demand. Also, sources said, several private labs and hospitals have expressed willingness to start testing subject to approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev also took a meeting through videoconferencing with all district magistrates, chief district medical officers and district surveillance officers to ramp up the testing facilities to 10,000 in the next two days, 100% houseto-house survey in containment zones and other points pursuant to directions of the Union home ministry. The government action follows sharp rise in Covid-19 cases over the past month and a rap from Delhi high court over low testing numbers. The court, on Thursday, directed all private hospitals in the city having the facility to conduct Covid-19 tests, to start doing so. “It appears that Delhi is fast heading towards becoming the corona capital of the country, an epithet the city can well do without. It is the need of the hour that all the private hospitals in Delhi, which are equipped with a lab to undertake Covid-19 test, be permitted to do the testing,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad had noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-ramp-up-testing-15600-a-day-from-next-week/articleshow/76377338.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Work together to curb spread, Amit Shah tells Delhi government, corporations||NEW DELHI: Delhi government and the three municipal corporations were on Sunday asked by Union home minister Amit Shah to work in close coordination with each other and ensure early implementation of decisions taken to control the spread of the novel coronavirus. During a joint meeting, Shah heard the issues of the civic agencies and the state government and asked them to conduct a door-to-door survey in containment zones and take Covid testing to the lowest level. "We have to make the capital corona-free at the earliest. That can only be possible with the cooperation and coordination of all concerned," he added. Stress was also put on creating more space for Covid-19 patients as well as increasing the capacity of cremation grounds.  The government has been looking for facilities to convert them into makeshift hospitals. Of the eight hospitals run by the three municipal corporations, only one - Tilak Nagar Super-Specialty Hospital - has been declared a Covid-designated facility. Both the government and municipalities have been blaming each other for "lack of cooperation" over this issue.  The allegations of insufficient funds provided by Delhi government, especially to North Delhi Municipal Corporation that has delayed paying salary to staff for three months, was another bone of contention between them. Because of non-payment of salary, doctors of two hospitals - Hindu Rao and Kasturba - have warned of mass resignations. Even teachers of primary schools have been on strike for the past one week. Supreme Court had given a direction to resolve the issue two days ago. The AAP-led state government and municipalities headed by BJP also got into a slugfest over figures of Covid-related deaths. Delhi government said the exact numbers would be disclosed by the audit committee report.  North mayor Avtar Singh said, "The issues will be sorted out, but our priority is controlling the rise in Covid-19 cases. We spoke about financial constraints and the home minister assured us that a solution will be arrived at soon. We offered the government our community halls, hospitals, sport complexes, etc to be converted into isolation wards. We will provide infrastructure, including volunteers." South deputy mayor Rajdutt Gehlot said directions were also issued to send bodies immediately to crematoria. "The minister stressed that bodies shouldn't be kept in morgues, except when the reason of death needs to be ascertained or the test result is pending. He also emphasised on strengthening facilities at crematoria and burial grounds. Currently, SDMC has the facility of cremating 367 bodies," he added. East Corporation said that Swami Dayanand Hospital couldn't be converted into a Covid-dedicated facility as it was located next to GTB Hospital. EDMC mayor Anju Kamal Kant said, "It deals with maternity and other cases transferred or referred from GTB Hospital. We are trying to increase the capacity at crematoria and burial grounds. But DDA needs to transfer land to us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-together-to-curb-spread-amit-shah-tells-delhi-government-corporations/articleshow/76377344.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government readies plan to add 25,000 beds for Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Keeping up with the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, Delhi government has made a detailed plan to add over 25,000 beds in the next few days. This includes 11,229 beds in 77 banquet halls, 4,628 in 40 hotels and 8,000 in 500 train coaches. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal also visited the Chhatarpur campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas on Sunday to explore the possibility of setting up a separate health facility of 10,000 beds. The facility will be ready by June 30, an official said. About 25% of these beds will have oxygen facility and one doctor and two paramedical staff will be deployed for every 50 beds. In the meantime, the government has withdrawn Saturday’s decision to add 5,000-odd beds of 200 smaller nursing homes to the Covid infrastructure. An official said a committee had been formed to first explore the possibility, keeping in mind that health facilities for non-Covid patients were also required. The final call will be taken on the basis of its report. The city currently has 9,828 beds in the state-run, central and private health facilities and, as per the government’s own assessment, requires 80,000 by July 31. Going by the current doubling rate of the novel coronavirus infections in Delhi, the government has estimated that the capital will have over one lakh cases by June 30, 2.25 lakh by July 15 and 5.5 lakh by July 31. Corresponding to the case counts, the government will require 15,000 beds by June 30, 33,000 by July 15 and 80,000 by July 31, said the official. On Sunday, Delhi’s tally crossed the 41,000 mark. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news While the railways on late Saturday agreed to provide 500 train coaches, with a capacity of 16 beds each, Delhi government has also shortlisted 77 banquet halls and 40 hotels to convert these into hospitals in the next few days. The facilities were identified through an extensive exercise carried out by the 11 district magistrates’ offices. “We are likely to add about 8,000 beds through train coaches and about 16,000 in banquet halls and hotels. These measures will help us ensure that no patient who requires hospitalisation is turned away,” said a senior official. The major hotels included Hotel Oberoi Maidens in Civil Lines; Hotel Vasant Continental in south Delhi; Hotel Pride Plaza in Aerocity; Hotel Hyatt Regency in Vasant Vihar; Pullman, Crown Plaza and Holiday Inn in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar; Park Inn and JP Hotel and Resort in IP Extension; Park Inn in Lajpat Nagar IV and Radisson Blu in Paschim Vihar. These hotels have been attached with nearby hospitals and patients opting for these facilities will have to bear the additional cost of room tariff and other amenities, which can go up to Rs 70,000 per week, an official said. Read AlsoDelhi: Another day of over 2,000 cases takes tally past 41,000Delhi recorded over 2,000 Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day with 2,224 persons testing positive on Sunday — the highest single day tally so far.In a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association has offered to provide smaller hotels to set up health facilities. It has, however, demanded that the government pays for mattresses and bedsheets, which will have to be disposed of to prevent the spread of the virus. The DMs have also identified several stadia and sports complexes for setting up additional big facilities. While the government has already planned to set up 2,500 beds at Pragati Maidan and 200 at Talkatora Indoor Stadium, it may also utilise Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium and the sports complexes at Saket, Siri Fort and in east Delhi. A Delhi Disaster Management Authority meeting, called by Baijal on Tuesday, will take up these issues, an official said. “Preparing large makeshift hospitals with contactless treatment along with necessary equipment, including ventilators, on the line of Mumbai’s National Sports Complex in Worli is also on the agenda apart from taking over large blocks of vacant flats to set up temporary hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-readies-plan-to-add-25000-beds-for-covid-19/articleshow/76377346.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||With over 500 cases, East Godavari fast turning into a Covid-19 hotspot||VISAKHAPATNAM: East Godavari, a district which remained relatively free of Covid-19 until a few weeks ago, is quickly emerging as a virus hotspot with the caseload surpassing the 500 mark on Sunday. On May 20, the district only had around 60 cases. But in the last few weeks, the disease has spread to around 40 mandals, including areas largely inhabited by tribals. A four-month-old baby from Rampachodavaram Agency area has also fallen victim to the virus. However fortunately, the infant became the youngest person in Andhra Pradesh to have won the battle against Covid-19. After being treated for 18 days in Visakhapatnam, the baby was declared free of the virus on June 12. East Godavari saw its first Covid-19 case on March 21 when a youth who returned to Rajahmundry from London was diagnosed with the disease. Subsequently, a few case related to the Markaz event in New Delhi surfaced apart from some local infections. A teacher of a government-run school tested positive for the virus on April 9 at Kathipudi. The teacher ended up transmitting the disease to five other family members and neighbours. When the lockdown restrictions were eased, with increase of public movement and return of migrants in hordes, a gradual spike could be seen in the district in the first week of May. Tens of Covid-19 cases related to the Koyamabedu-market also began to be reported. Things were still under control when the trajectory took a different turn and a 53-year-old man from Gollala Mamidada village succumbed to Covid-19 within 30 minutes of being admitted to a hospital on May 20. The deceased is believed to have turned into a super-spreader owing to the nature of his work and the delayed onset of symptoms. Directly or indirectly, the 53-year-old transmitted the disease to around 200 people in Pedapudi and neighbouring Ramachandrapuram, Rayavaram, Anaparti, Bikkavolu and Mandapeta mandals. Around 10 people reportedly contracted the disease after contact with a second-rung political functionary in Kakinada. Further, another person in Ainavalli mandal reportedly transmitted the disease to 20 others. Now, officials in East Godavari are faced with a new challenge as 35 police personnel of the 3rd battalion of Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) and three of their family members tested positive for the virus over the last few days. Despite requests and orders from the district administration, there seems to be little or no regard for social distancing norms. On Sunday, several areas in the district were found to be overcrowded and not many people were observed to be wearing masks or taking other precautions. Dr M Mallikarjun, the district medical and health officer (DMHO) requested people to wear masks and maintain six feet distance between each other in public places. “If people visit a busy market, it is advisable that they change and wash their clothes. We request the public to wash their hands frequently and take all precautions. People should take greater care as the number of cases is increasing,” the DMHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-over-500-cases-east-godavari-fast-turning-into-a-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/76375217.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Public will be ultimate sufferers, warn doctors as people flout norms||VISAKHAPATNAM: The word ‘Covidiot’ has recently made its way into the urban dictionary. A Covidiot is a person who flouts public health safety norms and samples of such people can be found all across the world. Doctors and health officials say that irresponsible behaviour on the part of a section of people are leading to a rise in Covid-19 cases and making flattening the curve an immense challenge. Even as so much awareness is being spread about the disease through multiple channels, some people are still being rude to doctors, throwing tantrums for trivial inconveniences and even trying to sneak out of quarantine, say doctors. Such behaviour from a section of people is irking particularly new and young doctors who have joined Covid-19 duties at a time when health professionals are already in shortage. Further, many people simply don’t seem bothered about maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and being hygienic. The ultimate sufferers will be the public, warn doctors. Recently, a man from Bengaluru arrived in Visakhapatnam on a flight. Airport staff realised that the man had come from a high-risk area— Mumbai— via Bengaluru and took him to a quarantine centre. “Without even waiting for his results, the man fled after writing a letter to doctors stating that he is healthy and returning home,” said a healthcare staffer associated with the quarantine centre. The staffer added: “The results arrived and he tested positive. The newly-recruited doctor at the quarantine centre informed him that he has to get admitted to a hospital. The man, who is now putting his family at risk, hurled abuses at the doctor and blamed the doctor for not telling him his test results immediately upon his return.” Dr PV Sudhakar, special officer for Covid-19 said, “On many occasions, people are showing impatience and are refusing to cooperate. They are trying to dodge quarantine and venting their frustration at doctors and healthcare staff. At this rate, the virus will rapidly spread among the public and people will be the ultimate sufferers if the number of cases keeps rising steeply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/public-will-be-ultimate-sufferers-warn-doctors-as-people-flout-norms/articleshow/76375237.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 15, 2020||Delhi||Two guards thrashed to death with sticks in outer Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two security guards working at a construction site in outer Delhi's Narela were thrashed to death by a few people over personal dispute late on Saturday.  A family member of one of the de ceased alleged that the cops did not inform them about the incident and it was only in the morning that they got to know about the murder through a common friend. Police said the two guards, Amit ( 22) and Sunil (24), who worked with a private firm were deployed on night duty on Saturday. They were beaten by a few men on the second floor of the building with sticks. Hearing the commotion, other guards reached the spot, but the attackers allegedly managed to escape. Both the men were rushed to a nearby hospital and later referred to BSA hospital where they died while undergoing treatment. Gaurav Sharma, DCP (Outer-North), said, "There were no apparent injuries on the heads and other vital parts, but fractures were reported in the limbs of both the victims, which indicate that the assailants intended to thrash them, but not murder." Deepak Kumar, Sunil's cousin, alleged that it was Sunil's friend who informed them about the incident. "My cousin was the only son in his family, who worked even during the lockdown so that he could send money home to his parents in Aligarh. His colleagues told me that around two dozen men came to the site. While some stood outside, the others thrashed both the guards. I don't know if they had come to rob things from the site or there was a dispute, but my brother's mobile phone was not found on him," he said. A preliminary investigation and statements by eyewitnesses suggest involvement of some men deployed at the site. Past incidents of quarrel among the other guards over money seemingly triggered the attack, DCP Sharma said, adding the suspects are being rounded up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-guards-thrashed-to-death-with-sticks-in-outer-delhi/articleshow/76377354.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 12 green zones in Krishna district turn red zones||VIJAYAWADA: The rise in number of Covid-19 cases has put rural parts of Krishna district on high alert. Around 14 Covid-19 cases were registered at Gantasala mandal in the Machilipatnam division over the last two days. Following the relaxation in lockdown restrictions, especially for inter-state transport, movement of people has gone up which has resulted in an increase in the number of cases. Around 12 green zones in Krishna district have turned red zones in a few days. In a bid to contain the spike in cases, village volunteers and health secretaries are monitoring the movement of people in rural areas and shifting those suspected to have contracted the disease to quarantine centres. Wearing masks has been made mandatory and panchayat officials are imposing fines on those ignoring social distancing norms. Nagar panchayats surrounding Vijayawada city are on high alert too after a series of cases were reported in the areas. Yanamalakuduru panchayat has increased vigilance after the number of cases touched 12 there. Six cases have been reported in the area over the last ten days. Panchayat officials in Yenamalakuduru are implementing containment measures and have closed all arterial roads. All shops, except those selling essential commodities are closed. Volunteers are conducting door-to-door surveys to identify people who have come in contact with those who have come to the village from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-green-zones-in-krishna-district-turn-red-zones/articleshow/76375265.cms||Venu Lanka
June 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 cases cross 700-mark in Krishna district, alarm bells in Machilipatnam||VIJAYAWADA: With 26 new cases, the number of coronavirus cases in the Krishna district crossed the 700 mark by Sunday morning. Despite measures taken by the police, civic body and revenue authorities, new Covid-19 cases continue to emerge in containment zones across the district. The number of cases have been increasing since Unlock 1.0 started on June 1. Krishna Lanka continues to be the major Covid-19 hotspot. Around six new cases were registered there on Saturday. Although all primary and secondary contacts of positive patients are being shifted to quarantine centers, new cases continue to surface from different parts of the city. Machilipatnam, registered 32 positive cases with 16 cases from Machilipatnam town alone. Meanwhile, district authorities are continuing the war against Covid-19. Efforts are on to expand quarantine facilities and beds for Covid-19 patients. Officials said that they are performing 3,000 tests a day, of which 500 are Trunaut tests and others are RT-PCR swab tests. Nimra Medical College Hospital at Ibrahimpatnam is likely to treat Covid-19 patients from Monday. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has called upon the public to exercise cautioun and directed officials to act firmly with those found violating rules on social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-cases-cross-700-mark-in-krishna-district-alarm-bells-in-machilipatnam/articleshow/76375274.cms||Venu Lanka
June 15, 2020||India||Doctorss find 73 patients in Ahmedabad using CT scan as quick Covid test||AHMEDABAD: When a city-based general physician developed Covid-19 symptoms in late May, he underwent an RT-PCR test. To his relief, the result was negative.  But, when fellow doctors suggested he take a high-resolution computed tomography (HCRT) thorax screening, his lungs showed patches of "opaque ground glass", typically associated with Covid-19. A repeat blood test showed he was Covid-19 positive.  The physician was among 125-plus city-based medical practitioners that underwent free CT scans offered by Dr Amit Gupta, a city-based radiologist, for the past ten days at his imaging centre. This was during the time when a test for Covid-19 needed government approval. Out of the total doctors screened, 73 tested positive for Covid-19, Dr Gupta said.  "I started the screening as a high number of medical practitioners were getting infected by Covid-19. It was a small gesture of gratitude towards the frontline Covid-19 warriors," Dr Gupta said. It is not just Dr Gupta who swears by the accuracy of CT scans - several critical care specialists and radiologists have started Covid-19 screening based on "CT severity score", which is an internationally accepted practice during the pandemic. "Accuracy of CT scans is higher than RT-PCR. Also, RT-PCR is a 'yes' or 'no' kind of test, whereas, CT scans give the exact picture of severity," a radiologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/docs-find-73-patients-in-ahd-using-ct-scan-as-quick-covid-test/articleshow/76377357.cms||Parth Shastri
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Now, rural areas turn into Covid-19’s hunting ground||VISAKHAPATNAM: The novel coronavirus, which was largely restricted to urban pockets until now, has found a new hunting ground in the rural ramparts of the state. While urban areas such as Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur, Kakinada are reeling under the rising number of Covid-19 cases, now the virus has started to show its impact in the rural pockets as well, informed a senior health official of Andhra Medical College (AMC), on condition of anonymity. Many rural areas have started reporting a spike in cases. “This trend can be attributed to the return of migrant workers to their villages and the free movement of people from high-risk areas such as Maharashtra to relatively safer zones such as Andhra Pradesh,” the health official added. A senior revenue official from Srikakulam said that Konarak Express, AP Express, Falaknuma Express and Godavari Express are three trains carrying passengers from high-risk zones to relatively safer areas, such as the district of Srikakulam. Railway sources say that no less than 10,000 people are arriving in Andhra Pradesh from various parts of the country every day. Many of them are from high-risk areas such as New Delhi and Maharashtra. “Some people are taking various alternative routes to reach AP. For example, a group of people came to Andhra Pradesh from Chennai via Hyderabad as the state has no direct transport from Tamil Nadu,” a source informed. Rural pockets have seen a nearly 30-40 per cent increase in Covid-19 cases since June 1 when the Union railway ministry allowed nearly 200 special trains to run across the country. A significant spike has been recorded in areas where migrant labourers have returned such as the districts of Vizianagaram, East Godavari, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Ongole and West Godavari. The state has reported nearly 2,000 cases in the last three weeks. Of these, more than 500 cases are from rural areas. Now, cases have also began surfacing in tribal areas, sources informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-rural-areas-turn-into-covid-19s-hunting-ground/articleshow/76375291.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: MLA launches app to reach out to constituents||GUNTUR: In a novel move to reach out to the people of his constituency during the Covid-19 crisis, Ponnur legislator Kilari Rosaiah has launched a mobile application. The Hyderabad-based Turpy Mobile Apps Limited has designed the app. The app titled ‘Ponnur MLA Kilari’ can be downloaded from Google Play Store. Rosaiah, an industrialist turned legislator, is considered to be among the most accessible YSRC leaders in the district. “People can send in their requests, complaints and even videos through the app. I will personally look into each and every grievance,” said Rosaiah. He said he thought of launching the app as many from his constituency were unable to meet him due to the Covid-19 lockdown. He said the app will now help him reach out to all the people in his constituency. Rosaiah has also appointed a dedicated team to follow up on people’s grievances with officials of concerned departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mla-launches-app-to-reach-out-to-constituents/articleshow/76375297.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Wholesalers brace for hike in fish price as transport costs escalate||VISAKHAPATNAM: As the new fishing season begins in the state, wholesalers expect fish prices to rise on account of the increase in cost of transportation after the lockdown was eased. Local retail markets in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are expected to bear the brunt of price escalation, with rates expected to increase three-fold. “Transportation cost has increased by at least 25 to 30 per cent. To add to this, stringent checks at state borders are resulting in delay of deliveries. A lot of our stocks are getting spoiled before they can reach retail markets. All these reasons put together would see a huge increase in price of fishes within a week,” Ummidi Yallarao, a wholesaler told TOI. Every year, Andhra Pradesh exports its marine and freshwater catch to Karnataka, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and parts of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal. From June 1 to July 31, when fishing is banned on the west coast of India, AP also exports fish to Maharashtra and parts of Gujarat. Traders said after the start of the new fishing season on June 1, autorickshaw drivers and mini-van drivers are charging almost twice the fare from landing centres to wholesale markets in the state. “After purchasing these fishes we are also paying an increased transportation rent to hire intra-state and interstate trucks. There is no alternate way to get rid of this problem,” Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist told TOI. Fishermen who had ventured out at the beginning of the season said the catch in the first two weeks of the new season has been good, with some species available in large quantities. “Despite the good catch we are compelled to sell fish at a high price to wholesalers because transportation costs to wholesale markets have increased,” said M Bullaya, a fisherman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/wholesalers-brace-for-hike-in-fish-price-as-transport-costs-escalate/articleshow/76375311.cms||Arpit Basu
June 15, 2020||Delhi||90% of power bills in Delhi paid online, say discoms||NEW DELHI: The power discoms have registered a significant rise of up to 90% in digital payments of electricity bills in Delhi during the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (TPDDL), serving around 70 lakh consumers in north and northwest Delhi, received over 90% of its bill payments through digital modes. Earlier, only 65% of its consumers made digital payment, said a spokesperson of the company. BSES discoms - BRPL and BYPL - are also receiving 90% payments through digital modes and the remaining 10% through cheques and demand drafts, said a spokesperson of the company. Before the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, around 72% consumers paid online and around 22% though cheques and drafts, he said. "We at Tata Power have been working towards various strategies over the years to revamp the process of bill payments for consumer convenience and contribute towards digital India. We have now reached a number where over 90% of our bill payments is received via digital modes," Ganesh Srinivasan, CEO, TPDDL, said. All the segments of consumers - domestic, industrial or agricultural - overwhelmingly opted for e-payments with a 94.8-%, 92.2% and 72% share respectively, the company spokesperson said.  "Of all the available e-payment modes, e-wallets have emerged as the most preferred among the consumers with a share of 40-43% use, followed by net banking with a 20-21%share in bill payments," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/90-of-power-bills-in-delhi-paid-online-say-discoms/articleshow/76377361.cms||---
June 15, 2020||India||Pastor hits perdition road on stolen bikes||Madurai: He was a man of God who had heard many a confession, but for pastor Vijayan Samuel, his judgment day came on Saturday when he had to confess to his crimes and police recovered a dozen stolen two-wheelers from him.  The 36-year-old pastor, originally from Theni, was running a prayer hall at a rented place at Thanakkankulam for the past two years. According to police, contributions to Samuel's prayer hall dried up due to the coronavirus lockdown.  Though he had stopped congregation services, he had to pay rent for the building which was around Rs 10,000 a month. The pastor found his calling in bikes parked on roadsides with keys intact and started stealing them. He would watch out for vehicles left behind by owners in commercial areas in the city. Using a copy of the vehicle records, he would pledge them for money. He gave three such stolen vehicles to his family members in Cumbum and a couple of them to people who took part in his prayer services, say police. Samuel ran out of luck when he took one such stolen vehicle to a mechanic recently for repair. The mechanic, who found the two-wheeler to be similar to one lost by his customer recently, informed him about it. The customer soon arrived and confirmed that it was his stolen vehicle. They both alerted the Subramanipuram police who promptly picked up Vijayan when he returned to take possession of the vehicle on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pastor-hits-perdition-road-on-stolen-bikes/articleshow/76377365.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Business||‘India to lose 130m jobs amid lockdown’||Kolkata: India is set to lose around 130 million jobs in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis, 40 per cent of which would be from the blue-collar domain, estimates city-based human resource consulting major Genius Consultants. Major job losses, according to the HR outfit, have been witnessed by sectors such as aviation, automobile, travel and tourism, food, entertainment and to some extent in the manufacturing segment. “The situation is still uncertain. Some Covid-19-servicing industries like healthcare, pharmaceuticals, e-commerce, IT services, essential retail continued to do good business during this difficult period. So, there will be an incremental rise in the jobs in these industries,” said R P Yadav, chairman and MD of Genius Consultants. Shortage of working capital has been another area of concern for the industry, feel experts. Although the government has given certain tax benefits and EMI, or loan benefits but the interest rate will be around 9%. “The business is moving at a slower pace after the withdrawal of lockdown. Companies are facing several problems like shortage of demand, lack of working capital as well as labourers. Most of the industries will witness negative growth in revenue and profit. I do not see India GDP this year growing more than 1.0%to 1.5%,” said the HR exponent. Asked about the sectors which may find some breather during Unlock 1.0, Yadav said: “The hospitality industry which mainly includes hotels and restaurants, along with malls can hope to revive their businesses after a long bearing off loss during the lockdown. Jewellery and retail industries, hotels, and restaurants would benefit the most and expect a recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-to-lose-130m-jobs-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76376068.cms||Sovon Manna
June 15, 2020||Business||Road to recovery: Auto dealers see normal ops by Sept||Kolkata: The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) says customer walk-ins, fresh bookings and workshop revenue has increased in June after two months of virtual standstill. Some of the leading automakers have also corroborated this slow but a steady return to normalcy and claimed their businesses were up and had crossed the halfway mark to normal operations. Harsharaj Kale, president of FADA, the apex national body of automobile retail industry, said June held out some hope after a dismal April and May, when much of India was under lockdown. “Even in June, we expect a 25% degrowth against last year. As things stand, the auto industry should return to its normal operations by September. But it can happen faster if there is a government stimulus,” Kale told TOI. Out of 26,500 auto outlets, over 60% showrooms and 80% workshops are now operational. In May 2020, two-wheeler sales fell by 88,8% from 14.2 lakh to 1.6 lakh. Car sales was down 97% from 2.4 lakh to less than 31,000 units. Toyota, Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai said they were gradually moving towards normal operations despite the Covid graph continuing its precipitous ascent in Mumbai and Delhi, the two biggest auto markets in the country. All three automakers have managed to open more than 90% of their sales and service outlets and have started generating revenue from both verticals. Officials of Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) claimed its operations have already achieved 53% normalisation when compared to pre-lockdown scenario and expect to end the month at 60% normalisation in terms of car sales and service. TKM senior vice-president (sales and marketing) Naveeen Soni said that while 60% of customers who had booked cars before Covid had cancelled the orders through May and June, fresh orders were coming from markets in south, east and north-east. At MSIL, officials said 2,800 outlets across the country were operational with the company selling 30,000 cars in May out of the industry-wide sales of 58,000 units. “Around 3,600 service workshops are also operational and we are currently servicing around 45,000 cars daily,” a company spokesperson said. HMIL, too, said there were positive signs with the dealers completing 1 lakh car services post lockdown and sales gradually picking up. “Demand for Creta, Venue, i20 and Nios are quite strong,” a company spokesperson said. Kala said the pandemic could lead to a shift towards personal mobility, fuelling sales of two-wheelers and small cars. But he said that would depend on the three factors: fear, affordability and convenience. "Right now, fear of infection is hinting at a shift away from public to private transport. But it will depend on affordability and means. Also, if shared mobility providers can convince people that the transport they provide is safe, then people will go back to using them for convenience," he pointed out. Toyota though has witnessed a demand for Glanza, the rebadged Baleno from the MSIL portfolio that TKM sold from its channels. "There is a 5-10% rise in demand for Glanza, the only small car in our portfolio. Demand for high-end cars is certainly down. If the demand persists, we will evaluate whether we need to augment our small car portfolio," said Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/road-to-recovery-auto-dealers-see-normal-ops-by-sept/articleshow/76376109.cms||---
June 15, 2020||India||India to see Covid-19 peak by mid-Nov: Study||NEW DELHI: The national lockdown delayed the onset of the peak stage of Covid-19 pandemic in India and gave time to prepare the health system with the curve for infections likely to hit its highest point only around mid-November, an open access study said.  The study is not peer reviewed and was conducted by researchers from an Operations Research Group constituted by ICMR. The ICMR, however, on Monday said that the report does not reflect its official position. "The news reports attributing this study to ICMR are misleading. This refers to a non peer reviewed modelling, not carried out by ICMR and does not reflect the official position of ICMR," the ICMR said in a tweet. According to the study, the lockdown shifted the peak of the pandemic - and smoothened the Covid-19 curve - by an estimated 34 to 76 days which helped bring down the number of infections by 69-97%. This allowed time for the healthcare system to ramp up resources and infrastructure. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Sources said the study had errors and was not validated by ICMR. For instance, the study said that "on May 6, after the end of six-week lockdown, the reported cases in India were 5,29,872 which were 47% of cases estimated by our model in a scenario of lockdown with 40% effectiveness". However, the health ministry has recorded only 3.32 lakh cases till date, much less than claimed in the study.  Findings of the study showed intensification of public health surveillance measures with 60% effectiveness was estimated to reduce the cases at peak and cumulative number of infections by 70% and 26.6% respectively. The requirement of ICU beds and ventilators would reduce by 83% with intensified public health measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-see-covid-19-peak-by-mid-nov-study/articleshow/76377374.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Business||Bengal brands tie up with social media for promotion during lockdown||Kolkata: With net surfing being a common way for many people, locked down at home, to beat the Covid blues, various companies are banking upon social media to a large extent for promotion of their products in Bengal and other parts of the country. In over the past two months, ShareChat- the leading Indian social networking service developed by Mohalla Tech – has been witnessing an uptick in the upload of business-related videos to woo consumers. This has prompted the social network service to open up their platforms for brands recently to advertise their products among public. In Kolkata alone, the ShareChat platform is focusing on more brand tie-ups now. “We are in discussion with all leading regional and national brands from Kolkata. As of now, we have reached an advanced stage of discussion with 15-20 brands in this city,” Satyajit Deb Roy, director sales and North East India, ShareChat, confirmed to TOI. “We are working with more than 30 leading brands across the country and helping them link with around 60 million active users in 10 languages. These brands include Coca Cola, Pepsi, Oyo, Airtel and Snapdeal among others,” he added. On being asked how it is profitable for business enterprises to promote their products through the social networking platform rather than other means of advertisements, Roy said, “It offers value propositions to the brands. Every medium has its own advantages. Any brand conversation on ShareChat is pushed through word of mouth, led by micro influencers.” However, a further spike in brand promotions on social media platforms is likely in the wake of netizens taking to Twitter for boycott of Chinese products and apps like Tiktok urging people to join “the cause in a service to the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bengal-brands-tie-up-with-social-media-for-promotion-during-lockdown/articleshow/76376129.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||With 14 deaths, Covid toll rises to 399 in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 tally for UP increased by 499 on Sunday with new cases surfacing in different districts. While Gautam Budh Nagar contributed the most with 83 cases in 24 hours, Ghaziabad followed with 30 and Lucknow bagged the third place with 29 cases. Health officials stated that over 3,000 cases were added in the past week and that the total reached 13,715 on Sunday. The state also recorded 14 fresh fatalities taking the total death toll to 399. Among the 14 fatalities, six were reported in Meerut, two each in Agra and Sambhal and one each from Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Rae Bareli and Hardoi. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that of the total cases, 4,948 were active infections, while 8,268 had been discharged. “As many as 393 persons recovered from the infection in 24 hours. Also, majority of the active cases are migrants. With 93 fresh cases, the total number of migrants suffering from Covid-19 reached 3,636,” he said. Officials stated that districts, which saw ouble-digit entries, included Meerut and Jaunpur where 27 cases each were reported, while Bulandshahr saw 23 cases. Others were: Kanpur (18), Aligarh (17), Agra (15), Barabanki (15), Gorakhpur (14), Hathras (13), Etawah (11), Farrukhabad (10), Mathura (10) and Firozabad (10). Health department officials stated that the number of tests increased to 4.67 lakh on Sunday and efforts were on to achieve the daily testing target of 20,000 soon. Over 18,000 tests were done in 24 hours. Surveillance activities continued in full swing across 1,700 containment zones where diseases control protocols prescribed by the Indian council of Medical Research were being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-14-deaths-covid-toll-rises-to-399-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/76377379.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 15, 2020||India||Sero-survey in Punjab to find Covid-19 spread||Chandigarh: For better planning and implementation to prevent and control spread of Covid-19, the Punjab government is set to conduct a sero-survey across the state to ascertain the spread of virus and accordingly prepare a strategy. In a sero-survey, blood samples of people are collected to ascertain spread of virus in selected population. A similar survey was recently conducted by ICMR in four districts of the state along with other districts across India.  To frame a comprehensive action plan to check the spread of the pandemic, the sero-survey will be conducted in high populations comprising frontline workers, health workers, doctors, policemen, industrial workers, farmers, staff of municipal corporation, people with compromised immunity and containment zones. Punjab has been hit by a barrage of positive cases since commencement of Unlock 1.0, leaving the government panicky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sero-survey-in-punjab-to-find-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76377403.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||346 Mumbai local trains to ferry govt staff from today||MUMBAI: After nearly three months, the city's lifeline will be restored today. As reported by TOI in its lead story on Sunday, Western Railway and Central Railway will resume select suburban services for essential staff working in state government bodies. A total of 346 services will run daily, including 146 on the WR, 130 on the CR main line and 70 on the Harbour line and ferry 1.25 lakh passengers. Normally, 3,000 local trains ferry nearly 80 lakh people daily. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had been pressing for resumption of local services for essential staff. A meeting was held on Sunday between railway officials from Mumbai, the BMC and police to work out the modalities of running the services. Sources said the trains will halt only at stations where fast trains halt. On the Harbour line, halts will be at major stations. Buses will ferry passengers from the stations to their work places. The train services are likely to start around 5.30 am; the last train will be around 11.30 pm from CSMT/Churchgate for down direction. The trains will operate every 15-20 minutes. Each train will carry 700 passengers as against the seating capacity of 1,200 to maintain social distancing. There will be two-tier scrutiny of passengers. BMC will be the nodal agency to issue e-passes to the passengers involved in essential service for agencies like the police, BEST, Mantralaya etc. The e-pass, which will work like an identity card, will contain all the details of the passenger. The Railways has also resolved the issue of tickets. A railway board circular stated it has been decided to extend the validity of the season tickets to the extent of days lost due to the lockdown. "The same shall be permitted at the UTS counters at stations to those permitted by state government. UTS counters may also issue fresh tickets/season tickets to persons permitted by the government of Maharashtra."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-346-local-trains-for-essential-government-staff-will-run-from-today/articleshow/76377410.cms||Manthan K Mehta
June 15, 2020||India||As classes go online, parents seek apps to curb screen time||DEHRADUN: Neha Romauld, a teacher in Mussoorie, had strict rules for her 11-year-old boy. He was allowed two hours of screen time a day. Then his school shut and the grade 5 student started digital classes, resulting in him spending several hours online. “He had homework to do as well and it was not possible to keep an eye on what he was up to all the time,” said Romauld, the kid’s aunt. A parental control application that Romauld downloaded in May on the laptop the child was using allowed her to monitor sites he was browsing and block those with sensitive content. Many other parents are downloading similar apps. Since April 1, parental control app PikaPika has been downloaded 12,000 times, said its founder Chitranshu Mahant. “We have seen a 33% increase in our downloads since April,” he told TOI. Between April 1 and May 30, another parental control app, Kids Place, recorded 50,000 downloads in India, its founder Paresh Joshi said. Ryan Lexer, head of sales & business development at KIDOZ app, said downloads were up 40% in India since March. Cyber experts have cautioned that parents should keep in mind that online access comes with risks like exposure to inappropriate content, cyberbullying and online predators. In April, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, an office within the ministry of electronics & information technology, had issued an advisory cautioning parents to keep an eye on online activities of children as schools moved online. The advisory had also suggested parents to set rules such as allowing the child to only browse the internet in the living room or in the presence of an adult. Nirali Bhatia, a cyber psychologist and founder of Cyber Bullying Awareness Action and Prevention (CyberBAAP), a Mumbai-based non-profit that provides counselling to victims, said there has been a significant rise in the complaints of cyberbullying they received in the recent months. “In the past three months, we have received 200 complaints from those aged between 13 and 19 years who reported instances of cyber bullying. In many cases, young people were being blackmailed or threatened by strangers they made friends with online and who encouraged them to share inappropriate photos or videos.” Parents TOI spoke to agreed that their own hectic work schedules made it nearly impossible to keep a tab on children for long hours. “Since my husband and I are both doctors we had to send our 4-year-old to stay with her grandparents. She is already in primary and uses a smartphone. So we gave her one with an app installed that sends us notifications about her internet activity,” said Dr Ritu Sharma in Indore. Many parental control apps allow parents to monitor which apps are being downloaded by their children and how much time they are spending on them. Parents can fix time limits on apps after which they automatically get locked. They have access to their children’s browsing history as well. A device with a parental control app can also create a separate kids’ zone — it has internet access but only certain websites that have permission will operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-classes-go-online-parents-seek-apps-to-curb-screen-time/articleshow/76377416.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nearly 1,500 Covid beds vacant in Civil, other Ahmedabad government hospitals||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Sunday recorded 511 Covid-19 cases, taking the state tally to 23,590. This is the fourth time in the past five days the state recorded 500-plus cases in a day. Gujarat also recorded deaths of 29 Covid-19 patients, taking the toll to 1,478. The deaths included 22 from Ahmedabad, four from Surat and one each from Aravalli, Mehsana and Panchmahal. Of total cases, highest 334 were from Ahmedabad, 76 from Surat, 42 from Vadodara and nine from Surendranagar. It was the seventh consecutive day for the Ahmedabad district to record 320-plus cases daily or 13 cases every hour. Meanwhile, a rough analysis of availability of beds revealed that 1,500 beds in Covid-designated hospitals in Civil hospital compound and other civic and government run hospitals were available for admission of Covid patients. In Civil hospital, Ahmedabad, and AMC-run SVP Hospital alone, 400 beds e ach were vacant for Covid patients. This was followed by Sola Civil hospital (180), UN Mehta (110), GCRI Hospital (150) and IKDRC (130). In Ahmedabad, AMC has already requisitioned 1,800 beds in 44 hospitals where patients are being treated. The medical fraternity says that the focus should be on treating mild and asymptomatic patients at home and moderately and severely critical patients in hospitals. There is also growing concern among the experts that exclusive facilities should be earmarked for Covid and non-Covid patients. In Delhi, the state government has ordered nursing homes with 10-50 beds be requisitioned as Covid nursing homes. The national president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Rajan Sharma cited March 28 advisory issued by union health secretary Preeti Sudan advocating dedicated Covid-19 hospitals as common facilities for Covid and non-Covid patients runs a high risk of spread of the disease. Dr Sharma urged the Centre to issue remedial advisory to states to not acquire beds in all private hospitals but ensure exclusive facilities for Covid and non-Covid patients instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nearly-1500-covid-beds-vacant-in-civil-other-ahmedabad-government-hospitals/articleshow/76377409.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Derabassi, Zirakpur racing to become next hotspots||MOHALI: Twenty-nine of 56 active cases in Mohali are from Derabassi-Zirakpur-Lalru belt fast heading towards earning the infamous epithet of a coronavirus hotspot after Jawaharpur. In 48 hours, 50% of the active cases emerged from Mubarakpur in Derabassi, Zirakpur and Dappar in Lalru. According to the records of the health department, 27 of the 29 active cases detected in Derabassi-Zirakpur-Lalru belt either have a travel history to Delhi or are direct contacts of positive patients who returned from Delhi. Two cases were reported at flu clinic. Eighteen cases were detected from Derabassi in two days, with nine from Mubarakpur village alone. Five cases were from Lalru and six from Zirakpur. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said people arriving by their own means or by road from Delhi or other states are not reporting their arrival at the health centres, making it difficult for the administration to trace their contacts and stem the spread of the virus. He said, "Those coming from other states must reveal their travel history and not go into hiding. We have set up teams to check the arrival of such people. Mohali police are directed to check the entry points for vehicles bearing registration numbers not of Chandigarh and Mohali. We will soon start screening of people entering the district from adjoining state borders." The screening and testing helped the authorities rid Jawaharpur of the virus. The village in Derabassi remained a containment zone for 51 days after the first case surfaced on April 4. It was declared a containment-free zone on May 25. It had 46 cases out of which only one showed symptoms, 42-year-old panch who was the first from the village to test positive. The village has a total population of approximately 2,500 people. Residents had claimed that each house sustained loss of Rs 1 lakh in two months. They said neighboring villagers treated them as outcasts, blaming them for spreading the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-derabassi-zirakpur-racing-to-become-next-hotspots/articleshow/76377423.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa’s first ventilator case stable, pulled off support||PANAJI/QUEPEM: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state went up by 41 on Sunday bringing the tally to 490. Mangor Hill added 29 cases while sporadic ones were reported from other parts of the state. Two travellers have also tested positive. Ghodemol ward of Morle village saw two more testing positive. Samples of many others in the containment zone were taken. As of Sunday, 17 persons have tested positive there with all linked to Mangor Hill. Out of total 490 active cases, 272 are from Mangor Hill and 172 are linked to the containment zone. The condition of the security guard, who tested positive after his heart attack, is stable and he is off the ventilator, said a health official at the Covid-19 hospital. He was the first Covid patient in Goa to need ventilator support. The person who had accompanied him to the hospital and was untraceable until Saturday evening, was found on Sunday. “He has been transferred to a quarantine facility. His swabs samples will be taken on the seventh day or earlier if he develops symptoms,” a health official said. Another member of the family staying in the ESI quarters at Margao have tested positive for Covid-19. A total of five members in this family tested positive over Saturday and Sunday. They live opposite the tea boy's family at ESI quarters. Two cases more have been reported from Quepem, which has reported a total of six cases. One is the relative of a KTC driver, who tested positive. His case is linked to Mangor Hill. “We will test all persons who may have come in contacts of Covid-19 patients. Their families have been asked to remain in quarantine,” Dr Lorna Fernandes, health officer at Quepem PHC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-first-ventilator-case-stable-pulled-off-support/articleshow/76376595.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Goa||Morle sarpanch seeks free essentials for zones||KERI: Morle sarpanch Vidya Sawant has urged the government to supply essential commodities free of cost to residents of the Ghodemol containment zone as well as the Deulwada and Kasarwada buffer zones. “Families in these areas do not have a sound source of income,” Sawant told TOI. “Our panchayat has made arrangement to supply essential commodities to 51 families from the containment zone,” Morle deputy sarpanch Sushant Paste said. With 430 of the 843 households in the village being below poverty line and another 30 identified as economically backward — with most of these in the containment and buffer zones — sources said there is worry as to how the villagers will sustain themselves if they are not able to step out to earn a daily wage. As it stands, the nation-wide lockdown had already impacted the economics of the villagers as they were unable to harvest the cashew crop on which many families in this area are heavily dependent. The self-lockdown will only further affect their finances, they said. Ghodemol has a population of 200, while Kasarwada and Deulwada have 350 and 480 people, respectively. Only a few families are involved in agriculture and till government-owned fields. A minuscule few are employed in the government or private sector. When contacted, deputy collector of Sattari, Mangaldas Gaonkar, said, “We are making our best efforts to give them food and other essential commodities. We have deployed volunteers from the containment and buffer zones who bring to our notice the needs of the families.” The smallest panchayat of Sattari taluka, Morle saw its Ghodemol ward being declared a containment zone, and Deulwada and Kasarwada as buffer zones following 15 Covid-19 cases being detected in Ghodemol. The village panchayat of Morle came into existence in 1986 after those living in Anjunem, Pansuli and Gulle were rehabilitated here after these areas were acquired for the Anjunem dam project. Besides, Ghodemol, Kasarwada and Deulwada, the other wards in Morlem are Kesarkarwada, Muslimwada, Gimaywada, Bagwada and Bhatwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/morle-sarpanch-seeks-free-essentials-for-zones/articleshow/76376586.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra spends 0.5% of its GDP on health, half the national average||MUMBAI: Despite rising population and healthcare costs, the state government has failed to allocate more than 4% of its exhaustive budget in the last five years for public health. The Covid-19 pandemic has laid bare the grossly inadequate investment in public health that has led to an overt dependence on the private sector, which has been caught profiteering and even plainly denying care in many instances. Experts say that despite being among the country’s richest states, the percentage of GDP Maharashtra spends on health (0.5%) is less than half the national average of 1.3%. As of Sunday, Maharashtra accounted for 30% of the country’s Covid-19 burden with Mumbai as the epicentre. A review of the state budget for the last five years by TOI shows that the allocation towards the public health and family welfare department has remained stagnant at 4%. Worse, senior officials say the department managed to spend about 60-65% of the allocation annually; also, a lion’s share of the allocation goes towards paying salaries. The health allocation for the state was Rs 17,288 crore in 2020-21. As per the economic survey 2019-20, as of 2018, there were a total of 1.27 lakh beds across government health institutions, which is an average of 103 beds per 1 lakh people. In comparison, the state had 43,823 beds in government institutions in 1971, which worked out to 88 beds per 1 lakh people, highlighting how the pace of expansion of services has been painstakingly slow. Poor outlay reflects in public health systemIt seems only a pandemic could shake things up in the state’s health sector. From about 50,000, Maharashtra managed to augment the strength of Covid-19 isolation beds by six times within three months. Public health analyst Ravi Duggal said that the state spends only 0.5% of its GDP on health, which is half the national average. “Even on a per capita basis, the state’s investment is much less than the national average,” he said, adding that Maharashtra’s per-capita health expenditure in 2019-20 was Rs 1,266, far less than Arunachal Pradesh (Rs 10,869), Delhi (Rs 3,145), Andhra Pradesh (Rs 2,150) or Kerala (Rs 1,985), among other states. “This is the core reason why the private sector is so huge in states like Maharashtra,” he said. Low investment in health is reflected in a weak primary health system. “When citizens flock to big hospitals even for common cold and fever, that’s when we know the primary health system is inadequate,” Duggal said. The manpower crunch is also a result of neglect, say senior officials. Of the nearly 54,000 approved posts in the public health department, nearly 30%, or close to 16,000 posts are vacant. Over 50% of specialists’ posts are vacant. As per statistics, there are only six government doctors per one lakh people in the state. Health minister Rajesh Tope agreed that the department was neglected for several years and the funds from many heads were not touched. “We are now in the process of ensuring that the budget allocated to the department is used through the year and not only at the end of the year,” said Tope. He also said that the department needs an overhaul and the Covid-19 crisis has brought systemic lapses to the fore. “This outbreak has taught us many lessons,” said Tope. A white paper by the NGO Praja Foundation stated that a Mumbai household’s annual average spend on health had increased by 45% to Rs 98,214 in 2017-18 from Rs 67,875 in 2016-17. It underlined that Mumbaikars are consequently spending a higher percentage of their income on health, despite the BMC, one of the country’s richest corporations allocating nearly Rs 3,600 crore for healthcare. A senior doctor said if that was the situation in Mumbai, one could gauge the situation in the rest of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-spends-0-5-of-its-gdp-on-health-half-the-national-average/articleshow/76377425.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: QMC shuts 2 wards on Sunday ahead of 6-day lockdown from tomorrow||QUEPEM: Although the Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) had decided on a six-day lockdown from June 16 to 21, in a sudden move the municipality imposed an emergency lockdown in the two municipal wards of Koleamoddi and Amona on Sunday, after two Covid-19 cases were reported from one ward. The neighbouring Ambaulim panchayat also imposed lockdown in two of its wards, at Akamoll and Novovaddo, where the positive cases were reported. Ambaulim sarpanch Jacinta Dias said that an emergency meeting has been called on Monday to decide upon an eight-day lockdown in the village. QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik along with councillors Raul Pereira and Amol Kanekar, market inspector Andrew Fernandes visited all the shops, restaurants in the town and its market and distributed letters appealing to them to shut down during the lockdown. Naik told TOI that only medical stores, doctors’ clinics and government offices will be allowed to be open. Meanwhile, ever since the lockdown was announced on Friday evening in Quepem, a heavy rush was witnessed at all general stores in the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/qmc-shuts-2-wards-on-sun-ahead-of-6-day-lockdown-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76376591.cms||Johnny M
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGI tests 7,000 for 143 seats||CHANDIGARH: As many as 7,000 candidates appeared online for PGI MD/MS entrance test offering 143 seats in 42 centres across 21 cities on Sunday. One of the most competitive exams was initially scheduled for May 23 but was repeatedly postponed owing to the coronavirus pandemic. As many as 13,000 applicants had registered for the exam. Sources said three candidates from Bangalore and Mumbai had appeared for the test while they were isolated in a room. "For Covid suspected cases, we had isolation rooms in every centre. Separate workstations were put up for them. All the candidates were under CCTV surveillance and monitored from PGI's control room," said an official in PGI. The examination was held under two slots - 9am to 12noon and 3pm to 4.30 pm Chandigarh, Mohali and Lalru were the centres in the Tricity. Ambala, Patiala, Ludhiana and Jalandhar were the centres in Punjab and Haryana. "A seat next to each candidate was left vacant. All candidates had to install Aarogya Setu mobile application in their phones and wear masks," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-tests-7000-for-143-seats/articleshow/76377436.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 25% teachers to attend school for 3 hours from today||CHANDIGARH: Starting Monday, teachers working in government and government-aided schools would be back to work. But only 25% teachers would work on any given day. The latest guidelines shared with the teachers said the school would be functioning from 10am to 1pm daily. School heads have been given the liberty to decide if they want to call new sets of 25% teachers on daily basis or on weekly basis. The teachers have been asked to "be very careful" about Covid-19 guidelines. The teachers coming to school will facilitate the admission process for all classes. District education officer (DEO) Alka Mehta said teachers will personally accept Class IX applications. For admission to other classes, applications will have to be submitted with the gatekeeper with date and mobile number mentioned on it. In yet another major step, schools have been asked not to take any fee for classes IX to XII till further orders by education department. DEO has also given responsibilities to the staff. For instance, checking of all mails, circulars and work-related websites will be done by computer teachers. The teachers have also been asked to teach primary, middle and secondary level students online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-25-teachers-to-attend-school-for-3-hours-from-today/articleshow/76377442.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Petrol price up over Rs 6 per litre in 14 days, tops rate in metros||MUMBAI: Petrol and diesel rates went up for the eighth day in a row on Sunday, taking the hike in Mumbai to Rs 6.39 per litre and Rs 6.40 per litre in two weeks this month. The retail price of petrol is Rs 82.70 per litre while that of diesel is Rs 72.64 per litre. Petrol is the costliest in Mumbai as compared to other metros. Petrol Dealers' Association president M Venkat Rao said the prices are going up by 50-60 paise daily, but there is not much business at the city's pumps. Pump owners expect more people to fill up vehicle tanks this week, fearing that rates will go up further. Transporters are not happy with the increase in diesel rates as the expense on fuel is 65% of total transportation cost and this could increase freight costs. “About 70% of the retail price of fuel constitutes the central & state taxes, which in turn is about 275% and 255% on petrol and diesel respectively over the base price,” said Singh Bal Malkit Singh of All India Motor Transport Congress. “The transporters cannot absorb the daily hike in diesel prices as the freight depends mostly on demand and supply forces. The road transport fraternity of India strongly protests against the daily hikes that are making their operations unviable. The burden will finally be passed on to consumers,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-price-up-over-rs-6-per-litre-in-14-days-tops-rate-in-metros/articleshow/76377446.cms||Somit Sen
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Minor Bengal girl saved from forced marriage||Kolkata: A minor girl was rescued by Childline and West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) with the help of Duttapukur police on Sunday, after she apprehended that her father was going to take her to Rajasthan to get her married. The 17-year-old had called gender and rights activist Bappaditya Mukherjee of Prantakatha with the help of a neighbour on Saturday evening. “My father is about to take me away to Rajasthan and marry me off. I do not want to get married now. I want to continue with my studies. But my father will not hear any of my pleas,” she told Mukherjee. The teen took her Madhyamik examination this year. The girl said that her cousin was taken to Rajasthan a few months ago on the pretext of getting her married, and nothing had been heard from her since. She alleged that her father would torture her regularly for not toeing the line. Mukherjee got Childline and WBCPCR involved. On Sunday, a team from Childline reached her house. The girl said that she did not feel safe at her home. Neighbours confirmed the minor’s plight. “We get plenty of SOS calls like this from minor girls saying that their parents are getting them married off. This is a very encouraging sign. Often, child marriage ends up in trafficking. She will be produced before the state child welfare committee,” said Ananya Chakrabori Chatterjee, chairperson, WBCPCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/minor-bengal-girl-saved-from-forced-marriage/articleshow/76376827.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Resort staffer returns home to forest watchtower quarantine in Jalpaiguri||Jalpaiguri: A hotel management diploma holder who was working at a resort on Andaman and Nicobar Islands has fallen on hard times amid the Covid pandemic, banished to the heights of a 25ft forest watchtower on his return home to Jalpaiguri district. Amar Bahadur Rai (23) has younger brother Jiwan for company after he rode to Siliguri on a motorcycle to receive his sibling. On June 10, when Amar and Jiwan reached Malivitta Nepali Busty, under Sikarpur forest beat of Belakoba range within Rajganj police station limits, at 10pm, villagers denied them entry. They were directed to the watchtower built by the forest department to thwart marauding elephants during harvesting season. Since that Wednesday night, the two brothers are spending quarantine atop the 8ftx8ft watchtower in a dense forest around 400m from their village. “I never imagined I would be forced to stay in quarantine on an elephant watchtower in an isolated place away from my village. As my brother came in touch with me, both of us were forced to stay on the tower. My family brings food and water up to a distance; we go and collect them,” said Amar. “I was working at a resort on Havelock Island. Due to lockdown, my contract was not renewed and I had to return home after a year and a half,” added Amar, whose father works in the Border Security Force. Forest officials tried to persuade the villagers, saying that a watchtower quarantine was risky and illegal. “We tried to get the villagers to see reason. But they were adamant. We could do nothing,” said Dipak Roy Pradhan, beat officer of Sikarpur forest. Belakoba forest ranger Sanjay Dutta said: “People have lost humanity and have made an elephant watchtower into a quarantine centre.” The number of Covid-positive cases is rapidly increasing in much of north Bengal and most of the affected are returnees. “They will undergo a coronavirus test in a week and if found negative, they will return home in 14 days,” said the brothers’ uncle Hari Bahadur Bhujel. Meanwhile, with the monsoon already here, the two brothers’ life on the exposed watchtower has turned painful. There is no shelter from rain and there is no electricity, which means there is no sleep in the hot and humid nights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/resort-staffer-returns-home-to-forest-watchtower-quarantine-in-jalpaiguri/articleshow/76377036.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Parents body takes out silent protest against fees demand at pvt schools||Ranchi: A silent protest on Sunday in Bapu Vatika at Morhabadi ground by All School Parent’s Association (Aspa) demanded a waiver of fees at private schools for the period of lockdown. Recently, the association along with other similar bodies, had met state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, but later voiced their displeasure over the minister’s decision. On Sunday, memebers of Aspa also said that if schools are reopened before the Covid situation normalises, it will put the lives of students at risk. Aspa president Ajay Rai said, “We had demanded a waiver of fees and other charges, but the education minister did not agree. Moreover, the government has not issued an order to this effect even after a week. We will move court against the order once it comes out.” Meanwhile, some schools have already asked parents to deposit the fees for the period of lockdown as soon as possible. A member of the outfit said, “While parents are faced with financial crisis, there is continuous pressure from schools to clear the dues. Schools are also barring students from taking online classes for non-payment of fees.” According to the Jharkhand Education Tribunal Amendment Act, a fee regulation committee should also be formed at the district level, but hasn’t been constituted so far, alleged some parents. The protestors also claimed that schools have crores of surplus fund under various heads, which could be used to waive off fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-body-takes-out-silent-protest-against-fees-demand-at-pvt-schools/articleshow/76375459.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||NTPC donates eight ventilators to HMCH||Hazaribag: The National Thermal Power Corporation’s Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining Project unit in Barkagaon donated eight ventilators to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) on Sunday. Prashant Kashyap, the executive director of NTPC’s Pakri Barwadih project, said, “The NTPC is committed to help the district administration in its fight against Covid-19. We gave ventilators under our CSR policy.” He added that under the CSR policy, they also provided three of their buildings to the district administration, so that those can be used as quarantine centres. Kashyap said, “Of late, a large number of migrants returned to their native places in Barkagaon and Keredari, and they were quarantined in the three buildings.” The executive director said they have also donated 35,000 masks, 5,000 sanitisers and hand gloves to the district administration. “Moreover, NTPC staff of Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining Project have in total donated Rs 4 lakhs to provide dry ration to around 2,000 migrants who returned from Mumbai and other red zones.” Hazaribag DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said, “With the addition of eight ventilators, the number of ventilators at HMCH has gone up to 12.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ntpc-donates-eight-ventilators-to-hmch/articleshow/76375476.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Non-coronavirus hospital patients in Kolkata test positive for Covid-19||KOLKATA: Several private hospitals in the city have recorded a spurt in the number of non-Covid-19 patients — admitted for surgery or treatment for some other ailment — testing positive for Covid-19 during routine testing. This indicates wider transmission, something we should prepare for by having more Covid-19 beds across hospitals, feel experts. Such patients are typically asymptomatic, and the discovery of the virus is often delaying treatment of their primary complaints. A seemingly healthy 35-year-old, who got admitted at Fortis Hospital last week for surgery to remove pus that had formed around his spine, tested positive hours before he was to be wheeled into the operating theatre. He was completely asymptomatic, and the Covid report left even his doctors surprised. The surgery has now been deferred till he tests negative. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, a patient who sought admission for gall bladder surgery tested positive. He, too, had no symptoms and his surgery was deferred by two weeks. At Fortis, a 64-year-old tested Covid-19-positive after being admitted for surgery over a fractured femur. He has been shifted to the isolation unit, awaiting recovery. Hospitals are deferring surgeries on Covid-19 patients, waiting for them to test negative, as the ailment increases mortality rate. “Apart from the fact that Covid-19 patients have impaired immunity, the virus often triggers vascular anomalies, which may lead to myocardial infarction or a brain stroke. So, unless there is an emergency, it’s advisable to wait till the patient tests negative,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. Since private hospitals resumed elective surgeries in early May after a month-and-half Covid-induced break, a Covid test has been made mandatory. Around 10%-15% of patients without symptoms seeking admission have tested positive across hospitals, leading the latter to alter their treatment plan. AMRI, for instance, now asks patents to get the test done a day before admission so that they can stay in home quarantine and recover if they test positive. “If the symptoms are mild or absent, which is often happening in the case of surgery patients, they can stay at home without wasting time at the hospital. It also helps to free up beds for symptomatic Covid patients,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, too, has been testing patients before taking them in. Around 10%-12% seeking admission at the hospital have tested positive over the last one month, said chairperson Alok Roy. “We have had patients seeking cardiac, gall bladder, appendectomy and hernia surgeries testing positive. Even a snake-bite patient was found to have the virus. We are advising home quarantine, unless the symptoms are severe,” said Roy. Even though Covid patients with mild or no symptoms can recover at home, those with co-morbidities that require treatment should be admitted, felt Dhar. “While managing such patients at home could be difficult, we are asking the rest to opt for home quarantine. In case of co-morbid patients, we are offering an option to return to home quarantine in case their condition turns manageable after three days,” added Dhar. All surgical and procedural patients are being tested for Covid before admission at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “We are seeing several patients who are being worked up for surgery showing Covid-positive results. The majority of them are asymptomatic, and hence they are placed on home isolation under remote supervision of our physicians for 14 days, as prescribed by government guidelines for asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic patients. They need not unnecessarily stay in the hospital, awaiting Covid results,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. He added that emergency patients were admitted in a holding area, which is in a separate building from the other non-Covid patients, and tested for Covid. “Emergency surgery, if required, is done without waiting for Covid results, with full PPE assuming that the patient may be positive. Once the results arrive, a decision is made regarding further management,” said Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/non-corona-hosp-patients-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76377085.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||4 sniffer dogs to nose around for wildlife crimes in Bengal||Kolkata: A Belgian Malinois, the breed that had helped the SEAL team track Osama bin Laden, will soon trudge through the muddy terrains of the Sunderbans to detect wildlife crimes. This is the first time a sniffer dog will be used in the Sunderbans buffer zone that has posted a healthy number in the recently-concluded tiger number-estimation exercise in the mangroves. The zone, also known as South 24 Parganas forest division, had reported a big-cat poaching last year. Two more Belgian Malinois and a German Shepherd, all trained at the Gwalior dog training academy, will also be pressed into service in Gorumara, Jaldapara and Buxa in north Bengal. Two will be handed over to the Bengal forest department by June 20. “While two of the dogs, both Belgian Malinois, have been provided by NGO Saving Tiger Society, the other two are from the international wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC,” state chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha told TOI. “The former will join the department in South 24 Parganas forest division and Gorumara while the other two will go to Jaldapara and Buxa.” The department had first procured a sniffer dog in 2016 — a German Shepherd called Rani, who is in Jaldapara now. In 2017, three more dogs — two German Shepherds for the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve and Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, and a Belgian Malinois for Buxa Tiger Reserve — were roped in. Saving Tiger Society’s Indrajit Sengupta said Orlando and Shyana have graduated from National Training Centre for Dogs, BSF Academy, Gwalior. “They are aged around 1 year 3 months now. They started training at the age of six months, and the training continued for nine months. They were trained in tracking, sniffing and guarding. If all goes well, we will hand over the dogs to the department this week,” he said. Orlando, he added, will head to Gorumara and Shyana will go to South 24 Parganas forest division. Sengupta further said that two department staffers — a main handler and an assistant handler — have also been trained with each dog; a dog and two handlers form one dog squad. “Till now, we have 17 such dog squads. And this is the first time we are sending dogs to Bengal,” Sengupta said. “Earlier, we had sent sniffer dogs to Madhya Pradesh. We also have plans to send two sniffer dogs to the Chhattisgarh government and one to Chitwan National Park in Nepal.” According to Sinha, the forest department plans to keep at least two sniffer dogs in forest areas of Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-sniffer-dogs-to-nose-around-for-wildlife-crimes-in-bengal/articleshow/76376816.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Toddler killed after neighbour ‘flings’ him from 4th floor||KOLKATA: A one-and-a-half-year-old boy died and his seven-year-old relative is fighting for his life after their 55-year-old neighbour threw them from the fourth floor of a central Kolkata building on Sunday, flying into a rage because they were creating a racket just outside his doorstep. Shib Kumar Gupta, a hardware trader, told the cops that he was “upset” that the children would play there every evening, disturbing him. The horrific incident happened at 6.05pm, at a sprawling, nearly 100-year-old chawl in central Kolkata’s Burrabazar, at the NS Road-Woodburn Street crossing near Nandaram Market. Residents said they heard a commotion. They rushed out to see one-and-a-half-year-old Shivam, the grandson of Budhan Shaw, a local transporter, lying in a pool of blood on the road outside. Another child — seven-year-old Vishal, Budhan’s youngest son — was lying on the tin shed of a store, his neck entangled in cables. Budhan’s relatives alleged Gupta had thrown them from the fourth-floor balcony to the road outside because the kids were running around in the common area, playing with a ball that occasionally hit the door of Gupta’s flat. “When we came out, we saw a child lying on the road, bleeding. He seemed already dead. There was another child hanging from a tin roof. We rushed both to hospital,” said local resident Ranjit Sonkar. A group of angry residents tried to lynch Shib Kumar Gupta, but he was rescued and taken to Burrabazar police station. The cops have started a murder case against him. Pankaj Gupta, who stays in the next building, said he was standing on the road outside when he heard a child scream. “Before I could even turn, the youngest child was flung at the furthest corner of the narrow lane. By the time we could rush towards him, the seven-year-old was flung in a similar manner. Being a bit heavier, he landed on a blue tin shed on top of the first floor. We rescued both and later found out that they were related,” he said. “The youngest, who was lying on the road, had his nose and face smashed and was bleeding all over. We realized that a third child was thrown too, but he managed to cling on to the common passage fencing, and his mother rushed in to save him. The youngest was declared dead on arrival at Medical College Hospital. The elder one was shifted to a private hospital, where doctors said his condition was serious.” While Gupta told the cops that he did this in a fit of rage, the cops, and members of the homicide wing, do not rule out a prolonged tussle for property. “Given that the two children he targeted are from the same family, that possibility cannot be ruled out. We have come to know that Gupta, who owns a hardware business, and Budhan, had a major argument and Gupta had threatened to teach him a lesson,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The police said that till 8pm, they had no information that a third child was thrown off the fourth floor. “We know of two victims,” said an officer. Residents said Gupta and Budhan — both tenants — often had tiffs. Gupta also had problems with kids at Shaw’s home playing or anyone making a noise in the common area of the fourth floor. “He kept telling the children playing in the common passage near his entrance that he would one day throw them off the building. He said the children threw water at him, and hit him with balls. He claimed they were damaging his walls. We never imagined he would indeed harm the children in this manner,” said Sonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/toddler-killed-after-neighbour-flings-him-from-4th-floor/articleshow/76377090.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Forceful religious conversions increased in state during lockdown: VHP||Ranchi: Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Sunday claimed to have received complaints of an increase in forceful religious conversions in Jharkhand during the ongoing lockdown. Speaking to the media at VHP’s state headquarters here, the outfit’s Khsetra Mantri (Jharkhand & Bihar) Virendra Vimal accused the mahagatbandhan government of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Congress and RJD of deliberately turning a blind eye to the conversions. Hinting that churches in Jharkhand are involved in forceful conversions of Adivasis, Vimal said, “We have received numerous reports that conversions have gone up during the lockdown. We are collecting evidences in each of the cases. The conversions increased since this (mahagathbandhan) government came to power (in December last).” However, the outfit did not share details of the cases. Accusing the Hemant Soren government of being deliberately ignorant on acting against conversions as per provisions of the 2017 anti-conversion law, Vimal added, “If the government does not take action, VHP will launch a massive movement.” The Jharkhand Religious Freedom Bill of 2017 bars religious conversion by force or allurement and provisions a jail term of three years and Rs 50,000 penalty for the guilty. The forceful conversion of minors and women from tribal communities is a punishable offence with a four-year jail term and Rs 1 lakh penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/forceful-religious-conversions-increased-in-state-during-lockdown-vhp/articleshow/76375415.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Tough action against those who flout quarantine norms: Koderma DC||Koderma: Two days after 14 persons ran away while on way to a quarantine centre, Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap on Sunday said strict action will be taken against those who flout quarantine norms or flee from isolation centres. Gholap also said the district police have been asked to crack down on violators. On Friday, the 14 persons ran away while being taken to an institutional quarantine centre in a bus. An FIR was filed in connection with the incident on Saturday at Chandwara police station, but the violators were yet to be traced till the time of filing this report. Gholap said, “We will now lodge FIRs against all those who violate quarantine norms. I have spoken to the SP on the matter and asked him to take action.” The incident happened when the district is reporting high number of Covid-19 cases. A total of 36 new cases were reported on Saturday, of which, 19 came from Maharashtra, six from Delhi, five from UP, one each from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and three person from Telangana. In another incident, a teenage girl escaped from the isolation ward of the sadar hospital on Saturday. She was found abandoned near Koderma railway station on Friday and was sent to the sadar hospital by Telaiya police with the help of an NGO. The hospital’s superintendent Dr R Kumar said, “She had tested negative on the Truenat machine, but her throat swab was collected for lab test. She escaped on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tough-action-against-those-who-flout-quarantine-norms-koderma-dc/articleshow/76375493.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Ranchi||Vehicle checking in Steel City to ensure compliance of Covid safety norms||Jamshedpur: With motorists in Steel City not complying with the Covid-19 safety protocols even after the cops conducting a special awareness drive on following the safety norms here on Saturday, police have launched a vehicle checking drive to ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing norms while driving, failing which they will be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act. SSP M Tamil Vanan said, “We have banned pillion riding on two-wheelers and five-seater cars cannot have more than two passengers inside. The person on the wheels and others on-board have to wear a mask or action will be taken against them.” A 38-year-old videographer, who lives in Kadma, on condition of anonymity said that on Friday, he was stopped at Sakchi for having a pillion rider on his motorbike. “"We both were wearing masks and I was wearing a helmet but police stopped me at Sakchi for pillion riding,” the videographer said. In addition, within the next three days police will lodge cases under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 if the vehicle documents are not up to date or if anyone is caught driving without a helmet or a seat belt, the SSP added. To make sure that vehicle checking does not get hampered because of the ongoing monsoon season, the district administration, in cooperation with the Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd, is constructing makeshift hangers on a temporary basis at the inter-district checking points, namely Domuhani-Kanderbera river overbridge in Sonari, Tata-Gamharia toll bridge in Kadma and Jamshedpur-Adityapur overbridge in Bistupur, in order to provide shelter to the cops during rains. With the coronavirus cases crossing the 200-mark in East Singhbhum, the district administration is appealing to the people to avoid stepping out unless it is necessary and wear a masks whenever they do. “Self-compliance with the safety rules will keep a person and his respective family safe from contracting the virus,” said district civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vehicle-checking-in-steel-city-to-ensure-compliance-of-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/76375438.cms||B Sridhar
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||Refresher training after 1st death of paramedic in north Bengal||Siliguri: With North Bengal recording the first death of a frontline health worker from Covid-19 on Saturday, administration officials said a refresher training will soon be imparted on how to avoid the infection. Bishnu Chatterjee, 56, was an ophthalmic assistant posted at Phansidewa Rural Hospital. Senior health officials said he was suffering from pancytopenia, a condition when a person has low counts for all three types of blood cells and platelets. Darjeeling district magistrate S Ponnambalam said Chatterjee had tested positive for NcoV. “The health worker was performing his duty at Limbutari quarantine centre under Phansidewa block. His initial reports had tested negative. But, after he tested positive, he was shifted from a private nursing home to Desun (SARI) Hospital, where he lost his life,” the DM added. Ponnambalam, speaking at a condolence meeting for the deceased health worker, stressed that they were taking all precautions and following the SOPs, but doctors had to give treatment. ”Many health workers and doctors are not infected even after 90 days of work. We need to follow the SOP given by the state government for frontline health workers on a daily basis. We will give a refresher training again for frontline workers on how to avoid the infection,” he said. District deputy chief medical officer of health Tulsi Pramanik said this was the first death of a frontline worker in North Bengal. “Bishnu Chatterjee had been suffering from fever, cough and cold, headache, bodyache and breathing problems and was admitted at Desun (SARI) hospital two weeks ago. He was suffering from pancytopenia,” said Pramanik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/refresher-training-after-1st-death-of-paramedic-in-north-bengal/articleshow/76376832.cms||Roshan Gupta
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||2 Bhutanese women killed in Jaigaon||Jalpaiguri: Two Bhutanese women were hacked to death by a client in the Indo-Bhutan border town of Jaigaon in Alipurduar on Saturday night. The client, Dulu Miyan, and Jaigaon resident Nima Dorjee Lama, who helped the duo lure men, have been arrested Sonam and Karma, both in their mid-20s, were from Bhutan’s Chukha district and had been staying in Jaigaon for a few years. Investigation revealed that they would lure people to bed, take intimate videos and blackmail their clients for a livelihood. “They had taken videos of Dulu Miyan, who is from the border town, and were blackmailing him. Dulu killed both of them. The girls were sedated before being hacked to death,” said Jaigaon additional SP Kuntal Bandapadhyay. “Even after extracting money, they were trying to milk more out of him, which led to a brawl.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-bhutanese-women-killed-in-jaigaon/articleshow/76376828.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Ex-AAP candidate held for Rs 2 crore fraud||CHANDIGARH: Police have arrested a Panchkula resident for allegedly duping a former IAS officer of Rs 2.05 crore on the pretext of selling a showroom in Sector 46 four years ago. Harjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 40 and a former secretary, alleged Yogeshwar Sharma of Sector 16, Panchkula, cheated him in connection with the sale of 50% share comprising basement and ground floor of a shop-cum-office. Sharma had contested the 2019 Haryana assembly elections from Panchkula on Aam Aadmi Party ticket. Harjeet alleged the accused executed a sale agreement with him and his wife and the deal was fixed at Rs 3.68 crore in 2016. The accused assured the property was free of litigations, he said. Harjeet paid him Rs 90 lakh by cheque at the time of the agreement and gave the remaining amount later. However, the accused did not transfer the property and started threatening him with dire consequences, Harjeet alleged. Harjeet filed a complaint at the SSP public window in September 2019. The case was forwarded to the economic offences wing (EOW). After investigating for a few months, police registered a case against Sharma under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchkula-ex-aap-candidate-held-for-rs-2-crore-fraud/articleshow/76377503.cms||---
June 15, 2020||India||Reach out to those in need, say mental health experts||MUMBAI: India’s mental health statistics have a severely depressing ring to them. The National Crime Records Bureau’s reports stated that over 300 Indians commit suicide daily and the National Mental Health Survey 2015-16 showed that 15% of Indians have some mental health issue and at least one in every 20 Indians either suffers or has suffered from depression. Yet there is no ‘active’ suicide prevention strategy or programme. “States that have some suicide prevention strategy haven’t bothered to implement it,” said Pune-based psychiatrist Dr Soumitra Pathare. The biggest problem in India, even in Mumbai, is the stigmatisation of those seeking mental health. “The stigma about mental health may have come down to some extent in the last few years, but there is still enough of negativity associated with psychiatry to stop people from seeking help,” said Dr Bharat Shah from Lilavati Hospital, Bandra. Patients with depression or suicidal ideation need long-term help, but many drop out. “After every celebrity suicide, there is an effort to create awareness about mental health or the need to seek help, but the efforts haven’t been able to reduce the stigma associated with reaching out to a psychiatrist,” said Dr Nilesh Shah, who heads the psychiatry department of Sion Hospital. The problem begins with the number of psychiatrists in the country: only 4,000 for India’s 100-crore population. “While getting a psychiatrist or a good counsellor may not be an issue in the tony areas of Mumbai, it is a problem elsewhere in the country,” said psychiatrist Dr Bharat Shah from Lilavati Hospital. Moreover, people who do seek help rarely complete their treatment. The most important message, said Dr Pathare, is that suicides are preventable. “With interventions from the government at a policy level, society or even at an individual level, suicide prevention is possible.” In Tamil Nadu, ever since the government started allowing supplementary exams within a month of results for students who failed SSC exams, suicide rate among students dropped 50% over a five-year period. Dr Nilesh Shah said: “Every year, 20 lakh students appear for SSC exams, and 20% of them fail, but only a handful of the candidates attempt to take their own lives. These are ones with a mental illness.” The need, he added, is to find them, reach out to them empathetically and provide them with medicines and counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reach-out-to-those-in-need-say-mental-health-experts/articleshow/76377505.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||More patients cured than new cases in West Bengal||As many as 518 Covid patients were sent home after being cured and 389 new cases were reported in Bengal on Sunday, marking the first instance of the day’s discharges outnumbering fresh cases. The state now has 5,552 active positive cases, with the cumulative figure at 11,087. Twelve people have died of Covid, six of them in Kolkata, in the last 24 hours, taking the total toll to 475. “It is surely a good sign that the number of discharged patients is higher than new cases. The recovery rate is going up,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, a senior physician who is in the state’s Covid advisory committee. The discharge rate has also climbed up. On Sunday, it was 45.6%, up from Saturday’s 42.5%. This number was a shade below 40% at the beginning of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-patients-cured-than-new-cases-in-west-bengal/articleshow/76377512.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Flights arriving with 91% occupancy in six days||MOHALI: With 1,000 passengers arriving and departing and 12 flights operating daily on an average, the Chandigarh international airport is slowly regaining momentum. Flights are now departing with 80% occupancy and arriving with 91% occupancy since the last six days. According to the data provided by the Airports Authority of India, 2,978 passengers arrived and 2,686 departed in the six days. A total of 65 flights operated from June 10 to 14. On Sunday, seven flights operated in which 386 passengers arrived and 328 departed, with a footfall of 714. On Saturday, 16 flights operated in which 915 passengers arrived and 765 departed, with a footfall of 1,680. The occupancy has increased gradually at the airport since operations restarted on May 25. During the first two weeks, the flight operators were operating with very meagre occupancy. Only 2,376 passengers had arrived in 31 flights, an occupancy of 42%, and 1,433 had departed with 26% occupancy. Maximum passengers are arriving from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Dharamshala and Srinagar. IndiGo, Air India, Air Asia, GoAir and Air Vistara have been operating their flights from Chandigarh to various destinations. Before the lockdown, the average footfall was around 5,000 to 5,500 passengers daily. Recently, the airport hosted its first international flight from the US in which 100 passengers arrived via Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-flights-arriving-with-91-occupancy-in-six-days/articleshow/76377519.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Six more helpline staffers, kin test positive for Covid; 19 new cases||LUCKNOW: Nineteen persons, including six more employees of the state government's Covid helpline, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Among the fresh cases are four family members of the two staffers of the Covid helpline centre, who had tested positive earlier. The count related to the helpline touched 57 - accounting for 10% of the total 578 cases reported in the city since the pandemic outbreak on March 11. The number is likely to increase as the health department is conducting tests on the helpline employees and their contacts en masse. Of the total cases from the helpline, which is run by a private company, 53 are employees. What has left health officials worried is that infection is spreading its tentacles among the families of these employees as well. "So far, we have tested or collected samples of 339 employees. More will be done in the coming days. Their contacts and families are also being tested. Those found positive are being shifted to hospitals. Remaining have been advised to stay home quarantined," said chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agarwal. Of the six helpline staffers reported positive on Sunday are four women - three of them siblings - and two men. All aged between 25 and 35 years, they were living in different rented apartments in Chinhat, said CMO. Parents (aged 49 and 52 years) of a woman employee from Alambagh, who tested positive on Wednesday, were among the family members found positive. Besides, husband and brother of another woman staffer, who is a resident of Devenagar in Ismailganj, tested positive on Thursday, CMO added. Another big contributor to the city's tally has been Government Railway Police barracks in Charbagh. Two GRP constables were quarantined at an institute after their colleagues were diagnosed with the disease. So far, total 43 railway cops have tested positive since May 24. On Sunday, two cases were also reported from Niralanagar and one each case from Kirshnanagar, Vinamra Khand, Balu Adda, Mohanlalganj and Aishbagh Colony. Containment zonesThree more localities were made containment zones after two cases each were recorded. They include area near Niralanagar post office, Sector 5 of Devnagar near Ismailganj, and Billawaon in Alamabagh. City now has 25 containment zones. Covid patient dies in KGMUA 75-year-old Covid-19 patient fom Rani Bazar in Gonda undergoing treatment at King George’s Medical University died on Sunday due to meningitis. He was referred to KGMU on May 30. KGMU spokesman Dr Sudhir Singh said, “The man was suffering from tuberculosis, which spread to brain causing meningitis” “Body was packed before being handed to relatives. Since the family wanted to cremate the body in Lucknow, they were given PPE kits and told about Covid-19 guidelines to be followed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-six-more-helpline-staffers-kin-test-positive-for-covid-19-new-cases/articleshow/76377525.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Three international flights to land in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Two Air India flights from Nigeria and Auckland in New Zealand will land at the Chandigarh international airport on June 17, and one from Dubai in the last week of June. The flights are part of the Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stuck abroad. The UT administration will be quarantining the passengers at Hotel Mountview, Sector 10. "The hotel staff and UT officers were told to make arrangements to isolate the passengers. The authority has kept rooms in one block of the hotel," sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-international-flights-to-land-in-chandigarh/articleshow/76377527.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat doctors use CT scan as Covid test, 73 turn out to be positive||AHMEDABAD: When a city-based general physician developed Covid-19 symptoms in late May, he underwent an RT-PCR test. To his relief, the result was negative. But fellow doctors suggested he undergo high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) thorax screening, and his lungs showed patches of ‘opaque ground glass’ typically associated with Covid-19. A repeat blood test showed he was Covid-19 positive. The physician was among 125-plus city-based medical practitioners who underwent free diagnosis offered by Dr Amit Gupta, a city-based radiologist at his imaging centre for the past 10 days. This was during the time when Covid-19 testing mandated government approval and hospitalization. Out of total screening, 73 tested positive, said Dr Gupta. “I started the screening as a large number of medical practitioners started getting infected by Covid-19. It was a small gesture of gratitude towards the frontline Covid-19 warriors,” said Dr Gupta. “About 30 doctors underwent RT-PCR after getting diagnosed of Covid-19 through CT scan and all tested positive.” Interestingly, it is not just Dr Gupta who swears by the accuracy of CT scans – several critical care specialists and radiologists have started Covid-19 screening based on ‘CT severity score’ which is internationally accepted practice during the pandemic. “Accuracy of CT scans is higher than RT-PCR. Moreover, RT-PCR is a yes or no kind of test whereas CT scans give the exact picture of severity. The score is given based on patches found in all five lobes of our two lungs. If the score is up to 12, it’s mild. If it’s above 18, it’s severe. The course of treatment is decided based on the score,” said Dr Priyank Mehta, a city-based radiologist, who has conducted over 70 scans for Covid-19 so far. “There are also almost nil chances of false taste – something that we have seen in RT-PCR.” Scanning an opportunityWhen the RT-PCR tests were under red tape, the alternative methods were widely used by the medical practitioners to quickly assess the patient’s health conditions before important surgeries or medical procedures. Experts point at CT scan, chest X-ray and tests such as ferritin levels and c-reactive protein (CRP) levels in blood as some of the important markers of Covid. Dr Maharshi Desai, critical care specialist on the state government’s expert committee on Covid-19 response, said that CT scan and other methods are surely used widely by the experts to assess the health indicators of the patient. “But RT-PCR remains the gold standard. Even when a patient’s lungs show opaque patches in CT scan, he or she would be under suspect category and would be advised by the RTPCR test to confirm the person as a Covid-19 positive.” Dr Jayesh Sheth, a citybased genetic scientist, said that ferritin and CRP tests should be a norm to assess the patients on whether they have infection. “They are much quicker and reliable to point at the body’s response to the infection. It can save precious time and in some cases a patient’s life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-doctors-use-ct-scan-as-covid-test-73-turn-out-to-be-positive/articleshow/76377526.cms||Parth Shastri
June 15, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka handling Covid-19 cases better, no lockdown again, says minister||KALABURAGI: Karnataka medical education minister K Sudhakar on Sunday ruled out re-imposition of lockdown, saying rumours doing the rounds were baseless and without substance. "There is no question of another lockdown in the state. The rumours which are floating ahead of the prime minister's meeting with chief ministers of all states are without basis," the minister said. India has seen a sudden jump in the number of cases in the past few days, and the number of positive cases in Karnataka, too, has seen an upward journey. However, the Karnataka government has been clarifying that Karnataka will not see a second shutdown as cases are being tracked and traced. Sudhakar said the pandemic was well under control in Karnataka. No negligence at quarantine centres, says ministerSudhakar said Covid-19 is under control with the state recording 1.1% death rate vis-a-vis the number of positive cases till date. “The number of laboratories to test Covid-19 suspect cases has gone up from two to 71 in the state, which can cumulatively test about 15,000 samples a day. I request people to not panic,” he said. The minister said the state has so far conducted 4.35 lakh swab tests and 3,176 cases are active as of date. Of them, 15 patients are in intensive care unit. Sudhakar, who was in Kalaburagi for World Blood Donation Day event, said the government is providing all facilities at quarantine centres and denied negligence of any kind. Asked about home quarantining for interstate travellers even before results of their Covid-19 tests arrived, the minister said this is the standard across the world and approved by the World Health Organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-handling-covid-19-cases-better-no-lockdown-again-says-minister/articleshow/76377551.cms||---
June 15, 2020||Thane||Thane: Two milk delivery boys killed in hit-and-run||THANE: Two 17-year-old milk delivery boys were killed after a vehicle rammed into their moped on Ghodbunder Road in Thane around 6am on Sunday. The incident occured less than 100m away from the spot where an SUV crashed into a tree on Saturday night, killing one and injuring three.  The Kapurbawdi police said Bhawani Nagar resident Shubham Jagdale and his friend from Manpada, Aditya Sharma, were on their way to distribute milk packets to residents in Manpada and Kapurbawdi. While Jagdale died on the spot, Sharma was taken to the government hospital. He succumbed to his injuries during treatment. The police suspect it was a hit-and-run case, and registered an FIR against the unidentified driver for rash driving and causing death by negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-two-milk-delivery-boys-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/76377567.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 15, 2020||Kolkata||4 sniffer dogs to nose around for wildlife crimes in Bengal||Kolkata: A Belgian Malinois, the same breed that had helped the SEAL team in tracking Osama bin Laden, will trudge through the muddy terrains of the Sunderbans to detect wildlife crimes. This is the first time a sniffer dog is being used in the buffer zone of the Sunderbans that has posted a healthy number in the recently-concluded tiger number-estimation exercise in the mangroves. The zone, also known as South 24 Parganas forest division, had reported a big cat poaching last year. Three more dogs — two Belgian Malinois and a German Shepherd — will also be pressed into service in Gorumara, Jaldapara and Buxa in north Bengal. They have graduated from Gwalior dog training academy. Two of them will be handed over to the forest department by June 20. Talking to TOI, state’s chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said that they would be joining the service soon. “While two of the dogs, both Belgian Malinois, have been provided by NGO Saving Tiger Society, the other two by the international wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC. While the former will join the department in South 24 Parganas forest division and north Bengal’s Gorumara, the other two will be pressed into service in Jaldapara and Buxa, both in north Bengal,” added Sinha. The department had first procured a sniffer dog in 2016 — Rani, a German Shepherd, who is in Jaldapara now. In 2017, the department got three more dogs — two German Shepherds for the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve and Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary and a Belgian Malinois for Buxa Tiger Reserve. Indrajit Sengupta of Saving Tiger Society said that the two dogs — Orlando and Shyana — that they are providing have already graduated from the National Training Centre for Dogs (NTCD), BSF Academy, Gwalior. “They are aged around one year three months now. They had started undergoing training at the age of six months and the training continued for nine months. They were trained in tracking, sniffing and guarding. If all goes well, we will hand over the dogs to the department this week,” said Sengupta, adding that while Orlando will head to Gorumara, Shyana will join the department in South 24 Parganas forest division, major parts of which cover the buffer area of the Sunderbans. Sengupta said that two department staff — a main handler and an assistant handler — have also been trained with each dog. A dog and two handlers form one dog squad. “Till now, we have 17 such dog squads. And, this is the first time that we are sending dogs to Bengal. Earlier, we had sent such sniffer dogs to Madhya Pradesh. We also have plans to send two sniffer dogs to Chhattisgarh government and one to Chitwan National Park in Nepal,” added Sengupta. Sinha added that the department plans to keep at least two sniffer dogs in prime forest areas of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-sniffer-dogs-to-nose-around-for-wildlife-crimes-in-bengal/articleshow/76377078.cms||---
June 15, 2020||India||SC bars cops from arresting journalist, but okays probe||New Delhi: In a special hearing on Sunday, the Supreme Court granted interim protection from arrest to noted journalist Vinod Dua but allowed Himachal Pradesh police to conduct probe and interrogate him on an FIR lodged for allegedly misreporting the communal violence in the city in February and spreading fake news through his YouTube show. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, M M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran said the police could quiz him at his residence only after giving him 24-hour notice. It asked the police to file a status report on the next date of hearing. The Delhi high court, in an interim order, had stayed probe in another case lodged in the capital against Dua by a BJP member and the trial court had directed that no coercive steps be taken against him. However, he was summoned by Himachal Pradesh police on a separate complaint lodged in Shimla. Appearing for Dua, senior advocate Vikas Singh repeatedly urged the court to stay the FIR as no case was made out against him and he could be harassed further by lodging of fresh cases in other states. He said the journalist was being targeted for criticising the government and many people could face criminal prosecution on that yardstick.The bench, however, declined his plea for staying the probe and directed him to extend full cooperate through video conferencing or online mode. “Himachal Pradesh police shall be entitled to carry on the investigation including interrogation of the petitioner at his residence after giving him prior notice of 24 hours and complying with social distancing norms prescribed during Covid-19 pandemic,” the bench said and issued notice to the Centre and the Himachal Pradesh government seeking their response on Dua's petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-bars-cops-from-arresting-journalist-but-okays-probe/articleshow/76377593.cms||---
