June 16, 2020||Bengaluru||#UnlockDiaries: Using public transport in Bengaluru? Make sure the vehicle is sanitised and safe||Yes, Bengaluru is slowly getting back to normal, with eateries, malls and public transport reopening, albeit in a phased manner. This, however, does not imply that the virus has disappeared; what it does is that we can conduct ourselves in public with caution. Be it while travelling in a bus or cab, stopping by for a quick coffee at a restaurant or making a trip to the mall, precautionary measures need to be maintained everywhere. A few days after namma ooru stepped into Unlock Phase 1, Bangalore Times made a tour of the city to get a first-hand experience of how things are unfolding as far as public transport is concerned, and here’s what we found… BUSESFollowing reports of a Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus driver-cum-conductor testing Covid-19 positive, a number of depots in the city were temporarily shut and fumigated. Despite this, drivers and conductors do not seem to be taking precautionary measures properly. When BT took bus rides in three different routes in the city, it was found out that a lot of passengers were not maintaining social-distancing norms, while drivers and conductors were not using gloves and masks. AUTORIKSHAWSZilch social distancing in shared autos, with three or more passengers allowed to cram in the rear seat. Drivers find it inconvenient and unnecessary to wear gloves and masks. Rides are not contactless, as you still need to pay cash. Rides booked via apps are better, as these autorickshaws are equipped with partitions to ensure physical distancing. RENTAL TRANSPORTThere is an emphasis on social distancing and sanitisation, as mentioned on the apps to hire this mode of transport. But these vehicles don’t seem to have been even cleaned in the past few months. They are dusty and in desperate need of repair. Whether it’s a car, bike or bicycle, there is no guarantee that they have been fumigated even once. CABSWhile cab services list precautionary measures on their apps , not much is in practice. A driver working with one of these cab services, said, “Despite claims that cabs are cleaned and sanitised daily, all we are given is a small bottle of disinfectant that we spray on the passenger’s seat after every ride. I haven’t sanitised my vehicle completely even once. I can’t afford it, and neither can the company.” Drivers also refuse to turn off the AC, and wear a mask only while passing through a traffic signal. BIKE TAXIS The passenger is asked to sanitise his/her hands before and after using the bike taxi. However, these services are not very reliable, as a conversation with the drivers reveal that their employers do not provide them with basic precautionary gear — sanitisers, masks and gloves. Passengers are requested not to hold the drivers while on the ride, and that’s all about it. Watch #UnlockDiaries - A spot check on public transport in the new normal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unlockdiaries-using-public-transport-in-bengaluru-make-sure-the-vehicle-is-sanitised-and-safe/articleshow/76393252.cms||Hansy Sanctis
June 16, 2020||India||BJP to prepare database of migrants labourers in West Bengal||KOLKATA: In a decision which is likely to have consequences in the 2021 assembly polls, the West Bengal BJP has decided to prepare a database of migrants labourers who have returned to the state during the lockdown to help them find means of livelihood.  The ruling TMC sniffed politics in the proposed plan of the BJP and said it was due to the "unplanned" country-wide lockdown that the migrant workers were facing a crisis.  State BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh told that party cadres across the state will start preparing the database of the migrant workers who have returned to their homes in every block from this month.  "Our party cadres will conduct surveys and collect the names of the migrant workers. They will prepare a brief data bank on them with all details - educational background, field of work, skills and last drawn salary," he said.  He said the party will also pursue the Centre to help those migrant workers who have decided to stay back in their place of work to find jobs or get some loans to start a business on their own.  Asked the reason for the BJP taking such a step, Ghosh said the state has no data on lakhs of migrant labourers who are working in various parts of the country.  "The state government has failed to provide them jobs and any other form of relief. When the lockdown is completely lifted, many of them will go back to other states in search of jobs. But many would prefer to stay back. What will they do? So we have decided to help them," he said.  Hitting out at the saffron party, TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee said, "It is due to the BJP that this crisis of migrant labourers took place. This (proposed database of migrant labourers) is nothing but shedding of crocodile tears and an attempt to hide its failures ahead of the state assembly polls."  Last week, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee "insulted" migrant workers returning to the state by 'Shramik Special' trains by calling them 'Corona Express', as he tried to reach out to the vast constituency of harried migrants and their families.  Shah had also asserted that the migrant workers would now ensure the "exit" of the Banerjee government in the 2021 assembly polls.  The chief minister had denied having called the 'Shramik Special' trains and insisted the name was given by the people to the crammed-to-capacity trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-to-prepare-database-of-migrants-labourers-in-west-bengal/articleshow/76394404.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||4,500 buses on road bring down waiting time, pose traffic challenge in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Despite substantial ease in mobility due to extra buses on roads on Monday, an air of uncertainty prevailed with private operators reporting heavy operating loss due to successive rise in diesel price. Many private operators on Monday also sent SOS to transport department on heavy losses being incurred by them due to lockdown and the social-distancing protocol. But, nearly 4,500 buses brought about a lot of ease in mobility. Frequent buses in peak hours reduced waiting time of passengers to a great extent. WBTC ran its services in full throttle on 177 routes. “Today, after a long time, I could board bus faster than previous days,” said Abha Dasgupta, a Dalhousie-bound passenger, at No. 14 bus stop in Behala. “Since 200 buses of South Bengal State Transport Corporation served 30 important routes from city fringes to Kolkata, we could focus on core city area by raising frequency,” said a WBTC officer. Private operators also ran 3,000 buses on 165 routes. They also ran AC Volvo buses on 24 routes. Private operators, though, said in coming days, number of buses would decrease, due to a rising operating cost. “We have been running services honouring the words of the CM and transport minister. But from June 1 to June 15, the price of diesel rose by Rs 4.8. This has paralysed us,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Meanwhile, with the full operation of public transport, came back challenges of traffic management. The first Monday — with almost all organizations barring the educational ones re-opening — proved quite a challenge for traffic police. “The traffic today was close to any Monday that was witnessed in pre-Covid days,” said an officer. Police said many political programmes, including the one at Phoolbagan, also added to snarls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-5k-buses-on-road-bring-down-waiting-time-pose-traffic-challenge-pvt-operators-sound-loss-alert/articleshow/76394327.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Six wards declared as containment zones in Kattakada||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District collector Navjot Khosa declared six gram panchayat wards in Kattakada as containment zones on Monday after a health worker was tested positive for Covid-19 in the panchayat on Sunday. As per the proceedings issued by district disaster management authority, existing lockdown relaxations shall not be applied and strict lock down measures shall continue until further orders in the panchayats declared as containment zones. The panchayats include Thoongampara, Ponnara, Ettiruthy, Killy, Kavinpuram and Kollode. The public exams in the schools will be allowed to continue as per the schedule of the government, however strict social distancing and other containment measure will be ensured. The school authorities will provide separate rooms for those students who hail from families having a quarantined person. Only essential activities will be allowed in containment zones. The movement of persons in or out of the zones will not be permitted except for medical emergencies, maintaining supply of essential goods and services and to attend public exam. The Incident Commanders of the respective taluk shall ensure strict containment activities are being contemplated as per Government instructions. Five police have been directed to ensure the guidelines issued by Government of India and Government of Kerala. District Medical Officer will oversee the health activities planned. DMO has been diretced to furnish a daily progress report to collector by 6pm every day. According to district collector more than 60 live cases are being treated in various hospitals in the district as on Monday and epidemiological investigation has been carried out in each case and their primary and secondary contacts have been traced for the effective containment. Although serious efforts are being made to find out the source of the infection, no epidemiological link, like confirmed travel history or contact with known Covid positive patients could be established till date in the case of ASHA worker who has been tested positive. The contact tracing is being conducted and more than 500 contacts have been identified so far and sent to home isolation. These contacts are not confined to any particular area and is spread over six wards in Kattakakda Panchayath. District Medical Officer has recommended to declare containment zones in the six wards from 16 to 21 in Kattakada Grama Panchayath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/six-wards-declared-as-containment-zones-in-kattakada/articleshow/76394443.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 16, 2020||India||50 Covid coaches stationed at Delhi's Shakurbasti, Anand Vihar next||NEW DELHI: Fifty rail coaches converted into mobile isolation wards for Coronavirus patients have been stationed at Delhi’s Shakurbasti station and hunt is on for suitable stations in the Capital for deploying 450 more, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav said on Monday. Train services have been stopped from the city’s Anand Vihar station, where some of these coaches will be deployed. The 50 coaches entail about 800 beds, Yadav said, adding confirmed patients and those awaiting test results would be put in separate coaches. “In case of confirmed cases, we can put two patients in a cabin but in case of those awaiting test results, we will try our best to keep only one patient a cabin,” he said. The heavy deployment of isolation coaches in Delhi is part of the measures to fight rising Corona cases in the Capital, decided at a meeting home minister Amit Shah had with the Delhi government. According to Yadav, the isolation coaches are meant to be used only after a state’s health infrastructure is exhausted. Besides Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana have requisitioned these coaches from the railways. Yadav said the health ministry has issued a standard operating protocol for these coaches and their control, which will be with the chief medical officer of the state where these are deployed. The rail board chairman said more than 60 lakh migrants have been ferried to their home states on Shramik Special trains. “Almost all have gone back. Only a few are left. On June 3 we asked state governments for their remaining demand. Demand for 171 Shramik Specials have come in from various states,” he said. “The average fare for Shramik specials was Rs 600 and around 60 lakh migrants have travelled. The fare was as per normal mail express trains. The Railways recovered only 15% of the cost of operating the Shramik specials,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-covid-coaches-stationed-at-delhis-shakurbasti-anand-vihar-next/articleshow/76394498.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 16, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar unhappy as Bihar’s bank lending ratio declines||PATNA: Bihar’s credit deposit ratio has dropped by 1.06% to 43.03% in financial year 2019-20 as compared to 44.09% in fiscal year 2018-19. It is for the second consecutive time in the last three financial years that Bihar has reported a decline in its C-D ratio, which indicates how much of the banks’ core funds are being used for lending activities. In FY 2018-19, the state reported a bigger 1.29% decline compared to 2017-18 (45.38%). As per data released by the state’s finance department at the 72nd quarterly meeting of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) held here on Monday, Bihar reported 43.03% C-D ratio on March 31 this year, compared to 44.09% in the previous financial year, resulting in a decline by 1.06%. Banks in the state gave away Rs 1,52,257 crore as loan against the total deposit of Rs 3,71,783 crore in FY 2019-20. In the previous year, Rs1,45,120 crore were distributed as loan against the total deposit of Rs3,45,234 crore. Similarly, in FY 2017-18, Rs1,34,997 crore were distributed as loan against the total deposits of Rs3,12,829 crore, leading to the highest-ever 45.38% C-D ration in the state. As per the official figures, Saran with 26.98% C-D ratio, Munger (28.93%) and Bhojpur (29.54%) have turned out as the three worst performer districts on the front of C-D ratio at the end of March this year. Altogether 15 districts, out of total 38, have reported C-D ratio below 40% in the FY 2019-20. Expressing his displeasure over the state’s declining C-D ratio, CM Nitish Kumar while speaking at the SLBC meet said, “People in Bihar have very good perception about the banks. They deposit maximum parts of their hard earned money in the banks, but in turn the banks invest that money in other developed states.” The CM asked the bank officials to give special attention on how to increase the C-D ratio in the state. He suggested the bank’s top management increase the limit of their annual credit plan in the state. “When you increase the upper limit of the annual credit plan, the C-D ratio will automatically increase,” Nitish told top officials of different banks attending the meet. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi too expressed his displeasure over decline in the state’s C-D ratio as well as around 11.60% fall in the banks’ achievements under the annual credit plan in FY 2019-20 compared to the previous financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-unhappy-as-bihars-bank-lending-ratio-declines/articleshow/76393129.cms||Madan Kumar
June 16, 2020||Business||Crude below $40, fuel prices at 21-month high||NEW DELHI: Crude prices have dipped below $40 per barrel but consumers are yet to get the benefit of falling global prices. They continue to pay for fuel at rates corresponding to around $65, thanks to hefty tax hikes by the Centre and states. On Monday, state-run fuel retailers raised pump prices for the ninth straight day, pushing petrol and diesel prices to their highest in nearly 21 months. After the latest increase, petrol price has cumulatively risen by Rs 4.98 per litre and diesel by Rs 5.23 since retailers resumed the daily price revision on June 7 after a gap of 82 days. In the latest round, petrol price was raised by 46 paise per litre and diesel by 59 paise. As a result, petrol sold for Rs 76.26 a litre and diesel Rs 74.62 in Delhi on Monday. The rates vary from state to state due to the difference in the VAT. These prices are the highest since October 4, 2018 when petrol cost Rs 84 per litre and diesel Rs 75.45 in Delhi. During that month, India’s crude purchase averaged $80/barrel, while it is hovering around $35-36. Petrol price in Delhi had touched Rs 76.01 per litre and diesel Rs 67.96 on January 2 when India’s crude cost stood at $66/barrel. Consumers are currently not getting any relief because taxes have risen to nearly 70% from an average 50% before the Centre raised excise duty on both fuels by Rs 3 per litre from March 16. Again on May 6, Central levies were raised by Rs 10 per litre on petrol and Rs 13 per litre on diesel as crude prices collapsed. A day earlier, on May 5, the Delhi government had raised VAT, making petrol costlier by Rs 1.67 a litre and diesel by Rs 7.10 – the highest-ever increase in the price of any fuel. Many other states also raised VAT to mop up resources. The state-run retailers offset both the excise duty hikes against their margins, leaving no scope for offering relief to consumers. Now that oil has rebound from the $30/barrel level to around $38/barrel, they are left with no choice but to pass on the impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/crude-below-40-but-fuel-prices-echo-oil-at-65-due-to-tax-hikes/articleshow/76394541.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Taxi driver turns hearse driver as coronavirus cases in India spike||NEW DELHI: The heat was already suffocating when Mohammad Aamir Khan woke up in his tiny, windowless room with only a sheer curtain for a door. He offered a brief prayer to a picture hanging above the bed of the Kaaba, the holiest site in Islam, and headed down the narrow stairs. It was time to ferry the dead. Before the novel coronavirus brought its pandemic to New Delhi, Aamir was one of tens of thousands of people making a living in the Indian capital as a taxi driver. But that work dried up during the nearly three-month lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus. With cases rising in India even before the government lifted the lockdown last week, a friend suggested perhaps the only business now booming in the country – driving a private ambulance. Reporting on his first day, the 38-year-old said, he hadn't even realized he would be transporting coronavirus patients until he was handed a set of overalls. It wasn't long before his ambulance became a hearse. Now his days are spent transporting corpses from the hospital to cremation pyres and cemeteries, sometimes stacked on top of each other six at a time, their names written in permanent marker on their burial shrouds. Sometimes he is alone in his ambulance and must rely on the relatives of the dead to help him lift the body from the back of the vehicle. Sometimes he has to lift them himself. "It was strange to me, to be carrying a body instead of a patient," he said of the first time he did it. "But over time, I got used to it." As the job becomes more familiar, Aamir wrestles with how much protective equipment to wear. He could wear a hazmat-like suit, but that isn't very practical in New Delhi's ferocious heat. "We will faint in half an hour if we wear the kit and work," he said. He and his fellow drivers are much more comfortable wearing a thin hospital gown. But there might be a price for their comfort: "We are always worried that we might catch the infection." SUSPICION Government-run ambulances are scarce in India. Most people resort to calling private ambulances, some little more than converted vans with mobile numbers written on the side, in the hope a passerby will note it down and call if they fall sick. Unlike in many other countries badly hit by the virus, ambulance drivers and other vital health workers in India are poorly paid, have minimum training, no health insurance and long working hours. Cases in India are surging, with nearly 323,000 infected, four times that of China's official infections. The peak is still weeks, if not months, away, experts say, even as the government eased almost all curbs on movement on June 8. "We are supposed to work for 12 hours a day – but 12 hours is never 12," Aamir said. "Earlier, there used to be one or two bodies. But now the mortuary is full." The government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, maintains it has the virus under control. The number of deaths in the country, at 9,500, is so far limited compared to countries with a similar number of cases. Like his father, Aamir trained as a stonemason, but found it too difficult to earn a living. He later found work as a taxi driver for a string of companies, including Ola and Uber. Sometimes, he was able to save as much as 1,000 Indian rupees (about $13) per day after expenses – enough for him and his wife, Rubi, to enroll their 7-year-old daughter, Hamda, at a local private school. But after the lockdown began, the owner of the taxi he drove said he was no longer required because of slack demand. Aamir has kept his ambulance work a secret from his neighbors in Mandawali, a low-income, illegally built colony in the east of the capital that was only recognized by the Delhi government in 2012. He worries what they'll think if they find out. Doctors, nurses and other medical staff treating patients across India say they have been attacked and spat at, with some ostracized by friends and relatives as the virus spread across the country. "They still think I am unemployed," said Aamir, who doesn't even have the comfort of his wife and child during this time of global troubles. They left to visit the family's ancestral village days before the lockdown and haven't been able to return. Aamir's pay, 17,000 Indian rupees (about $220) per month, is better than being unemployed, but it doesn't compensate for the risks, he said. "It's not enough for the work," he said. "I'm fed up. But what other choice do I have?" "NO DIGNITY" Aamir's days are a circuit of hospital mortuary, cemetery and crematorium. Interspersed are long waits in the heat, drinking tea and smoking cigarettes with other drivers and their mortuary assistants. His first stop is usually Jadeed Qabristan, the main Muslim burial ground for Delhi's old walled city. He refers to Mohammad Shameem, the head gravedigger there, as "Shameem bhai," or brother, a sign of friendship in India. Over the last month, a patch of waste ground outside the main cemetery has filled with the bodies of coronavirus victims. Broken bits of slate and twigs mark the graves. Others are unmarked altogether. Aamir quietly instructed relatives on how to lift the bodies as they were placed into coffins and then into double-depth graves dug with a yellow excavator. Late one afternoon after returning to the mortuary from Jadeed Qabristan, Aamir was called for his second trip of the day: to Nigambodh Ghat, one of the main cremation grounds for Hindus in the city. His ambulance is supposed to carry a maximum of two bodies, but on this day, there were six. He carried a handwritten list of their names on a little scrap of paper. Half of the electric ovens were broken, and men in vests heaved firewood up to the open pits where the bodies of coronavirus victims are now cremated. Most days at Nigambodh, there's a backlog of ambulances due to a lack of crematorium staff. As Aamir squatted by a replacement chimney for one of the ovens one day, an argument broke out between workers and grieving relatives. The air shimmered with heat from the pyres and the Delhi summer, where temperatures had already reached 47 degrees Celsius (116.6 Fahrenheit). The smoke began to sting Aamir's eyes, and he reached for a pair of goggles. Crematorium workers, one wearing flip-flips, opened the door to the ambulance. One of the men rifled through the bodies, looking for names written onto the shrouds. The first was that of Satinder Kumar Singh, a 50-year-old bank employee. He was admitted to the hospital on June 9 and died two hours later, said his 16-year-old son, Amrit. "There is no dignity. It is like a dustbin," said Devinder Sharma, a neighbor who had come to help Singh's sons. Sharma gestured to the open doors of the ambulance in disgust. "After seeing this, I don't believe in humanity anymore." Crematorium workers went to lift the second body, a heavyset man. He was wedged tight against the others, and as the workers strained under the weight, he tumbled to the ground, ripping the shroud as he fell. After they placed him onto the pyre, a relative stepped up to try to preserve the man's dignity. The mourner wasn't wearing any protective equipment, and a crematorium employee barked at him to step back. Throughout it all, Aamir sat on a nearby bench, staring vacantly into space as the smoke billowed around him. In a way, it had been a good day for him: He hadn't had to touch any bodies, his main preoccupation when he starts his shift. And yet his mind kept wondering what Rubi and Hamda would do if something happened to him. Who would take care of them? Singh's relatives blessed his body with sandalwood powder and clarified butter. By the time the flames began to lick at the pyre, Aamir and his ambulance had long left for their next funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/taxi-driver-turns-hearse-driver-as-coronavirus-cases-in-india-spike/articleshow/76394662.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Amaravati||304 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: A record 304 fresh cases were added to the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh on Monday as the state's aggregate mounted to 6,456. With two fresh deaths reported from Kurnool and Anantapuramu districts in the last 24 hours, the overall toll rose to 86, according to the latest Covid-19 bulletin.  Of the 304 new cases reported, 246 were locals, 52 from other states and six foreign returnees.  Kurnool, the major coronavirus hotbed in the state, crossed the 1000 mark in the number of cases as 60 were added in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 1,036.  With 30, it alsohas the highest Covid-19 toll so far followed by 27 in Krishna, the second major hotspot in the state.  As many as 56 new cases were reported in Krishna, majority of them in Vijayawada city, taking the overall count to 757.  A new coronavirus cluster emerged in Chelluru gram panchayat under Rayavaram mandal in East Godavari district, with a hamlet Suryaraopet registering 26 cases in a single day.  The village now has a total of 40 coronavirus cases, official sources said.  All those who tested positive here, attended a wedding recently at G Mamidada that had over 100 coronavirus patients.  The sub-jails in Nellore and Tirupati also reported Covid-19 cases as a couple of inmates tested positive.  Of the total 6,456 cases in AP, 5,087 were local residents, 1,159 from other states and 210 were foreign returnees.  The state now has 2,985 active cases, including 2,231 locals, 567 from other states and 187 foreign returnees.  In all 3,385 patients have been discharged so far, according to the bulletin.  The state has so far completed 5,67,375 Covid-19 tests, including 15,173 in the last 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 1.14 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/304-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/76394690.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||304 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: A record 304 fresh cases were added to the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh on Monday as the state's aggregate mounted to 6,456. With two fresh deaths reported from Kurnool and Anantapuramu districts in the last 24 hours, the overall toll rose to 86, according to the latest Covid-19 bulletin.  Of the 304 new cases reported, 246 were locals, 52 from other states and six foreign returnees.  Kurnool, the major coronavirus hotbed in the state, crossed the 1000 mark in the number of cases as 60 were added in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 1,036.  With 30, it alsohas the highest Covid-19 toll so far followed by 27 in Krishna, the second major hotspot in the state.  As many as 56 new cases were reported in Krishna, majority of them in Vijayawada city, taking the overall count to 757.  A new coronavirus cluster emerged in Chelluru gram panchayat under Rayavaram mandal in East Godavari district, with a hamlet Suryaraopet registering 26 cases in a single day.  The village now has a total of 40 coronavirus cases, official sources said.  All those who tested positive here, attended a wedding recently at G Mamidada that had over 100 coronavirus patients.  The sub-jails in Nellore and Tirupati also reported Covid-19 cases as a couple of inmates tested positive.  Of the total 6,456 cases in AP, 5,087 were local residents, 1,159 from other states and 210 were foreign returnees.  The state now has 2,985 active cases, including 2,231 locals, 567 from other states and 187 foreign returnees.  In all 3,385 patients have been discharged so far, according to the bulletin.  The state has so far completed 5,67,375 Covid-19 tests, including 15,173 in the last 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 1.14 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/304-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/76394728.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Business||Pilot alleges he was suspended for raising safety concerns, DGCA begins probe||MUMBAI: An AirAsia India commander, in a clip posted on social media on Monday, alleged that the airline had been violating certain safety norms in order to cut costs. Capt Gaurav Taneja, who is currently suspended pending inquiry into charges of indiscipline, uploaded a 27 minute youtube clip (in Hindi) on Twitter, titled ``Reason behind suspension from my pilot job” . The tweet went viral and the Indian civil aviation regulator announced that it had initiated an investigation into the safety violations pointed out by the pilot. In a statement released late night, AirAsia India said it stands firmly on its value of ‘Safety Always’. A former IIT-Kharagpur graduate, Capt Taneja, an A320 commander had joined AirAsia India in May 2019 (he was employed with another airline before that). He said that the airline was following certain practices which he found to be detrimental to flight safety. He raised such safety issues regularly on the airline’s official whatsapp group for its pilots and later with higher-ups. In the clip, he spoke about two issues, the first of which was about sick leaves. Capt Taneja alleged that in the new airline, pilots who availed of a sick leave had to forgo the weekly leave that followed. ``The policy discouraged pilots from calling in sick when they are unfit to fly, especially if they had made plans for the day when their weekly off was scheduled. Like attending a relative’s wedding, for instance. Taking a sick leave would mean working on the weekly day off. Since they wouldn’t want to miss the social engagement, they might report to work even when unwell and unfit to handle emergencies,’’ he said. The second safety-related issue was about ``flap 3’’ landings, which saved about 8 kgs of fuel per landing, he said. AirAsiaIndia pilots had to meet a target of 98 % flap 3 landings, he alleged. The other option, landing with full flaps, results in higher fuel burn due to increased drag. But on short runways or say, in tailwind conditions, a full flap landing is the safer option.  ``In March, 71 % landings I carried out were flap 3 landings, and so I didn’t meet the 98 % flap 3 landing target laid down by the airline. But two out of the ten landings I carried out were in Imphal, where a flap 3 landing is unsafe. Even airsafety department officials discourage a flap 3 landing in Imphal. Another landing was in Bagdogra, in poor weather condition, where again a flap 3 landing would have been unsafe,’’ he said. ``I’m the pilot-in-command, I know when it is safe to do a flap 3 landing and when it’s safe for a full flap landing. If there is an incident or accident, then the commander is solely responsible for the decisions that led to it,’’ he added. ``In our company, if we don’t do a 98 % flap 3 landing, then its considered as non-compliance of Standard Operating Procedures. It’s also included in our demerit policy which affects our annual bonus. When I had tweeted about this, the airline deputy chief pilot responded saying, there was no such policy, then I showed the mail he had sent, and he deleted his tweet,’’ he alleged. Indian civil aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) tweeted that it ``has taken note of the concerns raised by some stakeholders against a particular airline and its approach to safety.’’ ``DGCA has already started an investigation into the issues flagged and shall take appropriate action based on the outcome of the said investigation,” the DGCA statement added. AirAsia India, in a statement said it stands firmly on its value of ‘Safety Always’. ``The safety of our guests is of paramount importance in every aspect of our operations. AirAsia India is cognizant of the matter in regard to a social media post put up by one of its employees. We are cooperating with the DGCA on this matter. As a policy, AirAsia India does not comment on matters pertaining to its business or employees,” the airline said. Speaking about his suspension, Capt Taneja drew reference to the COVID pandemic’s impact on air travel and subsequent drop in demand for pilots and said that under these new conditions where manpower demand had dipped, the airline must have decided to place him under suspension as he had been raising safety issues, hitting out at its profit-making policies. ``They sent a final notice to me on May 30 asking me to take down my ``Losing my pilot job” video from social media and apologise. I had done no wrong, so I decided not to,” he said. By evening, the tweet by @flyingbeast320 had garnered over 20,000 likes. Capt Taneja also runs a YouTube channel called Flying Beast, which has 2.9 million subscribers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pilot-alleges-he-was-suspended-for-raising-safety-concerns-dgca-begins-probe/articleshow/76395366.cms||Manju V
June 16, 2020||India||Bizman got himself killed so family could get Rs 1 crore insurance||NEW DELHI: The investigation into the murder of a businessman has revealed that he had allegedly hired killers so that his family could get the benefits of his life insurance worth Rs 1 crore. Police claimed that Gaurav Bansal, 40, a resident of east Delhi’s IP Extension, wanted to commit suicide, but couldn’t muster the courage to do so. He then planned his own murder and allegedly hired four killers, including a juvenile, after meeting them at Karkardooma village. Three of the accused — identified by police as Manoj Yadav (21), a vegetable vendor, Suraj (18), a student, and Sumit (26), a tailor — have been arrested, according to DCP (Outer) A Koan. The juvenile was tracked down from Bansal’s call records and social media profile. The DCP told TOI. It was found that he had got in touch with the juvenile on Facebook through a kin’s profile. The accused told police that they initially planned to shoot him, but an arms dealer refused to sell a pistol to the juvenile. Bansal then bought them a rope to hang him. He allegedly convinced them that they were doing him and his family a favour and paid Rs 90,000 to them. On the day of the crime, Bansal travelled to Mohan Garden to meet the juvenile and chose the spot where he would be killed. He asked them to tie his hands and keep his Aadhaar card near his body so that police could identify him easily. After the murder, the killers went back to Mohan Garden and diverted his phone to his brother-in-law’s number. They even called from another number to check whether it was active. Bansal’s body was found hanging from a tree in outer Delhi’s Ranhola on June 10. Family members said that he went to his shop in Karkardooma on June 9, but didn’t return home. Later, they lodged a missing complaint at Anand Vihar police station. A murder was reported around 8.30am on June 10 at Ranhola. The local police station received a call about a body hanging from a tree near a lake in Baprola. The body was identified by Bansal’s family. Earlier, TOI had reported that Bansal could have been killed by at least two people who staged the murder as suicide by hanging the body from the tree. Later, police found that the hands were tied with a rope, an unusual act in case of suicide. The preliminary investigations indicated a financial angle behind the murder as Bansal had been suffering heavy losses in his business for a few months. It was found that he had borrowed large sums from local moneylenders and couldn’t pay them due to the high interest rate. He started a business with his brother-in-law, but it didn’t do well either. He had recently opened a grocery store. Bansal’s wife is an LIC agent. Even he himself used to sell LIC policy apart from running a grocery store. The businessman was also reportedly in depression after fraudulent transactions worth Rs 3.5 lakh were made on his credit card and lodged a police complaint. He had also undergone treatment for depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bizman-got-himself-killed-so-family-could-get-rs-1-crore-insurance/articleshow/76395413.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Forget #Unlock2.0, we are back in #Lockdown2.0!||Just when Chennaiites were shaking off their more-than-two-month-long lockdown inertia and making plans to hit the roads, there comes the announcement of yet another lockdown. As the state and the city grapples with a spike in COVID-19 cases, this fresh lockdown, from June 19 to June 30, will have shops, salons, eateries, travel agencies, and entertainment outfits that had only just gotten back into business mode, shutter down once again. We spoke to people in these sectors to find out how this will impact their businesses... TV shoots get cancelled The announcement of this lockdown comes as a big blow to the industry — close to 60 small-screen producers will suffer because of this. We are trying to send off artistes to their respective places on June 18. Earlier, some of them were forced to spend a huge amount on rent in the city even though shootings were not happening. We don’t want any of them to go through that again. It’s disheartening that shootings will have to be called off even after taking safety precautions and sanitising locations. The big question now is whether we can resume shoot by the first week of July or not. - Manobala, actor and producerThe shoot of a few of our shows had started last week, but now, they will be cancelled. The teams will wrap up their shoots today. The two serials that were supposed to resume regular telecast on Monday — Bharathi Kannamma and Pandian Stores — have also been pushed now. - A Star Vijay source We had called only artistes and technicians living in Chennai for the shoots of our serials. But we have decided to cancel all shoots for now, and the on-air dates are being pushed as well. Now, we will resume work only after we have clarity from the government. - A Zee Tamil sourceRestaurateurs on the aftertaste of another lockdown Instead of letting the restaurants open last week for dine-in, the government should have delayed it. Whatever momentum we picked up in business over the last one week will again require rebooting after the lockdown. We also took a lot of effort in implementing hygiene measures and getting our employees back. Now, everything has to be done from scratch again. - Vishnu Shankar, director, Adyar Ananda Bhavan We didn’t open all our restaurants at one go. We were planning to open another set of restaurants on June 19. But obviously, that’s not happening now. At the end of the day, we have to respect the government’s decision. Hopefully, we may come out of the lockdown with fewer cases. That’ll bring about confidence in consumers as well. Even though we are seeing decent footfalls, people are still wary of dine-in. - Tarun Mahadevan, director, Advantage Foods Pvt. Ltd.We should open for dine-in only after we have absolute clarity. We didn’t open because of three things — first, the dine-in experience will be really uncomfortable without air conditioning; secondly, lack of staff and concern over safety; and thirdly, we are in the process of finding a solution for biodegradable cutlery. For now, I would prefer going with what is working well for us — delivery and takeaway. - Janak Narang, managing partner, Masaledaar A bumpy road for driversAfter almost 70 days of lockdown, it’s only in the last two weeks that I started to earn enough to make ends meet. It’s a really challenging situation. House rent, daily household expenses — people like us have a lot to feel stressed about. After three months, we were seeing some light at the end of the tunnel when autos were allowed back on roads from June 1. Now, the news of another lockdown has come out of the blue. - R Dilip Kumar, auto driver Retailers will feel the pinch during wedding season The lockdown extension is going to be challenging. But I am not sure how much of a difference it would make. Ever since we opened doors, footfall has been less. In place of 10 customers at a time, we are barely getting three. But since the wedding season is on, a few have been purchasing jewellery from us for emergency purposes. - An employee at Tanishq Ever since we resumed operations, we have been allowing customers on the basis of scheduled appointments. A customer gets around 30 minutes in the store. So, we divide our eight-hour working day into half-an-hour slots for 16 customers. While the lockdown extension is sad and challenging for businesses like ours, I think it is necessary. - An employee at Sundari SilksLockdown a better option, feels grooming industryInitially, we saw a good number of customers walking in, but now, we hardly have one or two appointments in a day. Like, yesterday, we just had one appointment each for haircut and pedicure services. Instead of opening the salon under such circumstances, it’s better to wait it out. Of course, business will get affected, but we have no other option. If the lockdown is going to help reduce the cases, why not try again?” - Sri Prashanthi Venugopal, proprietor, Bblunt-ChennaiThere was a decent influx of clients when we reopened, but once the number of positive cases saw an upward trend, customers weren’t confident enough to come. We are definitely in support of this lockdown as it will also instill confidence among customers when they come back after June 30. - Manoj Samuel, director, Vurve Salon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/forget-unlock2-0-we-are-back-in-lockdown2-0/articleshow/76395423.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Business||Social sector funding hit by economy woes||Call it the Covid-19 effect. Philanthropic or social sector funding has taken a huge blow with several non-profits even facing an existential crisis, with all funding activities currently revolving around fighting the pandemic. The sector stares at a huge fall, with CSR funding expected to drop by an estimated 30-60% over the next two years, as ultra-high-net-worth individuals and leading corporates set aside their spends for Covid-19 response. Going forward, economic distress faced by companies will be the double whammy for the sector. Officials working in the non-profits space told TOI that the social sector is expected to face a drying up of CSR spends over the next two years, with a bulk of it being channelized to meet the Covid crisis, including for various initiatives like the PM-Cares Fund. The drying up of funds for social sector funding, together with the downward pressure on corporate profitability over the years, is expected to significantly reduce CSR funding across sectors, experts say. “Most companies have contributed substantially to the Covid-19 response, either to the PM-Cares Fund or chief ministers’ funds (across states) as well as to their own CSR Covid-19 interventions. This contribution of resources, paired with the downward pressure on corporate profitability over the coming years, is anticipated to significantly reduce CSR funding that supports India’s Sustainable Development Goals across sectors,” says Pritha Venkatachalam, partner of The Bridgespan Group, a philanthropy advisory. “Even if the quantum of CSR funds is inevitably lower, CSR donors could reorient their giving in three ways — proactively supporting the vulnerable and most marginalized groups; rebuilding resilience of communities through for example, sustainable livelihoods and stronger primary health systems, and collaborating smartly to leverage scarce resources for greater impact,” Venkatachalam adds. Many domestic and foreign philanthropists who have announced large-sized Covid response initiatives are unlikely to make new/bold bets this year. Several others are repurposing their current commitments to support the pandemic response, impacting other social challenges, including non-Covid public health initiatives. A few are adopting a wait-and-watch approach to ensure funding headroom for a post-emergency phase; while some non-profits — with the support of primarily their existing funders — have rallied or repurposed their programs to work on health and/or socio-economic needs of the pandemic, a Bridgespan study across 40 organizations, shared exclusively with TOI, says. Deval Sanghavi, co-founder, Dasra, a strategic philanthropy foundation, says, “NGOs which have a higher dependency on CSR funds have seen a 20-40% drop in budgets, regardless of the sector they focus on. Their financial situation only gets worse next year with even greater deficits, leading some to even shutdown. In other countries, governments have supported non-profit organizations with salary and rental payments for a three-to-six month period.” Covid funding will move from current focus on food, health and hygiene to rural education and livelihood, according to Vineet Nayar, philanthropist and former chief of HCL Technologies. “Non-Covid project funding will reduce by 30-50%, thus we will see flight to quality, leading to consolidation around fewer high-impact projects. Secondly, many inflight projects will come to a sudden halt, leaving end beneficiaries worse off than before, and lastly we will see a significant number of people in the social sector lose their jobs,” he adds. The study highlights philanthropic investment could be in supporting critical healthcare and socioeconomic needs, and vulnerable populations like migrant workers. Philanthropic funding has grown at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of over 17% during 2011-19, with an increasing share from domestic corporations and individual/family philanthropies, according to Bain India Philanthropy Report 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/social-sector-funding-hit-by-economy-woes/articleshow/76395542.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 16, 2020||Delhi||In a first, Delhi couple gets a virtual divorce||NEW DELHI: In a first for Delhi, an estranged couple was allowed to go their separate ways by a city court through videoconferencing. During the divorce proceedings carried out through mutual consent, the man and woman gave a joint statement online and the soft copy of their signed statements was made a part of the court records. While both the parties were at their respective places out of the city, their lawyer appeared from her workplace in Delhi. The entire proceedings were via videoconference, with even family court judge Deepak Garg and the court staff participating from their homes. "This may encourage other similarly placed parties to get relief at the click of a button," a source privy to the case stated. The couple have amicably settled their disputes regarding maintenance and material exchange during the wedding. They also agreed to not initiate any litigation or raise any claim either against each other or any family member in future. The man and woman got married in 2017 as per Hindu rites in Delhi, but started living separately a year later. They then filed the first motion under Section 13B (1) of the Hindu Marriage Act mutually agreeing that their marriage be dissolved. The couple’s subsequent motion was required to be filed for passing the decree of divorce. "I have heard the parties as well as their counsel through videoconferencing as working of courts is suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Both the petitioners have been identified by their counsel Aanchal Tikmani," the court observed in its order. After going through the contents of their petition and their joint statement, which was recorded separately through videoconferencing, the court was satisfied that the divorce was filed with the couple’s mutual consent. "No force, coercion, fraud or undue influence has been committed upon them. The present petition has not been filed by them in collusion with each other," it added. On June 13, the Delhi high court inaugurated the e-filing facility allowing advocates and litigants to file court documents online at any time. With the divorce judgment being heard and decided online on June 12, the new normal could witness other regular cases also being heard and decided in the virtual space. "It was a big relief to the parties involved. It was convenient and hassle-free for all stakeholders, especially when regular court work is suspended," the source added. Watch In a first, Delhi couple gets a virtual divorce||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-first-delhi-couple-gets-a-virtual-divorce/articleshow/76395592.cms||Aamir Khan
June 16, 2020||Business||Officials push for hike in GST levies||NEW DELHI: It may not be politically palatable, but officials are pushing for quickly reworking GST slabs, along with a rise in levies, while correcting the inverted duty structure on garments, footwear and fertilisers to ensure that states and the Centre earn more revenue amid signs of higher economic activity. On Friday, several state finance ministers had blocked a move to increase GST on garments and footwear as part of the proposal to correct the inverted duty structure — where the finished product has lower levies than inputs — on the grounds that this was "not the right time" when businesses are demanding a stimulus. At the same time, they are insisting that the Centre ensure that not just their revenue but even growth in collections is protected through compensation, for which they are pushing the GST council to borrow from the market. Officials at the Centre and states, and even some state FMs, are skeptical. First, the RBI needs to agree to the move and then the modalities have to be worked out — who will guarantee it, how will it impact the fiscal deficit of the Centre and states, and the repayment mechanism and schedule. Instead, officials at the Centre suggested that the current crisis gave the council an opportunity to go for the long-pending "rationalisation" of levies. "If you earn higher revenue, the need for compensation comes down. The other option is to raise the compensation cess or bring more items in its ambit," a senior officer said. The proposal, which was flagged during a GST council meeting last winter, entailed raising the rates across slabs, although it was then argued that the burden on the consumer will not be proportionate, given that the credit for tax on inputs will partly blunt the impact. Officials had suggested raising the levy on the 5% slab to 7-8% and even doing away with the 12% slab to move over 200 items in the 18% bracket, which could have generated additional revenue of Rs 1 lakh crore. States had sent the issue back, arguing that it required a deeper study, with the GST council secretariat asked to come back with a detailed analysis. "The issue needs to be explained. After all, states and the Centre did increase VAT on fuel and consumers are paying for it for it. Similarly, a 1-2 percentage point increase will not pinch them," said an officer. So far, even the proposal to correct the inverted duty structure had not found favour. At Friday’s meeting, the GST council secretariat sought to push for discussion on the inverted duty structure for fertilisers, footwear, fabrics, renewable energy devices, tractors and pharma products, only to be spurned by the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/officials-push-for-hike-in-gst-levies/articleshow/76395683.cms||Sidhartha
June 16, 2020||India||Up to Nepal to make talks happen: Sources||NEW DELHI/DEHRADUN: Days after Nepal cleared a constitutional amendment to change the map on its coat of arms to include Indian territory, India indicated that it would offer no further talks and that it will be for Kathmandu to create conditions that can support a discussion -- a position that rules out a thaw given passage of the contentious legislation. “The onus is on Nepal PM K P Sharma Oli and his government to take concrete steps to create a positive and conducive atmosphere for any further dialogue,” sources said on Monday. India has also refuted suggestions that it dragged its feet on dialogue, pointing out that the map-changing has been the result of a deliberate set of actions by the Oli regime. But while officially India took a tough stand, defence minister Rajnath Singh seemed to keep open a window for reconciliation when he told a virtual rally on Monday that “India-Nepal ties are not ordinary. We have a relation of ‘Roti and Beti’ which cannot be broken by any power of the world”. Singh's reference to people on both sides travelling for work and being linked by marriage and family ties can be also be read as an outreach to opinion in Nepal as well as a reminder that connections with India run much deeper than any recent convergence with China. The shooting to death of an Indian national at Samastipur happened when a group of people went to the Nepal border to receive a woman returning to her paternal home. However, given the prominent role of China in propping up his government that was facing dissent over handling of the Covid situation and the economy, Oli is unlikely to relent on the map change and India does not seem ready to offer him any leeway by engaging in talks. Singh said, “Some misconceptions may have risen in Nepal regarding the road built by Border Roads Organisation (BRO). The 80-km road that allows vehicular access till near the Lipulekh Pass in Pithoragarh was inaugurated by Singh himself on May 8 leading to Oli raising the ante, claiming parts of the areas as its territory. The defence minister added that “India not only has social, geographical, historical and cultural relations with Nepal but also deep religious ties. How can we forget Baba Pashupatinath in Nepal? Whether Baba Pashupatinath in Kathmandu or Kashi Vishwanath in Varanasi, how can anyone separate them all from Amarnath? This is a divine relationship and no one can change it even if they want to”. Singh also touched upon the contribution made by Nepalese soldiers to the Gorkha Regiment of the Indian Army. “We can place several barricades along the border of India and Nepal but our relations can’t be broken,” he added. Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told media interviewers that Kathmandu had offered talks which New Delhi had not accepted. Sources said as recently when the amendment was tabled in Parliament, India had offered foreign secretary-level discussions, virtually as well, given the seriousness of the evolving situation. This was rebuffed by Nepal, because Oli was playing to a limited domestic agenda. “We don’t know why PM Oli did not tell the Nepali people or their Parliament about our offer,” a source said. Sources said India took the initiative in 2019 and told Kathmandu about its willingness to “take forward” boundary talks and repeated this after the inauguration of the Lipulekh road in May this year. This was met by silence from the Nepali side. “Whenever they have offered talks we have responded positively — that they could be held in a conducive environment and on mutually convenient dates. However, they hastily released the new map.” It has now created a “difficult situation”. Sources said after Nepal’s “unilateral act” of changing its map, the ball will now be in its court. India and Nepal, they said, had already delineated 98 per cent of the 1,750 km boundary except for the Kalapani and Narsahi-Susta areas. The road, which Nepal objected to, has been used by Kailash-Manasarovar yatris for decades and has been under construction for years, but at no point did Nepal object to it. Sources also refuted strongly Oli’s contention that India was responsible for the Covid surge in Nepal. “This claim is false and distorted. There are 8 million Nepalese citizens in India, and a large number of Indians in Nepal. The number of people who have gone back are very small. They have returned with the full knowledge of the government of Nepal, particularly during the lockdown period.” “We are surprised that there are so many Nepali nationals coming from other countries including China — we have given a number of overflight clearances and facilitated their return from other countries. So singling out returnees from India seems part of the same political motivation,” said a source, pointing to lack of testing and proper quarantine measures by the Nepali government as reasons for the surge in cases there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-nepal-to-make-talks-happen-govt-sources/articleshow/76395704.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 16, 2020||India||Covid wards of Delhi hospitals to get CCTVs after Shah’s surprise visit to LNJP||NEW DELHI: A day after the Centre announced a set of measures to ramp up the national capital’s health infrastructure and augment testing for Covid-19, home minister Amit Shah paid a surprise visit to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) to assess its preparedness against the pandemic. After reviewing the systems and procedures in consultation with senior doctor and Delhi government officials, Shah directed the Delhi chief secretary to install CCTV cameras in Covid-19 wards of all city hospitals to ensure constant monitoring and early resolution of problems faced by patients. Later, the state government issued an order to install CCTV cameras in all its hospitals. Shah’s visit to the prominent Delhi government-run hospital — which has been under adverse public glare since disturbing footage of its Covid-19 wards and patients surfaced, inviting caustic comments from the Supreme Court — was seen as yet another instance of the Centre’s growing engagement with the effort to stem the pandemic in the national capital. In fact, the Delhi chief secretary was called for Shah’s interaction with senior LNJP doctors and instructions on new measures and systems to be introduced were given to him directly. The absence of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendra Jain during Shah’s visit was noted and commented upon. Delhi government sources tried to dampen the excitement by emphasising that the CM and Jain could not have been present because Shah was on a “surprise inspection”. They pointed out that LG Anil Baijal was also absent for the same reason. Kejriwal has not yet visited LNJP, the state government’s main Covid hospital. However, the hospital put out a statement to play it down. “For the last 10 days, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwalji has been consistently taking stock of all arrangements at LNJP. He has been monitoring all grievances and issues highlighted, and has ensured they are resolved immediately. Today’s successful visit of the home minister is an endorsement of better facilities at LNJP,” the hospital’s medical superintendent said. Some other key instructions given by Shah to the Delhi chief secretary were setting up of back-up for canteens supplying food to patients “so that in case there is an infection in one canteen, patients can continue to get food without disruption”, a home ministry release said. The minister also gave directions for psycho-social counselling of doctors and nurses to ensure that they can ventilate their fears and anxieties about working with Covid-19 patients and being away for long periods from their families. "Patients still manage to recover and go back home after 10-14 days, but doctors and nurses are working in the same wards and environment and are prone to stress and anxiety. Psycho-social counselling will help to make them mentally fit to continue the fight against the pandemic," an official source quoted Shah as saying. The home minister’s involvement in the Capital's anti-Covid fight has steadily grown in the wake of worsening of the public health crisis. His intervention to improve the systems in Delhi hospitals comes a day after he held a series of meetings, first with Kejriwal and Baijal in the presence of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, and then with mayors of all three municipal corporations of Delhi for which the LG and CM came again. The meetings focused on augmenting the response to the pandemic, led to crucial decisions, including the Centre offering 500 railway coaches to be turned into dedicated Covid care centres with 8,000 beds, increasing testing in the Capital to three times in the next 5-6 days; ensuring availability of 60% of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals at lower rates and aggressive contact tracing in containment zones with house-to-house surveys. On Monday, Shah held another meeting with leaders of all key political parties in Delhi and sought their cooperation in ensuring that the measures announced on Sunday were implemented on the ground. He asked them to keep aside their political differences in the interest of the people and "stand united under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership in this fight against this pandemic". The proposal to have CCTV monitoring of Covid-19 wards in Delhi government hospitals comes in the wake of horrific footage telecast by some news channels as well as videos uploaded by patients themselves of patients lying unattended in wards alongside dead bodies, patients lying on the floor, dirty wards with unremoved garbage and water overflowing. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said the home minister interacted with the LNJP staff. “He asked them to focus on work and ignore negative reports about the hospital. CM Kejriwal has been continuously monitoring the situation and fixing all lapses to ensure better management of the Covid situation. The home minister approved of this. The visit was on the own initiative of the home minister,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-wards-of-delhi-hospitals-to-get-cctvs-after-shahs-surprise-visit-to-lnjp/articleshow/76395798.cms||Bharti Jain
June 16, 2020||India||Army joins operation to douse Assam oil-well inferno||GUWAHATI/DIBRUGARH: The Army has been roped in to help Oil India Ltd build a temporary 150m bridge over a reservoir near the oil-well inferno at Baghjan in Assam's Tinsukia district as part of a concerted operation to "kill" the blowout that started on May 27 and caught fire on June 9. "The deadline to kill the well is July 7 and we are confident of dousing the fire before that," OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said. The Army’s 2nd Mountain division has started moving materials and equipment from Missamari in Sonitpur district and Tezu in Arunachal Pradesh to Baghjan. The plan is to build a bridge to create a pathway and also divert a pipe bringing water from the nearby Dangori river to the reservoir. "Too much heat is being generated by the fire around the well. We are laying this pipe to pump in water from the river to the reservoir near the well. The pipe needs to be shifted. The district administration has requisitioned the Army," Hazarika said. The Army had played a key role in putting out an oil well blaze at Dikom in Dibrugarh district in 2005. That inferno took 20 days to douse. Meanwhile, CM Sarbananda Sonowal has requested scientists at IIT-Guwahati and CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology to study the frequent tremors reported by villagers in Baghjan since the oil well erupted, killing two firefighters of OIL and displacing thousands. OIL CMD Sushil Chandra Mishra on Monday handed cheques for Rs 30 lakh each to the families of the two firefighters, former Assam footballer Durlov Gogoi and Tikheswar Gohain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-joins-operation-to-douse-assam-oil-well-inferno/articleshow/76395944.cms||Prabin Kalita
June 16, 2020||India||India needs one million tests daily: CCMB chief||HYDERABAD: India needs to ramp up Covid-19 testing by roughly 10 times — at least one million samples daily — to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. This was stated on Monday by Rakesh Mishra, the director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), during a video conference with Telangana governor Tamilisai Sounderajan and others. Between 1.15 lakh and 1.5 lakh people have been tested daily across the country between June 10 and 14, according to figures provided by the Union health ministry. “It (testing) should be more than one lakh and can be one million per day,” Mishra said during the conference. Later, in an interaction with TOI, he said that testing is essential as demonstrated in Dharavi, the Mumbai mega slum, where the infection is being controlled with increased testing. “One million tests per day is possible but by using different technologies of testing,” Mishra added. “In the RT PCR method, the result time is eight hours if everything is meticulously followed. The RNA isolation process takes a lot of time. In other methods, the isolation of RNA is not required and therefore the result time is only half that of the RT PCR test.” Several prestigious institutes, including CCMB, have developed such models. “We are seeking permission for our models. The government can even try next generation testing technologies where 10,000 tests can be done at a time, but they are useful only when a large number of tests (pooling of tests for example in a containment zone) are to be done because of the cost,” the CCMB director said. According to Mishra, the cost of tests will also come down slowly. He also said that there are no “less dangerous” or “more dangerous” strains of the virus in the country and that the overall mortality of Indian “is much less”. Speaking at the conference, former Union health secretary, K Sujata Rao said, “It is surprising to see that despite having the best medical and health infrastructure in the state, extensive testing wasn’t done in Telangana earlier. It is good that the state has now decided to increase testing,” she said. Telangana does not make public the number of tests it conducts. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had, however, said on Sunday that his government would soon test 50,000 people in 30 assembly constituencies in and around Hyderabad. Watch India needs one million tests daily, says CCMB chief||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-needs-one-million-tests-daily-ccmb-chief/articleshow/76395975.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Parents rush to buy, repair gadgets for kids as classes move online||With the concept of virtual classrooms, e-learning and homeschooling on the rise, more and more parents are now feeling the need to invest in smartphones, laptops and tabs exclusively for their children, albeit reluctantly. In Kolkata’s electronics markets, demand for these products has skyrocketed and the trend is expected to continue as schools stay shut until further relaxations. Surge in demand for cheaper phonesWhile children below a certain age were not allowed to have their own mobile phones before the lockdown, it has become almost a necessity for them now. “Many of our customers are parents looking for cheaper phones that are good enough for online classes. They are going for phones priced below `10,000. Earlier, the most popular range was between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000,” said Aman Arora, owner of a phone store in Chandni Chowk, adding, “Compared to March, there has been a 100% increase in sales of phones and tabs.” With overall spending going down, demand for cheaper handsets is going up and there are hardly any takers for high-end phones. "Phones that used to cost Rs 5,000 are now being sold at Rs 7,000 since the demand for low-range phones is far more than the supply," said Leyaquat Ali, the owner of another shop. Along with phones, tablet sales have increased too. The basic versions, starting from Rs 12,000, are selling the most. Many takers for Pre-owned gadgets As long as offices were shut, children were relying on their parents’ gadgets for online studies. But now with offices reopening in the city, there is no option but to buy separate ones for children. Stay-at-home mom Sanghamitra Gupta, who recently bought a second-hand laptop for her daughter, said, “Tiasha was using my husband’s tab all these months but now he has started going to office. And it is difficult for me to let her use my phone for hours. So, we had to buy her a laptop for her virtual classes.” While many customers are interested in getting old, used gadgets repaired for children, high repairing costs are forcing them to opt for new ones instead. "The cost of spare parts has gone up massively due to almost no supply in the lockdown. So, most people think it is a better idea to go for second-hand devices instead," said MD Raja, a mechanic, explaining that while the minimum cost of repairing a smartphone is Rs 800 to Rs 1,000, one can buy a second-hand phone for Rs 1,500 or less. "So, why would people come to us for repair," he added. Bhaskar Ghosh, from an electronics shop in Gariahat, said that parents are enquiring about used phones and laptops. While some are buying new ones (between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000), others are getting their old gadgets repaired. "If someone can get a used phone at one-third the price of a new one, why wouldn't they? People are thinking twice before spending even a penny," he said. Safety comes at a price Working parents Nandini and Sorbojit Sen recently bought a new phone for their son Adit, a Class II student. Though Nandini had asked around for a spare phone, she couldn’t get one. “Initially, Adit was using my husband’s laptop for his online classes. But now, both Sorbojit and I have work commitments, so we had no option but to buy him a new phone. First, I thought of purchasing a second-hand phone but then I felt it may not be a safe option in the current scenario. However, we didn’t want to invest in a laptop or tab right now,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-rush-to-buy-repair-gadgets-for-kids-as-classes-move-online/articleshow/76392569.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
June 16, 2020||India||ICMR gives nod to antigen-based testing kit for faster diagnosis||NEW DELHI: The government’s apex research body, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has recommended use of the first antigen-based testing kit for Covid-19 to enable faster diagnosis at lower rates and without laboratory examinations of samples. The antigen test — developed by private biotechnology firm SD Biosensor — has also been validated by AIIMS, New Delhi, apart from ICMR and can detect presence of SARS CoV 2 in swab collected from the nose alone. The test can detect presence of molecules of the pathogen that triggers immune response in Covid-19 infected persons. Maximum duration for interpreting a positive or negative test is 30 minutes through the antigen based kit. “In view of its high specificity while relatively low sensitivity, ICMR recommends the use of Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection assay as a point of care diagnostic assay for testing…,” ICMR said in an advisory recommending the antigen test in combination with the gold standard RT-PCR test. While no confirmatory tests are required for samples testing positive, ICMR said those who test negative should undergo a RT-PCR test to rule out infection. Last month, the US Food and Drug Administration also approved an antigen-based test, noting it is a new type of diagnostic test. "Each category of diagnostic test has its own unique role in the fight against this virus. PCR tests can be incredibly accurate, but running the tests and analysing the results can take time. One of the main advantages of an antigen test is the speed of the test, which can provide results in minutes." But antigen tests may not detect all active infections and are not as sensitive as molecular PCR tests. Hence, positive results are highly accurate, but there is a higher chance of false negatives. So negative results do not rule out infection, the FDA said. Similarly, ICMR has said negative results need to be confirmed with a PCR test prior to making treatment decisions or to prevent the possible spread of the virus. “Suspected individuals who test negative for COVID-19 by rapid antigen test should be definitely tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test should be considered as a true positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test,” said the advisory. The agency has also said the testing kits be used for all symptomatic people with influenza-like illness (ILI) in containment zones or hotspots and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with co-morbidities of confirmed cases. In hospitals, the kits are to be used for all symptomatic ILI patients, asymptomatic patients who are hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation for chemotherapy and transplants or those who are over 65 years with co-morbidities. In view of rising demand for testing, ICMR has also asked other manufacturers, who have antigen detection assays, to come forward for validation. The move assumes significance as use of antigen kits is likely to boost testing because of its turnaround time as well as pricing. Officials said the antigen test is going to much cheaper as compared to RT-PCR kits. At present, around 1.5 lakh RT-PCR tests are being conducted in the country everyday. Watch ICMR recommends use of the first antigen-based testing kit for Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-gives-nod-to-antigen-based-testing-kit-for-faster-diagnosis/articleshow/76395986.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 16, 2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Covid deaths hit single-day high of 396||NEW DELHI: India reported its sharpest single-day rise in deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic when 396 fatalities were recorded across the country on Monday, even as the number of fresh infections fell to a six-day low of a little over 10,000 cases. An addition of 10,373 cases saw India’s Covid-19 caseload rise to nearly 3.43 lakh while the death toll stood at 9,914. With this, the first 15 days of June have seen more cases and fatalities than the whole of May, when over 1.5 lakh infections and 4,267 deaths were reported in the country. Monday was the sixth day in a row of more than 300 deaths being reported and the highest so far. The previous highest single-day toll was 393 on June 11. The surge in deaths was mainly on account of Maharashtra reporting its highest one-day toll of 178, along with a surge in fatalities in Delhi (73) and Tamil Nadu (44). Gujarat continued to report a high number of deaths at 28. While the deaths spiked, all three worst-hit Covid states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi reported a drop in fresh cases, which was reflected in the day’s total falling nearly 1,800 lower than Sunday’s count of 12,195. The daily tally dropped below the 11,000 mark for the first time in five days. While Maharashtra reported 2,786 new cases of the viral infection, Tamil Nadu’s count was 1,843 and Delhi’s 1,647 — all three substantially lower than the previous day’s respective figures. However, at least two states — Haryana (514 new cases) and Andhra Pradesh (304) — reported their highest single-day count of cases. Besides, the caseload remained high in Gujarat (514), Uttar Pradesh (480), Bengal (407), Karnataka (213), J&K (182), Odisha (146) Punjab (127) and Assam (109). The Covid-19 death toll in Tamil Nadu rose to a new single-day high of 44 on Monday, while the number of fresh cases dipped to 1,843 from 1,974 on Sunday. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said the focus was not on number of cases anymore. “We want to minimise deaths and protect the vulnerable,” he said. The mortality rate in TN went beyond 1% although the total in the Monday bulletin of 479 deceased so far did not include nearly 250 Covid deaths in Chennai, which the directorate of public health is yet to include in its count. Chennai continued to record the most fresh cases, 1,257 on Monday. The Covid-19 tally for Uttar Pradesh crossed the 14k-mark with 480 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. With 60 new cases on Monday, Gautam Budh Nagar not only crossed the 1,000-mark, but also became the district with the maximum viral load. GB Nagar's tally is now 1,057 surpassing Agra, which had 16 cases on Monday to take its total to 1,054. On a positive side, the state's recovery rate touched a new high of 61%. Andhra Pradesh on Monday recorded yet another highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 304 new infections and two more deaths. In a piece of rare good news, a two-month-old baby in Kurnool recovered from the pandemic virus, becoming the youngest person to recover from Covid-19 in AP. As many as 79 personnel from various battalions of the CRPF were among the 182 fresh Covid-19 cases in J&K. In Odisha, the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 4,000 mark on Monday with 146 more testing positive for the virus. An equal number of positive people recovered taking the count of cured people to 2,854, the health authorities said. From the day Odisha reported its first positive case on March 15, it took 57 days to reach 500. However, in just two days, it added the last 500 positive cases. Meanwhile, Manipur has asked the Centre to stop all flights to Imphal from Thursday as the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state climbed to 490, with 32 more testing positive on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-in-india-covid-deaths-hit-single-day-high-of-396/articleshow/76396046.cms||---
June 16, 2020||India||Allahabad HC: Make law for guardianship of those in coma||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday recommended to the Central government to consider enacting an appropriate legislation for appointment of guardians of persons lying in a comatose state, as they have not been provided any remedy in any statute. Such a guardian will take care of financial interests like bank accounts, investment, etc., of the person in comatose state, the high court added. Disposing of a writ petition filed by one Uma Mittal and her four children, a division bench comprising justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery directed the registry of the high court to forward a copy of this judgment to the secretary, law, ministry of law and justice, Government of India, for information and appropriate steps. According to petitioners, on December 22, 2018, in night Sunil Kumar Mittal, who is husband of petitioner Uma Mittal, fell in the bathroom and after a few months of treatment, the doctors opined that he will remain in comatose/vegetative state till death. In the petition, it was stated that the family needed money for medical treatment and other necessities, however, the bank accounts were in the name of Sunil Kumar Mittal, hence, they could not operate it. Therefore, his wife may be declared his guardian for all such purposes and she may be allowed to manage finances in the capacity of his guardian. The court, while allowing the petition, observed, “Petitioners are in dire need of money towards medical treatment of Sunil Kumar Mittal and for the welfare of the family as they have exhausted their financial resources in the past one and a half years.” The court allowed Uma Mittal to operate the bank account of her husband and to spend money for medical expenses and for family welfare purposes like marriage of their daughters. However, the court directed the petitioners to report to the registrar general of the high court every six months, detailing the transactions in respect of the assets of Sunil Kumar Mittal. Giving this judgment, the court observed, ” Now the question arises that when there is no legislative enactment, providing for appointment of a guardian for a person lying in a comatose state, how the matter with regard to appointment of guardian should be dealt with. We cannot lose sight of the fact that we have been called upon to discharge ‘parens patriae’ (father of the country) jurisdiction.” “The court under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution of India can pass orders and give directions as are necessary for subserving the ends of justice when no remedy is provided in any statute in respect to persons lying in comatose condition,” the high court added. The doctrine of ‘parens patriae’ (father of the country) had originated in British law as early as the 13th century. It implies that the King is the father of the country and is under obligation to look after the interest of those who are unable to look after themselves. The idea behind ‘parens patriae’ is that if a citizen is in need of someone who can act as a parent who can make decisions and take some other action, sometimes the state is best qualified to take on this role.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allahabad-hc-make-law-for-guardianship-of-those-in-coma/articleshow/76396051.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Western flank of MG Setu to open by month-end’||PATNA: The western flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu is expected to open for vehicular traffic by the end of this month, state road construction department (RCD) minister Nand Kishore Yadav said on Monday. Earlier, it was to be opened from June 15. “The rehabilitation work has been completed. But pitching could not be done because of rainfall,” Yadav told TOI. The ministry of road, transport and highways has been rehabilitating the 38-year-old bridge since February 2017. “The rehabilitation work on its eastern flank will be undertaken after opening the western flank,” the minister said. The work is being done by demolishing the old superstructure, except the pillars, and erecting triangular steel girders with concrete slabs, like in the rail-cum-road Rajendra Setu or Koilwar bridge. The minister said bidding process for a four-lane bridge parallel to Gandhi Setu has been initiated. “As of now, technical evaluation is being done and the companies which qualify will go for financial bid,” he said. CM to inaugurate bridge today: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate on Tuesday Sattar Ghat bridge on river Gandak and various other RCD projects worth Rs 400 crore. The Sattar Ghat bridge, constructed at the cost of Rs 263.47 crore, will provide connectivity to most of the districts via Siwan, Chhapra, Gopalganj and National Highway 28. “It will provide connect Patna, Mashrakh and up to Raxaul,” the RCD minister said. Apart from this bridge, CM will also inaugurate Lakhisarai Bypass Road constructed at the cost of Rs 146.3 crore. He will also lay the foundation for the first phase of bypass in the northern part of Sasaram. The minster said this road will have two lanes and a railway overbridge. A vehicle underpass will also be constructed on state highways 12 and 17. This road will connect western and northern part of the city. Also, in order to move ahead towards Varanasi, one will not need to enter the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/western-flank-of-mg-setu-to-open-by-month-end/articleshow/76392216.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 16, 2020||Allahabad||Enact law to appoint guardians of people in coma, Allahabad high court tells Centre||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday recommended to the central government to consider enacting an appropriate legislation for appointment of guardians of persons lying in a comatose state, as they have not been provided any remedy in any statute. Such a guardian will take care of financial interests like bank accounts, investment, etc., of the person in comatose state, the high court added. Disposing of a writ petition filed by one Uma Mittal and her four children, a division bench comprising justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery directed the registry of the high court to forward a copy of this judgment to the secretary, law, ministry of law and justice, Government of India, for information and appropriate steps. ‘Family needed money for medical treatment and other necessities’According to petitioners, on December 22, 2018, in night Sunil Kumar Mittal, who is husband of petitioner Uma Mittal, fell in the bathroom and after a few months of treatment, the doctors opined that he will remain in comatose/vegetative state till death. In the petition, it was stated that the family needed money for medical treatment and other necessities, however, the bank accounts were in the name of Sunil Kumar Mittal, hence, they could not operate it. Therefore, his wife may be declared his guardian for all such purposes and she may be allowed to manage finances in the capacity of his guardian. The court, while allowing the petition, observed, “Petitioners are in dire need of money towards medical treatment of Sunil Kumar Mittal and for the welfare of the family as they have exhausted their financial resources in the past one and a half years.” The court allowed Uma Mittal to operate the bank account of her husband and to spend money for medical expenses and for family welfare purposes like marriage of their daughters. However, the court directed the petitioners to report to the registrar general of the high court every six months, detailing the transactions in respect of the assets of Sunil Kumar Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-suggests-central-govt-enacts-law-to-appoint-guardians-of-people-in-coma/articleshow/76392409.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 16, 2020||Business||PolicyBazaar arm cuts over 1,500 jobs||BENGALURU: Paisabazaar, an online marketplace for loans and credit cards — which is part of the PolicyBazaar group — has laid off 1,500-2,000 people due to the impact of Covid-19. Paisabazaar has a strength of 3,000-4,000 employees, which means nearly half its staff is being asked to leave as part of a restructuring. PolicyBazaar, a unicorn backed by SoftBank, employs another 6,000 people in its team. According to a person aware of the matter, Paisabazaar’s revenue has been down by around 90% since March. “They don’t see any pick-up in lending business for the next year. So, this had to be done,” the person mentioned earlier said. Owing to the coronavirus impact, other unicorns and large startups like Oyo, Curefit, Swiggy, Ola, and Zomato too have had to cut their team sizes by 10-30%, while some have placed additional staff on furloughs. In 2019, Paisabazaar had claimed to have disbursed annualised loans to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore. Apart from loans and credit cards, it also lets one invest in mutual funds through its platform. An email sent to the company spokesperson did not elicit any response till the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/policybazaar-arm-cuts-over-1500-jobs/articleshow/76394518.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Business||Muted response to Rs 27k-cr G-sec switch||Mumbai: The government’s move to switch gilts that have shorter maturities with longer dated ones witnessed a muted response on Monday. The government was able to switch bonds worth about Rs 20,250 crore, compared to the Rs 27,000 crore that was on offer, RBI data showed. In its previous switch programme on May 18 too, the government had evoked a weak response as, compared to the gilts worth Rs 30,000 crore on offer, there were takers for only Rs 9,200 crore. Under the government’s switch programme, it buys back gilts with shorter residual maturities, for instance those bonds that have a maximum of a year or two before maturity. And against such buybacks, instead of paying money to the sellers, it gives bonds of longer residual maturity, usually of at least five years. On Monday, the government had offered to buy back two gilts maturing in 2021 with a combined face value of Rs 15,000 crore and three in 2022 of Rs 12,000 crore face value. At the same time, it offered papers that will mature in 2026, 2050 and 2060. RBI data showed that there was strong interest for gilts maturing after 30 and 40 years, but not for those maturing after six years. Of the Rs 12,000 crore worth of 6-year gilts that were on offer, papers worth nearly Rs 5,250 crore were accepted by the RBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/muted-response-to-rs-27k-cr-g-sec-switch/articleshow/76394479.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Commerce, arts admissions from Thursday||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University will distribute PINs for online admissions for commerce and arts courses from Thursday. A meeting of the university’s officials with arts and commerce faculty members and the management representatives of colleges was held on Monday.However, officials said that to get the PINs, students will have to approach Gujarat University or a scheduled bank. Officials said that finding a seat will not be a problem in Ahmedabad though students have scored high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/commerce-arts-admissions-from-thursday/articleshow/76394712.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIN problems as GU intake process starts||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University on Monday began the process to enrol candidates in undergraduate science courses across 32 colleges affiliated to it. Many parents and students faced problems while generating Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) for college admissions. Several candidates complained that despite multiple payments they were unable to generate the PINs. The distribution of PINs, required for registration, has been done by colleges in the past. Due to Covid, the process went online. “A payment of Rs 125 is to be made for generating a PIN,” said a source in GU. “Several students complained that money from their accounts was deducted twice or thrice, still they were not able to generate PINs.” There are about 12,500 seats in GU science colleges for Class 12 students whose results were declared on May 17 by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB). While the form-filling exercise will be carried out online, the document verification process is to be carried out at designated centres. College admissions for all courses except those under the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) will begin from June 15, according to a state government notification. The academic session for Semester 1 students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses is to commence from August 1. The state education department has announced that Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) will be held on July 30. The admission process is in line with the state government’s directions to all varsities to begin the admission process for Class 12 science students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pin-problems-as-gu-intake-process-starts/articleshow/76394754.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Business||HUL gets HC relief over fake domain names||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has granted some relief to Hindustan Unilever (HUL), one of India’s largest corporate groups, in a domain name battle. The case, launched by HUL, was against unknown persons who allegedly were using its domain name to register fake websites to entice unsuspecting public into parting with significant money to become ‘authorised dealers of HUL products’. A domain name is simply an easy-to-remember address or mnemonic for an IP address. The HC said, “Eternal vigilance is not just the price of liberty, it is also the cost of doing large-volume business.” Justice Gautam Patel directed disclosure of registrant information from three domain name registration companies. He also directed over half a dozen banks to give disclosure of transactions carried out because the amounts involved are significant. In an urgent interim plea, HUL, argued by its counsel Virag Tulzapurkar, set out the number of fraudulent domain names registered and deceitfully used. These registrations were effected through domain name registrars — Endurance Domains, GoDaddy or Porkbun. HUL wanted the names to be continuously deregistered or blocked Endurance Domains’s (ED’s) counsel Birendra Saraf said it wasn’t possible to continuously suspend or block the names. The HC agreed. “The very technology behind domain name registration does not permit a permanent blocking of any domain name,”explained Justice Patel. Saraf said ED substantially complied and suspended most names. The HC said a “working protocol” is required and encouraged “all three parties to explore such a settlement so that these disputes between HUL on one side and the domain name registrars on the other do not come in the way of the real objective, which is to find the culprits behind these offending websites — currently represented in the generic”. The HC sought replies and adjourned the matter before a regular bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-gets-hc-relief-over-fake-domain-names/articleshow/76394496.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||RDPR University to train workers to make them more employable||Hubballi: The issue of migrant labourers returning to their native places has been one of the biggest problems the government and the industry have been facing during the Covid crisis. To address the issue and prepare the available workforce for jobs, Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University has come up with various training problems. A survey of local workers and those who are returning has begun in 25 villages of Gadag taluk has begun and the report will be ready soon. Dr Abdul Aziz Mulla, assistant director of the training and supervision wing of RDPR University said that the aim of the training programmes is hone the skills of local and migrant workers and make them more employable. Since the lockdown restrictions have been eased, there is a possibility of migrant workers returning to the state. At the university, bakery workers can undergo training for enhancement of their skills at the food science and technology department or those working in computer-related fields can take up skill upgradation training at the computer science branch. These are some of the possibilities. This apart, the varsity is also planning to give training to workers in their hometowns or villages. Those interested in dairy farming will be provided training by the veterinary college in Gadag, he said. The training will also prepare farmers and labourers to set up their ventures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rdpr-university-to-train-workers-to-make-them-more-employable/articleshow/76393485.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 16, 2020||Goa||‘Goa failed to make best of lockdown 1.0’||PANAJI: Goa has squandered the advantage of the first phase of the lockdown due to the foolishness of chief minister Pramod Sawant, said former revenue minister Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte has called for immediate large scale testing, total containment, strict vigil on quarantined persons and complete closure of the state borders till the cases decline. “Total containment of hotspots is the need of the hour,” he said while addressing a press conference. The Porvorim MLA added that swab testing in the hotspots will reveal the full extent of the Covid-19 spread in the state. Khaunte described the spread of the virus in Chimbel as “alarming” and said that if not contained, the coronavirus will spread and affect the state capital. He alleged that the government was downplaying the Covid-19 situation in the state as it wants to pave the way for the reopening of the casinos. “Instead of immediate large scale testing, total containment, imposing strict vigil on quarantined persons and taking up with the Centre for continuance of total lockdown and closure of borders, our chief and his alter-ego Michael Lobo are more intent on keeping their unholy promises,” Khaunte said, adding that Lobo is misguiding Sawant. The former IT minister also questioned the state’s readiness to conduct online classes, pointing out that network issues, bandwidth, accessibility to internet service, uninterrupted power supply need to be put in place before commencing online classes. “If need be, access should be provided at panchayats and other local bodies so that those children who don’t have the facilities at their homes for online schooling can depend on the facilities available with the local bodies,” Khaunte added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-failed-to-make-best-of-lockdown-1-0/articleshow/76395571.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Business||MSMEs facing existential crisis due to Covid: Crisil||Mumbai: Rating agency Crisil has warned that the micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) sector will face an existential crisis because of Covid-19, which will knock off a fifth of their revenues and shrink margins by 200-300 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). This is particularly true for the micro-segment, which accounts for 32% of the overall MSME debt. In a study of the sector released on Monday, the rating agency said that the 5% contraction in the Indian GDP, forecast by Crisil recently, will result in a 15% decline in revenues for the corporate sector and a 25% fall in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda). “For MSMEs, the fall in revenue will be steeper at 17-21%, while ebitda margin will shrink 200-300bps to 4-5% as weak demand gnaws away gains from lower commodity prices,” the report said. The dip in revenue would mean that the average interest service coverage ratio could slide to 1-1.5 times from 2.4 times seen between FY17 and FY20, even after factoring in the benefit of moratorium on interest payments announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Without the moratorium, the ratio would have gone below 1, meaning that the sector would not have generated revenues to repay its debt. While the measures announced by the government and the RBI — nudging institutions to lend more — will help cash flows, the bigger issue is demand, which needs to revive for growth to improve sustainably. According to Crisil chief operating officer Amish Mehta, it is critical that measures are taken to boost demand, especially in discretionary products and services. “A three-pronged strategy is essential now: One, improve the sentiment around job security for formal and informal workers. Two, hasten implementation of the Rs 3-lakh-crore Aatma Nirbhar scheme to ensure flow of liquidity to MSMEs continues. Three, and most important, lenders have to go beyond traditional credit processes because they have to play a seminal role in recovery,” said Mehta. The worst hit sectors are expected to be construction and export-linked units, which will bear the brunt. According to Crisil, revenue growth of MSMEs in the real estate engineering, procurement and construction segment could almost halve with demand sliding even as costs rise and supply chain disruptions ensue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/msmes-facing-existential-crisis-due-to-covid-crisil/articleshow/76394602.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 16, 2020||Patna||13k people reach home by 9 special trains||PATNA: Altogether 13,000 stranded migrant workers reached different places in Bihar by nine Shramik special trains from Kerala and three other states on Monday. The governments of Kerala, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir had earlier asked the Railway Board to run few more Shramik special trains from their respective states to send back migrant workers. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said about 4,200 people reached Purnea, Barauni and Muzaffarpur by three trains from Kanhangad, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, while 5,600 reached Nawada and Gaya by two trains from Kannauj and one each from Etawah and Phaphund in Uttar Pradesh. “One Shramik special train from Jammu and Kashmir, carrying about 1,400 migrants, reached Araria,” the CPRO said. Altogether 25 lakh migrant workers and other stranded people have returned home by 1,362 Shramik special trains from Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, New Delhi, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir since May 2. According to sources, about two lakh migrants from Bihar are still stranded in other states. 1.6L files digitized: ECR: The ECR headquarters in Hajipur and its five divisions — Danapur, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay, Dhanbad, Sonepur and Samastipur — have become the second railway zone after South Central Railway to adopt paperless work culture with the help of e-office platform. According to ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar, altogether 1.6 lakh files have been digitized so far. An online refresher course for loco pilots has also been introduced at the Muzaffarpur-based zonal railway training institute. “Training was imparted to 346 loco pilots, 167 assistant loco pilots and 100 other staff in May and June,” the CPRO said, adding the railways had been monitoring its major projects and other infrastructure building programmes through videoconferencing and drone cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13k-people-reach-home-by-9-special-trains/articleshow/76392189.cms||Kumod Verma
June 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar closes down quarantine centres for returnee migrants||PATNA: All the quarantine centres of the disaster management department at the block headquarters for returning migrant workers were closed on Monday. However, those with severe or mild symptoms will stay in the institutionalized isolation centres run by the health department. Around 15,33,392 migrant workers stayed at the quarantine centres of the disaster management department across the state. “The mandatory 14-day quarantine of the last batch of registered migrant workers ended on Monday. They were released after proper medical check-up and certificates issued to them,” a disaster management department official said. He revealed that the quarantine centres at the block headquarters may have been shut, but guidelines had been issued for the asymptomatic returnees as well. “They will remain in home quarantine for 14 days as per the instructions issued by the department concerned,” he added. Naval Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate of Kaimur, close to the Uttar Pradesh border, told this newspaper on Monday evening that all block quarantine centres in his district had been closed. However, information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar said in his daily press briefing on Monday that 6,082 people were still staying at 455 block quarantine centres. “Altogether 15,33,392 people stayed at the centres across the state, of which 15,27,310 have completed their quarantine period and returned home,” he said. According to authoritative sources, the isolation centres for Covid-19 patients will continue to operate at three designated hospitals in Bhagalpur, Gaya and Patna. As per rough estimates, 40 lakh migrants have returned to the state, of whom more than 16 lakh skilled workers have been identified so far. These include tailors, carpenters, construction workers and handloom workers, among others. Skill mapping of the returnees showed that around 8.4 lakh of them were construction workers. Similarly, around 62,270 were tailors, 38,874 cooks, 30,000 drivers and 14,773 domestic helps or child caretakers. Besides, 54,000 worked as mechanics, 22,000 as electricians and 15,000 as computer operators. A large number of them were also associated with the banking sector or financial institutions. Of the 16 lakh migrants included in the skill mapping, around 3.9 lakh were unskilled workers engaged in construction works while 1.48 lakh worked as masons’ help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-closes-down-quarantine-centres-for-returnee-migrants/articleshow/76392177.cms||Ramashankar
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: At 76.29%, HSC result highest in 3 years||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) declared the result of HSC class XII arts and commerce examinations on Monday. Total 3,71,771 students appeared in the examination, of which 2,83,624 cleared it. The pass percentage this year reached 76.29%, which was 3.02% higher than last year. The result this year is highest in the past three years. Girls once again fared better than boys. While 82.20% girl students passed the exam, the pass percentage of boys was 70.97%. For the second consecutive year, Patan district remained at the top with success percentage of 86.27%. Junagadh had the lowest pass percentage at 58.26%. While 81.72% of English-medium students cleared the exam, the figure for Gujarati medium was 76.11%. Of the 3.72 lakh regular students, 2.84 lakh were successful. According to the education department, Soni centre in Banaskantha posted the highest 97.76% pass percentage and Dolasa in Gir-Somnath had the lowest result of 30.12%. According to the statistics provided, this year 41,113 students failed in one subject, 24,147 failed in two subjects, and 12,060 failed in three subjects. This year, 522 students scored over 90% marks. This was 792 in 2019. The number of students who scored over 80% but less than 90% was less as compared to 2019. In 2020, the students who scored between 81% and 90% remained 10,982 while the number was 11,768 in 2019. In all, 269 schools achieved 100% result this year, which was 222 in 2019. The number of schools that had less than 10% pass percentage was 56 compared to 79 in 2019. According to board officials, 744 students were caught copying this year. The figure was 2,730 in 2019, 1,332 in 2018, 1,021 in 2017, 1,468 in 2016 and 5,162 in 2015. The officials said that 76,714 students reappeared in HSC general stream examination and only 20,073 cleared it. Of 34,100 external students, 9,671 cleared it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-76-29-hsc-result-highest-in-3-years/articleshow/76394672.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Business||Appario seeks 1-month vendor exclusivity for Amazon||BENGALURU: Amazon-backed Appario Retail, one of the largest sellers on Amazon India after Cloudtail, is asking select merchants and suppliers to supply their products exclusively for 30 days. The communication, reviewed by TOI, from Appario, which is a subsidiary of the joint venture between Amazon and Patni Group, has sought such exclusivity for the first time from sellers as it plots a major sales event on Amazon India in August. This comes when e-tailers cannot directly ask sellers to sell exclusively on one platform after the government made changes in FDI laws for e-commerce, which became effective in February last year. Since then, e-tailers usually term such exclusive launches as ‘specials’. Appario largely sells products like smartphones, power banks, earphones, Wi-Fi routers, memory cards, and other electronic accessories that are currently in high demand after sales of all goods were allowed online. For context on its scale, Appario had a revenue of almost Rs 6,050 crore at the end of financial year ending March 2019, compared to Rs 755 crore in the previous year. Interestingly, relatively larger brands selling via Appario have not been asked for such exclusive arrangements, yet. “We usually agree to release certain products exclusively for a better display on the platform, or else your product gets lost. But it’s not mandatory for us and the decision is mutual,” a prominent brand owner who sells through Appario said. “This is happening for the first time. I typically sell more on Amazon and keep some for offline channels and other online platforms. This makes it difficult to sell through one of the largest sellers on Amazon,” the merchant mentioned earlier said. At least two others have also received a similar ask from Appario. “We regularly engage with brands to help them launch their products on Amazon India marketplace. Brands have the sole discretion to decide how and where they want to launch their products, including the choice of sellers,” a spokesperson of Appario said. Amazon India said, “We do not comment on behalf of any of our sellers.” Throughout last year, the government had told e-tailers that they would not entertain e-commerce rules being circumvented in India. Among the changes in FDI law, a group company of an e-tailer cannot sell on the same platform as a seller. Amazon had to reduce its stake to 24% from 49% in Cloudtail following the development. While Appario’s ask in this case is as a seller, it being backed by Amazon is noteworthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/appario-seeks-1-mth-vendor-exclusivity-for-amazon/articleshow/76394529.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||MSME revenues to fall up to 21% this fiscal: Report||Ahmedabad: Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) across sectors are going to be hurt significantly by 5% contraction in the Indian economy, Crisil has said. The rating agency expects a 5% contraction in the economy this fiscal due to Covid-19 pandemic. India Inc is heading towards 15% decline in revenue and 25% fall in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) in fiscal 2020-21, the agency said in a report on Monday. “For MSMEs, the fall in revenue will be steeper at 17-21%, while Ebitda margin will shrink by 2-3% to 4-5% as weak demand gnaws away gains from lower commodity prices,” Crisil added. A sharp decline at the operating level will also impact credit worthiness, aggravating the liquidity issues these units have been grappling with, particularly on the working capital front. “The challenges would be the hardest for micro enterprises, which account for 32% of the overall MSME debt, and are facing material stress in terms of revenue growth, Ebitda margins and working capital stretch,” Crisil added. Stating that previous downturns have shown that micro and small enterprises are unable to manage transient working capital challenges as easily as their large and medium peers, the Crisil added, “The measures announced by the ministry of finance and the RBI (The Reserve Bank of India), nudging banks and other institutions to lend more, will help them tide over tapered cash flows.” It, however, cautions that the bigger issue is demand, which needs to revive for growth to improve sustainably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/msme-revenues-to-fall-up-to-21-this-fiscal-report/articleshow/76394766.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||For the depressed, nCoV has made life tougher||Kolkata: Young adults are often hesitant to accept that they are depressed and try to mask their despair instead of reaching out for help which could be dangerous, felt psychiatrists. At times like these, when lockdown-induced barriers have made it difficult to access psychiatric help, some may have been rendered more vulnerable and could be slowly turning suicidal without any marked change in external behaviour, they pointed out. People around them should remain vigilant since ‘copycat suicide’ could now see a spurt, they warned.Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death is bound to affect those with psychiatric issues, felt psychiatric J Ram. “They will obviously feel that if someone as successful as Rajput can fall into depression, what will happen to them. They would tend to lose hope and copycat suicides are known to have followed incidents like these. So, these people should now be monitored and dealt with extreme care,” said Ram. While biological, psychological and sociological reasons are responsible for mental vulnerabilities, men in India are wrongly conditioned to believe that they should never admit their fragility. “It drives many to suicide without any apparent warning,” said psychological counsellor Soumya Mukherjee.Ram agreed and said men are forced to mask their depression in anger, violence and alcohol. “They often refuse help believing that it was not masculine,” he said. Depression, he explained, is a complex interplay of multiple factors.Counsellors at Lifeline Foundation — which has been running a helpline in the city for depressed people for the past 23 years — said that there was an 80% rise in the number of calls that they were receiving daily during the lockdown. The callers were aged 16-75 years. Interestingly, most were successful and upwardly-mobile, but they said that the lockdown had thrown a huge financial challenge at them. “We have had several cancer patients sharing their stories of pain and trauma due to lack of treatment. We are suddenly faced with this surge of people who have lost hope and started looking at life like an endless drudgery,” said Lifeline spokesperson Manjit Lachwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-the-depressed-ncov-has-made-life-tougher/articleshow/76394264.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 16, 2020||Business||Ampere to add 200-300 new dealerships this year: COO||Chennai: Coimbatore-based electric vehicle company Ampere, a subsidiary of Greaves Cotton, is planning to add 200-300 new dealerships in the current year in an effort to aggressively ramp up its distribution network. “The target is to cover more than 700 key markets across India whereas currently our network covers 200 markets,” said P Sanjiv, COO, Ampere Electric. “The retail expansion will see us covering another 350 plus towns so that we make our vehicles available in the dark areas where Ampere was earlier not visible,” he added. Ampere currently has 200+ exclusive dealerships and 400+ retail touchpoints.This expansion is targeted at tapping into the increase in demand for affordable personal mobility post lockdown. “Ampere has seen a 60-65% increase in retail demand for its e-scooters post lockdown compared to pre-Covid scenario,” said Sanjiv. The company saw a 30% increase in sales in FY20 at 18536 units, up from 14304 units in FY19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ampere-to-add-200-300-new-dealerships-this-year-coo/articleshow/76394586.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops zero in on suspects, victim fails to recognise them||Ludhiana: The Jodhewal police scanned 10 CCTVs installed in and around Heera Nagar, Noorwala road, to trace the accused women who have allegedly executed a robbery totalling orth Rs 8 lakh and some gold jewellery from a house after injuring a woman, on Tuesday. The police have also found some suspects in the footage. However, the victim, Rashneet Kaur (31) has not identified them as accused so far. On Monday afternoon, two women reportedly posing as Covid-19 surveyors entered the house of the owner of a machine and tools manufacturing unit. At that time the woman, Rashneet, was alone in the house. The accused women overpowered Rashneet after attacking her with a blunt weapon and then managed to escape with cash and gold. Sub inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, SHO at Jodhewal police station, said that the police scanned nearly 10 CCTVs installed in and around the area. Pictures of the suspect women captured in the CCTVs were also shown to Rashneet, but she did not identified anyone as accused. SI Grewal added, “The police have sought details of mobile phone towers to trace the phone locations near the crime spot. As of now, there is no breakthrough, however, probe is continuing from all angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-zero-in-on-suspects-victim-fails-to-recognise-them/articleshow/76413495.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||CM flags off work on Shivamogga airport||Shivamogga: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa inaugurated the much-awaited Shivamogga Airport work through video conferencing from Bengaluru on Monday. Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa and Shivamogga MP BY Raghavendra were present at the ground-breaking ceremony at Shivamogga. It was Yediyurappa who had laid the foundation stone for the work in 2008 during his first tenure as CM. Work for the Rs 220 crore airport at Sogane village was delayed due to various reasons. The work will be carried out in two phases and should be completed within the stipulated time of 18 months without any compromise on quality, Yediyurappa said. “The long cherished dream of people of Shivamogga about having an airport is finally becoming a reality,’’ said Yediyurappa after launching the project. The project was planned when he was deputy CM in 2006 but had failed to take off for different reasons. Along with the airport work, Yediyurappa also inaugurated the section office of the National Highway Authority in Shivamogga to speed up delayed NH roads and bridges. Eshwarappa said, “More industries are expected to come up in the district. The airport will create more employment opportunities for youths.” MP Raghavendra also spoke. Seeking wings The work is being carried out in two phases. In the first phase, the construction of the runway, taxiway, apron, approach road, peripheral road, and compound walls will be completed. In the second phase the terminal building, air traffic control (ATC) tower and fire station building will be constructed. The site for the airport is about 12km from Shivamogga. As much as 662.38 acres of land has already acquired for the project and an additional 108 acres is under advanced stage of acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-flags-off-work-on-shivamogga-airport/articleshow/76393411.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown: Rs 1.63 lakh crore loss in GSDP in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic will result in a gross state domestic product (GSDP) loss of Rs 1.63 lakh crore, the Hasmukh Adhia headed committee of experts has opined in its report to the state government. The report also says that Gujarat’s growth rate, which was pegged at 13.32% by the 15th Finance Commission, will now hover around 5% because of the losses that all sectors have taken because of the lockdown. The committee, in the chapter titled “Loss to GSDP” said, “Approximately two months of lockdown would result in the total loss of GSDP of Rs 1.63 lakh crore. This figure is arrived at by considering the likely losses by the standard 17 sectors classification of the economy considered for the GSDP estimation.” The report states that the loss of GSDP in the primary sector is estimated to be Rs 0.17 lakh crore. The primary sector comprises crops, livestock, forestry & logging, fishing & aquaculture and mining & quarrying. Similarly, the loss of GSDP in the secondary sector will be 0.95 lakh crore. This sector comprises manufacturing, electricity, gas, water supply & other utility services and construction). The tertiary sector is estimated to face a GSDP loss of 0.51 lakh crore. This sector includes trade, repair services, hotels & restaurants, railways, transport by means other than railways, storage, communication & services related to broadcasting, financial services, real estate, ownership of dwellings & professional services, public administration, and other services. The report states, “Since about 10 days of lockdown was in March 2020, the loss of GSDP for the year 2019-20 would be about Rs 0.27 lakh crore. Therefore, the quick estimate for the GSDP for 2019-20 would be Rs 16.36 lakh crore and not Rs 16.63 lakh crore taken as the base figure for the budget of 2020-21. The remaining 50 days of lockdown were in the months of April and May 2020 and hence, the loss of GSDP in the year 2020-21 would be about Rs 1.36 lakh crore.” Regarding growth rate estimates, the report noted, “The 15th Finance Commission had provided the growth estimate of 13.32% in nominal GSDP for making the budget calculations for the year 2020-21. Revised estimates imply that the lockdown due to Covid-19 has resulted in bringing down the expected nominal growth of Gujarat from 13.3% to only 5% during 2020-21.” The report though, adds that this is comparable to the expected national growth rate of zero to -1% during 2020-21. The fiscal deficit was budgeted to be Rs 33,536 crore or 1.78% of the GSDP for the year 2020-21 in February 2020. Similarly, the total debt, which includes PF, reserve funds, deposits & advances and contingency funds, was Rs 3.59 lakh crore or 19.1% of GSDP in 2020-21. “However, with revised GSDP due to lockdown the same fiscal deficit and debt would form respectively 1.95% and 20.9% of revised GSDP. Thus, the loss of GSDP due to lockdown has pushed the fiscal ratios up and marginally above the tolerance limit for total debt set by the Finance Commission for states,” the report states. The Hasmukh Adhia committee of experts was appointed by the state government to chart out roadmap for reviving the state’s economy which has been hit badly because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-loss-state-loses-rs-1-63-lakh-crore-gsdp/articleshow/76394734.cms||Kapil Dave
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||They came out of depression after talking about it||Ludhiana: The demise of actor Sushant Singh Rajput has not only left his fans heartbroken and stumped but also brought our attention on depression again. It poses a question mark on the societal make up, where everything is shiny and perfect on the surface but the mental trauma or stress is hushed up underneath the layers of a smiling face. In the age of communication, where everyone has 500 plus friends on various social media platforms but not a single one to talk too. Talking to TOI residents came out and discussed their battle with depression. A 21-year-old young man, who is a resident of Model Town Extension says, “I had a break up five months back. This really struck me badly. I lost interest in studies, future goals. In short, the whole situation shook me. But one day I decided to confide in my elder brother and I am glad I did. He not only instantly understood my situation but helped me with professional help. I feel much better, relieved and life is back on track.” Another resident of BRS Nagar shares her feelings, “ I have been married for six years but have no children. Two failed IVFs made my condition worse. I stopped talking to anyone, watched TV, and all I wanted to do was stay in bed. Fortunately, my husband took a notice of my condition and booked my appointment with a psychiatrist. With his love, support and a professional help I overcame mental breakdown with which I was diagnosed last year. Slowly with sessions and medications things are better. I will urge everyone to understand that ‘talk’is the key word”. Depression is a vicious circle if left untreated and can be dangerous. According to a report there have been more than 300 reported suicides since the lockdown across the country. The pandemic has added to the misery as it brought fear, anxiety and isolation. In dire times like these we need to identify the problem and try to read between the lines. As Dr Priyanka Kalra explains, “Depression basically is of two types — reactive ( based on circumstance) and biological ( based on family history). Since lockdown the number of the cases have definitely increased. The problem is the isolation this pandemic has brought about. There are increased cases of anxiety and stress due to family issues, economic repercussion, OCD ( obsessive compulsive disorder), increased anger, internet addiction. The teenage and middle-aged number of patients have definitely increased. Things are improving gradually as people are more aware now and are opening up and giving up the taboo attached to it. But people need to understand its important to seek professional help. Also, self-harm or suicide is not an option to any problem.” According to experts, family members should look out for depression and sudden change in mood, not indulging in favourite activities, not connecting or speaking to anyone and feeling tired fatigued. According to experts, it is important to check the digital updates of vulnerable people. Parents or elders should keep track of digital updates (any dark, gloomy posts), mentioning statements referring to self-harm. Box: Things to be done Talk or confide in a friend or family member Seek professional help to assess the problem Take medication on time Stick to a fixed routine Indulge in meditation, pranayama and yoga to relax the mind Remember its social distancing not emotional distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/they-came-out-of-depression-after-talking-about-it/articleshow/76394270.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Patna||Budding actors from Bihar recount journey||PATNA: Sushant Singh Rajput’s journey from the lanes of Rajiv Nagar to the glittering film industry in Mumbai was cut short by fate, and yet, it has been an inspiration for many budding actors from the state, who are struggling to make a name in the cut-throat film world. Aditya Kumar, who is known for his turn as ‘Perpendicular’ in the Manoj Bajpai-starrer ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’, identifies with Sushant’s struggle and journey to the top and says his own journey from Bihar to Bollywood is full of ups and downs. “Being from Bihar is in itself a stereotype for no particular reason. Besides, reaching a place where people actually recognize and know us is something that can’t be achieved in a day or two. It requires years of struggle and there are still chances of not succeeding,” Aditya says. The 27-year-old actor from Biharsharif also feels there’s a lack of communication in Bollywood. “Fellow actors, directors and producers ask us to reach out whenever an incident like this happens, but nobody makes us feel that we can actually talk to them. I am fortunate to have a few friends in this industry but not everybody is lucky,” he adds. Actor Adhyayan Suman, son of yesteryear actor Shekhar Suman, is bitter about his own experiences. “Being the son of a renowned actor, I was always judged for not being like him. At times, I was given tags, which affected my mental health badly but I got through it all. The pressure, stress, trolling and insensitive behaviour are the main reasons behind the suicide cases that have been witnessed in the last few years,” says the 32-year old actor. Pankaj Jha, a Saharsa born actor, who is known for his role in “Black Friday”, says, “It is like a curse for actors like me who hail from small towns. Besides, staying alone in a city like Mumbai gives all sort of negative thoughts but getting over those thoughts is the real challenge.” Avinash Tiwary, a 34-year-old actor from Gopalganj, who after 15 years of struggle got his first break in 2018, has evidently not had an easy journey. “The industry didn’t have a place for outsiders back then. I still remember the days when I used to get short-listed as one of the top two or top three but was left out. There were years when I was totally out of work. Not receiving the kind of projects I deserved definitely demotivated me but I always knew my worth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budding-actors-recount-journey-from-bihar-to-bollywood/articleshow/76393023.cms||Archi Rani
June 16, 2020||Patna||VCs’ panel to advise on uniform examination system in Bihar: Chancellor Phagu Chauhan||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Monday announced that an advisory committee of vice-chancellors (VCs) would be constituted soon to recommend steps for bringing in uniformity in the examination system of all the universities in the state. Addressing a meeting of VCs at the Raj Bhavan, Chauhan said their opinions would be sought on the report of the advisory committee before its implementation. He directed them to hold all the pending examinations of the last academic sessions and publish the results in September-October. “The examination schedules and academic calendars of the universities should be reorganized in such a manner that the next session commences on time. The guidelines of the University Grants Commission related to Covid-19, which were sent to the universities on April 29, must be followed strictly,” he said. The VCs were directed to make the entire process of admission online — from receipt of forms and allotment of seats to payment of fees. The last date for submission of application forms for admission to the undergraduate courses should be fixed keeping in mind the CBSE, ICSE and BSEB passouts, they were told. The chancellor also asked the VCs to prepare an action plan for submission of institutional information for quality assessment and self-study report for accreditation of universities and colleges by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council and send it to the chancellor’s secretariat in a week. He further directed them to submit the details of vacant posts of assistant professors to the state education department. The VCs were told to constitute a committee of subject experts to evaluate the quality of interactive lectures prepared by teachers before uploading them to a university’s website. They were also given necessary directions for establishing videoconferencing halls in their universities. The VCs of Patna University, Nalanda Open University, Aryabhatta Knowledge University, Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University, Purnea University, L N Mithila University, K S D Sanskrit University and B N Mandal University as well as senior officials of the Raj Bhavan and the education department attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vcs-panel-to-advise-on-uniform-examination-system-chancellor/articleshow/76392249.cms||B K Mishra
June 16, 2020||Patna||Depression is not ‘mere sadness’, time to focus on mental health: Patna Doctors||PATNA: Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide, as confirmed by Mumbai police, has brought the focus firmly on clinical depression and other mental health issues. Psychiatrists and clinical psychologists say depression is not mere sadness and it is high time that this disease and other forms of mental disorders be taken seriously and the stigma surrounding seeking mental healthcare is removed. According to city-based clinical psychologist Dr Binda Singh, suicide is not an impulsive decision but an amalgamation of multiple thoughts, sleepless nights and not having someone to talk to. “It’s the responsibility of the family members to keep an eye on the victim, who constantly give signs about the mental troubles they face. Talking about death, showing sudden interest in spirituality, not caring about anybody are some signs of depression,” she said. “Those who go to other cities for job or studying are more prone to getting depressed. For instance, a very intelligent student from a school in Patna went for higher education in New Delhi, where she was bullied for being a Bihari. Hence, family members should make sure that they constantly call or video call them. Besides, they should make sure that they make regular visits to them,” she added. Delhi-based mental health expert Dr Vidya Nair believes the feeling of hopelessness and worthlessness are the ‘red signs’ of depression. “People with clinical depression are most of the time gloomy and sad. The shine in their eyes is lost and it is easily visible. Loss of appetite, gastric problems and fatigue could be initial signs of mental ailments,” she said. She added, “Parents and family members can actually spot the changes in their habits and behaviour. For instance, somebody who used to love going out suddenly stops meeting people, or stop taking a shower. These are the early clues of depression. Besides, giving statements like ‘I want to die’, should not be taken lightly.” Elaborating on early signs of depression, Dr Binda echoed Dr Nair, “For people, who are not aware about being depressed, should keep a check on themselves as several feelings that they ignore may end up giving long-term problems. Constant feeling of tiredness, feeling choked or disinterested in things that they earlier loved are some of the few signs of depression, which people should never ignore.” Talking about the stigma attached to seeking a psychiatrist’s help, nodal officer and associate professor at the de- addiction centre at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Santosh Kumar, said that this social stigma surrounding mental illness continues to prevail and needs to be tackled. “People are not open enough to go to a psychiatrist for help due to the fear of being judged. If somebody needs help, they should be taken to an expert because nobody except them will be able to understand their problems,” he said. He added that people should not run away from medication. “Counselling helps those with mild depression. For people with severe depression, medication plays a very important role,” he said. Meanwhile, terming depression as not just a ‘mere sadness’, Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) assistant professor in psychiatry department Dr Sourabh Kumar said, “We all feel sad but depression is something vast. It is a complete change in habits.” He also focused on the importance of counselling, which in medical terms is known as psychotherapy. “Based on the level of depression, people with short-term depression and long-term depression are treated with different kinds of psychotherapy,” he said. Patna: Sushant Singh Rajput is being seen as pride of Bihar across the country and many things were going for him, still he allegedly took the extreme step of giving up his life at a young age of 34. An achiever, who had used to make wish- list of things he wanted to do, reportedly succumbed to depression on Sunday. Psychiatrists and clinical psychologists have claimed that it’s high time that depression and other forms of mental disorders should be taken seriously, rather than stigmatizing it. Psychological experts claimed that seeking counselling in case of abnormal functioning due to various reasons, including acute pressure in professional life or setbacks in personal life should be dealt with counselling and not by mere medications. Such counselling sessions have become all the more relevant due to the Covid-19 pandemic. City-based clinical psychologist Dr Binda Singh says suicide is not an impulsive decision but an amalgamation of multiple thoughts, sleepless nights and not having someone to talk to. “It’s the responsibility of the family members to keep an eye on the victim, who constantly give signs about the mental troubles they face. Talking about death, showing sudden interest in spirituality, not caring about anybody are some signs of depression,” she said “Those who go to other cities for job or studying are more prone to getting depressed. For instance, a very intelligent student from a school in Patna went for higher education in a college in New Delhi, where she was bullied for being a Bihari. Hence, family members should make sure that they constantly call or video call them. Besides, they should make sure that they make regular visits to them,” she added. Asked about the few early signs of depression, Singh said: “For people, who are totally unknown about being depressed, should keep a check on themselves as several feelings that they ignore may end up giving long-term problems. Constant feeling of tiredness, feeling choked or disinterested in things that they earlier loved are some of the few signs of depression, which people should never ignore.” Talking about how people stereotype seeking a psychiatrist, nodal officer and associate professor at the de- addiction centre at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Santosh Kumar said the social stigma regarding talking about mental illness prevails in the society even today. “People are not open enough to go to a psychiatrist for help due to the fear of being judged. If somebody needs help, they should be taken to an expert because nobody except them will be able to understand their problems,” he said. He added that people should not run away from medication. “Couselling helps those with mild depression. For people with severe depression, medication plays a very important role,” he said. Meanwhile, terming depression as not just a ‘mere sadness’, Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) assistant professor in psychiatry department Dr Sourabh Kumar said: “We all feel sad but depression is something very vast. It is a complete change in habits” He also focused on the importance of counseling, which in medical terms is known as psychotherapy. “Based on the level of depression, people with short-term depression and long-term depression are treated with different kinds of psychotherapy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/depression-is-not-mere-sadness-time-to-focus-on-mental-health-docs/articleshow/76393005.cms||Archi Rani
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Tukaram Mundhe asks mayor to cancel GB meeting||NAGPUR: Stating that the general body meeting being organized by the mayor on June 20 will be in contravention of state’s lockdown norms, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has suggested to mayor Sandip Joshi to cancel the meeting.  Two days ago, municipal secretary Ranjana Lade issued agenda of the meeting as per directives of Joshi. Joshi told TOI, “The meeting was organized following the demand from leaders of all parties. I will decide further course of action after meeting leaders on Tuesday.” Mundhe wrote to Joshi saying government had placed assembly halls and related venues under prohibition. The meeting has been organized at Suresh Bhat auditorium. He stated Covid-19 cases were on rise in the city. Office bearers/corporators from containment zones may also come for the meeting and chances of transmission of coronavirus cannot be ruled out. Mundhe said government has appointed municipal commissioner as authority for containing the spread of Covid-19. “The mayor should take the decision to cancel the meet so that there is no violation of norms,” he said. Joshi had submitted a proposal to Mundhe on June 12 asking him to convene the meeting on June 20. He had proposed to hold the meeting at Bhat auditorium so Covid distancing could be be maintained. Mundhe reportedly asked additional municipal commissioner to convey to Joshi about government bar on using halls. At the same time, additional municipal commissioner said, “All norms should be followed if meeting is to be held as it has not been held in March, April and May.” TOI had reported a few differences between Mundhe and office bearers in decisions since the former assumed the charge of municipal commissioner in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-asks-mayor-to-cancel-gb-meeting/articleshow/76395082.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 16, 2020||Business||LVB seeks Clix hand, plans amalgamation of operations||Chennai: Capital starved private lender Lakshmi Vilas Bank is making another attempt to find a suitor, this time with AION-backed lender Clix Capital Services Private Limited and Clix Finance India Pvt Ltd. who have placed a non-binding bid to amalgamate the operations of two lenders in the process valuing the bank at north of Rs 3,000 crore. The plan needs RBI approval. LVB is under RBI monitoring after its bad loans ballooned and capital adequacy requirements fell way short of statutory requirements. It had proposed a merger with IndiaBulls which was struck down by RBI. Since then it has been limping, trying to find a partner and Clix has made a non-binding Letter of Intent (LoI) to pick up significant stakes in the Bank. The market capitalisation of the bank was Rs 515 crore at Monday’s stock price of Rs 15.3 apiece on the bourses. The stock was locked in the upper circuit. The board of directors of LVB met on Monday and gave its go ahead for the offer from Clix. “Under the non-binding Lol, the proposed amalgamation is subject to completion of mutual due-diligence in an exclusive window of 45 days, and will be subject to regulatory and other customary approvals. In the event the discussions between the contracting parties in relation to the proposed transaction is successful and definitive agreements are executed, we will make appropriate disclosures as required under the provisions of applicable law,” the bank statement said The proposed transaction is subject to completion of due diligence, which the Bank and the intending parties (Clix) will be carrying out and will be subject to regulatory and other customary approvals. In the event, the discussions between the contracting parties in relation to the proposed transactions are successful and definitive agreements are executed, we will make appropriate disclosures as required under the provisions of applicable law,”LVB said in a statement. MD and CEO of LVB S Sundar told TOI, “The board of directors have given their approval to process the offer received from the non-banking finance company for stake purchase in the bank on June 12. The next step will be to seek the required regulatory approval.” He was tight lipped about the contours of the offer. Any transaction involving a stake buy of more than 5% needs RBI approval and the maximum stake an entity can buy in a bank is 49%. Clix is promoted by Pramod Bhasin and Anil Chawla, is 85% owned by PE firm AION Capital Partners. Bhasin, founded Genpact, and a former CEO of GE Capital India, while Chawla, was associated with GE Capital. After multiple quarters of reporting losses and rising bad loans, RBI had initiated Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) which restricts the activities of the bank in September, 2019. The bank’s gross non-performing assets ratio or bad loans were 23.27% of its lending and a net NPA ratio of 9.81% as of December, 2019. Its capital adequacy ratio of 3.46%, well below the statutory minimum. Under Basel III, a bank's tier 1 and tier 2 capital must be at least 8% of its risk-weighted assets. The minimum capital adequacy ratio (including the capital conservation buffer) is 10.5%. LVB is yet to announce its financial results for the March-ended quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-seeks-clix-hand-plans-amalgamation-of-operations/articleshow/76394515.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 16, 2020||Business||Axis Bank retail head quits||Mumbai: Pralay Mondal, who joined Axis Bank in April 2019 to head retail lending, has put in his papers. The private lender said in a statement on Monday that Mondal who is executive director (retail banking) will be stepping down from September to pursue other opportunities. Mondal was part of the team brought in by the bank’s MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry to strengthen the lender’s retail business. “It’s an unanticipated but an unavoidable development owing to some personal compulsions. It has been an absolute honour to lead the retail banking team at Axis and together we have achieved a lot,” Mondal said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-retail-head-quits/articleshow/76394668.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 16, 2020||Patna||Patna: Huge traffic jam on Mahatma Gandhi Setu a routine affair||PATNA: There seems to be no respite for the commuters shuttling between the state capital and north Bihar by crossing the dilapidated Mahatma Gandhi Setu on the Ganga. Even on Monday, there was long traffic jam on both sides of the bridge — Gaighat on southern side and Hajipur in Vaishali on northern side. A number of vehicles, including those carrying passengers, remained stuck for four hours since morning. The traffic personnel, however, claimed the rush of vehicles was more for it being a Monday. “The number of office-goers happens to be more on Monday compared to other days in the week,” a police officer posted at the Gaighat traffic post said. On the contrary, overloaded trucks carrying sand and iron rods were allowed to cross the dilapidated bridge from both sides. On Hajipur side, the traffic jam started at Ramashish Chowk. People travelling in cars were left to fend for themselves. The commuters said the problem has compounded following closure of the pontoon bridge. “Though nationwide lockdown ended in May, the pontoon bridge has not been opened for small vehicles. As a result, the flow of vehicles has increased on the bridge. The rehabilitation work is still going on the western flank of the bridge,” said Bimal Kumar, a daily commuter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/huge-traffic-jam-on-mahatma-gandhi-setu-a-routine-affair/articleshow/76392226.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur cops tutor slum kids||BHAGALPUR: In a unique endeavour, two police chowkidars (constables)—Sachin Paswan and Kundan Paswan—have changed the stereotypical image of police. While cops are more feared and hardly trusted by a common man, the recent lockdown has brought out a compassionate side of them. The duo are imparting free tuition to slum children at Nathnagar locality of the town after their duty hours. Deputed as police chowkidars near the railway cabin under Nathnagar police station, Sachin and Kundan, are teaching slum children through their ‘Chalta Phirta Pathshala’. Popular as ‘police chacha’ among the kids, they help the poor children in their studies. “Some poor children of the locality had approached us narrating their woes after closure of schools during the lockdown. The kids said that there is no one to guide and help them in their studies and they are spending their days aimlessly. We then started teaching these poor kids under the shade near the railway cabin,” Sachin said. Kundan said initially there were only three-four children and today the number has swelled to 15-16. “We were motivated by the ‘Police Pathshala’ started by SSP Ashish Bharti sir,” he added. When DGP Gupteshwar Pandey came to know about the endeavour of these two constables, he not only praised their efforts but also promised to visit the ‘Chalta Phirta Pathshala’. He also assured to bear the cost of books, copies, slates and other articles required for teaching. Even the SSP, while lauding the efforts of Kundan and Sachin said, “What is needed is the zeal to serve the society and compassion at heart which the two constables have.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-cops-tutor-slum-kids/articleshow/76392264.cms||Kumar Rajesh
June 16, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav unveils new poster to attack government over Covid-19 crisis in Bihar||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday accused the state government of slackness in handling the Covid crisis in Bihar. He also unveiled a poster outside RJD office with a tag line, ‘Puch raha saga Bihar, kahan hai Nitish Kumar’. Tejashwi said his party would beat drums all over the state if CM did not come out within 10 days. Earlier also, he had put a poster questioning a controversial letter issued by Bihar police headquarters related to migrants. “He is the first CM who has not come out in public for 90 days. Today it will be 91 days. This government is not concerned about coronavirus spread; rather it is doing caste calculation for the upcoming election. If the CM does not appear in public in the next 10 days, RJD will beat drums across the state to wake him up. Should he not go and see the condition of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) at least,” Tejashwi asked. Nitish had countered Tejashwi’s allegations during a virtual JD(U) workers’ meet last week by saying even people in RJD at times didn’t know about the whereabouts of their leader. “Many people keep issuing baseless statements every day. He says I have not gone out. What is this? Lockdown is enforced across the country. And we are doing our work, reviewing everything every day. We are interacting with officials across the state every day. Nevertheless, there is no clue where he (Tejashwi) runs away; not even people in his own party know about his whereabouts and he is questioning us,” Nitish had said on Tuesday. Tejashwi raised questions on the number of Covid-19 tests being done and availability of ventilators in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-unveils-new-poster-to-attack-govt-over-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/76392970.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 16, 2020||Business||RIL’s rights offer shares list at Rs 690||MUMBAI: Shares allotted in the rights offer of Reliance Industries, which are partly paid now, listed on Monday at Rs 690, a 7% premium to its intrinsic value of Rs 646, as published by the exchanges. The stock on the BSE finally closed at Rs 701, up 8.5%. However, according to a section of market players, if one goes by the fact that the investors holding rights shares have a quarter of a fully-paid RIL shares, the intrinsic value could be calculated at a quarter of its Friday’s closing price of Rs 1,589, which will work out to Rs 397. Given this price, the listing was at a 74% premium to the intrinsic value. On June 3, the explorations-to-telecom major RIL closed its Rs 53,124-crore rights offer, the largest public fund raising in India, with an over-subscription of nearly 60%. The shares in the rights issue, offered to all its shareholders at one share for every 15 shares held, were allotted on June 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rils-rights-offer-shares-list-at-rs-690/articleshow/76394466.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Commerce admissions may not be too hard||Ahmedabad: Getting admission to undergraduate courses at commerce colleges will not be hard, there are over 33,000 such seats available in the city and 33,400-odd students have cleared the HSC general stream board examination in Ahmedabad district. Sources in Gujarat University said it is possible that the admissions procedure will be carried out online. Getting the most sought-after colleges will be difficult, as these could have cut-offs of around 80%. Officials said going by the experience of the past years, some 30% of HSC general stream students opt for admission in arts courses and thus about 10,000 students may make this choice, or go for courses such as five-year integrated courses in business administration, computer applications or law. This would leave 23,000 seeking admission in commerce courses. Officials said that in the past, some 6,000-odd students from districts such as Gandhinagar, Anand, Kheda and Sabarkantha would seek admission in Ahmedabad colleges. GU officials said that, “At present it appears that there will be no issue for all to secure admission. However, if there is a change in the trend and not many students would opt for the arts faculty, there may be some issues.” Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor of Computer Applications, Master of Business Administration and MSc (IT) courses have over 46,000 seats. Last year, some 10,000 of these seats had gone vacant. With some 1,600 students scoring more than 80% in their HSC general stream examination in Ahmedabad, only admissions to the most sought-after colleges will likely see a mad rush. Ahmedabad city posted a passing percentage of 73.58%, while rural Ahmedabad had a passing percentage of 75.20%. Ahmedabad grade distribution City Rural Total A1 40 16 56 A2 1,042 550 1,592 B1 3,082 1,804 4,886 B2 4,583 3,404 7,987 C1 5,923 4,666 10,589 C2 4,435 3,126 7,561 D 449 304 7,53 Total 19,554 13,870 33,424||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/commerce-admissions-may-not-be-too-hard/articleshow/76394698.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rickshaw drivers seek relief package||Ahmedabad: Several autorickshaw unions across the state have sought a special relief package from the government. The unions say that drivers have suffered losses during the lockdown and that little income is coming in though autorickshaws were allowed to run from June 8.The drivers say that they will be forced to agitate if their demands are not met. Independent MLA of Vadgam Jignesh Mevani and Congress leader Hardik Patel had met district collector K K Nirala on June 8 over the drivers’ plight. Mevani and Patel handed over a memorandum demanding that the government provide interest-free loans or financial assistance to the drivers. The state has 8 lakh autorickshaw drivers. Last week, a driver called Chandrakant Panchal, 50, killed himself by jumping off a building in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rickshaw-drivers-seek-relief-package/articleshow/76394777.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Vishwanath will get his due, assures Prasad||Mysuru: The BJP was aware of the services rendered by senior politician Adagooru H Vishwanath to help the saffron party stake claim to power in Karnataka, and he would be duly rewarded, said former minister and Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivasa Prasad on Monday. “Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will walk the talk as far as rewarding those who were vital to the formation of the BJP government is concerned,” Prasad added. Horticulture and sericulture minister Narayana Gowda called on Prasad on Monday to discuss the possible induction of Vishwanath into the state cabinet. Both Prasad and Gowda have thrown their weight behind Vishwanath, who was one of the two BJP candidates who lost in the byelections held last year. Against the backdrop of all parties finalising the list of candidates for the legislative council elections, Prasad hinted at the possibility of Vishwanath being nominated to the upper house in the state, following which he could be made a minister. “There are no differences within the party on selection of candidates for the polls,” said the MP. Gowda said that ‘good times’ were about to start for Vishwanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vishwanath-will-get-his-due-assures-prasad/articleshow/76392914.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Rain triggers landslide in Kodagu||Madikeri: Heavy rain at Karike on the Kerala-Kodagu border triggered a landslide at Hakkikandi between Bhagamandala and Karike on Monday. Sever powerlines snapped due to the incident. Local resident informed authorities about the highway being blocked and urged them to clear it. However, several villages in Somwarpet taluk like Harehosuru, Shidigalale, Nidtha and Doddallii received only meagre rainfall. Farmers here say agricultural activity is not possible still due to scanty rain. Cauvery Neeravari Nigama has taken up the work of removing silt and shrubs from the riverbed at Bhagamandala. However, local said the work is not being supervised properly as the cleared silt is being thrown on the riverbank, which is flowing back into the river due to the rain. Meanwhile, water level at Harangi reservoir reached 2,805 feet while the maximum is 2,859 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rain-triggers-landslide-in-kodagu/articleshow/76392783.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||It’s raining happiness at Vadodara panipuri vendor’s house||VADODARA: Eighteen-year-old Dixit Modi on Monday made his parents proud. Dixit’s father Santosh sells ‘panipuri’ and ‘bhelpuri’ at a crossroad in Vadodara’s Chhani area while mother Ramila is a homemaker. For Santosh, who himself could not study beyond class ten, his younger son securing 99.68 percentile with 88 % marks is off course a big achievement. “I will join BCom and simultaneously start working to become CA,” said Dixit, a student of St Joseph school, who has bagged A2 grade. “I don’t want my sons to remain dependent on such uncertain source of income. I have always wished that they study in the stream of their choice but have a bright future,” said Santosh, 49, adding that there have been times when he had to struggle to make ends meet. “But I have managed it,” said Santosh, a resident of Tarunnagar society, who runs a ‘panipuri lari’ at Ding Dong chowkdi in TP 13 near Chhani jakatnaka. Santosh’s efforts are also not going in vein. His elder son Chirag, 20, is already in the final year of computer engineering at M S University’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/its-raining-happiness-at-panipuri-vendors-house/articleshow/76394687.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||Cop, nine-year-old boy test positive in Haveri||Haveri: A police constable attached to Byadagi Police Station tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The 42-year-old cop, a resident of Kadaramundalagi, has a complicated travel history and may have had come in contact with over 200 people while on duty. The cop (P-7030) has been shifted to Haveri covid hospital, said officials. He had travelled to Malebennur of Shivamogga district on leave between June 3-4. He also visited a hospital in Harihara for his son’s treatment and a relative’s home at Kodiyala Hospet. After returning to Kadaramundalagi, he joined for duty on June 6 at night and continued to be on duty till June 12. He travelled again to Harihara along with his son for treatment. Health department staff collected samples on the same day evening and he tested positive the next day. The district administration has identified 74 persons as primary contacts of P-7030 — 19 family members, 45 police department staff, and 10 staff in Byadagi tahsildar office, including Byadagi tahsildar Sharannamma Kari — and four secondary contacts. They have been sent on home quarantine, said officials. Byadagi Police Station and residential quarters were sealed by the district administration. Haveri tahsildar Shankar Barki has taken charge as Byadagi in-charge tahsildar. Boy tests +ve A nine-year-old boy (P-7031) tested positive in Guttal town of Haveri taluk on Monday. He is a secondary contact of P-5004 who has already been discharged from covid hospital. ‘65 cops +ve in state’ Around 65 police personnel have been found infected infected in our state. We have around 31 active cases. Most of those who tested positive were on duty along the Maharashtra border. We have initiated precautionary measures and are maintaining strict adherence to health protocol,” he added. Basavaraj Bommai | Home minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cop-nine-year-old-boy-test-positive-in-haveri/articleshow/76393944.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Rain likely to continue till June 19’||PATNA: Two days after its onset in Bihar, the southwest monsoon covered the entire state on Monday. Heavy rainfall occurred at several places in the last 24 hours. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall over Bihar during the next two to three days. A Patna Meteorological Centre bulletin stated that rainfall with thunderstorm is likely in all the 38 districts in Bihar till June 19 with slight reduction in intensity from Thursday. South-central Bihar, including Patna and Gaya, are most likely to receive rainfall with thunderstorm at many places till Friday. However, no weather warning has been issued for the next five days. The Patna centre stated that heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in southeastern parts and light to moderate rainfall in many parts of south-central and northeastern Bihar. Some of the places which received significant rainfall included 40mm at Bahadurganj in Kishanganj district and 30mm each at Dhengraghat in Purnia, Madhepura, Deo in Aurangabad and Garhi in Madhubani. Bihpur, Bhagalpur, Sherghati, Murliganj, Forbesganj and Dehri recorded 20mm rainfall. Southwest monsoon made its foray into Bihar through Bhagalpur and Purnea last Saturday. IMD stated that southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of north Arabian Sea, Gujarat, entire Diu, some more parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar and some parts of east Uttar Pradesh. It attributed the showers expected over the next few days in Bihar to the monsoon trough running from northwest Rajasthan to Gangetic West Bengal across east Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) was passing through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Narsinghpur, Umaria and Balia (east UP). Besides, a cyclonic circulation was also situated over southeast UP on Monday. The IMD bulletin stated that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall was very likely to continue over Bihar during the next two to three days under the influence of such weather systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-likely-to-continue-till-june-19/articleshow/76392198.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 16, 2020||Business||Covid-19 pulls TaMo into red with Rs 9.9k-crore Q4 loss||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 pandemic impacted Tata Motors’ performance, pulling the country’s largest automaker by revenues into the red during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. The company reported a loss of Rs 9,864 crore in the January to March months, compared with a profit of Rs 1,109 crore in the same period of fiscal 2019. The flagship company of the Tata group took a Rs 2,549-crore impairment charge on some of its assets, including the passenger vehicle business in India and the design unit in the UK. The amount also covered impairment loss dedicated to “onerous contracts”. Revenue fell 28% to Rs 61,949 crore. Tata Motors said its first quarter results in fiscal 2021 will be “weaker” as the full impact of the Covid-19-induced lockdown will be reflected in its businesses. It also said that even as business restrictions are eased in India and elsewhere, its outlook on demand for vehicles and earnings are “fluid” for the current financial year. The company further said that it is taking “hard calls” to navigate the business crisis caused by the pandemic and is taking actions to deleverage its balance sheet. It has an “automotive debt” of Rs 48,000 crore. Tata Motors is pruning investment spends, controlling costs and conserving cash to protect liquidity. Its UK unit Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), which accounted for 81% of Tata Motors’ fourth quarterly revenue, will spend 2.5 billion pounds on capital expenditure this fiscal, substantially lower than the 3.3 billion pounds it spent in fiscal 2020. The India business will spend Rs 1,500 crore, 72% lower than what its investment was in fiscal 2020. For the full year of 2019-20, Tata Motors reported a loss of Rs 11,975 crore. Losses, however, reduced from Rs 31,371 crore in fiscal 2019. The management said JLR is seeing “encouraging” recovery in demand in China, the world’s biggest automotive market. It is also seeing improvements in the US and Europe, though the UK is yet to recover from the lockdown. JLR is gradually resuming production at its plants in the UK and its contract assembly line in Austria. In India, Tata Motors has recommenced operations at all its plants and is operating at 50% capacity level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-19-pulls-tamo-into-red-with-rs-9-9k-cr-q4-loss/articleshow/76394567.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Teacher on Covid duty killed in accident||Aurangabad: A Beed teacher while returning from Covid-19 duty died on Sunday after the car he was driving met with an accident Raimuh to Shirur road. The accident took place Tagadgaon phata of Shirur tehsil, at around 9 pm has left three people injured and they are recuperating at civil hospital. The deceased has been identified as Prashant Kulkarni||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teacher-on-covid-duty-killed-in-accident/articleshow/76393007.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Topsia centre starts issuing corona death certificates||Kolkata: To reduce delays in the issuance of Covid death certificates, Kolkata Municipal Corporation has started issuing them from the Topsia death registration centre for all last rites conducted in Kolkata, including those at the Dhapa crematorium. The KMC is likely to issue the same from the Bagmari death registration centre soon. The KMC headquarters on SN Banerjee Road will issue Covid death certificates in cases wherein the victim died at a Kolkata hospital but whose last rites was conducted elsewhere.KMC sources said the increasing footfall at the KMC headquarters for death certificates was leading to delays. Places in Kolkata where the last rites of Covid victims are being conducted do not have death registration centres. Post-Amphan technical glitches and manpower crunch due to the lockdown have only compounded the issue.To ease the problem, KMC has now deputed a sub-register at Topsia to expedite issuance of Covid death certificates within the civic body’s jurisdiction. Details from Dhapa are now being sent to Topsia as the cremation facility does not have a death registration centre.“We did not have a separate wing with designated officials for issuing Covid death certificates. Many such certificates are yet to be issued. Now, we have deputed an experienced official to clear the backlog,” a senior official said.The problem is acute for the families of the Covid victims who died in Kolkata, but were cremated elsewhere. For example, Swapan Bose from Panihati (North 24 Parganas), who lost his father to Covid a month ago, had to wait for hours at the civic headquarters on Monday for obtaining a death certificate. His father died at a private hospital in Kolkata but was cremated outside KMC precincts. According to KMC Act, the civic body is liable to issue death certificates in cases where one dies in Kolkata, but is cremated outside. Swapan was not alone. A KMC health department official said they had to refuse multiple applicants for want of an update in the KMC health department software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/topsia-centre-starts-issuing-corona-death-certificates/articleshow/76394277.cms||Saikat Ray
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Truck runs into seven vehicles, one dead||Vadodara: In a freak road mishap, the driver of a truck lost control and ran into several vehicles at the Limadiya crossroads on the Modasa highway in the Khanpur taluka of Mahisagar district on Monday afternoon. One person died in the incident and others were injured. It is believed that the driver may have lost control due to some snag in the vehicle. The truck ran into a motorcycle, three trucks and three cars even as it turned on its side. Some of the vehicles were crushed when the truck fell on them. Senior police officials, firemen and officials of the district administration, too, rushed to the accident site. Several ambulances were pressed into action as it was feared that a large number of persons may be injured in the incident. Bhaumik Mehta from Modasa, who was travelling to Vadodara, died in the incident. Sources said that he had his business in Vadodara and used to travel to Modasa over the weekend. At least six others were injured in the incident including two members of the crew of a truck. They were rushed to Godhra for treatment. Sources said that a family had parked its car off the highway and had gone for refreshments at a hotel. The truck hit the car in which the family was travelling but the family had a narrow escape as they were not in it. Cranes and other heavy equipment were deployed at the accident site to remove the damaged vehicles. The process went on till Monday evening. The exact reason for the truck losing control is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-runs-into-seven-vehicles-one-dead/articleshow/76394275.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||HC raps Telangana govt on facilities in old-age homes, seeks report||HYDERABAD: Expressing serious concern over the pathetic condition of old-age homes in Hyderabad, the Telangana high court on Monday directed the state government to take stock of the facilities in the homes in Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts. It also asked for introduction of a helpline number for the inmates. If possible, the government should explore the chances of private industries maintaining these homes under corporate social responsibility (CSR), it said. A bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave these interim directions while hearing a PIL on the plight of senior citizens living in these homes. The bench also directed the principal secretary of women and child welfare to physically inspect at least 14 old-age homes in the next one week and furnish report by June 23. It posted the case to June 24. The bench, which appointed advocate Vasudha Nagaraj as amicus curiae to study the conditions in the homes in the last hearing, went through the report furnished by her and was shocked to know about the horrible conditions in some of these homes. The bench also directed the police authorities to take action against those elements who endanger the safety of women in these homes. “Take Vasudha along with you,” the bench told the principal secretary. Vasudha said those collecting up to Rs 30,000 per person are running on a self-regulation mode, while the ones that are claiming to be run by NGOs free of cost or for lesser price are running in pathetic and uninhabitable conditions. The bench sought to know from the government the number of such orphan homes or homes for elders — both registered and unregistered — the financial support being extended by the government and the number of inspections being done to monitor the situation. Quoting from Vasudha’s report, the bench said 24 elderly women are packed like sardines in three tiny rooms in ‘Mother’s Nest Old-Age Home.’ In ‘Second Chance’, a home for the destitutes, there is hardly any space for the inmates to move around as the place is packed with cots. In some homes, safety of women inmates is questionable as they do not segregate male inmates from women inmates, it said. The bench also directed principal secretaries of social welfare and women and child welfare to file affidavits explaining their efforts to help the elderly. It further directed them to consider locating the old-age homes next to the children’s homes so that the elderly get help from the children and the children, in turn, get guidance from the elderly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-raps-state-on-facilities-in-old-age-homes-seeks-report/articleshow/76395095.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Aurangabad flight to Delhi to resume||Aurangabad: The sale of tickets for the Aurangabad-Delhi flight has begun and the operations are set to begin from Wednesday This is the first flight from Aurangabad after lockdown was announced on March 22. The news of resumption of flight service to and from Aurangabad airport has come as a relief for many people who were stranded in Aurangabad and Delhi. After the domestic flight services in other cities were started such people were looking forward to resumption of flight services in Aurangabad. According to Aurangabad airport director DG Salve, the airport was ready for operation since May 25 and was awaiting airlines to submit their schedules. “Now, with the Aurangabad-Delhi flight starting from Wednesday, we are ready with contact-less operations, auto-sanitiser dispensers, social distancing and thermal checking of staff and passengers according to the guidelines of central government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/aurangabad-flight-to-delhi-to-resume/articleshow/76393006.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Cops will help you get refund from Hills hotels||Kolkata: Tourists whose booking money has been stuck with different hotels in the hills of north Bengal finally have some hope of retrieving it. They had to cancel their trips in the wake of the Covid outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. The Darjeeling and Kalimpong district police — with help from the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the local hoteliers’ associations — are ensuring that the money is returned to tourists, according to previously agreed terms and conditions. GTA has also asked the hotels to refund the entire amount upon cancellation of bookings pending since March. “Even if we do not take in new visitors, we must follow norms as we need to maintain our tourist-friendly brand,” said Anit Thapa, GTA head.The development comes amid reports of a group of five tourists being forced to check out of their hotel by locals hours after they had checked in last week. Popular tourist destinations Mandarmani and Digha too saw similar protests against hotels opening up.Arijit Mukherjee, a Dankuni resident, recounted the assistance he got from Darjeeling police to get back his booking money. “The hotel kept saying that a final decision was pending with their association. On June 10, I contacted Darjeeling police. They asked me to e-mail my details. Soon, all my dues were cleared,” Mukherjee wrote on Facebook.Pradip Lama of the Darjeeling Association of Travel Agents said the money was being returned on humanitarian grounds after police referred specific cases. Darjeeling police sources said that harassed tourists can call numbers available on their website for assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-will-help-you-get-refund-from-hills-hotels/articleshow/76394282.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 16, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court asks UP govt to explain curbs on OPDs||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the state government and the chief medical officer (CMO) of Prayagraj to apprise the court on June 18 as to how out patient departments (OPD) in private and government hospitals have been restricted. Hearing a PIL filed by one Vishal Talwar and others, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Yashwant Varma fixed June 18 as the next date of hearing. Appearing for the petitioners, their counsels Shahid Kazmi and Anand Prakash Paul contended that non-Covid-19 cases should be treated by hospitals in the state as they used to be treated earlier before the outbreak of pandemic. The petitioner has requested the court to set aside government notifications issued on March 23 and May 31, that directed government and private hospitals to restrict treatment of non-Covid patients. In the petition, it has also been requested to direct the authorities to ensure that hospitals treat patients suffering from other ailments or diseases than the patients suffering from Covid-19. The court has been further requested that the authorities be directed to create a separate set up/ infrastructure for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The PIL has been filed in the wake of a pregnant woman’s death last weekend in Noida after eight hospitals denied her admission. The PIL before the High Court also urges for a probe into the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-asks-govt-to-explain-curbs-on-opds/articleshow/76392422.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Meerut||Another Anamika Shukla held in Saharanpur, her name is Bhavna Yadav||Meerut: Bhavna Yadav, a resident of Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh, was arrested by Saharanpur police on Monday for taking up a contractual job of a teacher in Central government’s residential girl school by impersonating Anamika Shukla. At least 25 women got science teacher’s appointments in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) by using the forged documents of Anamika in the last one year. According to sources in the education department, Yadav was recruited at KGBV in Saharanpur as a science teacher in August last year using forged documents of Anamika Shukla. A case of cheating against an unidentified suspect was already registered at Janakpuri police station in Saharanpur, said Dinesh Kumar P, senior superintendent of police.In a startling revelation earlier this month, it was unearthed that salaries were drawn in the name of Anamika Shukla from 25 different KGBVs across the state. Yadav has been missing since the revelation came to the fore.In the earlier crackdown in the scam in Saharanpur, Lalita Sharma, a warden of KGBV, was shown the door after her contract was abruptly ended by the education department. The department has also proposed to the state government for action against district coordinator (DC), girls’ education, after an inquiry into the scam.“There was sheer negligence on the part of the warden. She did not examine the documents (of Bhavna) properly. Students used to complain about the said teacher’s lack of knowledge and skills about the subject, but the warden never brought this to our notice,” RP Singh, Saharanpur's basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/another-anamika-shukla-held-in-saharanpur-her-name-is-bhavna-yadav/articleshow/76393027.cms||Piyush Rai
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Truck catches fire at Kasara ghat; traffic hit||Nashik: A truck laden with plastic granules caught fire in the Kasara ghat section obstructing vehicular traffic for over an hour in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The highway police called the fire tenders of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and Mahindra & Mahindra. “We received information at 12.35am on Monday and quickly deployed our forces to stop vehicles moving towards the old Kasara ghat,” Amol Walzhade of the highway police at Ghoti Tab said. The truck was on its way from Panvel to Kanpur when its front tyre burst and stuck to the diesel tank, leading to the fire, said police. Both the fire tenders rushed to the spot and it took over 40 minutes for them to douse the blaze and bring the situation under control. Police diverted the traffic from the new Kasara ghat — making it a two-way lane. The men were deployed at both the ends of the ghat section warning motorists about the problems and to ensure they stuck to their lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/truck-catches-fire-at-kasara-ghat-traffic-hit/articleshow/76393029.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Told to give divorce, jobless man kills father-in-law||VADODARA: A 47-year-old man was murdered by his son-in-law after a fight over giving divorce to the latter’s estranged wife turned ugly in Vishalnagar Society in Tarsali on Monday. The accused Mitul Tailor also stabbed his mother-in-law, but she has survived. Mitul was nabbed by a patrolling team when he was trying to escape from his in-laws house after the murder. Around 2.30 pm, Tailor reached his in-laws’ house and told his mother-in-law Paresha Darji that he had come to meet his infant daughter. Tailors’ estranged wife Bhumika had given birth to a baby girl on March 13. As their marriage was going through a rough patch, Bhumika had come to live with her parents some months back.  Although he was allowed inside the house, his father-in-law Jaiprakash told Tailor that he had already talked with his father and they are seeking a divorce for Bhumika. On hearing about divorce, Tailor got enraged and pulled out a knife. As he stabbed Darji on the left side of his throat, Bhumika and Darji’s wife Paresha tried to intervene. However, Tailor repeatedly slit Darji’s throat and stabbed Paresha on her shoulder and chest. As Tailor went on the rampage, Bhumika and Paresha shouted for help, hearing which their neighbours came to their help. But seeing a blood-stained knife in his hand, nobody dared to challenge Tailor. However, a 108 ambulance was called and police were informed, but Darji had succumbed by then while Paresha was taken to SSG Hospital. When Tailor was trying to escape, a PCR van arrived there. “Our staff reached at the right time, otherwise he would have fled. Seeing them the accused threw his knife away and he was nabbed,” said deputy commissioner of police Sanjay Kharat. Officials said that Paresha’s condition stabilized by evening and she even gave a statement based on which an offence was registered against Tailor at Makarpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/told-to-give-divorce-jobless-man-kills-father-in-law/articleshow/76394298.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Meerut||512 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members released from UP jails, 225 still languishing||Meerut: Of the 837 foreign nationals who had come to Delhi’s Nizamuddin area to participate in a religious event in March and were subsequently arrested from various parts of UP for violating visa norms, 512 have been released following court orders, according to the data given by the state’s prison department. The arrests took place after the Nizamuddin area became a hotbed of Covid-19 disease and the foreigners were accused of spreading it.Apart from the visa norms violations, all of them were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271(disobedience to quarantine rule).All the 837 foreign nationals were lodged in 65 temporary jails made in the state just to adjust them. According to the prison department, 512 have been released following court orders.Two days ago, a court in Saharanpur had set aside the visa norms violation charges slapped by UP Police against 57 followers of Tablighi Jamaat paving way for their return to their countries after two months of incarceration. They followers belonged to Kyrgyzstan, Bhutan, Thailand, Indonesia and several other countries.But, 225 foreign nationals continue to languish in temporary jails.In Meerut, there are 20 foreign Jamaatis still lodged in temporary prison that have come in the premises of a local engineering college in the city.In Shamli, all 12 Bangladeshi nationals were granted bail by a court recently, SP Vineet Jaisawal confirmed. The released men are still camping in the district till the modalities of their return are finalized. In Muzaffarnagar, all the 12 arrested Nepalese nations have been granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/512-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-released-from-up-jails-225-still-languishing/articleshow/76393025.cms||Piyush Rai
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||72 new Covid micro-spots in city, 3 out of 5 in north and central Kolkata||Kolkata: The city currently has 1,264 micro-containment zones with the south and added areas having around 60% of them. However, of the 72 more Covid units added in the past 48 hours, the north and central Kolkata contribute 45 of them. Just four wards in Kolkata — out of a total of 144 — are free of any micro-containment unit at present. The four Covid-free wards, felt KMC and Kolkata Police, which can probably show the way forward for the rest of the city. Wards 45 and 47 — catering to parts of central business district — had reported a few cases at the start of the corona outbreak. But a proactive KMC, along with the police and helped by local traders, helped maintain social distancing in the area. In the two other Covid-free wards — 119 and 144 at Behala and Joka — not a single case has been reported in the past three months.Police sources said they were advising social distancing and wearing of masks as effective methods of containing the virus spread. “We can only ask people to follow the norms. They have to get their act together to fight Covid-19,” said an IPS officer.That is exactly what several residents of wards 119 and 144 have been following, even to the extent of still not allowing outsiders into their complexes and neighbourhoods. For example, residents of some of the localities in Thakurpukur, like Satyen Park and Green Park, have put up barricades at the entry-exit points to shut out movement of vehicles and outsiders. “People from outside used to park their vehicles here and loiter on the lanes for morning and evening walks. We have banned all outsiders’ entry and movement of vehicles,” said Sahadeb Saha, a resident of Satyen Park. At wards 46 and 47, wearing masks has being made mandatory for all those reporting to their offices or participating in the trade. The local market associations have all cooperated, claimed cops at Lalbazar.On Monday, specific pockets seemed to be worst-hit. Beliaghata, Kankurgachhi and Ultadanga contributed the maximum numbers in the north. The re-emergence of cases at Paikpara, Belgachhia, Hatkhola and Posta is keeping local ward coordinators worried. In the south, Chetla, Bhowanipore and Hazra reported maximum cases. Cases were reported from areas like Middleton Street, Ballygunge Park, Ballygunge Place, Richie Park, Gurudas Road, Subhasini Ganguly Sarani and Baghajatin Place.For now, the biggest worry for both police and KMC is the proliferation of cases in high-rises as well slums in specific pockets of Gariahat, Alipore and Ekbalpore. At Alipore, fresh cases were reported from Belvedere Road and Aftab Lane. Similarly, an apartment complex opposite CMRI and Meher Ali Mondal Lane in Ekbalpore have reported new cases. “There has been some movement between the employers and the employed in the area that lead to this sudden spike at both ends. These two areas — along with adjoining Kidderpore — now account for around 5% of micro-containment units in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/72-new-covid-micro-spots-in-city-3-out-of-5-in-north-and-central-kolkata/articleshow/76394288.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of sanitation raises infection fear after 1 tests positive in Moosapet||HYDERABAD: Fear of Covid-19 has been haunting several residents of JP Nagar and Bharat Nagar colonies in Moosapet where a person tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Many staying in the area have raised concerns over the lack of proper screening and sanitation of the building and the colonies by the authorities till two days after the person tested positive. The residents also said that the primary or secondary contacts of the patient were not asked to quarantine themselves or tested by the authorities, the residents said. This is despite the state government taking a decision to extend ‘strict home quarantine’ for secondary contacts of the identified Covid-19 patient to 28 days from 14 days with immediate effect from April 22. Speaking to TOI, P Vijaya, one of the residents of the building in which the patient resides, said, “We have quarantined ourselves because we do not want to spread the disease in case we have contracted the virus. We also took it upon ourselves and requested the municipal workers to block the entrance of the main gate so that outsiders who are not aware do not enter inside.” The residents further alleged that the authorities did not take any measures to disinfect the area until they had complained about it. “They had disinfected the area on Monday morning, two days after the person tested positive. That too after one of the us had complained about it. This is probably the reason why there is a spurt in cases across the city,” said Dr K Niharika, a resident of JP Nagar. “There is also a chicken shop in the same building. The authorities have not even asked the shop owners to shut the chicken shop for a few days. At least 50 people visit the shop every day,” she added.  GHMC chief entomologist Dr Rambabu was unavailable for a comment. An official source said on condition of anonymity that the delay in sanitation could be due to the paucity of staff. “We have deployed our staff outside the building to take care of the residents’ needs so that they don’t step out for anything. The delay in sanitation could be due to shortage of staff. We will look into it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-sanitation-raises-infection-fear-after-1-tests-ve/articleshow/76395103.cms||Moulika.KV
June 16, 2020||Varanasi||Ganga rises, with slow fluctuations in water level||Times News Network Varanasi: Ahead of the entry of monsoon in the region, the Ganga has started rising in Varanasi. Though fluctuation have been recorded in the water level of the river in past 15 days. One can find a large layer of ‘jalkumbhi’ (water hyacinth) floating on the water and some of the lower ghat steps submerged under water. However, the water level is far below the danger mark (71.262 mt) so far. “Ganga ji badh rahi hain, lekin abhi badhav bahut kam hai, (Ganga is rising, but the rate of increasing is low),” said a boatman Pradeep Sahani. According to the daily flood bulletin of the Middle Ganga Division-III of the Central Water Commission, the river, which was flowing at 59.29 mt on June 1, witnessed the maximum rise of 0.5 mt on June 9 when the water was flowing at 59.79 mt mark. However, a gradual decline was noticed since then, and the river was flowing at 59.49mt level on Monday. “The rise of Ganga speeds up with the monsoon showers,” said noted environmentalist of Banaras Hindu University Prof BD Tripathi. According to records, the flooded river swells further in the months of August and September. The CWC record suggests that the highest flood level in Varanasi was recorded on September 9, 1978, when the river was flowing 2.6 mt above the danger mark at 73.901 mt level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ganga-rises-with-slow-fluctuations-in-water-level/articleshow/76392440.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Agra||Evicted by hospital, cancer patient, 50, applies for admin aid, dies waiting for it in Mathura||Strap: SDM Sends His File To DM, Who Forwards It To Lucknow Agra: A 50-year-old cancer patient, who was in an urgent need of medical treatment, died at his house in Mathura on Saturday. According to his family members, Lekhraj Singh was admitted to Ramkrishna Mission Sevaashram Charitable Hospital prior to his death with the help of a local social worker.But doctors there asked the family members to take Lekhraj to AIIMS in Delhi due to his serious condition.“We did not have the money to visit Delhi for the treatment. So, we decided to stay at home,” said Raj Kumar, Lekhraj’s 18-year-old son. Kumar told TOI that he and his mother, Lajja Devi, then approached the district administration for help, which never came.Kumar also claimed that the family had earlier visited Haryana’s AIIMS for treatment during the lockdown, but could not get the admission there due to the Covid-19.Earlier, the family had mortgaged their small piece of land for Rs one lakh for Lekhraj’s treatment.“My father had been suffering from cancer for the last six months. He was earlier treated at Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and then at SMS hospital in Jaipur. But, due to the lockdown and our poor financial condition, we could not visit Jaipur again,” said Lekhraj's son, who has two siblings. When contacted, SDM of Govardhan, Rahul Yadav, said that he had received their application and had forwarded it to officials concerned for consideration.District magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said, “I inquired about the matter and was told that the patient’s cancer was at the last stage. The patient was provided proper treatment at a charitable trust so his death was not due to lack of treatment. For financial help in such cases we need approval from higher authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/evicted-by-hospital-cancer-patient-50-applies-for-admin-aid-dies-waiting-for-it-in-mathura/articleshow/76393034.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Seven new patients in Satara dist||Kolhapur: Satara district recorded seven more Covid-19 patients on Monday taking the tally to 745 so far. The district also witnessed 25 positive patients, including four teenagers, being discharged. According to the official statement, four of the seven patients come from Mumbai while three others had come in close contact with the Covid-19 patients. All patients were from tehsils of Satara, Khatav, Koregaon, Khandala and Maan. Out of the 745 patients recorded in Satara, 533 patients have already been discharged. Currently, there are 180 active patients and 34 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/seven-new-patients-in-satara-dist/articleshow/76393038.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Bid to rape minor foiled in Bachupally||HYDERABAD: Two persons’ bid to rape a minor girl was foiled by a few locals in Bachupally on Monday. Bachupally police said that the survivor was a 16-year-old ragpicker. “When the girl was collecting waste near a factory, two persons on a bike came to her and offered her money to come with them to a particular place. When she refused, the two accused allegedly forced her to get onto the bike and took her to an isolated place,” police said. According to the police, the girl raised alarm and alerted the locals, who rescued her and caught the accused. The locals later informed the police about the incident, following which the accused were taken into police custody. Police registered a case against the accused under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bid-to-rape-minor-foiled-in-bachupally/articleshow/76395118.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||MEIL forays into defence equipment manufacturing with Rs 500-cr investment||Hyderabad: Infrastructure major Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) is foraying into defence equipment manufacturing sector and has drawn up plans to invest Rs 500 crore in phases for setting up a manufacturing facility in Hyderabad. The facility will come up at Jeedimetla where the firm has already acquired land for the project. The manufacturing plant will take about 24 months for completion from the start of the project work, company officials said on Monday . MEIL plans to manufacture soldiers carrying vehicles (APC), infantry combat vehicles (ICV), armed multi-purpose vehicles, mine-laying vehicles, bridge laying vehicles and all-terrain light combat vehicle (ACTV) missiles. In addition to these, it will also manufacture ancillaries for combat vehicles, light combat vehicles, armoured engineering and recovery vehicles, among others. The unit will also manufacture missiles, multi-barrel rocket launcher, machine guns, rockets, among others, MEIL said. The privately-held Hyderabad-based company said it has received approvals from the Union home affairs ministry as well as the Union ministry of commerce and industry to establish the manufacturing facility at Jeedimetla. “With the necessary approvals in place, Megha group is setting up most modern manufacturing facilities to produce various cutting-edge defence equipment indigenously at our upcoming new facility at Hyderabad,” said MEIL president Srinivas Bommareddy. The company had sought permission under defence procurement policy to manufacture weapons, vehicles, ancillaries and arms under the Make in India initiative. MEIL said its group company IComm Tele Limited is engaged in defence electronics and communications development and is supplying advanced communication radios, jammers, EW shelters, antennas, electronic warfare containers, wind profiles and radars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/meil-forays-into-defence-equipment-manufacturing-with-rs-500-cr-investment/articleshow/76395111.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers learn ways to kill locusts in border districts||JAISALMER: Two drones to eliminate locusts have reached Jaisalmer while three more will reach in a couple of days. In Barmer, two drones are already being used to contain the pests. To impart locust control training to farmers of Jaisalmer and Barmer, a six-day workshop started from June 13. Farmers are worried about locust attacks as they had sown seeds during pre-monsoon showers and sprouts have come and there is information that the insects had eaten sprouting plants in several areas. Locusts are continuously coming from Pakistan to Jaisalmer and Barmer. Huge swarms have entered from the neighbouring country in Nachna and Mohangarh in Jaisalmer district. For the last two days, the pests have been seen agt Chak DDM, SWM and AWD near Nachna and have become threat to groundnut crops. Farmers shooed away these locusts by clanging plates. Similarly, in Mohangarh area, farmers were seen shooing away locusts. In Chauhatan of Barmer, farmers are worried about their crops because of the insects. Lale Khan, a farmer from Mohangarh area, said in coming days, the situation is going to get worse. Jaisalmer locust control department officer Rajesh Kumar said two drones were used to contain the insects in Khuhadi, Jethvai road and other areas. Apart from drones, tractor mounted sprayers will be used to kill the insects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-learn-ways-to-kill-locusts-in-border-districts/articleshow/76395117.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Car rams into parked truck on expressway, one dead||Vadodara: One person died and another was injured after the car they were travelling in rammed into a parked truck on Ahmedbad-Vadodara Expressway in the early hours of Monday.The deceased Pradeep Mahida and his brother-in-law Prakash Sadhu were returning to Vadodara from Chittorgarh in Rajasthan when the accident took place. Police said that Sadhu, a taxi driver, was asked by his employer to deliver a parcel in Rajasthan. Sadhu asked Mahida to tag along as he was travelling alone and had to return on the same day.According to Sadhu, after crossing Mahisagar river bridge on the expressway near Poicha Rayka village, he changed the lane and moved towards the side of the road to allow a truck behind them to go ahead. But Sadhu did not realize that a truck was parked on the side of the road and before he could stop the car, it rammed into the truck.According to police, the front portion of the car was completely crushed. While Sadhu suffered minor injuries on his wrist, Mahida suffered several injuries on his face and throat. Sadhu called highway ambulance but the paramedical staff declared him dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/car-rams-into-parked-truck-on-expressway-one-dead/articleshow/76394312.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur civic body notice to owners of old buildings||JODHPUR: With monsoon knocking on the doors, threat’s looming on old and dilapidated buildings of the city. Keeping this in view, the Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has issued notices to owners of 50 such buildings in the city. JMC commissioner Suresh Kumar Ola said the owners of these buildings have been issued notices and asked either to get them repaired or raze them on their own. “If they fail to comply with the notices, the JMC will demolish the buildings and the expenditure incurred would be recovered from the owner of the buildings along with penalty,” said Ola. But in reality, seriousness over the issue has always evaded the JMC, which routinely fails to take a follow up of its notices and waits for falling of such buildings. Last year, buildings in a dilapidated condition collapsed during monsoon at 3 locations including Sardarpura, Ada Bazar and Tripoliya. In the first incident, a woman died after getting buried under the debris. Interestingly, these spots are still crying for JMC attention as debris remain. An employee associated with the encroachment wing of JMC admitted the negligence of the civic body. “We serve the notices to owners as a routine exercise but in reality nobody cares to comply with them. Recovering money from them in a follow up action is also a big challenge,” he said. Most of such properties are located in narrow lanes of old city and sending the resources to these locations is in itself a big challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-civic-body-notice-to-owners-of-old-bldgs/articleshow/76395108.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Varanasi||Woman brutally murdered after alleged rape in Jaunpur||Times News Network Varanasi: A 26-year-old woman Priti was brutally hacked to death after alleged rape inside her home in Rasulaha village under the limits of Barsathi police station in Jaunpur district on Sunday late night. The incident came to light on Monday morning when her nude body was found lying in a pool of blood. Taking a serious note of the incident SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar reached the spot and formed teams of police for early workout of the case. He said that whether the woman had been raped before being murdered would become clear only after the arrival of postmortem report. During initial investigation of the police it came to light that Priti’s husband Vinod Kumar was in Mumbai where he works and Priti resides here with her in-laws. On the day of the incident Priti was sleeping alone inside her room while her in-laws had gone to sleep outside their home. It is suspected that the miscreants broke into her room sometime after midnight and following alleged rape they brutally hacked her to death. The locals noticed the doors of her house opened in morning and spotted Priti’s nude body found lying in a pool of blood. The villagers immediately alerted the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-brutally-murdered-after-alleged-rape-in-jaunpur/articleshow/76392453.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Puducherry||Filmed bathing, Tamil Nadu girl sets self ablaze, suffers 90% burns||VELLORE: A 15-year-old girl from Vellore set herself on fire on Saturday after her three neighbours, including a minor, filmed her while she was bathing and threatened to post it on social media platforms if she did not give in to their demand for sexual favours. The girl is battling for life after she suffered more than 90% burns and was admitted to the Government Vellore Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH), police said. All the accused were arrested under IPC sections and the Pocso Act. The minor was later released on bail and will be taken to a home for children in conflict with law, Bagayam station police inspector A Subha told TOI. Government Vellore medical college and hospital dean R Selvi said, “The girl sustained 90% burns and she is critical.” The incident occurred around 11am on Saturday when the distraught girl was alone at home. She doused herself with kerosene and set herself on fire. Her neighbours, who saw her ablaze, rushed to her rescue and struggled for half an hour to douse the flames. They called the 108 ambulance service and alerted her parents before taking her to the GVMCH. Her father is a carpenter and they live in Thuthipattu area in Vellore. The girl in her statement to the Bagayam police said her neighbours Poona Kannan alias K Aakash, 22, R Ganapathi, 19, and a 17-year-old boy, had recently filmed her while she was bathing and sought sexual favours for not circulating the clip on social media. Terrified that they may release the video online, the girl decided to set herself ablaze. “A few minutes after giving her statement, the girl fell unconscious. Her condition is now critical,” said police inspector Subha. “Based on her statement, we arrested all the three accused and booked them under IPC Sections 354a, 306 and 511 and sections 11 and 12 of the Pocso Act,” said the inspector. All the three accused, including the minor, were remanded in custody and lodged in the Gudiyattam sub-jail early on Monday. The minor was granted bail and sent to his parents. He will be taken to a government home for children in conflict with law, said the inspector. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/filmed-bathing-tn-girl-sets-self-ablaze-suffers-90-burns/articleshow/76395119.cms||Karal Marx
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Price cap for Covid-19 tests, treatment in Telangana private facilities||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday announced capping of prices for testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients in private facilities as authorities widen the battle to contain the virus, but private hospitals are up in arms, saying the proposal was not feasible. Health minister Eatala Rajender said the RT-PCR swab test for Covid-19 virus has been capped at Rs 2,200 in private labs (Rs 2,800 if samples are collected from home), charges for a normal isolation bed facility has been fixed at Rs 4,000 per day. Treatment charges without ventilator capped at Rs 7,500, while with ventilator it would be Rs 9,000 per day. These tariffs include monitoring charges and charges for investigations such as CBC, urine, HIV spot, anti-HCV, Hbs Ag, serum creatinine, USG, 2D echo, X-ray, ECG, consultations, bed charges, meals and procedures such as Ryles tube insertion and urinary tract catheterisation. Hospitals have been asked to display these costs prominently and asked to refrain from admitting asymptomatic patients and patients with mild symptoms. Hospitals and labs have been mandated to enter real-time data on the digital platform www.chfw.telangana.gov.in and asked to strictly comply to the norms. Testing and treatment continue to be free at government hospitals. Hours after the health minister’s announcement, private hospitals began a series of closed-door meetings and the Super Specialty Hospitals Association of Telangana has decided to meet Eatala Rajender to renegotiate the tariff. “The tariff announced by the government is just not feasible. The patients with symptoms as well as those with co-morbidities need a host of treatment procedures that are not feasible in this tariff. We will negotiate with the authorities,” said Dr Bhaskar Rao, president, Association of Super Specialty Hospitals of Telangana. Some hospitals said they have not received any official communication from the state government so far. “But the tariff announced is not practical. Either hospitals will have to put up their case before the government or shut down the isolation facility,” a hospital official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/price-cap-for-covid-19-tests-treatment-in-telangana-private-facilities/articleshow/76395586.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 16, 2020||Varanasi||Family uses Covid lockdown as boon, grows ‘organic’ mangoes in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A look at the mango trees in an orchard in Gorakhpur leaves one puzzled whether the ripening fruits are also in fear of coronavirus pandemic. On getting closer, however, it turns out that the mangoes are covered with biodegradable bags to save them from birds and not using insecticides to ensure the fruits are ‘organic’. The orchard owners Anita Mertia and her son Utsav have started organic farming apart from their other businesses. “We had ample time when mango flowers started blooming during lockdown and thought of ways of saving them without spraying insecticides. So, we came up with the idea of covering the fruits when they were very small with biodegradable bags. The mangoes have been growing and we didn’t lose any to insects or birds and saved the money on insecticides,” Utsav told TOI. “Besides saving our mangoes from squirrels, monkeys and insects in this way, we also planted Tulsi and marigold plants in the orchard to save them from harmful insects and attract good insects for pollination,” he added. 25 years ago, Anita planted around 200 mango and litchi trees in her colony New Chandragupt Nagar at Betiahata area of Gorakhpur. “My family was in agriculture. When I came to live in this colony after marriage, there were hardly any trees here. I planted 200 saplings of mango and litchi in front of all houses in the colony as I wanted a good environment in my neighbourhood. Now, almost 50 trees are giving fruits,” said Anita, who lost her husband in the year 2000, but didn’t lose hope and carried forward his business besides starting many others like organic farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/family-uses-covid-lockdown-as-boon-grows-organic-mangoes/articleshow/76392477.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||Govt open to hiring young Goan PWD contractors: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the government is ready to engage new Goan contractors at the Public Works department (PWD), especially those who have fresh ideas to help to revive the local economy. He also said that the new civil engineer contractors should engage locals to carry out public works under PWD. Sawant said, “We have started discussions. If any youth wants to become a PWD contractor we have to see how we can involve them. The department has started to think of engaging fresh youth contractors. We are thinking of engaging new pass-out civil engineers as contractors and if he is interested to work with innovative ideas - even if it is small work - and with Goan workers.” Referring to the lakh and a half migrant workers who have left the state due to Covid-19, Sawant said that there are Goans who are skilled and unskilled, and they have to be motivated to work under new contractors. The chief minister said that there are many youth who have not completed SSC and the government cannot engage them as the minimum qualification for a government job is SSC. “All government departments have to think how we can provide jobs to those who have not passed SSC,” he said. He also said that PWD issues tenders for annual maintenance and if Goans get the contracts, then Goan youth who have not passed SSC can be involved. “We have to identify such public works and give the contract to new civil engineers. This will also help the government to come out from Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Referring to the 80 percent revenue loss, chief minister urged officers not to take up any unwanted work except work which is priority. “If this is followed then, there will be less burden on the finance department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-govt-open-to-hiring-young-goan-pwd-contractors/articleshow/76395635.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Sub-station at Prattipadu village now operational||Guntur: In a rare feat, authorities of AP Transco and AP Central Power Distribution Company Limited (APCPDCL) have successfully began operations at the 220KV sub-station at Prattipadu village in the district on Sunday without imposing power cuts. The new sub-station is expected to provide 24x7 power supply to Guntur city, Tenali, Ponnur and Bapatla towns even during emergency situations like cyclones. So far, the district depends on supplies from a 220KV sub-station at Tadikonda. But a majority of the important towns, including district headquarter town, Guntur, has been witnessing power outages. With a view to improve the quality of power supply and reduce the burden on Tadikonda sub-station, the power utilities planned a separate 220KV sub-station at Prattipadu about six months ago. After completing the field work in the last few months, the authorities decided to make the switch to the new sub-station over Saturday and Sunday. The mega exercise of linking nearly half the district with the new sub-station was planned over a 36-hour emergency operation. Initially, the authorities thought of shutting the power supply for a brief period and alerted people about possible power cuts on Saturday and Sunday. However, they could successfully complete the task without disrupting the supply. AP Transco SE B Srinivasa Rao said, “Although installation of towers was completed, linking of supply lines is the crucial part, which we have successfully completed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sub-station-at-prattipadu-village-now-operational/articleshow/76375974.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolhapur||doneOffences against 159 pvt hospital docs, staff in Solapur||Kolhapur: The Solapur police has registered offences against 159 doctors and staff of different private hospitals for failing to report to work despite orders from the local authorities following a complaint from the municipal corporation. The offences have been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act. As many as 133 of these offences were registered against the doctors and staff of Ashwini Hospital. The authorities were also in the process of filing offences against four other hospitals — Yashodhara Hospital, Siddheshwar Hospital, Chidgupkar Hospital and Dhanraj Girji Hospital. A spokesperson for the municipal corporation said offences were registered against three doctors and stff of Chidgupkar Hospital late on Monday. The action assumes significance as Solapur city has been registering increase in the number of Covid-19 cases while the government-run civil hospital is fully occupied by patients. The district administration had issued an order for requisition of 332 private hospitals in Solapur city for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. According to the order, all hospitals were told to ensure their staff would be present within 24 hours of the receipt of the notice. All the offences have been registered with the Sadar Bazar police station in Solapur city. The municipal corporation said in an official press release that the offences were registered under various IPC sections such as 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of the disease) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others). Sections 56 (failure of officer in duty or his connivance at the contravention of the provision of Act) and 57 (contravention of any order regarding requisitioning) have also been applied. Solapur city has recorded a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past two months. On Monday, the city registered 49 cases and three deaths. The city has 1,654 positive patients of whom 690 have been admitted to various hospitals. The city has seen 139 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/doneoffences-against-159-pvt-hospital-docs-staff-in-solapur/articleshow/76393059.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Patna||2 more deaths, 187 new cases; Covid tally up to 6,662||Patna: Two deaths and 187 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Monday, taking the death toll to 38 and the total number of registered cases to 6,662 in the state. With 4,226 recoveries, active cases stand at 2,397. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh confirmed the two deaths reported from Madhubani and Muzaffarpur in his daily online press briefing. While this is the first death of a coronavirus positive person in Madhubani, it is the second fatality in Muzaffapur. Madhubani DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore told TOI that the deceased, 65, had returned from Mumbai on June 11. “Initially he was symptomatic and was kept in Covid care centre. His sample was tested through TrueNat machine and was found positive. For confirmation, it was sent to Patna to be tested using RT-PCR method and was found positive again,” said Nilesh, adding, “However, later on, he had no symptoms and even on the day of his death he was asymptomatic.” The deceased from Muzaffarpur had returned from Delhi on June 3. Sources said he was suffering from a kidney ailment and had visited a primary health centre for treatment. “He died on June 5 and local representatives and people demanded his sample to be tested for Covid-19 virus. His report confirming Covid-19 came on Sunday evening,” said an official in Muzaffarpur district administration wishing anonymity. As per information shared by the state health department, Covid-19 positive cases were reported from 33 districts on Monday, with maximum 22 cases from Purnia, followed by Muzaffarpur with 18 cases, Siwan with 16 cases, Darbhanga with 15 and Madhubani with 12 cases each. A 22-year-old woman from Naubatpur in Patna had also tested positive for the virus on Monday. Five positive cases were also reported from Aurangabad police line and one from Saran police line. The health department further stated that 251 people recovered from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. In the same time period, 226 new cases were registered. Of the total registered cases, 4,521 are migrants who returned after May 3. Lokesh said so far, 1,27,126 samples have been tested in Bihar and now testing is being done in all 38 districts. “Now Covid-19 tests are being done in all 38 districts. The department is using RT-PCR method at six places for test at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna, AIIMS-Patna, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, Patna Medical College and Hospital, Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital and Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital, Muzaffarpur. At Jawahal Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, CB-NAT method and TrueNat machine is being used for testing coronavirus. Also, at 34 other places, TrueNat machines are being used for the test,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-more-deaths-187-new-cases-covid-tally-up-to-6662/articleshow/76393058.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Under anti-illicit liquor drive, 36 arrested and over 14,000-litre alcohol seized||PILIBHIT: The excise department of Uttar Pradesh, under a special drive against illicit liquor distillation, seized 14,270 liters of illegal alcohol from different parts of the state in the last four days. As many as 476 cases were registered against those found involved in the illicit trade, officials said. Excise commissioner of UP, P Guruprasad told TOI that the drive was aimed at curbing the distillation, smuggling and the sale of illicit liquor in the state. The enforcement teams also recovered 45,320 kilograms of lahaan (the fermented raw material used in the manufacturing of the illicit liquor) and destroyed it. In addition, the excise department teams also impounded five vehicles involved in trading of illicit liquors while as many as 36 people were arrested and sent to jail. The manufacturers and traders of the illicit liquor had intensified their illegal activities in view of the ban on liquor during the major part of the lockdown. “The departmental officials have therefore given directions to ensure the routine sale of liquor at the excise shops on prescribed retail prices without letting the artificial crisis be created by the registered wine traders,” Guruprasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/under-anti-illicit-liquor-drive-36-arrested-over-14000-litre-alcohol-seized/articleshow/76393063.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||T-Hub joins hands with S Korean agency||Hyderabad: T-Hub on Monday said it entered into a partnership with Korea SMEs and Startups Agency (KOSME), an initiative of the ministry of SMEs and Startups of the government of South Korea, to provide early-stage South Korean startups with business opportunities, market understanding and access to customers in India. T-Hub will not only enable tailored business and investor connects for startups in the Indian market and help deserving startups gain market access, it will also help them gear up for the Indian market by creating a trendsetting model. It will also enable networking opportunities with key stakeholders of the startup ecosystem at Delhi NCR, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, T-Hub said in a release. Jung Hwan Moon, chief representative (India), KOSME, said, “The tie-up will empower South Korean startups with knowledge and assistance to improve their product market fit and business model. The localization intervention by T-Hub is the heart of the programme.” Ravi Narayan, CEO, T-Hub, said, “T-Hub’s collaboration with KOSME will provide international market-access to the most disruptive and deserving South Korean startups, and fuel connections with key stakeholders.” Around 10 South Korean startups have been shortlisted for the first of many accelerator programs offered by T-Hub at the Korea Startup Center||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hub-joins-hands-with-s-korean-agency/articleshow/76395125.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Revive NFL hospital: Tewari||Nangal: Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has sought the revival and renovation of the NFL Hospital at Nangal. In a letter to Virendra Nath Datt, chairman, National Fertilisers Limited (NFL) , he said given the infrastructure the hospital has, it can help in providing medical facilities to a large number of people. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/revive-nfl-hospital-tewari/articleshow/76395123.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Customer finds fly in dessert ordered online, hotel fined Rs 10,000||HYDERABAD: Kukatpally resident Srinivas Bellam was in for a shock when a dessert he ordered from a local restaurant was delivered with a fly in it. He immediately took to Twitter to express his discontent with the food delivery app and the restaurant. Bellam tweeted: “#HouseflyHalwa delivered by @swiggy_in from #Kondapur @subbayyahotel.” He said that though the food delivery app says it maintains the best safety standards, it has failed to do so. This is the second instance in less than a year for Srinivas. Last year, he received a piece of wire in an order of biryani made to another restaurant from another food-delivery app. In this instance, the food delivery company responded: “An apology may not be enough to articulate for the experience you’ve encountered, Srinivas. This shouldn’t have happened to begin with, let alone the meal being catered to you in this condition.” They added that the matter would be investigated. Srinivas, who works in the logistics department of a firm in Gachibowli, said: “Food delivery agencies and officials must ensure restaurants’ safety standards are regularly audited. Besides this, photos of their kitchen must be put up so that customers can gauge their standards of hygiene.” GHMC officials said they were looking into the matter. The assistant medical officer of health circle 20 Serlingampally on Monday initiated action against the restaurant and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 for the ‘unhygienic conditions’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/customer-finds-fly-in-dessert-ordered-online-hotel-fined-rs-10k/articleshow/76395130.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Depression drives young man to suicide in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Depression caused by drug addiction drove a 23-year-old son of a businessman to suicide in Rajkot on Sunday night. Police said the victim, identified as Nitish Chauhan, was the son of Rajkot’s well-known providers of sound systems. He had hanged himself to death from the ceiling of the kitchen of his house when his father Bhikhu Chauhan had rushed out of his home, following a tremor experienced on Saturday night. “Chauhan’s father in his statement said that Chauhan had had an addiction to marijuana, following which he was sent to a de-addiction centre in Surat. He was discharged from the centre four months ago. But since then he had been suffering from depression,” said J M Bhatt, sub-inspector with Rajkot A division police station. “Chauhan was also addicted to PubG and other games on his cellphone which he used to play after closing doors of his room,” added Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/depression-drives-young-man-to-suicide/articleshow/76394340.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Covid wards to get CCTV cams by today: Govt||New Delhi: More than 1,000 CCTV cameras will be installed in Covid wards of the Delhi government’s hospitals across the capital by the end of Wednesday, officials said. On Monday, Delhi government had instructed its public works department to install CCTV cameras in Covid-19 wards of all its designated hospitals. PWD was asked to install CCTV cameras in all such wards within 24 hours and submit a compliance report. A government official told TOI that it was not possible within a few hours, but they would complete the work by Wednesday. Union home minister Amit Shah had earlier directed Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to install CCTV cameras in Covid wards of every designated hospital in the national capital for proper monitoring of services and ensuring patients' issues are resolved. After paying a surprise visit to Lok Nayak Hospital on Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah had also suggested psychosocial counselling of doctors and nurses engaged in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Lok Nayak Hospital is run by Delhi government and has been declared as a dedicated Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-wards-to-get-cctv-cams-by-today-govt/articleshow/76414421.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Varanasi||Girl tests Covid-19 positive, mother refuses to go to hospital in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Afraid of being infected herself, a woman in Gorakhpur reportedly refused to accompany her eight-year-old Covid-19 positive daughter to the hospital on Sunday, but relented after being counselled for hours by doctors. The woman finally got her daughter admitted to LNM Railway Hospital on Sunday evening. According to reports, the girl tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Saturday evening. She lives in Gorakhpur’s Surajkund area. “The girl’s mother refused to accompany her for the fear of contracting the infection. It was difficult to admit the girl without an attendant. So, on Sunday our counselling team went to the girl’s home along with a woman doctor and talked to her mother,” said Gorakhpur chief medical officer Srikant Tiwari. “The counsellors gave her the example of a three-month-old girl from Basti who was found positive and recovered, but her mother was not infected even though she used to breastfeed the baby. The team also cited the case of a nine-month-old Covid-19 patient from Badhalganj whose mother stayed with him at the hospital. The baby was discharged after 15 days and the mother still tested negative for the virus,” said the CMO. “We assured her that she would be tested after every four days and would train her to keep herself as safe as possible from novel coronavirus,” the CMO added. On Saturday, a 13-year-old boy from Sahjanwa area was also diagnosed with the disease, but his father immediately got ready to stay with him at the hospital for the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-positive-girls-mother-refuses-to-go-to-hosp-with-her-agrees-later/articleshow/76392496.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Man arrested in Maharashtra's Satara for rape and kidnap||KOLHAPUR: Satara police have arrested a youth, identified as Satish Mahadeo Ghadge, for allegedly raping a woman by threatening to post her photographs on social media. The woman has complained that she was sexually exploited for two years. Satara city police inspector A R Manjare said Ghadge was arrested late on Saturday night. He has been remanded in 3-day police custody. Ghadge has been arrested under various sections of the IPC (rape and kidnap) and IT Act. According to the complaint lodged by a 25-year-old woman, she was forcefully taken in a car from a college. Ghadge took her photographs and threatened that he would make them go viral. He then took the woman to his bungalow in Samata Nagar to commit the crime. Police said the accused raped the woman on several occasions and even forced her to meet him at a hotel in Mahabaleshwar. The woman has said that she got pregnant and Ghadge forced to her to take medication for abortion. The woman has mentioned three names in the complaint. They also included two women. Police said action would be taken against them after getting some evidence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-arrested-for-rape-kidnap/articleshow/76393070.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai, suburbs under 12-day intense lockdown from June 19||CHENNAI: The relentless surge in Covid-19 cases forced the Tamil Nadu government on Monday to announce yet another intense lockdown in Chennai and adjoining parts of three neighbouring districts for 12 days starting June 19. The relaxations, however, will be confined to vegetable and grocery shops and fuel pumps. But people have been advised not to use vehicles and to get their essentials within 2km of their residences. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced the lockdown after a meeting with health experts and later with cabinet members. “Considering the spread of the virus and based on consultations with medical and health experts and cabinet members, we have decided to enforce an intense lockdown from June 19 midnight until June 30 midnight,” the CM said in a statement. He announced Rs 1,000 support to all ration card holders in areas under intense lockdown and to the members of unorganised welfare boards and other welfare boards. There will be full lockdown on June 21 and 28 (Sundays) with no relaxation. Barring milk supply, hospitals, pharmacies, ambulance services, emergency and funeral hearse vans, no other activity will be permitted on Sundays. Private vehicles will be allowed only for emergency medical needs. ‘Pace of the virus spread reason for intense lockdown’With Chennai’s Covid cases crossing 33,000 and that of Tamil Nadu surging past 46,000, a worried government took the lockdown decision against the advice of health experts. Facing flak from the opposition, the government on Friday brought back J Radhakrishnan as health secretary, replacing Beela Rajesh.On Monday, the cabinet unanimously agreed to the intense lockdown, requesting the administration to give time to people to stock up and to prevent panic buying. “The reason cited was the pace of the virus spread in Chennai and adjoining districts (Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet). This lockdown will give some space for the administration to focus on the infected streets, besides breaking the cycle,” chief secretary K Shanmugam said. The intense lockdown will be in effect in Greater Chennai Police limits, Tiruvallur municipality, Gummidipoondi, Ponneri and Minjur town panchayats, and all panchayats of Poonamallee, Ekkadu and Cholavaram panchayat unions. Chengalpet and Maraimalai Nagar municipalities, Nandivaram-Guduvanchery town panchayats and all panchayats of Kattankulathur panchayat unions in Chengalpet. Parts of Greater Chennai Police limits falling in Kancheepuram district too would be under intense lockdown. Based on the experience gained in the first total lockdown in April, the government has planned to effectively mobilise and strengthen security and containment measures. Special control rooms will be set up in each zone to manage the supply of essentials in containment zones and quarantined houses. Industrial workers in Greater Chennai Police limits will be permitted to stay and work in the units or adjoining places for 12 days after they undergo RT-PCR tests. Similarly, employees from Greater Chennai Police limits, who move to other areas for work, will be subjected to RT-PCR tests and will be allowed to stay and work in the industries or neighbouring places. They will not be allowed to travel every day. The continuous processing industries and industries manufacturing essential commodities will be permitted to operate with adequate precautions. Taking note of the surge in cases, the government decided to revert to 33% strength in state and Union government offices. Essential services like secretariat, health and family welfare, police, revenue and disaster management, electricity, treasuries, Aavin, local bodies, water supply, labour, cooperation, food and consumer protection departments will remain open with adequate staff. The staff from containment zones need not come for work and should get permission from officials in advance. Construction activities are permitted availing in-situ workers during the intense lockdown. The chief minister made a fervent appeal to the people to extend their cooperation. “Wearing a mask is mandatory for people stepping out. The disease can be contained only if people wash their hands frequently at home and workplaces, wear masks, maintain social distancing, avoid going out unnecessarily and support the government,” the chief minister said, while asking people to visit hospitals immediately if they show Covid symptoms and get medical assistance. The fifth phase of lockdown ends on June 30 across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-suburbs-under-12-day-intense-lockdown-from-june-19/articleshow/76395131.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Dalit man in Amreli fakes upper caste ID, threatened||RAJKOT: A 23-year-old Dalit man in Amreli district was allegedly threatened with dire consequences and subjected to casteist slurs for identifying himself from upper caste community and posting his photograph with moustache on the social media. The incident was reported from Nana Machiyala village of Amreli taluka. Police said the accused, identified as Rohit Vala, allegedly hurled casteist slurs at Vipul Parmar for identifying himself as the one from Darbar community on Facebook. According to the police, Parmar had created a Facebook account with the fake ID of Virendrasinh Parmar, in which he had identified himself as a Darbar and had uploaded photographs with twirling moustaches. Vala and his friend Yuvraj Kathi had taken a strong objection to this and had gone to Parmar’s house on the evening of June 11. They took Parmar on their motorcycle on the village outskirts, abused him with casteist slurs and threatened him with dire consequences, if he did not remove his photographs from the Facebook. After Parmar said he would remove the photographs from his cellphone which was kept at his home, they let him off. “When Parmar’s younger brother Nitin, who was following them, arrived at the spot, the duo threatened him too with dire consequences if he did not ensure that Parmar delete his pictures. On the night of June 11, Vala again went to Parmar’s house and hurled casteist slurs at Parmar's father Danji Parmar, subsequent of which Parmar lodged a complaint against Vala,” said J Y Pathan, sub-inspector with Amreli taluka police station. “We handed over the complaint to Amreli ST/SC cell, which arrested Vala on June 13,” added Pathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dalit-fakes-upper-caste-id-threatened/articleshow/76394369.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||India needs 1 million tests daily to fight Covid, says CCMB chief||HYDERABAD: India needs to ramp up its Covid-19 testing by roughly 10 times to at least one million samples daily to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. This was stated by Rakesh Mishra, director of the premier research organisation, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), on Monday during a video conference with Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and others. Between 1.15 lakh and 1.5 lakh people have been tested daily across the country between June 10 and 14, according to figures of the Union ministry of health and family planning. “It (testing) should be more than one lakh and can be one million per day,” Mishra said during the conference. Later, in an interaction with TOI, he said that testing is essential as demonstrated in Dharavi, the mega slum in Mumbai, where the infection is being controlled with increased testing. “One million tests per day is possible but by using different technologies of testing,” he added. “In the RT-PCR method, the result time is eight hours if everything is followed meticulously. The RNA isolation process takes a lot of time. In other methods, the isolation of RNA is not required and therefore the result time is only half that of the RT-PCR test.” Several prestigious institutes, including CCMB, have developed such models. “We are seeking permission for our models. The government can even try next generation testing technologies where 10,000 tests can be done at a time, but they are useful only when a large number of tests (pooling of tests for example in a containment zone) are to be done because of the cost.” According to him, the cost of tests will come down slowly. He also said that there are no less dangerous or more dangerous strains of the virus in the country and that our overall mortality was much less. Speaking at the conference, former Union health secretary K Sujata Rao said, “It is surprising to see that despite having the best medical and health infrastructure in the state, extensive testing wasn’t done in Telangana earlier. It is good that the state has now decided to increase testing,” she said. Telangana does not make public the number of tests it conducts. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had, however, said on Sunday that his government would soon test 50,000 people in 30 assembly constituencies in and around Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/india-needs-1-million-tests-daily-to-fight-covid-says-ccmb-chief/articleshow/76395600.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 16, 2020||Kanpur||26 migrant workers hurt in accidenton Agra-Lucknow e-way in Kannauj||Kanpur:Twenty-six migrant workers sustained injuries, five among them critical, after a tourist bus they were travelling in climbed onto a road divider on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Kotwali police area of Kannauj district on Monday morning. The bus was ferrying migrant workers to Nalanda in Bihar from Delhi. On reaching near mile stone -196 in Gagemau-Pachaur area, the driver could not control the speed of the vehicle, and it climbed onto the divider at around 7 am. The loud shrieks of the passengers attracted passersby, who alerted police. “Nearly 26 migrants suffered injuries, five among them critical. They were all escorted out of the vehicle and admitted to Tirwa medical college. The bus had to be towed away by a crane,” said a police officer. “Prima facie, the driver it appeared dozed off and lost control over vehicle,” he added. SDM Sadar Jaikaran rushed to the spot to take note of the situation. “Injured migrants are undergoing treatment at Tirwa Medical college,” said SDM, adding that there were two drivers in the bus -Rajesh and Roshan. “The bus was being driven by Rajesh and at the time of incident nearly 36 migrants were travelling in the bus. They have been provided lunch packs and water,” he said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/26-migrant-workers-hurt-in-accidenton-agra-lucknow-e-way-in-kannauj/articleshow/76394970.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolhapur||No fresh Covid case in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: For the second consecutive day, Kolhapur district reported no Covid-19 case till Monday evening while 18 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. The total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 720 with 71 active cases. Around 130 throat swab samples were tested on Monday. Meanwhile, the number of people in quarantine centres in Kolhapur city has increased to 1,150 in 18 centres. As many as 860 people are home quarantined. The district administration has asked industrialists and other manufacturing units to provide details of the migrant workers asked to return to work. The permission to the migrant workers to return will be given only if the worker stayed at non-red zones. Sangli reports 6 fresh casesSangli district has reported six fresh Covid-19 patients on Monday, which includes a five-month-old baby girl from Mandur village in Shirala tehsil. With this, the total number of cases rose to 253, with 8 casualties and 125 patients discharged. The total number of Covid-19 patients in Mandur village rose to 47. One of the parents of the five-month-old baby who had returned from Mumbai tested positive. So far, throat swab samples of over 5,800 people have been tested in the district. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh who visited Sangli district on Monday said that plasma therapy has been started at several hospitals in the state and soon a 'plasma bank' will be set up to help get the critical Covid-19 patients. The plasma of Covid-19 recovered patients which contains antibodies to fight against the coronavirus is injected to develop immunity in the critical and patients with c0morbidity. Deshmukh said that people with comorbidity are at a higher risk of contracting the infection.“We have started making a list of such people and ensure they are isolated. Plasma therapy is being carried out in many government medical hospitals.” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-fresh-covid-case-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/76393087.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Salons resume operations behind closed doors||Kolhapur: Some salons in the city have resumed operations but with their shutters closed, as the state government is yet to give permission to resume operations and the barbers feared action by the administration. Barbers and salon operators threatened to open their salons from Monday if they were not allowed to do so. However, fearing strict action by the district administration, they allowed customers from the back door only. A salon operator from Rajarampuri requesting anonymity said, “We are giving haircuts, facial massage and shaving especially to those who are getting married and their relatives. The shutters have to be closed. Most of the customers are called early morning. For the rest of the day, the salon remains closed. ” The operator said that only regular customers are provided with the service. “We check temperature with thermal guns before carrying out haircuts. The customers also insist on masks and hand gloves be worn. In many cases the customers prefer shaving at home as it involves direct touching to the face and thereby has more chances for getting infected,” said the salon operator. One of the members of the barbers association said that the barbers are waiting for state governments’ orders for opening up the salons, till then services will be provided behind close doors. One of the senior officials from the district administration said that it is not possible to check every salon by knocking on their doors. Pandit Pawar, the head of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation's anti-encroachment the department, said, “We did not find any salon open. We have another task of taking action against roadside eateries that are serving food on spot. We are going to impose a fine now. Last time, we confiscated the gas cylinders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/salons-resume-operations-behind-closed-doors/articleshow/76393102.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Traders threaten to protest if Sunday off not changed||Ludhiana: Huge resentment is being witnessed among shopkeepers and traders against the state government’s order to keep the markets and shops closed on Sundays. Already opposition has been expressed by a lot of shopkeepers on this rule, which came into effect from this week. Businessmen are of the view that they will suffer huge losses if Sunday continues to be the mandatory off. Speaking to TOI, Gurdeep Singh Gosha , president of Business Bachao Morcha, said, “It is very unfortunate that the state government without taking any sensible view of the on ground situation has taken this arbitrary decision. The decision of fixing Sunday as mandatory off is going to cause losses worth crores to Ludhiana traders as there are thousands of shops of both wholesale and retail. Everyone is dependant on Sunday for their sales as on the other days the markets get closed at 6pm due to lockdown restrictions and therefore no customers comes for purchasing on weekdays. It is our warning to the government to re-think its decision and rather than earmarking Sunday as the mandatory off, some other day during the week should be fixed as off day it is the only way to boost the business of traders across all trades. If nothing is done, then we will resort to a protest to get our demand accepted.” According to Manpreet Singh Bunty, presidnt of Akal Garh Market Association, “The quantum of losses the shopkeepers will be suffering due to Sunday as an off day is unimaginable. It was only on Sunday that not only retail, but shopkeepers from other parts of Punjab used to come to our market for buying the garments in bulk. It was this day sales due to which the livelihood of the shopkeepers was running. But now everything has been destroyed as Sunday has been restricted for movement. It is our request to the government to reconsider it’s decision before it’s too late and fix any other day for off instead of Sunday. If nothing is done in this regard then the patience of traders will run out and we will have to resort to other ways like protest.” Aman Ahuja, a hardware shopkeeper in old city area, said, “Customers, be it businessmen or self employed or servicemen, used to come for purchases only on Sundays. But with this day of the week restricted for movement and opening of shops and establishments, it’s nothing less than a great setback. We request the state government to change Sunday and make any other day of the week as the restricted off for the shops, so that we are able to earn money to at least pay our expenses and manage our families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traders-threaten-to-protest-if-sunday-off-not-changed/articleshow/76394350.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Body of an unidentified woman found near rail track||Ludhiana: Panic gripped Ladhowal railway station after Government Railway Police (Ludhiana) found an unidentified body of an old man lying along a railway track near the city railway station late on Sunday. The deceased seems to be in her sixties as police are yet to disclose the identity. Rattan Lal, assistant sub-inspector at GRP said the cleanliness staff of the Railways noticed the body of an old man lying unconscious near a rail track passing through Ladhowal railway bride in the evening hours of Sunday. Following this, they informed the health team of the Railways. It reached there and declared her dead during initial check up. “Following this, the railway staff conveyed the message to the control room of Government Railway Police and a police party under my supervision reached the spot and initiated the legal proceedings in this regard.” In the initial stage of the investigations, the police get to know that “it was a case of natural death as no injury marks were reported on the body of the deceased”. Police suspect that the deceased might have faced cardiac arrest and died on the spot.” “The body has been sent to the civil hospital for a post-mortem examination. The police while investigating the matter disclosed that it was still to find the reason behind this. Besides, no one has so far come to claim the body, which was lying in the civil hospital for the next 72 hours for further identification. “Police has initiated the investigation under Section 174 of the Railway Act for further investigations in the case. It did not recover any document from the possession of the deceased at the time to inquiry,” the cops further said.. On the other hand, the higher-ups of the Government Railway Police authorities will soon issue directions for conducting the Covid-19 test of all such unclaimed bodies found near railway tracks or the station premises to ensure the safety of government railway forces, which examine the bodies for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/body-of-an-unidentified-woman-found-near-rail-track/articleshow/76394359.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Put power bill draft on hold’||Patiala: The All-India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has appealed to the PM to put on hold the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 as proper discussion in Parliament would not be possible under constraints of virtual participation, said federation spokesperson V K Gupta. He said AIPEF sent a letter to the PM on June 13. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/put-power-bill-draft-on-hold/articleshow/76395151.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Home quarantine tests positive: Why patients are happy in Delhi||NEW DELHI: For Deepa Gupta and her husband, Umesh Kumar Gupta, who both tested positive for Covid-19 in the first week of June, home quarantine was suggested because of their mild symptoms though the family was apprehensive of the care they would get at home. Ten days into isolation at home, the family is appreciative of the way Delhi government is managing such patients. A doctor calls them three times a day and the sub-divisional magistrate’s office makes daily enquiries too. Unable to step out of their house, they are grateful for phone calls asking about assistance in delivery of groceries and essentials. Deepa, 55, and her 59-year-old husband live in Mayur Vihar. After a dog bite in May she visited the hospital a number of times for her anti-rabies injections. On May 25, after her third injection trip, Deepa developed a fever. “I thought the 99-100 degrees Fahrenheit temperature was a reaction to the rabies injections. Then on May 29, my husband too got fever and we felt there had to be something more than mere fever involved,” she told TOI on Monday. The couple got tested on June 1 and got the results two days later. “At 11 pm on June 3, we discovered we had Covid-19 and could not sleep,” said Deepa. “The doctor had already suggested medicines in case the results were positive. We took the prescribed vitamin C, B complex and Crocin 650 on June 4 and stayed indoors. On June 5, a team from the SDM’s office arrived and verified our details before putting up a quarantine poster outside our house. They asked us to remain in home quarantine till June 22.” With Covid-designated hospitals — both private and government — straining under the load, Delhi government decided that all mild cases should be sent into quarantine at homes, with experts asked to monitor and enquire regularly about each case. When the Guptas downloaded the Aarogya Setu app, they found their names already listed as positive cases. The couple was instructed to stay away from each other, not to leave home and to rest as much as possible. The municipal corporation disinfected their apartment and its surroundings. “Of the three calls we get daily, two are automated ones. But a doctor phones every evening to check our vitals and ascertain whether the symptoms have hardened,” disclosed Deepa. “We were provided oximeters three days ago and the doctor asks me for the readings each evening. Our fever subsided on June 5 and now we are practically asymptomatic.” A 55-year-old home maker from New Ashok Nagar also tested positive on June 13. “The fever had disappeared, but since she was Covid-19 positive, she had to stay in home quarantine,” the woman’s daughter said. “After confirming our address on phone, a woman constable came the following day to verify the address. Then a medical team arrived to check her vitals before putting up a poster outside our house.” On testing positive, the woman’s family was asked to call the Covid-19 helpline number to register for home quarantine. “Our house was disinfected, and the doctor enquires regularly about changes or new symptoms,” the daughter said. “Other family members will only be tested if we develop symptoms. We have to inform the authorities if any of us show signs of corona infection.” After their experience, Deepa Gupta said, “We were initially scared, but now want to share with others that home quarantine is nothing to be frightened of.” Umesh Gupta too has posted in detail on WhatsApp about the home quarantine process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-quarantine-tests-positive-why-patients-are-happy/articleshow/76395177.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Record high of 44 deaths takes Tamil Nadu toll to 479||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 death toll in Tamil Nadu rose to a new single-day high of 44 on Monday, while the number of fresh cases dipped marginally to 1,843 from 1,974 on Sunday. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the focus was not on number of cases anymore. “We want to minimise deaths and protect the vulnerable,” he said. The mortality rate went beyond 1% though the total in the Monday bulletin of 479 deceased so far did not include nearly 250 Covid deaths in Chennai, which the directorate of public health is yet to include in its count. “There are more high-risk cases being reported now. More people require high flow oxygen and ventilators. There are many people with comorbidities. The death numbers are expected to go up,” said infectious disease expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, one of the members of the medical expert committee. Lockdown will help us delay the peak, says health secretary“We have to stop the spread by asking people to wear masks and maintaining social distance. The state has to test more people to catch infections early and begin therapy and protect the vulnerable,” Ramasubramanian said. Chennai continued to record the most fresh cases, 1,257 on Monday. Its neighours Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet together logged 210 fresh cases. As per the state’s calculation the incidence of Covid-19 in Chennai is 4,233 per million compared to 520 for TN and 233 for the country as a whole. In Chengalpattu, it was 1,290, Tiruvallur had 512 and Kancheepuram 425. Barring Ariyalur, which had 485, the incidence per million was less than 270 per million in other districts. “One in every five persons tested in Chennai was positive. This is despite all measure including aggressive testing. We are doing 19,551 tests per million population in Chennai compared to 8,370 for the state and 3,991 nationally,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The number of streets in Chennai with five or more cases increased to 712 from around 500 last week. The city had more than 1,000 streets with four or more cases and 1,700 three or more cases. “We need aggressive measures to contain this. We will use the two-week lockdown to create awareness, ramp up testing and augment infrastructure. The lockdown will delay the peak and give us more time to prepare,” the health secretary said. On Monday, there was fresh spike of cases in the northern districts -- Ranipet recorded 37 cases, Tiruvannamalai 33 and Vellore 21. In the south, Tuticorin had 38 cases and Madurai 33. Eleven of the dead did not have any comorbidities and nine people died within 24 hours of admission. There were 30 people above to age of 60, four in their 30s, six in their 40s and four in their 50s. All the deaths announced on Monday happened between June 13 and June 15. While 24 people died on June 14, 13 of them died the previous as per the Monday bulletin. (The state bulletin released on Sunday had one death recorded on June 14. So, June 14 has recorded 25 deaths in a day -- the maximum so far).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/record-high-of-44-deaths-takes-tn-toll-to-479/articleshow/76395136.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||DSP suspended for dereliction of duty dies of cardiac arrest||HYDERABAD: A suspended deputy superintendent of police (DSP) with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) died of cardiac arrest at his house in Kompally on Monday. DSP S Pratap, 51, a member of ACB’s Central Investigation Unit (CIU), was under suspension for dereliction of duty. On Monday morning, Pratap went to the washroom and did not come out. As there was no response from him for a long time, his wife called for help and they forcibly opened the door, Petbasheerabad police said. “He was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital,” an ACB official said.  A few days ago, Pratap was placed under suspension for dereliction of duty pertaining to a discreet inquiry assigned to him about a stamps and registrations department official. According to sources, while conducting the inquiry into disproportionate assets, the DSP called the official under scrutiny for questioning, which was against the basic procedure of discreet inquiry. “As part of discreet inquiry, the investigator has to take utmost care to not alert the official under scrutiny about the inquiry,” a source said. After the inquiry, the DSP gave a report stating that the official under scrutiny did not possess disproportionate assets. However, senior officials assigned the inquiry to another officer and about 200% disproportionate assets were found during the preliminary probe. After the development, the DSP was placed under suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dsp-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/76395135.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Two involved in consuming liquor, transferred to other quarantine facilities||Kolhapur: Two inmates of a quarantine facility have been shifted to different facilities on Monday, after complaints of them and another person consuming liquor in the premises were received. The other person was discharged after completing the quarantine period. The locals had found liquor bottles thrown outside of a quarantine centre on Sunday. Three people, all workers, have been staying in the quarantine centre since the last few days. One of them was from Panhala whose family had sent food to him. Instead of water bottles, liquor bottles were bought inside in a box. Nitin Desai, the additional commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, visited the quarantine centre in Dasara Chowk to enquire. He said, “The three people staying in the same room partied on Saturday night. It came to the notice of the locals on Sunday. They were warned against indulging in such acts. On Monday, we transferred two to other centres and one was discharged. We \ did not find evidence, however, statements have been recorded of all those who were involved and witnessed it. We will initiate police action based on the statements.” Desai said that the police were called on the next day but immediate action could not be taken due to lack of evidence. Meanwhile, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has ordered that any kind of parcel will be allowed in quarantine centres. He said that all the inmates are served good quality food. “No food from outside is allowed in the centre nor any person without permission. I have asked quarantine centre operators to ensure rules are followed strictly,” said Kalshetti. Around 650 persons are lodged in 18 quarantine centres from five to 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-involved-in-consuming-liquor-transferred-to-other-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/76393118.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Erode||Record high of 44 deaths takes Tamil Nadu toll to 479||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 death toll in Tamil Nadu rose to a new single-day high of 44 on Monday, while the number of fresh cases dipped marginally to 1,843 from 1,974 on Sunday. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the focus was not on number of cases anymore. “We want to minimise deaths and protect the vulnerable,” he said. The mortality rate went beyond 1% though the total in the Monday bulletin of 479 deceased so far did not include nearly 250 Covid deaths in Chennai, which the directorate of public health is yet to include in its count. “There are more high-risk cases being reported now. More people require high flow oxygen and ventilators. There are many people with comorbidities. The death numbers are expected to go up,” said infectious disease expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, one of the members of the medical expert committee. Lockdown will help us delay the peak, says health secretary“We have to stop the spread by asking people to wear masks and maintaining social distance. The state has to test more people to catch infections early and begin therapy and protect the vulnerable,” Ramasubramanian said. Chennai continued to record the most fresh cases, 1,257 on Monday. Its neighours Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet together logged 210 fresh cases. As per the state’s calculation the incidence of Covid-19 in Chennai is 4,233 per million compared to 520 for TN and 233 for the country as a whole. In Chengalpattu, it was 1,290, Tiruvallur had 512 and Kancheepuram 425. Barring Ariyalur, which had 485, the incidence per million was less than 270 per million in other districts. “One in every five persons tested in Chennai was positive. This is despite all measure including aggressive testing. We are doing 19,551 tests per million population in Chennai compared to 8,370 for the state and 3,991 nationally,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The number of streets in Chennai with five or more cases increased to 712 from around 500 last week. The city had more than 1,000 streets with four or more cases and 1,700 three or more cases. “We need aggressive measures to contain this. We will use the two-week lockdown to create awareness, ramp up testing and augment infrastructure. The lockdown will delay the peak and give us more time to prepare,” the health secretary said. On Monday, there was fresh spike of cases in the northern districts -- Ranipet recorded 37 cases, Tiruvannamalai 33 and Vellore 21. In the south, Tuticorin had 38 cases and Madurai 33. Eleven of the dead did not have any comorbidities and nine people died within 24 hours of admission. There were 30 people above to age of 60, four in their 30s, six in their 40s and four in their 50s. All the deaths announced on Monday happened between June 13 and June 15. While 24 people died on June 14, 13 of them died the previous as per the Monday bulletin. (The state bulletin released on Sunday had one death recorded on June 14. So, June 14 has recorded 25 deaths in a day -- the maximum so far).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/record-high-of-44-deaths-takes-tn-toll-to-479/articleshow/76403649.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Strained family ties a major cause of suicides in city||Ludhiana: The city has reported over 25 suicide cases since lockdown. Till mid of June a total six suicides have been reported, while eight suicides were reported in May and 11 in April. Out of these 25 suicides, seven were women while in a majority of the cases, men have taken the extreme step. According to police in majority of the cases, people who committed suicide were depressed, however, the reasons were uncertain. In a few cases, victims committed suicide due to their strain relations with family and also due to poor economic conditions and monetary issues. On June 6, Jagmohan Singh (37) of Bhaini Sahib village committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance after a fraud travel agent duped him of Rs 10 lakh on pretext of sending him abroad. In a matter of strained relations, an elderly woman, Chanchal Jail, set herself and her husband Sunil Jail ablaze at their house in Haibowal area. According to cops, the elderly couple had strained relations with both their sons and daughters-in-law. Hours before taking the extreme step, the woman had also called up the police control room and told the cops that their sons don’t take care of them. Another example of strained relations leading to suicide is of a traffic cop. On May 25, constable Kamaljeet Kaur (29) of Dehlon took the extreme step by consuming intoxicating pills in her government quarter in Police Lines. According to police, the constable was depressed over her strained relations with her husband. Both had been living separate for the past over one year. In another case reported on May 26, sacked from job due to Covid-19 outbreak, Ravish Kumar (34) committed suicide by jumping into Doraha Canal. The man had jumped in the canal on April 22, before which he also recorded a video and uploaded it on his Facebook account. His body was recovered by police on Monday late night. The most hyped suicide case of lockdown was of Ajit Rai (38) of Rajive Gandhi Colony, who hanged himself from a window grill of the house as he allegedly did not get ration. His family had alleged that Rai used to visit police station to get ration but would return empty handed. A city-based psychologist Dr Rajiv Gupta said, “Nobody commits suicide in a fraction of a second. It’s caused by a continues suffering for a few months and even some years. Strained relations, poor financial conditions are just triggers that force someone to commit suicide. Moreover, in majority of the case the people who commit suicide had also attempted it earlier too.” “If someone says that they want to end the life, they should never be taken causally. It is their cry for help. What has to be done now is that we should stop putting emotional issues under the carpet. There is a need to encourage children to share and deal with their emotional issues. If somebody says he or she is unhappy, they should be handled with compassion and need to be counselled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/strained-family-ties-a-major-cause-of-suicides-in-city/articleshow/76394375.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Heavy rainfall in Nashik floods low lying areas||Nashik: The city received the season’s first heavy rainfall on Monday afternoon, that inundated some of the low lying areas like Saraf Bazaar, flower market and Dahipul areas. Some of the jewellers could not take out their goods out of their shops as many of the establishments were closed on account of the odd-even formula of opening shops. “Those who had opened their shops could take out their belongings. Many people could not take out the stock of goods as their shops were closed. Water has entered around 200 shops,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president of Nashik Jewellers Association. “We are facing waterlogging problems for the past four years during monsoon. But the intensity was more this year. Three to six feet water had accumulated in the low-lying areas. Water from College Road and Gangpuar Road areas flows towards Saraf Bazaar during heavy rains,” said Rajapurkar. “Flood waters entered my jewellery shop. I immediately shifted all my goods in the shop after the water level started increasing in Saraf Bazaar,” said Pradeep Kulthe, a jeweler. The holes in the lids of storm water lines were choked as the waste accumulated in the roadside had flown into the nullahs. Interestingly, during the weekly meeting on Monday, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game directed officials to take steps to prevent waterlogging in the city. The directions comes after several areas in the city were waterlogged following rainfall three to four days ago. Accordingly, the NMC’s solid waste department has given instructions to the divisional officers of all six divisions to lift roadside garbage immediately so that waste does not choke the lids or the chambers of the storm water lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/heavy-rainfall-in-nashik-floods-low-lying-areas/articleshow/76393133.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 16, 2020||Kanpur||Govt driver’s suicide bid foiled at Vikas Bhawan||Kanpur: Chaos prevailed after driver of a project director of gram vikas department allegedly doused himself in kerosene and tried to immolate self at the Vikas Bhawan in Rawatpur area of the city on Monday afternoon. Shyam Dubey, driver of a project director of the department, arrived at the Vikas Bhawan around 2:15 pm on Monday. Suddenly, Dubey took out a container filled with kerosene from a bag and poured it on himself. It was when he tried to light a match stick, a few employees snatched the container and matchbox from him and alerted local police. The police on being informed rushed to the spot and after taking the man into their custody launched an investigation in this regard. A police officer said they would take his statement and decide on the further course of action. “As per the preliminary findings, he got depressed allegedly upon delay in payment of his salary dues,” said Inspector Nawabganj Ramakant Pachauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-drivers-suicide-bid-foiled-at-vikas-bhawan/articleshow/76394962.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Rise in Covid cases in Delhi lowers flight occupancy||Ludhiana: Delhi-Ludhiana flight continues to witness 40%-60% occupancy even as the number of passengers from Ludhiana to Delhi continues to be less. This has disappointed the airport and AAI officials as they expected the number to rise after opening of hotels on June 8. The flight operations between Ludhiana and Delhi had resumed on May 25 and on the first day 11 passengers had arrived from Delhi, whereas just five passengers had board the flight to Delhi from here. On June 15, the number of passengers from Ludhiana was 10. An airport official said though the number of passengers coming from Delhi had risen after resumption of flight but it was still less according to their expectations. He added that they expected a significant rise in the number of passengers from Delhi with the opening of hotels, but it did not happen. “These passengers coming from Delhi are mostly Ludhiana residents who were stranded in other states,” said the airport official. About the less number of passengers going to Delhi from the city, the AAI officials said the number was less as Delhi had been witnessing a large number of cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rise-in-covid-cases-in-delhi-lowers-flight-occupancy/articleshow/76394387.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Anti-CAA activists go online||Hyderabad: In view of the lockdown, civil and human rights activists are expressing dissent through various internet platforms. However, intelligence agencies are finding it hard to keep a tab on the daily activities of the activists, especially those who are opposing the arrests in Delhi in connection with the riots and anti-CAA protests. Even after the lockdown restriction were eased, many activists switched to online webinars, discussions and online campaigns to express dissent. It has been found that activists are using Zoom, Twitter, and Facebook to hold online meetings. “Webinars are the best way to stay connected with fellow activists across the nation,” said a civil rights activist. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anti-caa-activists-go-online/articleshow/76395141.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu approves ordinance to give Neet quota for govt school students||CHENNAI: The CM Edappadi K Palaniswami-led Tamil Nadu cabinet on Monday granted approval to promulgate an ordinance to give horizontal reservation – which is likely to be between 7.5% and 10% — to government school students who clear Neet for admission to medical courses from this academic year. The government opted for the ordinance route since the assembly is not in session. “The state government proposed to extend 10% horizontal quota within the vertical quota extended to categories available to SC/ST, OBC and open category. There was a discussion in the cabinet about the percentage before granting approval for ordinance, which could be between 7.5% and 10%,” said a source. The decision comes in the wake of recommendations by the Justice P Kalaiyarasan-led committee in its report filed last week after an in-depth empirical study. The panel left it to the government to the quantum of reservation extended to government school students, who have been hit the hardest by the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet) in the last four years. ‘Justifiable grounds’ for NEET quotaThe panel had been mandated to assess and analyse the reasons for the less number of government school students getting admission in medical courses and recommend measures to the government. The secretaries of health and family welfare, school education and law departments, besides two educationists, were part of the committee that studied the data from CBSE, ICSE and directorate of medical education before concluding that there were “justifiable grounds” for horizontal reservation. “The promulgation of ordinance will take some time, not immediately,” said another source. The EPS government is keen to get the ordinance promulgated even as the validity of which could be challenged in the court of law. After facing flak from the Opposition parties for having failed to get exemption from NEET for Tamil Nadu, despite a unanimous bills in the assembly in 2017, Palaniswami announced in March the constitution of committee and said his government would not allow the steep fall in the number of government school students getting admission in medical courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-approves-ordinance-to-give-neet-quota-for-govt-students/articleshow/76395171.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 16, 2020||Agra||Family confined for 36 hours over suspicion of theft by employer; 12-yr-old given electric shocks, burned with wax||Agra: A family of seven, including an 18-month-old infant, in Agra was allegedly assaulted and confined for several hours by a local businessman who employed their sons at a water purifier plant and suspected them of stealing jewellery from him. The family also alleged that their 12-year-old boy, who did odd jobs at the plant, was burned with wax, forced to pee on a heater to get electric shocks, kicked in the gut and punched on the face multiple times by his employer. They were given no food or water. The boy’s brother, 20-year-old Sonu, who also worked for the plant owner, went missing on Saturday after he jumped from the third floor of their employer’s house where they were being kept in a desperate attempt to escape. The family was rescued by police a day later when one of the members, an eight-year-old boy, managed to escape and inform relatives. Police officers said Sonu was located in a hospital while an FIR was filed on Monday after initial delay and four people have been arrested. The young boy as well as Sonu, sons of a rickshaw puller named Nizam, worked at the plant in Sarai Khwaja area under Shahganj police limits. According to the boy, their employer, a man identified only as Abrar, took him to a room in a building on Friday and thrashed him. “He rained blows on me, kicked and punched me and gave electric shocks. He even burned me with melted wax. He kept asking about his jewellery that was stolen, but I had nothing to do with it,” the youngster told TOI. A video of the boy revealing multiple injuries and burn marks has been doing the rounds on social media. Nizam, the father of the boy, said that Abrar accompanied by six other men came to their house on Friday night to “search” it. “He asked me to come to his house along with my wife if I wanted to meet my son,” said the 48-year-old. He alleged that their phones were snatched away and they were beaten up by the group of men over jewellery that had gone missing around May 25 from Abrar’s house. “On Saturday, when my other son, Sonu, came looking for me, he was assaulted too. He jumped from the building and later Abrar told us that he was in a hospital,” Nizam said. Later, Sonu’s wife, Ruksana, also reached there with her 18-month-old son and her eight-year-old brother-in-law. She was also dragged into the room. The eight-year-old boy managed to escape and call relatives who contacted police. A dial 112 team tracked down and rescued the family. The family was taken to the police station but no FIR was filed. “Police let Abrar and his men go with minor charges,” alleged Nizam’s wife, Mubina. Police said though the FIR was not filed, the accused were booked under CrPc 151 and granted bail. SHO Shahganj Satyendra Singh Raghav told TOI that the FIR was not filed on Sunday since the family could not write a complaint as they were illiterate. “The family also wanted to get a medical done before an FIR was filed.” SSP (Agra) Babloo Kumar also said the victims hadn’t given a written complaint, resulting in a delay in lodging FIR. “Ideally the FIR should have been lodged the same day,” the SSP said. The FIR was filed on Monday against Abrar and six others. The accused men have been booked under IPC sections 147 (riot), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 448 (punishment for house-trespass), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/family-confined-for-36-hours-over-suspicion-of-theft-by-employer-12-yr-old-given-electric-shocks-burned-with-wax/articleshow/76393110.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Excise sleuths arrest 6 peddlers, seize 300kg ganja worth Rs 80 lakh||HYDERABAD: Excise sleuths arrested six narcotics peddlers and seized 300 kg ganja worth Rs 80 lakh from their possession on Monday. Acting on specific information, a team of excise enforcement wing sleuths kept a watch at Patancheru toll plaza on Sunday night. The team intercepted a Toyota Innova and arrested two persons in possession of 100 kg of ganja. The accused are K Kavimoiuddin from Arur in Sangareddy and M Anjaneyulu from Venkatapur in Moinabad. In a few hours, the excise team again intercepted a Hyundai Ascent car and seized 100 kg of ganja hidden inside the vehicle. Excise sleuths arrested N Lingam of Raikode in Sangareddy, B Ravinder Naik of Malchalma in Medak and Vinayak of Bagdal Thanda in Bidar, Karnataka. Subsequently, the team also intercepted a Chevrolet car and arrested J Praveen of Hothi B in Zaheerabad with 100 kg ganja. “The total value of the 300 kg ganja seized is Rs 80 lakh,” KAB Shastry, deputy commissioner, prohibition & excise, Medak division, said. The accused belong to two separate gangs and procured the ganja from the same seller in Odisha. They were smuggling the contraband to Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/excise-sleuths-arrest-6-peddlers-seize-300kg-ganja-worth-rs-80-lakh/articleshow/76395157.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Laghu Udyog Bharati forms cell||Hyderabad: The Laghu Udyog Bharati, all India organisation of micro and small industries, has formed a cell for ‘import substitute product development’ following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and Swavlamban’ (ANBA). “Through this cell a survey was conducted across India by our state units and 50 different products across various categories have been identified on which the preliminary work has already started,” read a press release issued by Govind Lele, all India general secretary of Laghu Udyog Bharati. Members of Laghu Udyog Bharati extended their support to ANBA. “Laghu Udyog Bharati is committed to putting all efforts for the timely results,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/laghu-udyog-bharati-forms-cell/articleshow/76395178.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Eight held with fake currency notes in Nashik||NASHIK: As many eight people have been arrested by the crime branch police for possessing fake currency notes worth Rs 12,400. The crime branch unit 2 laid a trap and arrested the eight suspects on Saturday from various locations for allegedly possessing and dealing in fake currency notes. Among those arrested, four are from Nashik, three from Pune and one from Aurangabad. A case against them has been registered at Ambad police station and all after being presented in court they have been remanded in police custody till Thursday. “We had received information from our sources that four people were coming to Nashik city for delivering the fake notes. We acted on the information and arrested the suspects,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-held-with-fake-currency-notes/articleshow/76393160.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Poaching hint at Keonjhar elephants’ death||Bhubaneswar: Preliminary investigation into Sunday’s death of two elephants in Champua range of Keonjhar district suggests the work of poachers given that both died of electrocution. An eight-year-old tusker and a 30-year-old female elephant were found dead in Baitarani reserve forest in the district. Officials said the elephants came in contact with a live wire. “The tusk of the eight-year-old was found missing, which indicates foul play. We are investigating whether professional poachers played any role in the act,” said a senior forest officer. Principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) H S Upadhyay said it is unclear whether poachers were involved in the death of the elephants. “We will analyse the autopsy report and take into account inputs obtained from field observation and then take necessary steps to fix the responsibility,” Upadhyay said. Additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Sashi Paul, Rourkela regional conservator of forests Bhanja Kishor Swain and divisional forest officer (Keonjhar) Santosh Joshi visited the spot and took stock of the situation. “It is really a shocking incident. We are taking several steps to protect the wild animals. Despite that, such incidents are taking place. We have got some clues relating to the incident. If poachers are involved, they will be arrested with the help of the police,” Paul said. In the last two months, four elephants have died in Champua forest range. This has raised doubts about their safety in the district. “In around five months, 12 elephants have died due to unnatural causes in the state. In one-and-half years, 85 have died due to different causes,” said Biswajit Mohanty, secretary, Wildlife Society of Odisha (WSO), a private body working on wildlife conservation. Mohanty has sent a letter to the director, project elephant, New Delhi, demanding an independent inquiry into the incident and give a relook at all cases of unnatural deaths of elephants in the state. “We have sent a letter to the project elephant demanding an independent probe. This is our third reminder,” Mohanty said. “We are surprised that despite our repeated pleas, there has been no attempt to stop the massacre of elephants in Odisha. While the tragic death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala has got the government to promptly sit up and notice, in Odisha, the appalling condition of elephants has been ignored,” Mohanty added. On June 12, the death of a calf, which was strangled by a snare in the Kuanrmunda range of Rourkela division, shocked the people of Odisha but barring suspension and show cause notices to some lower-rung employees, no responsibility has been fixed on the senior officials, Mohanty pointed out. WSO data revealed that of the 85 elephants that died between April 1, 2019 and June 14, 2020, 10 were related to electrocution by live wire. While four died in road accidents, one succumbed to injuries after it was hit by a train. In the case of 17 elephants, the cause of death couldn’t be ascertained. (With inputs from Naresh Chandra Pattanayak, Keonjhar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/poaching-hint-at-keonjhar-elephants-death/articleshow/76393177.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kanpur||Morphed pictures of tannery owner’sfamily put on social media, case filed||Kanpur:A case has been booked against unidentified miscreants for uploading morphed photographs of female members of a family of city’s leading tannery owner on the social media in the city. The Gwaltoli police has registered an FIR against unidentified men following a complaint by the manager of a tannery firm on Sunday. The complainant has alleged that the unidentified crooks have resorted to posting morphed obscene images of the female family members of the tannery owner on social media. “The miscreants have been constantly sending morphed photographs of the female members on the WhatsApp numbers of other staff members of the company causing major embarrassment to the tannery owner and his family members,” said the police. The police also said that the miscreants have also uploaded morphed photograph on some porn sites. Inspector Gwaltoli, Vijay Pandey, said, “A case has been booked against unidentified miscreants under 67 A IT act (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form). The police said that miscreants are using virtual different WhatsApp numbers created with the help of some application on the internet. “We have sought help from our Cyber Cell experts and are working on the case and also mailed the details of virtual numbers to WhatsApp authorities. Soon, the culprits will be in police net.” A police officer said that these virtual numbers can be bought for a mere sum and be kept as per ones convenience. The crooks these days are buying virtual numbers and making it difficult to track them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/morphed-pictures-of-tannery-ownersfamily-put-on-social-media-case-filed/articleshow/76394936.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 16, 2020||Agra||Highest single day Covid-19 cases in Meerut, 2 die in Agra||Meerut/Agra/Bareilly: Meerut reported its highest number of cases in the past 24 hours since the Covid-19 pandemic started spreading in the district, with as many as 40 new cases on Monday. The total number of cases in the west UP Covid "hotspot" is now 673, which includes one found in Kanpur. Also, two deaths were reported in the district, taking the total death toll to 48, Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer said. There were two deaths reported from west UP's other major Covid "hotspot" Agra district as well. The two deceased in Agra were a 12-year-old HIV patient who was suffering from encephalopathy and an 82-year-old man with septicemia and acute kidney infection. Both the Covid-19 patients died due to co-morbid conditions. Moreover, at least 17 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 1,070. Also, 12 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 1,070 cases, 83.11% have recovered. There are currently 126 active cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, "So far, 881 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checks in the hotspot areas." In Bareilly, a 25-year-old woman with high risk pregnancy died at a private hospital on Monday morning and she tested positive for Covid-19 later in the night. This is third Covid-19 death in Bareilly. Besides, five other people tested positive. The total number of cases reached 139, including 88 active cases, 48 discharged patients and three deaths. In Sambhal, 18 new cases were reported on Monday while seven patients were discharged from hospital. Officials said the district tally reached 221 with 112 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/highest-single-day-covid-19-cases-in-meerut-2-die-in-agra/articleshow/76393140.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Geotube project takes a hit as waves destroy dredger||KOCHI: The geotube project at Chellanam coastal hamlet take another hit as the dredge pontoon, brought by the contractor to take sand from sea for filling the tubes, was destroyed by strong waves on Sunday. The pontoon, that housed two heavy duty pumps and two generators along with dredging machinery, reportedly worth around Rs 1.5 crore, broke the anchorage and battered the rocks due to strong waves. With the pontoon having gone, the geotube project is likely to be stalled for long hinting at a tough monsoon and resultant sea erosion for Chellanam coastal residents. According to the irrigation department officials, who are monitoring the project, the pontoon was specially designed and brought by the Kochi-based contractor, Greenway Solutions, to complete the geotube filling works within the June 20 deadline. It was anchored at around 150m distance from the coast near Velankanni Church but the waves pushed it to the rock after breaking the anchorage. It is learnt that the contractor hastened the work during the rough weather to meet the deadline, despite advises by the people and irrigation department. “It was unadvisable to start the work in the rough sea and permission has been granted by the Chellanam harbour officials to safely anchor the pontoon at the harbour till the sea calms down. But the contractor started the work amid rough weather. The pumps have been separated from pontoon and washed away by the sea. At present, the pontoon remains submerged in the water near the rocks. The only option now is to collect the damaged parts of dredge pontoon and get them repaired or bring another pontoon. But both the options will take much time, lagging the project,” said an irrigation department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/geotube-project-takes-a-hit-as-waves-destroy-dredger/articleshow/76393186.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||HC hauls up Telangana govt for cutting pensions, says no law allows it||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that law does not permit it to tinker with pensions of the old and retired people, the Telangana high court on Monday wondered as to which provision of the law has enabled the state government to cut down their pensions from April this year. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave two days’ period to the government to explain its stand while hearing a batch of petitions filed by senior counsel S Satyam Reddy and others. Talking tough, the CJ said: “Unless the state declares a financial emergency, it has no powers — whatsoever — to touch the pensions. Even the Disaster Management Act does not contain any such provision. That is the legal status.” Making no bones about his unhappiness at the government’s move, he further said: “Pension is not a charity. Law does not accord you (government) any permission even to defer its payment.” “The GO issued by you in respect of pensions has no legal basis. It needs to be set aside,” he said while rejecting the government’s counter which, he said, has many “misplaced notions” in it. Advocate general BS Prasad, while conceding that the government did not have a case legally, however, tried to drive home the impossibilities the Covid-19 pandemic had thrown in the way of the government. He tried to remind the court that the government had modified the cut after its intervention. At this, the bench said the ‘impossibility theory’ is applicable to a contract and not to a service. After the lockdown was imposed, the government first resorted to a 50% pay deferment to its employees and pensioners. Following the intervention of the high court, the government enhanced the pension payment to 75% and confined the cut to 25%. When the hearing the case, the bench did not approve even the 25% deferment and insisted on repaying the deferred portion too. “The pensioners are at the fag end of their lives. Their children may not look after them. Some of them are staying in old-age hostels as paying guests. If they are deprived of even this facility where will they go,” the bench sought to know. The AG explained that the government was rendered helpless even by the central government which deferred the payment in respect of GST share that ought to have come to the state. Prasad said he would file a detailed counter explaining the difficulties and wanted the court to post the case to July first week. “If you are wronged there, then fight against it. But, committing another wrong is not the answer because two wrongs won’t make a right,” the bench said and posted the case to June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-hauls-up-t-govt-for-cutting-pensions-says-no-law-allows-it/articleshow/76395642.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 16, 2020||Agra||2-year-old killed, five injured in accident on Yamuna e-way||Agra: A two-year-old girl was killed and five, including her parents, injured in an accident on Yamuna expressway. The deceased was identified as Deepika, while her parents and other family members were identified as Abhimanyu Gupta and Manju Devi, and grandmother Saraswati, aunt Prabhawati and uncle Vikas. According to police, “Vikas fell asleep on the wheels and lost control over the vehicle. The accident took place around 4.15 am near milestone 70 under Naujheel police station limits of Mathura district.” The victims were on their way to East Champaran district in Bihar from New Delhi’s Anand Parvat area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-year-old-killed-five-injured-in-accident-on-yamuna-e-way/articleshow/76393170.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Murder bid accused gets bail with plantation rider||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has granted bail to a man facing prosecution in an attempt to murder case on the condition that he will plant 100 saplings in his village under Baunsuni police station limits in Boudh district. The accused had been booked on charges of house trespass, theft, criminal intimidation, using criminal force with intent to disrobe a woman and attempt to murder. He was put in custody following the registration of a case on the basis of a complaint at Boudh police station on February 2, in which a resident of Madhapur village had alleged that the accused had forcibly entered his house on January 31 and misbehaved with him. He further alleged that the accused was infatuated with his daughter and had attempted to kidnap her. The complainant said the man had tried to assault him and his family members. While hearing the accused’s bail plea, justice S K Panigrahi observed, “No prima facie case is made out against the name of the petitioner. Moreover, the basic ingredients of the offences alleged are not made out. Rather, it is found that they (the complainant and the accused) were well-known to each other.” Panigrahi in his order on Friday directed that the accused shall plant 100 saplings in his village (Mundipadar) within three months from the date of his release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/murder-bid-accused-gets-bail-with-plantation-rider/articleshow/76393203.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
June 16, 2020||Agra||UP govt suspends random pool sampling 72 hrs after launch as labs get 'overloaded'||Agra: Barely three days after the UP government started collecting random pool samples to check for signs of community transmission of Covid-19 in the state, the collection was suspended on Monday as the labs across the state became overstretched by the workload.The random pool sampling of people, engaged in service sectors, including private hospital staff, vendors, delivery boys, roadside dhabas, drivers, front line workers, chemists, and those living in old age homes, orphanages and returnee migrant workers was started on Friday.After collecting over 8,000 samples from health workers engaged in private hospitals, people of urban slum areas and residents of old age and juvenile homes and orphanages, the sampling was suspended till Wednesday, as the 34 designated labs for testing Covid samples were "overloaded with work".The samples of vendors, delivery boys, roadside dhabas, frontline workers, chemists and drivers and conductors of autos, rickshaw pullers along with migrant workers are yet to be taken.Talking to TOI, state surveillance officer Dr Vikasendu Agarwal said that the outcome of the samples is expected next week due to suspension of work for three days. He added that the aim of this exercise is to check whether the infection is spreading to areas other than containment zones and if yes then preventive measures will be taken.According to health department, districts across the state have been divided into three categories - high risk which includes Agra, Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow; low risk which includes Barabanki, Hapur, Ayodhya; moderate prevalence districts are Mirzapur, Farrukhabad, Unnao and Baghpat.While 100 samples were collected from each of the 16 districts, where a large number of Covid-19 positive cases had been reported, 2,000 samples were taken from 40 districts which come under low risk areas, and 20 samples were taken from each of the 19 districts from private hospitals and urban slums.Mathura’s medical officer Dr Bhudev said that random samples are being collected to create pools of 10 swabs - nasal and throat - each. "We have been advised by officials to explain infection prevention practices to people wherever they visit for sample collection," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-govt-suspends-random-pool-sampling-72-hrs-after-launch-as-labs-get-overloaded/articleshow/76393183.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: No visitors at shops, owners turn street vendors||KOCHI: Traders, who used to run bakeries and mini eateries have started looking for other alternatives to stay afloat during the time of economic crisis due to the pandemic. Many have started setting up streetside eateries to earn a living by coaxing motorists to buy their products. The presence of street vendors in Thammanam, Vennala, High Court Road, Kalamassery and Edappally has increased after lockdown restrictions were relaxed by the government. There are around 10,000 street vendors in the district alone. Habeeb, who used to run a bakery in Kaloor, has now tuned into a street vendor as customers stopped coming to his shop due to Covid-19 scare. “I have been doing street vending for the past 20 days in front of the National Institute of Oceanography. Though I sell fried items here, I keep my shop in Kaloor open. When people come to shop, we have to ensure social distancing and provide sanitizers. But here, motorists are not scared as we are not selling items in closed doors. People prefer to buy fried chips of plantain and jackfruit,” said Habeeb while selling his last packet of banana chips to a motorist. Manjummal native Shafeeq, who used to run a ‘thattukada’ in Kunnumpuram till midnight every day, now sells banana chips at HC Junction. “I purchase raw items from Aluva in the morning and fry them with the help of my family members and a helper. Later, I transport the packaged items in a car to High Court junction. I manage to sell 60-70 packets per day. I also get orders from people to fry in large quantities for them. I can’t open my shop as there are social distancing issues,” he said. But the association of merchants does not encourage traders to sell products on roadsides, deviating from the usual business mode. “Traders, who used to run shops should sell their products to customers at the shop itself following all the guidelines. Covid-19 cases are more likely to increase in the coming days and soliciting customers to sell products on roadsides will be a disaster,” says Abdul Rasaq, district secretary of Kerala vyapari vyavasayi ekopana samithi. Meanwhile, street vendors’ association said they have noticed more vendors turning up on streets to make a living nowadays. "Many take to street vending to earn a living as the lockdown and Covid scare have affected their business deeply. Most people who lose their income end up in street vending. We anticipate more people would take to street vending in the coming days considering the current economic scenario," said K K Sivan, president of street vendors association associated to CITU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-visitors-at-shops-owners-turn-street-vendors/articleshow/76393217.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||NPTEL says it won’t conduct exams, lakhs of students affected||MUMBAI: India’s largest MOOC provider, NPTEL, has expressed its inability to conduct examinations. Lakhs of students may just wait till the exams are held. When the current semester opened in January, a total of two million learners enrolled for 392 courses that were on offer. Powered by the academic might of all the seven IITs and IISc, NPTEL has 10 million learners. For students, NPTEL’s decision to not hold exam may translate into a long wait. For, if they don’t wait till exams can be conducted, learners will have to walk away with merely an assignment score sheet and a pass certificate. The same, however, cannot be counted as domain certification as a completed course. “We will put up a PDF in which we will explain the assignment score sheet and the pass certificate and request them (colleges) to accept and process further. We will also independently approach the ministry, AICTE and UGC to convey this new process for January 2020 semester to all universities,” said NPTEL (National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning) national co-ordinator Andrew Thangaraj of IIT Madras. NPTEL has also modified the manner in which they will issue the pass certificate and count the average assignment score. The score will be the average of the best 3/6/8 assignments for courses of duration 4/8/12 weeks (or as announced apriori in the course in case of changes). If this score is more than or equal to 40/100 (which is also one condition for certificate eligibility), NPTEL will issue the modified pass certificate. Else, a certificate will not be issued. Prathap Haridoss, national co-ordinator, NPTEL, added that 3.06 lakh students registered for the exam that was to be held in June. Of them, 1.98 lakh opted for credit transfer, and of those, 10,672 students are in the final year.” These 1.98 lakh students are from 2,712 colleges. Colleges not happy with NPTEL’s assignment score sheet are free to conduct exams for these courses on their own. “We have a suggestion for such colleges. Every course has weekly online assignments, along with solutions. Students had submitted these online assignments in an unproctored manner. Faculty from the local institute/university can choose a subset of the questions and modify as required to create the question paper, which they can administer to their students as the final exam locally. They can then count the online assignment marks (from the attested assignment score sheet or through the local chapter login) and the local final exam marks suitably to issue credits,” added Haridoss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nptel-says-it-wont-conduct-exams-lakhs-of-students-affected/articleshow/76395190.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu: High numbers not a worry, but don’t let your guard down||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has the second -highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country at 46,504 and nearly 73% are in Chennai. The numbers are enough to strike fear. But actually just 20,678 people are still under treatment, of whom 15,385 are in Chennai. And going by the number of Covid beds that the government claims to have, the state and city are adequately equipped to tackle the pandemic. Medical experts, however, sound a word of caution. A government official said that as of Monday about one-third or more than 5,000 of the active cases in Chennai are under home care, while the rest are in hospitals, health centres and Covid care centres. On Monday, health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar said Tamil Nadu has 75,000 beds for Covid patients, 17,500 in Chennai alone. According to the state health department, as of Sunday Chennai had 3,526 people in home care monitored by government hospitals, 1,716 in government medical college hospitals, 408 in other government hospitals, 1,516 in Covid care centres and another 714 in government health centres. Officials said the numbers may not add up as the state awaits updates from the Greater Chennai Corporation on test results and home care cases. Medical experts have, however, warned that cases would go up in the coming weeks and the state may not be able to manage with the given resources. Virologists and epidemiologists said Tamil Nadu is in the limb of the curve and the state would see its peak by mid-July, which would sustain for a week before dropping. Experts suggest strict enforcement of use and proper disposal of masks even in hamlets, social distancing, effective triaging, and regular audit of ground level data. Dr Subramanian Swaminathan said with around 80% of the cases asymptomatic, a large number of people could be managed at home, reducing the burden on hospitals. “Even cities like New York and London ran out of beds and these are cities that have more beds per thousand population compared to anywhere in India,” he said. “The numbers don’t matter. Epidemiologists have already said it is going to get worse. The need of the hour is a proper mitigation plan. Instead of dealing with containment, we need to plan protocols for mitigation,” he said.  "We do have a system here to monitor home care people through health workers. In private hospitals, the doctors are calling up their patients and checking their health status. But we could streamline this and bring of it under one centralised control centre for better management," said Dr K Kolandasamy, former director of public health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/high-numbers-not-a-worry-but-dont-let-your-guard-down/articleshow/76395237.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Cuttack, Khurda overtake Ganjam in active positive cases||BHUBANESWAR: Ganjam seems to have turned a corner as far as the coronavirus crisis is concerned. The district — which has the highest Covid-19 case count in the state — has only 71 active cases. Even as the migration-prone district is doing relatively better now, it is Cuttack and Khurda (including Bhubaneswar) that have turned out to be a headache for the state government. These two districts are reporting several cases daily and currently have more active positive cases than Ganjam. Cuttack has 176 active cases and Khurda has 97 — the highest and the second-highest active cases in the state at present. Of the 690 infected people in Ganjam, 613 have recovered. In Cuttack, 165 people out of 342 patients have recovered. In Khurda, 259 out of 362 patients have recovered. So far, four persons have died in Khurda district (three of them in Bhubaneswar). In fact, the number of active cases in Cuttack district can be considered to be even higher than 176. The health department’s website records 158 Covid-19 cases under the ‘others’ category, without attributing them to any district. These patients are personnel from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), who had gone to West Bengal in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. The NDRF station falls within Cuttack district, and the infected personnel of both the NDRF and the ODRAF are admitted in a Covid hospital in Cuttack. If they are added to the current active cases of 176, Cuttack district’s active cases rise to 334. Khurda district reported over 50 per cent of its positive cases between June 1 and June 15. Cuttack took slightly longer — from May 31 and June 15 to do so. It reported its highest of 92 cases on a single day on June 12. Bhubaneswar reported 16 cases on Sunday and five on Monday. Of these 21 cases, four are locals (who were not under quarantine) while 17 are returnees from outside the state. Of the 17 returnees, two persons of Jayadev Vihar had returned from the US recently and were under home isolation. Another person who had returned from Oman was also at home in Kalinga Vihar. The other positive persons had returned from Kolkata, Pune, Delhi, Chennai and Saudi Arabia. So far, the city has reported 127 positive cases, of which 52 are active. Tribal district Kandhamal, which reported its first case only on May 17, recorded a high 47 cases on Sunday. It has so far reported 137 cases, of which 30 people have recovered. Ganjam has the highest infection count, followed by Khurda and Cuttack districts. Jajpur and Balasore, which used to occupy the second and third spots on the case list, are now fourth and fifth. Nabarangpur has no active cases, while Sonepur has only two active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/cuttack-khurda-overtake-ganjam-in-active-ve-cases/articleshow/76402891.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Villagers unite to save ‘encroached’ pasture at 610-yr-old Jaisalmer shrine||JAISALMER: Pastures since the times of the erstwhile royals were meant to save the environment as well as to provide food for animals and birds. But now, these pastures are being encroached upon, depriving the birds and animals of their feeding grounds. In the past, pastures were treated like temples and no one was allowed to cut trees, do farming or any other activity there, but now, tampering of these common lands has started. The pasture at the 610-year-old Degrai Mata temple at Devikot in Jaisalmer has been allegedly allotted to windmill and solar energy companies and a few people have encroached upon these lands. The villagers, after coming to know about this, have started the struggle to save the pastures and a large number of them from dozens of villages has submitted a memorandum to the district collector and demanded to register 23,000 bighas again as pastures and stop all kinds of activities on this land. District collector Namit Mehta accepted that the memorandum has been given, but he said that there was no allotment of pastures for a solar power project and they will find out the details. More than 5,000 camels and more than 20,000 other cattle and animals and a large number of birds get food here and these lands help in protecting the environment. Now, private companies and land mafia are eyeing these lands, due to which there is resentment among villagers. Villagers and Degrai Mandir Oran Vikas Sanstha officials submitted memorandum to the district collector Namit Mehta for registering pasture land near the temple in revenue record. In the memorandum, it was said that the pasture land at the temple is 610 years old and its tamra patra (authority letter) was given during the rule of the then king Bairsi Singh and abiding by the letter, there has been a ban on cutting trees in Sawta, Achla, Bheekhsar, Bhopa, Mulana and Karda and other villages for years. On this pasture land, there are different varieties of trees and it gives habitat for many kind of birds and animals. Villagers claim that earlier, the land was allotted to various solar energy and windmill companies and construction works are causing damage to the safe habitat of animals and birds and also to the environment. Sumer Singh Bhati of Sanvta village said that Degrai temple pasture land does not just belong to Jaisalmer but to the entire state. No one is allowed to cut trees there, do farming on the land and it is only for grazing cattle. The tradition of pasture lands in Rajasthan has continued for centuries. To save the environment and flora and fauna, the pasture lands are left in the name of folk deities. Oran is a Sanskrit work, which means forest, in which different varieties of trees and grasses grow, that serve as food for animals and birds. Expressing anger, the villagers said that reckless cutting of trees is going on and digging is being done by machines. If these pasture lands perish, how will they feed their cattle and other animals, they asked. Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University assistant professor Dr Sumit Dookia said that there should be intervention to save these pasture lands. Pasture lands are very helpful in conservation of the environment and for cattle and other animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-unite-to-save-encroached-pasture-at-610-yr-old-jaisalmer-shrine/articleshow/76395235.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Cuttack, Khurda overtake Ganjam in active positive cases||BHUBANESWAR: Ganjam seems to have turned a corner as far as the coronavirus crisis is concerned. The district — which has the highest Covid-19 case count in the state — has only 71 active cases. Even as the migration-prone district is doing relatively better now, it is Cuttack and Khurda (including Bhubaneswar) that have turned out to be a headache for the state government. These two districts are reporting several cases daily and currently have more active positive cases than Ganjam. Cuttack has 176 active cases and Khurda has 97 — the highest and the second-highest active cases in the state at present. Of the 690 infected people in Ganjam, 613 have recovered. In Cuttack, 165 people out of 342 patients have recovered. In Khurda, 259 out of 362 patients have recovered. So far, four persons have died in Khurda district (three of them in Bhubaneswar). In fact, the number of active cases in Cuttack district can be considered to be even higher than 176. The health department’s website records 158 Covid-19 cases under the ‘others’ category, without attributing them to any district. These patients are personnel from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), who had gone to West Bengal in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. The NDRF station falls within Cuttack district, and the infected personnel of both the NDRF and the ODRAF are admitted in a Covid hospital in Cuttack. If they are added to the current active cases of 176, Cuttack district’s active cases rise to 334. Khurda district reported over 50 per cent of its positive cases between June 1 and June 15. Cuttack took slightly longer — from May 31 and June 15 to do so. It reported its highest of 92 cases on a single day on June 12. Bhubaneswar reported 16 cases on Sunday and five on Monday. Of these 21 cases, four are locals (who were not under quarantine) while 17 are returnees from outside the state. Of the 17 returnees, two persons of Jayadev Vihar had returned from the US recently and were under home isolation. Another person who had returned from Oman was also at home in Kalinga Vihar. The other positive persons had returned from Kolkata, Pune, Delhi, Chennai and Saudi Arabia. So far, the city has reported 127 positive cases, of which 52 are active. Tribal district Kandhamal, which reported its first case only on May 17, recorded a high 47 cases on Sunday. It has so far reported 137 cases, of which 30 people have recovered. Ganjam has the highest infection count, followed by Khurda and Cuttack districts. Jajpur and Balasore, which used to occupy the second and third spots on the case list, are now fourth and fifth. Nabarangpur has no active cases, while Sonepur has only two active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cuttack-khurda-overtake-ganjam-in-active-ve-cases/articleshow/76393230.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Elderly undergoes bicaval valve implantation||Kochi: Life of a senior citizen, who was diagnosed with severe tricuspid valve regurgitation but couldn’t be operated, was saved with bicaval valve implantation in a city hospital. Bicaval valve implantation is being tested in the US but is not FDA approved and was tried on the patient here on compassionate grounds. The 73-year-old man, who was very active till about two years ago, was admitted to the emergency department of Rajagiri Hospital after he developed severe breathlessness and swelling of body and weight gain of about 30kg. He was diagnosed with tricuspid valve regurgitation. In such patients, there is backward flow of blood leading to congestion of liver and neck vessels. Due to his condition, he had to be frequently admitted in the hospital. He was referred to cardiovascular and thoracic surgery for corrective treatment. During the waiting period, the patient suffered from significant blood loss from gastrointestinal tract due to liver congestion for which he underwent clipping of the bleeding esophageal varices. In view of multiple comorbidities surgery was deferred. “So we discussed the bicaval valve implantation with his family. In the procedure, with the help of a catheter, valves are implanted in two major vessels leading to right side of the heart (superior and inferior vena cava) through vein in the thigh, thus preventing backward flow of blood from the heart,” said Rajagiri cardiac science department head Dr Ramdas Nayak. The procedure took about one hour to complete and the patient got discharged after four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/elderly-undergoes-bicaval-valve-implantation/articleshow/76393228.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Trial by fire: Hits and misses at Delhi University’s open book exams||NEW DELHI: Several colleges of Delhi University on Monday conducted online open book examination (OBE) for their students. Certificate/diploma exams were held for the students enrolled in different foreign language courses. While the response to the examinations was good, students faced problems in uploading their scanned answer sheets. Many did not know how to use the CamScanner app and found it difficult to convert answer sheets into PDFs. For the online tests, the foreign language department had sent the question papers to the respective colleges. Some colleges emailed the questions to the students, while others created a login process with passwords on their portals for the exam purpose. Jasleen Kaur, Spanish teacher at Sri Venkateswara College, said, “Except one, all students in my class of 42 appeared. The student had personal reasons for not appearing. We had emailed the question papers to the students and the answer sheets were received back on the same id. As we had conducted a mock test earlier, the process went smoothly for us.” “Out of the 521 students enrolled in Spanish, French and German, 486 submitted the papers,” said Animesh Naskar, teacher at the Economics department in Hansraj College. “We used a login id process to circulate the papers. We emailed questions to some students who were facing problems. The college had provided the students with the phone numbers of people they could get in touch for assistance. Several issues were redressed during a mock test held earlier,” added Naskar. “The question paper was sent to us on the college’s portal, while our seniors were coordinating with us on a WhatsApp group. There was, however, some issue at the start. The papers didn’t appear before 10.40 am, while the exam was scheduled to start at 10.30 am. I had some difficulty in uploading the answer sheet due to the poor internet connectivity in my home,” said Jatin Batra, a student of Spanish at the college. Jaswinder Singh, principal of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College, said that the college had its OBE for the language certificate course on Monday where a majority of students enrolled with the programme participated. Though out of the 150 students here, 10 failed to upload the answer sheets. “Some students’ answer sheets were either without roll number or page number. The college is confirming with them individually,” Singh clarified. Monday’s exams were conducted by individual colleges, which ensured the process was smooth. But when the other exams begin on July 1, it will be a centralised process with the answers required to be downloaded and uploaded from the university portals dashboard. With the number of students also at a larger scale, it will be a challenge, say a group of teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trial-by-fire-hits-misses-at-dus-open-book-exams/articleshow/76395214.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Woman bludgeoned to death||Rajkot: A 51-year-old woman was bludgeoned to death by father-son duo who also attacked the woman’s son and husband in Mandavapal village of Amreli taluka. Though the crime was committed on Saturday night, the complaint in this regard was lodged on Sunday night. Police said the accused, identified as Ashok Thumar and his son Mayur Thumar, had allegedly attacked Chirag Rupavatia (25) with a belt. When Chirag’s mother Jaya Rupavatia and his father Rasik Rupavatia tried to intervene, the accused also allegedly attacked them with a crowbar.Chirag called the 108 EMRI ambulance, which took his injured parents to Amreli Civil Hospital where Jaya died during the treatment. Chirag told the police that he had a friendship with Ashok’s daughter Krishna Thumar, with whom he used to have telephonic conversations frequently. On Saturday night after seeing Krishna’s missed call, when Chirag gave her a call back, Mayur picked up the phone. “This angered Mayur and Ashok, who armed with a belt and a crowbar, barged into Chirag’s house. Mayur started whipping Chirag with the belt. When Jaya and Rasik rushed to Chirag’s rescue, Ashok hit them with the crowbar,” said J Y Pathan, sub-inspector with Amreli taluka police station. Chirag works in a private firm in Nikol locality of Ahmedabad. Chirag had friendship with Krishna, who is married, for the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/76394451.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Agra||Evicted by hospital, cancer patient, 50, applies for admin aid, dies waiting for it in Mathura||Agra: A 50-year-old cancer patient, who was in an urgent need of medical treatment, died at his house in Mathura on Saturday. According to his family members, Lekhraj Singh was admitted to Ramkrishna Mission Sevaashram Charitable Hospital prior to his death with the help of a local social worker. But doctors there asked the family members to take Lekhraj to AIIMS in Delhi due to his serious condition. “We did not have the money to visit Delhi for the treatment. So, we decided to stay at home,” said Raj Kumar, Lekhraj’s 18-year-old son. Kumar told TOI that he and his mother, Lajja Devi, then approached the district administration for help, which never came. Kumar also claimed that the family had earlier visited Haryana’s AIIMS for treatment during the lockdown, but could not get the admission there due to the Covid-19. Earlier, the family had mortgaged their small piece of land for Rs one lakh for Lekhraj’s treatment. “My father had been suffering from cancer for the last six months. He was earlier treated at Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and then at SMS hospital in Jaipur. But, due to the lockdown and our poor financial condition, we could not visit Jaipur again,” said Lekhraj's son, who has two siblings. When contacted, SDM of Govardhan, Rahul Yadav, said that he had received their application and had forwarded it to officials concerned for consideration. District magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said, “I inquired about the matter and was told that the patient’s cancer was at the last stage. The patient was provided proper treatment at a charitable trust so his death was not due to lack of treatment. For financial help in such cases we need approval from higher authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/evicted-by-hospital-cancer-patient-50-applies-for-admin-aid-dies-waiting-for-it-in-mathura/articleshow/76393215.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Looking for plasma? This website may come in handy||NEW DELHI: When Adwitiya Mal’s father-in-law contracted Covid-19 recently, he and his wife were worried about his health. For four long days, the family couldn’t get the plasma that was required for his treatment. “This experience shouldn’t have happened to people in the 21st century. We realised we were lucky that we found the plasma, but there must be many who would have never been able to.” It was to help those in need that he and his family started a website. With over 200 registrations of recipients and donors in the past few days, Delhi-based website — ‘dhoondh’ has been helping patients and donors get connected. Mal told TOI that they had a tough time finding a donor for his father-in-law. “Throughout all that, I was thinking to myself that there should be a better way than us calling up people and asking them about donors. Nobody had expected that something like this pandemic would come and we would need plasma.” The family managed to get a donor after four days. “In those four days, we felt helplessness and desperation. During the period, we met many equally desperate people looking for the plasma and also kind and generous people who donated their plasma,” the family wrote on the website that they started to make sure that others do not go through what they did. “There are many people who say that they are glad about being saved by the treatment and they want to help others. And we are seeing so many people coming forward to donate their plasma to save lives of others,” added Mal, who runs an agriculture venture. The website, started last week, has so far managed to get over 9,000 visits. More than 200 recipients and donors have registered. People can register on the website with some basic details, such as contact details, location and blood group. The details provided by donors are matched with the recipients’ specific requirements and a list of donors is then generated from the database. Once the donors are identified, the recipients receive a list of people in proximity so that they can contact them directly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/looking-for-plasma-this-website-may-come-in-handy/articleshow/76395250.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Coir corp launches sanitizer mats||KOCHI: Kerala State Coir Corporation has launched Anti-Covid Health Plus mats in the market. The product, which includes coir mat, tray and anti-bacterial solution, is sold as a kit. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac launched the mats in Kochi on Monday by handing them over to coir board secretary M Kumara Raja. The coir mats, which are made of natural fibres, are kept in a tray filled with an anti-bacterial solution. Pathogens would get destroyed by placing the feet on the mat for five seconds. The product was developed with technical help from Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and National Coir Research and Management Institute. Isaac said the product would be made available to all households in the state at a discounted price and this would help the coir sector overcome the crisis created by the pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/coir-corp-launches-sanitizer-mats/articleshow/76393244.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Rain, lightning claim seven lives in Amreli, Gir-Somnath||Rajkot: At least six people died after being struck by lightning while one person was swept away as heavy rain lashed Amreli and Gir-Somnath districts on Monday.The rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm, gusty winds and lightning also left several injured and eight animals too died in Gir-Somnath district, official sources said.In Amreli, three people including a teenage boy were electrocuted due to lightning. According to sources, 15-year-old Spandan Vaghasia (died in Bagasara, Parasben Sojitra (23) in Akala village of Lathi taluka and Sangeeta Moladia (22) died in Chatadia village of Dhari taluka. A woman named Komal Govadiya drowned after the bullock cart in which she was travelling got swept away in a turbulent stream in Amrapur village of Kukavav taluka. Five others travelling with her were rescued.According to reports, two fishermen from Senjaliya village of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district got electrocuted after being struck by lightning while they were fishing in the sea. There were identified as Jina Parmar (30) and Raju Rathod (45). One fisherman is still missing and search operation is on. Three other women also suffered burn injuries after being struck by lightning when they were working in a farm in Itvaya village of Gir-Gadhda taluka. They were taken to a government hospital where one woman succumbed. According to district administration, three talukas of Gir-Somnath district received significant rainfall on Monday. Till Monday evening, Kodinar taluka received 48 mm, Una taluka 26mm and Talala got 12mm rainfall. Amreli taluka got 50mm, Liliya received 74mm, Khambha taluka got 34mm and Bagasra taluka recorded 26mm rainfall. A state highway connecting Khambha, Chalala and Tulsishyam was closed water from overflowing Shel river near Lakhabadar flooded the road. The traffic was diverted via Savarkundla. In Junagadh district, Bhesan taluka received 36mm while Mangrol got 25mm rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-lightning-claim-seven-lives-in-amreli-gir-somnath/articleshow/76393281.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Surat||South Gujarat: In hafoos kingdom, kesar is now the king||SURAT: Mango lovers may find this difficult to digest. But, believe it or not, the luscious kesar has toppled the famed Valsadi hafoos (alphonso) on its home turf - south Gujarat. Official figures of the state horticulture department reveal that kesar now accounts for over half of the total area under mango cultivation in the seven districts of south Gujarat with farmers themselves opting for this variety. Of the total three lakh tonne mango production in south Gujarat this season, kesar accounted for 1.80 lakh tonnes while hafoos was around 75,000 tonnes. “Of the total 97,646 hectare (ha) land under mango cultivation, kesar accounts for nearly 55%,” said Dinesh Padaliya, deputy director, horticulture department Surat. In Navsari APMC, 70% of the total one lakh boxes (each of 20kg) that came for auction were kesar, its secretary Darshan Desai told TOI. Around 33,320 hectare are under mango cultivation in Navsari district, 80% is kesar now. In fact, the APMC this year has prepared a video song to promote 'Navsari kesar'. "We have recently launched this promotional song as we want to more and more people to consume kesar,” said Desai. Mukund Naik, an orchard owner in Umargam taluka of Valsad, said, “I replaced Valsadi hafoos in 10 bigha land with kesar. Alphonso is extremely weather sensitive and a slight change causes big damage. Pesticide cost is also increasing. Over all input costs have increased which has makes kesar a better option.” “For the first time this year, kesar sold for Rs 1,200 per 20 kg while alphonso fetched Rs 800 per 20 kg,” added Naik. Samir Vashi, who runs a mango saplings nursery in Ambheta village of Navsari, said, “Kesar saplings are in hot demand as farmers are getting good prices for their produce. Kesar farming is not new here, but there has been a significant increase in its cultivation now.” Sanjay Naik, a farmer in Gandeva village in Navsari told TOI, “Now, we have barely 100 trees of alphonso in our two hectare orchard and 2,000 kesar trees. Alphonso being very sensitive to climate and susceptible to disease, we have reduced its cultivation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-hafoos-kingdom-kesar-is-now-the-king/articleshow/76394488.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 16, 2020||Chennai||DMK to move court against Tamil Nadu govt’s Covid handling||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Monday came down heavily on the state government for its shoddy way of handling Covid-19 crisis. The party was planning to move the court seeking answers to many pertinent questions regarding the government’s lack of resolve to fight the pandemic, he said in a media interaction through videoconference. Stalin sought to know what plan the government has to prevent further spread of the virus in Chennai and nearby districts. If there was no community spread, how could cases increase daily, he asked. Despite forming several committees to deal with the pandemic, there was no information as to what the committees have done, he said. Why was the government refusing to take suggestions from the opposition parties, he asked. Even experts’ suggestions are being ignored. Stalin said the government should spell out its plans to increase employment opportunity and spur economic growth. Referring to media reports about under-reporting and hiding of deaths related to Covid-19, Stalin said the situation in the state was pretty dangerous. Some officials alone cannot be held responsible for not releasing actual death figures, he said, referring to former health secretary Beela Rajesh’s transfer. Stalin sought to take credit for forcing the government to scrap Class X examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/15-06-ch-stalin-says-dmk-would-move-court-against-governments-shoddy-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/76395265.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Agra||UP CM Yogi Adityanath's team in Agra to check steps against Covid-19||AGRA: A two-member team sent by chief minister Yogi Adityanath here to take stock of steps taken by the district administration to prevent Covid-19 from spreading held a meeting with top officials on Monday. The team also conducted spot inspection at Covid-19 containment zones and an isolation centre on NH-2. The team is headed by secretary (power department) M Devraj and senior professor of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow, Dr Rahul Janak Sinha. On Sunday, the state government had announced that teams comprising a senior IAS officer and a doctor would be sent to 11 districts, worst affected by coronavirus. These include Agra, Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Firozabad, Moradabad, Basti, Aligarh, Jhansi and Bulandshahr districts. The teams will check arrangements in hospitals providing treatment to infected patients and those suffering from other diseases. It will check manpower and availability of medical equipment in the Covid-19 hospitals. The teams have been directed to stay in the districts till June 20 and present a report to the state government on the status of Covid-19 and steps taken to prevent it from spreading in the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/yogi-team-in-agra-to-check-steps-against-covid/articleshow/76393237.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 patients in Kalaburagi attack corona warriors||Kalaburagi: Several corona warriors, including ASHA workers, doctors and police personnel were attacked on Monday by a group of Covid-19 patients at Maramanchi tanda in Kamalapur taluk, Kalaburagi. Police vehicles and ambulances were also stoned in the incident. On Monday, when health workers went to tanda to admit 14 infected patients to Covid ward at GIMS in Kalaburagi, the patients, instead of cooperating with them, started pelting stones. Several workers sustained injuries in the incident. Some of the patients also pelted stones on government vehicles damaging window glasses, said police. Reportedly, 14 migrant labourers who had returned from Maharashtra were sent back to their village after they completed the stipulated quarantine period tested positive. Their reports, the officials said, had arrived late. Kalaburagi SP Yada Martin Marbanhang and senior officers visited village later and tried to convince the patients about the severity of the issue. However, the patients continued to argue that they had tested negative in Maharashtra. Later in the day, senior police officers succeeded in convincing them and shifted 13 infected of the 14 patients to the covid ward at GIMS. One patient is on the run, said police. Kalaburagi deputy commissioner B Sharath expressed anguish over the incident and said such acts will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against those attacking covid warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-patients-in-kalaburagi-attack-corona-warriors/articleshow/76394066.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Inconclusive Covid tests leave SSLC student stressed in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru: Less than two weeks left for the SSLC examination, and a student in Kadur in Chikkamagaluru district is dealing with an added pressure, in addition to coping with stress that entails appearing for a key test. Officials of the education department are not sure whether or not the boy has Covid-19 infection. Days after one of his samples tested positive for the novel coronavirus, two other swabs that were subsequently tested returned the results as negative. Now, keen on putting an end to the uncertainty, the officials concerned have sent the samples to the National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru, while the boy has been admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital in Chikkamagaluru. The student, a resident of a small village in Kadur taluk, has been steadfastly preparing for the SSLC examination for the past two months. Tarikere in Chikkamagaluru and towns in Shivamogga are the only places he has visited in the recent past. Besides, none of the 55 people identified as his primary contacts have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Chikkamagaluru deputy commissioner Bagadi Goutham said that the TB testing kits that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had greenlighted for examining Covid-19 samples, had been used to run the rapid coronavirus tests. “The health department ran the boy’s samples on the Truenat kits twice. We will get the results from the National Virology Centre in Bengaluru on Tuesday,” Goutham said. Chikkamagaluru district in-charge minister CT Ravi said that samples were either being sent to Shivamogga or Hassan. “Samples from the district are also being sent to Nimhans. This is a rare case and the authorities concerned are looking into it,” Ravi added. The student, meanwhile, is still grappling with the uncertainty of whether or not he will write the exam. The district administration has, however, provided him textbooks and other materials so he can continue preparing for the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/inconclusive-covid-tests-leave-sslc-student-stressed-in-chikkamagaluru/articleshow/76393580.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||Financier held for kidnapping borrower, usury||Hubballi: A man allegedly involved in lending money for ‘meter interest’ was arrested by Old Hubballi police on Sunday evening. The police commissionerate has stated that Siddeshwar Hanamantappa Bankapur of Old Hubballi was arrested for kidnapping and stealing cars belonging to G Shivashankar, who hails from Tamil Nadu and is now settled in Adaragunchi village in Hubballi taluk. “Bankapur had lent Rs five lakh at an interest rate of 10%. However, Shivashankar delayed repayment due to the financial crunch. Irked by this, Bankapur allegedly kidnapped Shivashankar and kept him locked in Brindavan Lodge in Old Hubballi for four days. He also forcibly took away the original documents of Shivashankar’s house, eight blank cheques, a Santro car and a Nano car. The accused sold the Nano car. Shivashankar managed to escape from the lodge and filed a complaint,” a release said. Police said the accused and an associate have been arrested and an Innova car, which was used to abduct the complainant has been seized. The Santro car, house documents, eight cheques and the key of the complainant’s house were also recovered from the accused. The commissionerate has appealed to the public to come forward and file complaints against such meter interest financiers by calling 0836-2233555.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/financier-held-for-kidnapping-borrower-usury/articleshow/76392176.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 200 trains stopped in tracks to house coronavirus patients||NEW DELHI: From Tuesday, 200 train coaches will be present at Delhi’s busy Anand Vihar Terminal Railway Station. Rail services have been completely halted at the station, so the coaches are meant to house Covid-19 patients requiring isolation. A total of 500 of these innovative isolation wards, providing beds for 8,000 patients, are to be stationed across Delhi, 59 of which are already operational at Shakurbasti. Deepak Kumar, chief PRO, Northern Railway, told TOI that the coaches will be placed on the platforms of the Anand Vihar station, the rail traffic there having been diverted to Delhi Junction Railway Station. Northern Railway had created the prototype of an isolation coach for the Union railways ministry in the last week of March, and this model has since been replicated in other zonal railway networks. North Western Railway will send 150 repurposed coaches of the 266 it has made in various divisions in Rajasthan to Delhi, the remaining to be sent wherever required in the future. NWR chief PRO Abhay Sharma said in Jodhpur on Monday that the major alterations made to the regular coaches were removal of berths, redesigning of toilets, installation of transparent curtains and fittings for separating cubicles and to demarcate areas to store medical equipment. The roof has also been insulated to reduce in-coach temperature with the application of heat resistant paint on the roofs and installation of canopies. Kumar revealed that 59 such coaches are already in-use at Shakurbasti, 200 will be placed at Anand Vihar, and Northern Railway was searching for sites that could accommodate 250 other coaches. “At present, our bedding capacity is around 4,000 beds,” said Kumar, elaborating that basic fittings like pillow covers and bedding material will be provided by Indian Railways, with the medical staff and equipment being the responsibility of Delhi government. “Water, electricity, pillow covers, blankets and oxygen cylinders will form part of the basic coach preparation” Kumar added. “However, because the isolation coaches are an extension of Delhi’s medical system in a way, all equipment and healthcare workers will have to come from the state government.” There will be room in the coaches for doctors and nurses. On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah had announced the provision of 500 train isolation coaches for Delhi, given the rising number of Covid cases in the capital. The participants in meeting included CM Kejriwal, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, LG Anil Baijal and members of DDMA. According to Northern Railway, adequate space has been made in coaches by removing some of the berths to ensure that patients are well isolated. “The ladders that help passengers climb to the upper berths have also been removed,” a railway official said. “The bathrooms, aisle areas and other sections too have been modified to facilitate proper isolation.” The other features of the prototype Covid coach include the provision of hand showers and provision of bucket and mugs in each bathroom. Officials said two toilets had been converted into a bathroom after plugging the commode and covering the entire space with proper flooring. “We have also provided 220V electric points in the compartment for medical appliances,” the official added. (With inputs from Jodhpur)Watch Delhi: Isolations coaches deployed for COVID-19 patients at Anand Vihar Terminal Railway Station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200-trains-stopped-in-tracks-to-house-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/76395272.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 16, 2020||Goa||Panaji market complex reopens to poor response||PANAJI: The Panaji municipal market complex reopened on Monday after the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) sealed the premises last week as a precautionary measure against the spread of Covid-19. The building was briefly opened over the weekend for the sale of perishables and was scheduled to restart full-fledged operations this week onwards. However, cautious citizens chose to keep away from the market complex on Monday. While some of the stalls were operational, consumers were fewer in number. “Goa is sparsely populated compared to metros, yet social distancing norms are not strictly followed here. This is bound to create apprehension among people,” said Hemant Usagaonkar, a resident of Panaji. Though the building complex was sealed on Thursday, it was briefly opened on Saturday and Sunday for a few hours to sell perishables. Vendors said that the situation was no better through the weekend, either. “The news of the municipal market shutting down after a liquor vendor tested positive spread like wildfire. As a result, many customers are now apprehensive of coming here and purchasing groceries. Our business will not normalise until the fear psychosis is out of their minds,” Rajendra Damaskar, president of the Panaji Municipal Market Tenants’ Association told TOI. After a spike in cases over the past week in Chimbel, CCP appealed to vendors from the area to test themselves in order to resume business from Monday onwards only if negative. Incidentally, most vegetable vendors in the market complex are residents of Chimbel. Only a few stalls of fresh greens were open on Monday as a result. Agnelo Lobo, a senior citizen and resident of Campal, couldn’t find his choice of vegetables and had to return without being able to restock his perishables. “I prefer purchasing my own vegetables but due to the scenario here, I cannot do anything,” he said. “Some consumers are very particular about which vendor they purchase vegetables from. If the stores are shut, why will they come to the market?” grocery store owner, Gunaji Dhulapkar said. Nissar Nandihaldi, a fruit vendor, spent a significant amount of time through the day discussing the situation with his fellow businessmen. “We have come to no conclusion. It’s best to go home,” he said as he proceeded to shut shop at noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-market-complex-reopens-to-poor-response/articleshow/76395655.cms||Nida Sayed
June 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Local bodies can’t shut down villages, says lawyers||PANAJI: Local bodies and MLAs have no power to lockdown villages and are exploiting the public sentiment over the government’s failure in containing the virus, say advocates. “Panchayats have been given no such decision-making powers. The director of municipal administration may give directions to be complied with but the decision making is fully centralised and bureaucrats rule the roost. Even the cabinet has little say,” advocate Cleofato Coutinho said. People are acting on their own after the government has shown helplessness, he said. Former law secretary and Goa Human Rights Commission member Pramod Kamat said that panchayats have no right to order lockdowns and action can be initiated against them by the director of panchayats. “The lockdowns are being called for, without any authority. It is as good as running a parallel government. Panchayats don’t have the right under the Panchayati Raj Act or the Disaster Management Act. Although it is being done with noble intentions, it is not in accordance with law,” Kamat told TOI. Former advocate general of Goa Carlos Alvares Ferreira told TOI that there appears to be complete chaos in the functioning of the government. He said that despite condemning the lockdowns, the government hasn’t taken any action against its MLAs for imposing the lockdowns. “At one time the party officials were making statements on what was going to be done by the government and then the government was totally silent. Now the ruling party MLAs sing in unison on the shutdown whilst the party and the government are silent,” he said. “This appears to be a strategy: whilst the MLA will play Santa Claus to some local sentiments, the government cries hoarse on such action by the panchayats. Even the party is speaking against the action of the MLAs. Has either dared to take action against any of their MLAs for illegal acts forced upon panchayats? MLAs are misguiding panchayats to act contrary to law. Such conflicting and contradictory actions are confusing the citizens who in the end will not even take this pandemic seriously,” Ferreira said. Asked whether the lockdowns were announced with the tacit support of the government, Coutinho said the government has shown helplessness. “There is no government patronage but local leaders want to assert their leadership by exploiting public sentiment over government’s failure in mass testing and laxity at borders. This failure has caused contributed to public anger. He blamed the spike in cases on the government’s enthusiasm in helping the tourism industry and being lazy at borders. “Somehow due to what Prime Minister Narendra Modi said while imposing the first lockdown, the people feel lockdown is medicine for the virus,” Coutinho said. Another advocate who didn’t come on record said lockdowns are not the solution. “What if there’s a three or even one week lockdown and after the lockdown another positive case in the village emerges, will the panchayat lockdown again for one month?” he asked. Even under the Disaster Management Act, local bodies are more executors or implementors of the decisions. “They are not the decision making authority nor can they pass any order which is enforceable by any authority. Law and order is a state subject. Panchayats cannot issue orders under Section 144 and there are no powers in the statute for them to do so,” the lawyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/local-bodies-cant-shut-down-villages-lawyers/articleshow/76395298.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: JNU introduces paperless PhDs||NEW DELHI: Are you a PhD scholar or an MPhil student at Jawaharlal Nehru University? Then you will no longer have to submit a printed copy of your thesis/dissertation or wait for a long time for the final result. Introducing far-reaching changes in the way MPhil and PhD theses are evaluated, JNU recently decided to ask scholars to submit their theses via email as PDF documents and get the work evaluated in a time-bound manner. Even viva-voce will be conducted online. The examiners will get auto-reminders about the dates and in case of a delay, the task will be passed on to the next examiner. Close to 55% of the 8,800 JNU students are MPhil/PhD scholars. Research itself is a time-consuming process requiring a scholar to collect and analyse data/information before writing and submitting the dissertation. Till now even after the physical submission, hard copies were sent by post to external examiners who usually took from six months to a year to submit their reports. This was followed by viva-voce, the final academic condition a scholar needs to fulfil for the degree. Vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said, “The process used to take almost eight months to more than a year for various reasons. But now with the new process, we aim to complete this evaluation process, including the viva-voce, in a few months, but not exceeding six months.” JNU has decided to come out with a timeline for every step in the process of evaluation and viva-voce. As a first step, the university has switched to the submission of soft copies. Auto-reminders will be sent to ensure that the thesis report is submitted within the specified deadline. Examiners can also email their evaluation reports. For viva-voce, videoconferencing tools will be used to enable the examiner, candidate and the research committee members participate remotely in the process. “We hope that because of the elimination of all paperwork and the need for physical presence during evaluation, the research scholars will now be able to complete their evaluation process smoothly and efficiently,” said Kumar. As per the timeline, a school/special centre will upload a thesis/dissertation and a system-generated SMS will go to the designated examiner within seven days. If the examiner doesn’t give consent within seven days, the same will be passed on to the next examiner and within six weeks from the date of receipt of consent, the evaluation report will have to be emailed back. Viva-voce will have to be completed within a month of the school/centre receiving the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-introduces-paperless-phds/articleshow/76395297.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
June 16, 2020||Ajmer||Power thefts: Rs 6.91 crore as fines imposed in 11 districts||AJMER: The Ajmer Vidhyut Vitran Nigam (AVVNL) imposed penalties of Rs 6.91cr after raiding 9,047 places in 11 districts of the state under the ‘Hallabol-2’ campaign to check electricity thefts. For this, 992 engineers of AVVNL were deputed throughout the jurisdiction of 11 districts. Managing director of AVVNL V S Bhati said to curb every type of electricity theft, the campaign was started last year, but still there were cases of electricity theft at many places. Hallabol-2 was started to get the revenue for the state government. In this campaign after the lockdown, teams collected information on electricity theft at different places and raided the spots. The maximum theft occurred in Nagaur where 592 cases were found and a penalty of Rs 1.21 crore was imposed. Similarly, 112 cases were found in Ajmer city region, 156 cases in Ajmer rural, 379 in Bhilwara, 479 in Sikar, 206 in Udaipur, 78 in Rajsamand, 122 in Bansawara, 86 in Dungarpur, 503 in Chittorgarh, 84 in Pratapgarh and 483 in Jhunjhunu. Similarly, different wings identified many cases of electricity theft. There were 622 cases on wrong use of electricity, domestic connection used in industry, and cases were registered and penalty of rupees Rs 58.69 lakh was imposed. Bhati added that in the coming days, raids and inspection will be increased to control electricity theft in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/power-thefts-rs-6-91-crore-as-fines-imposed-in-11-districts/articleshow/76395301.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corporation set out to clear backlog at mortuaries||NEW DELHI: The corporation-run Covid funeral facilities have started approaching the designated hospitals to avoid long queues and waiting time for last rites after orders have been issued to clear mortuaries. Initial estimates from major hospitals indicate the backlog is manageable and the cremation and burial grounds won’t get overwhelmed, said an official. The three civic bodies have a daily corona-protocol cremation capacity of 367 bodies. The orders to ensure that bodies don’t languish in mortuaries were issued by the Union home ministry on Sunday. On Monday, better planning ensured that bodies were diverted from hospitals to alternative locations to avoid mismanagement, the official explained. Radha Krishan, the spokesperson of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said all preparations had been made to manage the bodies coming from the mortuaries. “Each Covid-19-designated funeral site is tied with a specific hospital. All managers at crematoria and burial grounds have been told to find out the number of bodies expected from each hospital,” he added. “Hospitals have been told that we have sufficient resources to dispose of the bodies.” The corporations have identified more sites, but “based on assessment, the current facilities should be sufficient to process existing bodies in the mortuaries”, a health official said. A supervisor overseeing the key cremation facilities in the capital said the situation was likely to remain under control. “Most of the hospitals have said they don’t have a large number of old Covid-19 bodies. LNJP hospital has reported 22 old cases in its mortuary and Safdarjung 20. We have also contacted RML, AIIMS and private hospitals, and none reported any massive backlog,” he added. The Punjabi Bagh crematorium remained underutilised on Monday as the Covid-only facility tried better floor management by diverting bodies to Lodhi Road and Dwarka grounds. SDMC standing committee chairperson Bhupender Gupta said they were not expecting a sudden surge. Around 80 bodies were cremated on Monday, including 55 at Punjabi Bagh, 16 at Lodhi Road and six at Dwarka, he said. He added that of the 55 bodies, nine came from Safdarjung, eight from AIIMS, seven from RML, four from DDU and the rest from private hospitals. His north corporation counterpart, Jai Prakash, said the situation was under control and cremation grounds had been told not to return any body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-set-out-to-clear-backlog-at-mortuaries/articleshow/76395300.cms||Paras Singh
June 16, 2020||Chennai||With no safety net, our elderly feel alone and anxious||CHENNAI: Since the lockdown began in March, N Prasad, 62, has been out of job. For the Pallavaram resident, the main breadwinner for his family, the past three months have been about sleepless nights and frequent bouts of anxiety. “My head is full of thoughts on how I will survive the day,” says Prasad, who used to do part-time jobs as a translator as well as at construction sites. “Who will hire a senior citizen at a time like this,” he says, and adds he also has a loan to repay. A survey by Helpage India, the findings of which were released on Monday, found that 65% of India’s elders lost their livelihood during the Covid-19 lockdown. The pan-India survey of 5,000 elders between 60 and 80 years and living in urban and rural areas (which includes 200 from Chennai and 200 from the rural parts of Tamil Nadu) found that around 80% of the elders in both rural (84%) and urban areas (71%) faced challenges accessing essential goods and services from food to medicines and banking services. Around 60% of the respondents, especially those in their 60s, felt confined and socially isolated in their homes during the lockdown especially since they were active and able bodied enough to work. “Around 90% of India’s elders belong to the unorganized sector and have to continue to work in their later years in order to survive as there is no universal social security system. Most of them are unskilled, casual workers, who earn a meagre daily wage to survive. These people were hit hard by the lockdown,” says Rohit Prasad, Chief Operating Officer, HelpAge India. A little over 40% elders reported worsening of health condition during the lockdown and around the same number said they were fearful of testing positive, says V Sivakumar, director, Tamil Nadu, HelpAge India. On an awareness level, 91% of elders were aware of the signs and symptoms of Covid-19, most of their information having been garnered from family, he adds. Around 35% feared economic loss and starvation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-no-safety-net-our-elderly-feel-alone-and-anxious/articleshow/76395302.cms||Kamini Mathai
June 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||10-min tornado leaves trail of destruction in Odisha’s Kendrapada dist||Kendrapada: Around 40 thatched houses were damaged and several trees uprooted when an unseasonable tornado hit the seaside villages of Kendrapada district on Monday afternoon. Though the storm lasted 10 minutes from 4pm, it left behind a trail of destruction in Rangani, Patparia, Baghamari, Garata, Ahirajpur, Keruapala, Sailendrasarai, Hatiaganda, Pravati, Kantiakhai, Khamarasahi villges under the Rajnagar block in the district. “The tornado blew away the roofs of 12 thatched houses injuring eight people in the village,” Rasmirekha Dalei, the sarpanch of Rangani gram panchayat, said. Rabindra Singh of Khamarasahi said four children were injured by roof tiles and metal sheets, which the tornado sent flying in the air at the village. Many wooden cabins were also damaged in the villages. Local officials rushed to the tornado-hit areas soon after it blew over the villages. “At least 10 thatched houses were razed to the ground, while 20 others partially damaged at Baghamari village,” Mukti Kumar Patra, the sarapanch of Baghamari panchayat, said. A villager of Pataparia said the fury of nature rendered many families homeless. “The tornado tossed four fishing boats upside down at Talachua jetty. This left three fishermen injured,” Ramesh Mandal, one of the injured persons, said. The authorities are yet to assess the extent of the damage caused by the tornado. However, no loss of human life and livestock has been reported. The power supply and road communication have been badly affected in the affected areas with many big trees and electric poles uprooted by the storm. “The authorities will soon clear the roads by removing the uprooted trees. Some schools and cyclone shelters in the tornado-hit areas are now packed with women and children. We have started distributing food among the affected persons. We will arrange polythene covers for the affected persons soon. After proper assessment, the administration will provide financial help to the affected families to help them rebuild their houses,” Bholanath Sethi, the tehasildar of Rajnagar, who rushed to the affected areas on Monday afternoo, said. In 2009, at least 18 persons were killed when a tornado struck Rajkanika block in Kendrapada district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/10-min-tornado-leaves-trail-of-destruction-in-odishas-kendrapada-dist/articleshow/76393338.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch cartoonist hangs self||Rajkot: A senior cartoonist in Bhuj hanged himself to death at his house in Darbargadh locality on Monday. Police said they are yet to probe the reasons behind Madansinh Parmar’s (60) suicide. “Parmar was single and used to live alone. He taught at schools in Nakhatrana and Bhuj. He worked as a freelance cartoonist with various local news papers,” said an official from Bhuj A division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-cartoonist-hangs-self/articleshow/76394527.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||More shops & offices reopen, life starts returning to near normal||Pune: The roads of the city have started getting the buzz back with more shops and eateries pulling up shutters and an increasing number of people venturing out, mostly in their private vehicles. A drive through the core areas of the city on Monday revealed people’s attempts, albeit cautious, to return to the normal. Shops on both sides of the roads in most non-containment areas remained open throughout the day and customers visited the markets donning masks to make purchases. Architect Amay Shah, who office is on Bajirao Road, told TOI that traffic movement was heavy. “I could see from my office vehicles plying throughout the day. It’s a positive sign,” he said. Rohit Chavan, an Undri resident and a working professional, said, “It is good to see people coming out and economy should revive. But one must not forget that the contagion is here and people should practise utmost caution while going out. Abiding by the government rules will only help the situation to improve.” Several shops were spotted open on both sides of Fergusson College Road on Monday evening. “Life looks near normal on F C Road,” said Sanket Jain, a Market Yard resident. People were seen standing outside in groups with tea and coffee outside Hotel Roopali. Patrons were also seen waiting in a queue, maintaining safe distances, outside Hotel Vaishali to collect takeaway food. “Shops were open with a steady footfall of the customers. The only new thing is that all people were wearing masks,” Jain said. Likewise, all shops were open in Kothrud as well. Resident Sheetal Joshi said, “There was a decent amount of crowd on the streets, as people stepped out to shop. As time passes, more people are getting the confidence to step out and that is why we see the crowd increasing every passing week. But as per my observation, people are avoiding loitering around much and are visiting stores only to make purchases.” Similar crowds and traffic were seen on Laxmi Road, Baner, Aundh, Kalyaninagar, Salunke Vihar Road and other market areas of the city as well. Most residents said barring the containment zones, traffic and movement of people has increased manifold with the shops and offices reopening. Several tea stalls in the Navi Peth area have also opened. “This happened after the offices and shops in the area reopened. Some stalls selling wada pav and other snack items have also opened on JM Road,” Joshi said. Businessman Prasanna Parmar said most shops and automobile showrooms between Katraj and Wakad were open on Monday morning. “Customer footfall at the shops at Dange Chowk and Balajinagar was decent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-shops-offices-reopen-life-starts-returning-to-near-normal/articleshow/76395310.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 16, 2020||Delhi||No time to stand and grieve: How corona has changed final journey in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Briefly interrupting the silence at the Nigambodh crematorium, a priest called out in a clear voice, “It’s the turn of number 17.” As this, a family of four scrambled to get their samagri — the essentials for the last rite and a red shroud — in order for the cremation of a woman who succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Sunday. After conducting the funeral rites of the woman, the priest, Jagdish Chandra, told TOI, “We’ve never seen such a rush. Unlike Earlier when we offered the families solace and wisdom from the holy books, for the past week, we haven’t had time for this.” In his 32 years at the crematorium, Chandra, popularly addressed as Hanuman ji, thought he had seen everything, but the Covid pandemic has been something else. “I never thought I would see the day when a son would be scared of lighting his mother’s pyre. But that is common now,” said Chandra, who wears no protective clothing, only a towel around his face as a mask. “I think this teaches us that everything is impermanent.” As the corona toll mounts in the capital, crematoria and burial grounds have become overburdened. On Monday, ambulances kept driving into Nigambodh Ghat, sometimes transporting as many as eight bodies at a time. During the visit, TOI saw at least 10 lit pyres. Other families waited for the priests to call out their assigned numbers. According to a crematorium worker, 35 bodies were brought to Nigambodh, 15 of them consigned to the electric furnace. “The number of bodies we have cremated is at least three times what we do in normal times,” noted another priest, called Sharmaji. “Sometimes, we don’t even get the time to eat throughout the day. But this is our way of offering seva.” Sharmaji decided to work on despite the high risk of infection because “someone had to step up and take charge”. He said, “My family is worried, I am not. This is my duty. What if doctors refused to cater to patients because of fear? How would the world work then?” The five priests on the day shift at the cremation area reserved for corona victims do not have protective clothing. The last rituals are hurried and the mourning subdued. The usual indication of grief — sobs and wails — are unusually muted. Families have made peace with not being able to see the bodies of their loved ones one last time. Patients who die of Covid have their bodies tightly packed in white sheets, and safety guidelines issued by the World Health Organization advice against the viewing of the bodies. A name tag issued by the hospital and pasted on the body bag is the sole mark of the deceased’s identification. Amar Singh, a New Delhi Municipal Council employee assigned to Nigambodh Ghat to ensure safety protocols are followed, elaborated, “We first receive a call from the hospitals to update us about the number of bodies they will be sending to the crematoria through the day. They wrap-seal the bodies and send them to us. Only health workers, ambulance drivers and family member who conduct the last rites wear PPE suits. The priests guide the funeral rites without touching the body under any circumstances.” According to Singh, many family members do not return to collect the remains because of a lingering fear, because of which crematoria authorities have had to conduct the ritual immersion of the ashes in the adjacent Yamuna river. On Monday, around 3pm, there were at least eight sacks of cremains awaiting collection by relatives. With just three furnaces, the workers at the electric crematorium, too, are burdened beyond capacity. There are three additional furnaces under construction. The workers, however, know the immense value of their work. “We get a sense of peace knowing that we conducted a person’s last rites. The government hasn’t done much for us, and we depend on god for safety,” declared Harendra, a staffer there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-time-to-stand-and-grieve-how-corona-has-changed-final-journey/articleshow/76395308.cms||Anam Ajmal
June 16, 2020||Meerut||2 highway robbers, who used to dress up as women to woo targets, held in Hapur||MEERUT: Two men, who used to dress up as women and lure truckers and other vehicles on highway to rob them, were arrested from Hapur’s Garhmukteshwar area. Notably, these men were operating for the last four years, but there was hardly any complaint on them. According to a police officer, they would even beg during the daytime posing as transgenders. On Sunday night, however, their shenanigans were finally put an end after cops received a tip-off about their whereabouts. “The two men in their late 20s have been identified as Harish and Amit Kumar, residents of Simbhaoli and Bahadurgarh villages, respectively, in Hapur. They used to dress up as women to lure their victims. Travellers on the highway would even stop at their signal as women are often not perceived to be as crooks,” additional SP Sarvesh Mishra said. The matter came to light on Friday when a company’s pick-up truck was targetted and a formal complaint was lodged. “Nabbing them was not hard at all. It took only a tip-off to catch them,” Mishra added. Police also recovered country-made firearms from them. Both have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 419 (cheating by personation), 398 (attempt to commit dacoity armed with deadly weapon) and 401 (for being gang of thieves) apart from relevant sections of the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-highway-robbers-who-used-to-dress-up-as-women-to-woo-targets-held/articleshow/76393327.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 16, 2020||Chennai||All govt med colleges to stock up on antiviral remedevisir||Chennai: A day after the Indian Council of Medical Research approved use of remedevisir to treat select Covid-19 patients, the state health department has promised to make the antiviral drug available at all government medical colleges by the weekend. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, which procures medicines and drugs for all government hospitals, has ordered 42,500 vials of remedevisir from Hyderabad-based Hetero Drugs at Rs 3,100 a vial. Tamil Nadu was part of the trial on the drug’s effectiveness in select patients. “Our doctors say clinical trials showed the drug has been effective. We wanted to ensure our patients get it as early as possible,” said TNMSC managing director Dr P Umanath. On Saturday, ICMR revised its treatment protocol allowing remedevisir for patients with moderate disease (those on oxygen). As per the revised guidelines, doctors can use remedevisir for five days — 200mg on the first day and 100mg on each of the remaining days. It cannot be used on those with kidney disease, children below 12 and pregnant women/lactating mother. At the four city government medical college hospitals, on Sunday, less than half of the 1,559 patients had mild infection. At least 165 were tagged ‘severe’ and 701 (45%) moderate. The same day, at Tambaram GH, ESI Aynavaram, ESI KK Nagar and Southern Railway hospitals, nearly one in 10 required ventilation or high flow oxygen — 32 of 72 patients on high flow nasal oxygen and four on ventilators. Almost all patients receive a low dose of heparin (blood thinner) and hydroxychloroquine (anti-malarial) but many may require remedevisir. The drug was approved for emergency use by Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on June 1. Gilead Sciences, which developed the drug widely used for treatment of Ebola, has signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with desi generic pharma manufacturers including Hetero Labs. TNMSC is also in talks with another firm to ensure there is no shortage of immune modulator Tocilizumab for those requiring high flow oxygen or ventilation, placing orders for the drug, which costs Rs 45,000 in the market, for Rs 29,000 excluding GST, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/all-govt-med-colleges-to-stock-up-on-antiviral-remedevisir/articleshow/76395313.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Harassed by loan sharks, man consumes phenyl||RAJKOT: Tired of harassment by two loan sharks, a 40-year-old man attempted suicide at the compound of Rajkot police commissionerate where he consumed phenyl on Monday afternoon. Police said the victim, identified as Praful Goswami, a resident of Mochinagar locality on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot, was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where his condition is said to be out of danger. “In his statement, Goswami said that the accused, identified as Navin Bharwad and Deepak, had been harassing him for the recovery of the interest on Rs two lakh loan he had taken from them. Goswami claimed that he had already paid Rs four lakh to the accused. Yet, the accused continued their harassment,” said an official from Pradyumannagar police station. Goswami claims that he had submitted an application of complaint against the accused duo to the police, a week ago. As no action was taken against the accused, he had to take the drastic step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/harassed-by-loan-sharks-man-consumes-phenyl/articleshow/76394545.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Wholesale veggie market works with full strength||Pune: The city’s wholesale vegetable and fruit market in Gultekdi has started functioning at full strength, while its retail section reopened on Sunday. The supplies have started coming in from other states like Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. “The market functioning is getting back to normal. Now, there is no cap on the arrival of vehicles. The supply of vegetables is still less because the lockdown effect has not worn off completely. But the daily arrival of vegetables has gone up,” said Vilas Bhujbal, the leader of the association of traders and commission agents at the Market Yard. The wholesale market, closed for one-and-a-half months during the lockdown in April and May, reopened at the beginning of June. Initially, it functioned at 50% strength with half of the traders working on alternate days. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) has now allowed traders to open their shops with 100% capacity. The Market Yard used to record daily arrival of over 500 vehicles and on Sundays, the inflow would go up to 1,000. A trader said the farmers were sceptical about sending their produce to the market because of lot of restrictions. Also, the local mandis in the city and Mandai market were closed till the last week, affecting the demand for vegetables. The APMC officials have told the traders to follow the precautionary measures in the marketplace against the backdrop of the virus spread. “We have told them that restrictions would be re-imposed in case of detection of more Covid-19 cases,” an official said. The retailers in the Mahatma Phule Mandai stressed that daily footfall was still less. The local mandis at Hadapsar and Khadki have also resumed operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wholesale-veggie-market-works-with-full-strength/articleshow/76395316.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: 15 ward offices to collate data of births and deaths||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to decentralise the process of issuing birth and death certificates. The data will be compiled at 15 ward offices across municipal areas. Currently, all data is collected at one office in Kasba peth. The change will help speed up certificate distribution. The PMC has decided to appoint one person per ward office to monitor data collection. These persons will collect data of births and deaths from hospitals under their ward offices. The staff members will also compile details of people who have passed away at their residences. They will also contact the crematoriums and other departments of the civic body to collect details of deceased. "The lockdown and restrictions on use of manpower at government offices has adversely impacted the process of allotting these certificates. We have now made special provisions for staff to handle the load," said mayor Murulidhar Mohol. According to PMC officials, the new arrangements will start from this week. Some staff members, currently engaged in property tax collection and recovery, will be shifted to ward offices. The officials said that it takes around 24 days on an average for family members of deceased persons to receive death certificates. The civic body had earlier announced that these certificates would be available online. But it is yet to become a reality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-ward-offices-to-collate-data-of-births-and-deaths/articleshow/76395324.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 1,647 fresh Covid-19 cases, death toll goes up by 73||NEW DELHI: The death count in the capital due to the novel coronavirus touched 1,400 on Monday with 73 deaths being recorded in past 24 hours. The number of daily new cases, however, came down below the 2,000 mark with 1,647 people testing positive for the disease. For the past three days, the city had been reporting more than 2,000 positive cases daily; 2,137 new cases on Friday, 2,134 cases on Saturday and 2,224 positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. The total number of cases in the state, reached 42,829, highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Officials said a total of 6,105 samples were tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours and efforts are on to scale it up to 10,000 samples on a daily basis. At least 5,420 people, who suffer from the Covid-19, are currently admitted in different hospitals in the city. Of these, 794 are requiring ICU support and 197 others, who are seriously ill, are on ventilator support, officials in the state health department said. Those with mild to moderate symptoms have been kept in Covid-19 health centres and Covid-19 care centres, which have basic medical facilities and isolation beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-reports-1647-fresh-cases-toll-goes-up-by-73/articleshow/76395320.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Green Park crematorium not for Covid-19 bodies: SDMC||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI reported that residents of Green Park Extension, Green Park and Arjun Nagar were up in arms over plans to use the crematorium in their area for Covid-19 bodies, South Delhi Municipal Corporation standing committee chairman Bhupender Gupta said the decision had been rolled back. He visited the area and assured people that the community hall located in the colony would also be converted into an isolation ward only in extreme situation. “Residents had approached me and other SDMC officials earlier, expressing their fear that the site was located in the middle of a densely populated area. I assured them that any crematorium located in the middle of residential areas would not be used for performing last rites of Covid-19 bodies. We will utilise crematoriums located far from residential areas. Regarding the use of community halls for isolation wards also, I made it clear that only those located in isolated places will be used on priority,” Gupta said after meeting the residents. Earlier, SDMC officials had informed the Union home minister about their plans to install CNG furnaces at the crematoriums in Green Park, Subhash Nagar and Dwarka within a month. “We are glad that the standing committee chairman himself came and checked the ground reality. He assured us that the furnaces would not be used to cremate bodies of Covid-19 patients,” said Shailendra Monty, a resident of Green Park Extn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-park-crematorium-not-for-covid-bodies-sdmc/articleshow/76395312.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Surat||GIDC units wary about reopening, finds survey||Surat: The easing of operational curbs on industry by the government does not seem to have translated into the swift revival of their activity in the manufacturing hub of Surat. According to the survey carried out by the Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) and the notified area authority in the nine industrial estates across the city and district, only 17% of the 3,246 registered industrial units have resumed operations, employing about 20,000 workers. The survey has found that majority of the industrial units are facing severe shortage of workforce following the mass exodus of migrant workers to their native districts in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha in the last one month. The units in the GIDCs are mainly into textile manufacturing, chemical units, textile ancillary, engineering etc. Out of the total 2,100 units in Sachin GIDC, only 421 units have been able to restart with less than 30% and giving employment to 5,600 workers. In Pandesara GIDC, out of the total 980 units, only 11 units have been made operational employing about 2,400 workers. At Ichhapore GIDC, out of the 413 units, only 42 units have restarted employing 750 workers. In the Katargam GIDC, out of the 905 units not a single unit has been able to restart. Regional manager of GIDC, Yogeshsinh Parmar told TOI, “The coronavirus pandemic and the extended lockdown has badly affected the business chain. There are host of issues facing the industrial units in GIDCs including labour shortage, liquidity crisis, raw material procurement, weak demand and business uncertainty.”“Out of the total 3,246 registered units in the GIDCs, only 550 units have restarted after the government relaxations. The biggest factor behind this is the shortage of workers. About 20 lakh migrant workers have left the city to their home states in the last one-and-half-month,” said chairman of Sachin GIDC notified area authority, Mahendra Ramoliya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gidc-units-wary-about-reopening-finds-survey/articleshow/76393383.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Cuttack||Finger millets get a modern twist||Cuttack: With the pandemic bringing about a change in the way people eat and the focus shifting from satisfying the tastebuds to boosting immunity, those in the food business are trying to cash in on healthier alternatives. No wonder then that pithas (a type of rice cake) made of finger millet mandia and such like flew off the shelves during the Raja festival in the twin cities. With restrictions on social gatherings, the three-day festival (starting Sunday) this year has turned into an indoor affair. But the online delivery of food kept has the spirits high and celebrations intact. Many sweet shops and several self-help groups (SHGs) have been making mandia-based food for the festival and selling them online owing to Covid-19. “As social distancing and boosting immunity are the best ways to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, we thought of offering healthy food along with pithas this year during Raja to ensure that the customers have a strong immune system,” Sanjukta Bhutia, a member of a self-help group engaged in making mandia-based food, said. She added, “The self-help groups have been preparing various food items such as mandia biscuits, laddus, mixture, cakes, breads and cookies that were in huge during the Raja festival.” More than 250 women have been engaged in making these food items. They are available on Swiggy and Zomato. “The prices start from Rs 5 and go up to to Rs 500. They are being sold in adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines. We have sold pithas worth Rs 2 lakh in three days,” Bhutia said. Apart from mandia, the self-help groups are also preparing traditional kakara, arisa, chuncipatra and the famous Poda pitha for Raja. “It was an altogether new experience to taste mandia cookies, cakes, breads and muffins during Raja. I had ordered more than Rs 1000 worth mandia-based food online and they were delicious,” Dibyajyoti Das, a resident of Rasulgarh, said. Besides the OTDC , hich had launched ‘pitha-on-wheels’ claimed to have sold Rs 5 lakh worth the of the sweet dish till Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/finger-millets-get-a-modern-twist/articleshow/76393390.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Plea by ayurvedic practitioner to quash trial dismissed||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed a plea moved by an ayurveda practitioner seeking to quash the proceedings in a case pending before the trial court against him on charges of practicing allopathic medicine in Virudhunagar district in 2015, citing that the trial court was prima facie satisfied with the material available to proceed with the trial.The charge against the petitioner, Singaraj, was that when Selvabaskar, senior resident medical officer of Srivilliputhur Government Hospital, inspected the premises of the petitioner on January 10, 2015, he found out that the petitioner was practicing allopathic medicine without proper qualification and seized medicines from his premises.Based on the complaint, the Vanniampatti police registered a case against the petitioner for the offence under Section 15(3) of the Indian Medical Council Act and Sections 336, 420 of IPC. After completing the investigation, police filed the final report, which was taken on file by the Srivilliputhur judicial magistrate (JM) II court.The petitioner moved the Madurai bench of the high court in 2016, to quash the criminal prosecution on the ground that the petitioner is an ayurvedic medical practitioner, duly registered in the Tamil Nadu Board of Indian Medicine. He stated that he was also the proprietor of a medical shop and was licensed to sell allopathic medicine. Hence he contended that possession of allopathic medicine is not an illegal act.On perusal of the submissions, Justice G Jayachandran observed that the petitioner is not a registered practitioner under the Medical Council of India as defined under the provisions of Indian Medical Council Act. The judge observed that the possession of the certificate issued by the Tamil Nadu Board of Indian Medicine will enable him to only practice ayurveda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-by-ayurvedic-practitioner-to-quash-trial-dismissed/articleshow/76395659.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 16, 2020||Business||ECGC to help exporters expand to new markets||Kolkata: The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) is ready to support exporters in their endeavour to expand to new markets especially to Africa and Latin America, said ECGC chairman and managing director M Senthilnathan during a webinar organized by CII. The session deliberated upon the need for cost-effective insurance to drive exports and bring back growth in the economy. Senthilnathan mentioned that ECGC is working under pandemic-related restrictions but it is trying to provide services to their clients, who are affected due to Covid-containment measures. “The crisis is much worse compared to the one witnessed after global financial meltdown a decade earlier. The working capital cycle of almost all the business units have been impacted. ECGC will be playing a counter cyclical role. It recognizes that the situation calls for some credit accommodation and credit insurers need to take high risks,” he added. Sanjay Budhia, chairman, CII National Committee on EXIM, said that in these trying times, managing credit risk and taking protection against unforeseen losses has assumed further importance and there is a need to increase the flow of bank credit to export sector and timely settlement of claims. Prominent companies like Tata Steel, Siemens, Escorts, Bajaj Electricals, J K Tyre, Bharat Forge, Patton International, Avaada Energy and Coromandel International joined from across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ecgc-to-help-exporters-expand-to-new-markets/articleshow/76394542.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||On first day, schools begin online classes||Pune: New books and uniforms, and the excitement of a new classroom and friends on the first day of school was missing on Monday. Parents and students sat in front of laptops, desktops, tablets, cellphones, ear phones and headphones for the live classes. Many schools conducted classes for one to four hours depending on the standards. For older students, 20-minute breaks were given between two periods. Principal of DES English medium school Jyoti Bodhe said, “We started online classes from Monday for standards III to IX. Classes for Std X students began in May. The management has made available Microsoft Teams application for all students. We had an orientation for parents. Teachers have prepared Power Point presentations based on chapters. On the first day, there was about 90% attendance."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/on-first-day-schools-begin-online-classes/articleshow/76395334.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Surge in fresh cases continue in Vadodara, 44 tested positive||Vadodara: With the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) acknowledging that three more persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 had died, the official figure of those who died after testing positive for the novel coronavirus went up to 50.The details given by the VMC reveal that all the three persons who were included in the number of deceased were suffering from comorbidities. The civic body claims that only seven of the 50 victims died due to Covid-19 as the primary reason so far.Officials have been sighting delay in death audit reports as the reason for declaring he deaths at a late stage. Sources point out that the actual toll could be around three times the official figure.There was no respite from the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. The number of cases being tested positive every day has been on the rise since the last couple of days. Since Sunday evening, 44 persons had tested positive in the city and district. The total number of persons who tested positive now stands at 1,610.The largest number of cases came from the north and south zones of the city where 14 cases each were reported. Seven cases were reported from the east zone of the city and none from the west. The rural areas of the city registered nine more cases. Sources said that a doctor staying in the Sevasi area on the outskirts of the city had also tested positive. The healthy rate of discharge of patients also continued with 62 persons being discharged in the city. These include 26 from private hospitals, eight from SSG Hospital and three from the GMERS, Gotri Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/surge-in-fresh-cases-continue-in-vadodara-44-tested-positive/articleshow/76394255.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Petrol pumps in Pune may curb use of drinking water, toilet facilities||PUNE: Petrol pumps may soon restrict the use of toilets and drinking water facilities on their premises to curb the spread of Covid-19. Oil marketing companies have drawn up a detailed standard operating procedures (SOP), upping hygiene at petrol pumps, including restrictions on the public using common amenities. Some pumps have made it mandatory for customers to wear masks. “Toilets ... cleaned and sanitized after every use. Toilet facilities temporarily stopped for use of general public. Drinking water facility made inoperative,” the SOP read. “Even though an outright ban cannot be imposed, we are encouraging public to avoid using these facilities for their safety,” an official said. The restrictions will, however, not apply to petrol pumps located along highways. Pumps in the city have already received instructions from the oil companies. “It is very difficult to disinfect toilets after every use. Many pumps can be lax in disinfection, hence the latest suggestion by oil marketing companies,” Sameer Ladkat, president of Petrol Dealers Association, Pune, told TOI. “Most dealers, as a precaution, have locked toilets, which are the most vulnerable places at the pump due to the sheer number of people using them,” Ladkat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-pumps-may-curb-use-of-drinking-water-toilet-facilities/articleshow/76395329.cms||Neha Madaan
June 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rights panel issues notices to govt after TOI’s report on Makadmare||PANAJI: The Goa Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the director of tribal welfare and the chief electrical engineer over the plight of Makadmare (Wanarmare) tribals highlighted in TOI’s Monday edition. The article, titled ‘For the Makadmare tribe, a roof and electricity remain distant dreams’, led to the commission taking suo motu cognisance of the issue, and has called for reports to be filed by July 2, member Pramod Kamat said. The article pointed out the hardships faced by the 20-odd families of the Makadmare tribals living in 17 thatched huts with no electricity connection as darkness envelopes their settlement by sunset. During the monsoon, the situation worsens, with their roofs getting blown away or damaged during heavy rain. The rain water which gushes into their hutments also makes life miserable for the occupants — many among them are senior citizens and children. In the absence of electricity, the children are unable to study after dusk. The report had also pointed out that in the absence of toilet facilities, the tribals are compelled to answer nature’s call in the open, inviting the wrath of the locals. TOI was the first to highlight the plight of the Makadmare tribe in 2014, reporting how in the absence of any valid document to establish their identity — birth certificate, ration card, or voting card —– they were deprived of all welfare schemes meant for underprivileged persons. In 2017, following a spirited movement by social workers to get them enfranchised, 40 of them voted for the first time. Initiatives by social activists also led to some 30 Makadmare children being enrolled in a primary school. The tribals eke out their livelihoods working as farm helps and casual labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rights-panel-issues-notices-to-govt-after-tois-report-on-makadmare/articleshow/76395338.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Bail for man involved in sand mining||Madurai: The Madras high court has granted bail to a man involved in an illegal sand mining case after he gave an undertaking to pay Rs 10,000, which shall be spent for welfare measures by the Thanjavur district administration. The petitioner - Senthilkumar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody by the Thiruchitrambalam police in Thanjavur district on May 17, for his involvement in illegal sand mining. The petitioner was booked under section 379 of IPC and section 21(1) of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. The petitioner, who sought bail in this case gave an undertaking that he would pay a non-refundable deposit before the jurisdictional magistrate. Taking cognizance of the undertaking, justice G R Swaminathan said the amount will be transferred by the magistrate to the account of any relief fund that may be maintained by the district administration. Subsequently, the administration shall submit a certificate to the court registry. Justice G R Swaminathan also passed a similar order in another case while granting anticipatory bail to two people - R Balasubramanian and P Rajesh who were apprehending arrest in Thanjavur district for their involvement in illegal sand mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-for-man-involved-in-sand-mining/articleshow/76395656.cms||---
June 16, 2020||India||SC allows merit to breach quota barrier||NEW DELHI: Merit breached the iron wall of quota on Monday as the Supreme Court permitted a Madhya Pradesh OBC woman, who topped the merit list, to join as an assistant professor in geography from posts earmarked for unreserved category women candidates. Madhya Pradesh sets aside 33% of all posts in government jobs, except those in the forest department, for women. This is sub-divided into four categories — unreserved, SC, ST and OBC. For the 84 posts advertised for assistant professors, 26 were reserved for women candidates. Of these, 12 were for unreserved, four for SCs and six each for STs and OBCs. Sadhna Singh Dangi, who competed as an OBC candidate, topped the merit list and the government appointed her in the unreserved category since she performed better than all unreserved category candidates. She had not sought eligibility on the basis of caste quota. One Pinki Asati and many others challenged this decision before the Madhya Pradesh High Court, which on April 29 quashed the list of selected candidates and said it was impermissible to draft in an OBC candidate in the unreserved category and appoint her to a post earmarked for the latter. The Indore bench of the HC ruled that in a case of compartmentalised reservation, no migration from reserved to unreserved category was permissible even if the candidate belonging to reserved category had not availed any benefit of reservation for securing eligibility and had got a seat in the unreserved category solely on merit. Further strengthening compartmentalised reservation, the HC had said, "A candidate not falling in the merit list of unreserved category cannot be brought from any other category belonging to OBC, SC or ST in order to accommodate against horizontal quota of unreserved women category." The HC had said meritorious OBC category women candidates would be accommodated against the six posts of assistant professors available for that category and they could not eat into the 12 unreserved category posts. A Supreme Court bench of Justices U U Lalit, M M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran entertained Dangi’s appeal and stayed the HC order, paving the way for her and other meritorious reserved category candidates to be appointed as assistant professors in posts earmarked for the unreserved category. Appearing for her, senior advocate P S Patwalia said the HC decision was unsustainable as the MP government has stipulated that if a reserved category candidate has not availed any relaxation to acquire eligibility and competed on merit, then she shall be selected under vacancies for unreserved category. The state's additional advocate general Saurabh Mishra supported the appeal as the MP government had clarified before the HC that 'unreserved category' was not a reservation but open for all categories of candidates, who acquired position on the basis of merit. The bench allowed intervention of unreserved category students after hearing senior advocates Krishnan Venugopal and S K Rungta. The SC asked the parties to file their responses to the appeal in two weeks and posted it for hearing after four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-allows-merit-to-breach-quota-barrier/articleshow/76396054.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Anganwadi workers in U’khand refuse to weigh newborns fearing Covid-19 spread||Dehradun: The anganwadis, frontline workers of Uttarakhand women and child development department on Monday expressed displeasure and failure to dispense the task of weighing infants fearing spread of Covid-19 among the children or even among themselves. The latest data of women and child development (WCD) department indicates that Uttarakhand is home to 7,60,741 children between 0-6 years of age of which 1,370 are under ‘Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM); while 11,409 children re-classified under ‘Moderately Acute Malnourished’ (MAM) as per TOI source in the WCD department. Though globally medical experts have already expressed concern that it is imperative to keep a track of SAM and MAM children to avoid any further deterioration in mental or physical health of these two category of children. A communication dated June 12 by the newly appointed director of WCD P Shanmugam, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions, "It has come to our notice that weights of children between 0 and 6 years is not being reported therefore you are directed to ensure that all the concerned frontline workers through door-to-door survey collect the weight data in the first week of every month and this report be submitted by all districts by the 25th of each month." Meanwhile, the anganwadi workers have alleged that they are not being provided safety kit such as PPE or other modern technique to weigh children which is posing threat to both the newborns as well as them. "The government wants us to follow strict social distancing norms and also get the weight of newborns. Then why are we not getting any safety gear such as PPE or sanitisers? Every child will be held by us to measure weights. How do we ensure that everyone is safe from Covid spread, aren’t we ourselves here failing to adhere to the norms of social distancing?" asked Rekha Negi, chairperson of Anganwadi Karyakartri Sevika Mini Karmachari Association Uttarakhand. The workers are now threatening to go on strike if they are pushed to check the weight without adequate provisions. "Either the state government or the WCD department should take the onus of pushing us into this risky assignment else we will be forced to sit on protest." added Negi. Rekha Arya, minister of WCD department, said, "It is a pertinent concern raised by the anganwadis as weight of children cannot be done without touching them. We are trying to find a solution for this genuine problem in sync to the guidelines of the ministry of health as well as the state government."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anganwadi-workers-in-ukhand-refuse-to-weigh-newborns-fearing-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76393402.cms||Shivani Azad
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune cops, RTO to crack down on buses flouting travel norms||PUNE: After a local bus operators’ body raised a red flag over alleged illegal plying of buses and fleecing of passengers, the police and the Regional Transport Office said they would crack down on such activities. The Pune Bus Owners Association has alleged that some operators are carrying passengers without e-passes and also charge exorbitant fares. “In the past few days, we have spotted and stopped many buses in which social distancing norms being ignored. They charged fares ranging between Rs2,000 and Rs5000,” Balasaheb Khedekar, president of Pune Luxury Bus Association, said. Senior association member Kiran Desai said the RTO put the onus was on the police to issue e-passes to people and check buses. “The RTO only provides passes to goods carriers. We will meet DCP Bachchan Singh on Tuesday,” he said. “I told the association to give us sufficient information. If substantiated, the police will take action,” DCP Singh said. The RTO would consult the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-rto-to-crack-down-on-buses-flouting-travel-norms/articleshow/76395344.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court grants bail to 31 foreign Tablighi preachers; asks govt to facilitate their return||MADURAI: The prospects of 31 foreign Tablighi Jamaat preachers – 11 from Bangladesh and 20 from Indonesia – returning to their homeland brightened, with Madras high court granting them bail on Monday, and counselling that India and Tamil Nadu facilitate their return. They were arrested in the aftermath of Covid-19 outbreak in India, and spent more than 70 days in custody. As Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Thanjavur district police have not filed chargesheets against them, their counsel argued that they are entitled to bail. Justice G R Swaminathan, tracing their arrival on tourist visa and arrest for violation of Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, said: “The prison term already undergone by them should be considered as sufficient punishment. When the petitioners have already paid the price for their misadventure, to insist that they should continue to remain in India in prison-like conditions till the proceedings are concluded grossly offends the principle of proportionality and fairness.” Taking note of the preachers’ undertaking that they are willing to file individual affidavits admitting that they had violated the visa conditions and that they would not enter India for the next 10 years and that they would make their own arrangements for return by coordinating with their respective embassies and consulates, the judge directed the central and state governments to play a facilitatory role. “Merely because the petitioners have contravened the visa conditions, they cannot be seen as criminals,” he said. Noting that the Tablighi preachers had come to India ‘propelled by a sense of religious idealism,’ Justice Swaminathan saidm, “it is not the case of the prosecution that the preachers had indulged in proselytizing activities and that their acts have not prejudiced public tranquillity. None of the petitioners tested positive for Covid-19 and there is absolutely nothing on record to indicate that they had contributed to the spread of the virus.” The judge said further that they are normal human beings who are now stuck in alien surroundings. Pointing out that during times of armed conflict or emergency, the right to leave any country can be invoked, Justice Swaminathan said the current pandemic times are no different. “Though the petitioners fortunately have not tested positive so far, the position may be different tomorrow and their lives may be in danger,” he said, adding that they have the right to return to their native countries at the earliest opportunity. The judge said that after the preachers file affidavits about regrets violating the visa conditions, proceedings against them shall be concluded by filing final reports recording the undertakings. As for the submission that they shall be housed at a special camp meant for foreigners during their release on bail, and till conclusion of trial, Justice Swaminathan asked Tamil Nadu government to consider a proposal of Jamia Qasmiya Arabic College at Washermenpet in Chennai to house the preachers after their release on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madras-hc-grants-bail-to-31-foreign-tablighi-preachers-asks-govt-to-facilitate-their-return/articleshow/76395666.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Active cases cross 500-mark||PANAJI: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally crossed the 500 mark on Monday as 28 new cases were found, including one each in the villages of Raia and Curtorim. While Chimbel, Quepem and Sada also saw a spike, cases linked to the Mangor Hill containment zone went up to 160. The health department also said that 11 persons were cured of the disease on Monday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 85. Sada, a part of Vasco, now has 17 cases, with four detected on Monday. Chimbel reported two, bringing its total up to 13. The cases in both these areas are linked to Mangor Hill. Over 100 persons from densely-populated Chimbel were tested on Monday, after a security guard posted at the Vasco urban health centre, as well as two of his family members, tested positive. Meanwhile, Baina, also part of Vasco, now has 24 cases. The locality is in many ways like Mangor Hill. Vasco residents fear that a spike in cases here may throw the situation out of control. A health department official said cases have been found in other parts of the state after the 20 health department employees in Vasco and the KTC and post office staff tested positive. “All these employees reside in various parts of the state,” the official said. Last week, health secretary Nila Mohanan admitted that after health workers posted in various capacities tested positive for the novel coronavirus, their family members and contacts too got the infection. Measures have been taken to ensure that it doesn’t happen again, she had said. All staff posted at Covid facilities and in containment zones, she said, will remain in government-provided facilities till the completion of their duty. They will be able to go home only after the completion of their quarantine period. On Monday, one traveller tested positive for Covid-19. The day also saw 1,173 samples tested, out of which 835 returned negative. 310 reports are awaited. Ten suspects were admitted to isolation wards, and 162 international travellers were sent to home quarantine on completion of their seven days in facility quarantine. Meanwhile, 20 interstate travellers were also home quarantined, and 216 travellers placed in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-cases-cross-500-mark/articleshow/76395677.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune University plans testing lab for Covid-19, molecular research||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has sought permission from the state government to set up a Biological Safety Level (BSL) III laboratory to test samples for Covid-19 on its premises. Vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said the laboratory will be set up in a new building on the campus at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. Construction will be completed in one and a half months. The facility will test 400 to 500 samples per day. It will be used for molecular diagnostic and research too, making it the first such lab in a state university, Karmalkar said. Currently, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) has a BSL3 and BSL4 laboratory. “The proposal for a Covid-19 testing lab came a long time ago. We are putting in money, energy, resources and time so we need a facility like the Centre for Molecular Diagnostic and Research. Here, we will concentrate on respiratory diseases related to viruses,” Karmalkar added. The university has identified the land for the centre after seeking the opinion of a medical team and other experts who visited the university last week. “A BSL 2 facility is enough for Covid-19 testing. But we are aiming for a sustainable, dedicated research centre and opted for a BSL 3 laboratory. It will be the only such facility other than the NIV in the city. It can be upgraded to BSL 4 facility too,” Karmalkar added. The university has sent the proposal to the state government which will forward it to the Indian Council of Medical Research.  The university improved its NIFR ranking based on research output like publications and citations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-university-plans-testing-lab-for-covid-19-molecular-research/articleshow/76395337.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||With focus on patient’s kin, home isolation norms get tougher in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The guidelines issued by the state health department on home isolation of Covid-19 patients after hundreds of infected were moved from Gandhi Hospital to home quarantine specify that patients should be put up in separate rooms with a separate toilet. Moreover, it advises moving any other immunity compromised person in the household elsewhere. “A separate well-ventilated room and a separate toilet should preferably be available for corona patients at your home. A caregiver/attendant should be available 24x7 for the care of the patient. If anybody in the patient’s house is above 55 years of age, is pregnant or has severe medical conditions such as cancer, severe asthma, respiratory disorders, diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, renal disease etc, they must be moved to another house till the patient recovers. If a patient does not have an attendant round the clock, they can inform state health authorities on 1800-599-4455. Patients have also been advised to clean their rooms and their stuff on their own. “The patient should clean the isolation room himself/herself. If that is not possible, the person who is cleaning should take all necessary precautions like wearing triple layer medical mask, gloves, face shield or goggles. The room should be cleaned with disinfectants (as per manufacturer guidelines) or bleaching powder mixed with water (3 spoons per litre) twice a day,” as per the guidelines. Patients have been asked to download Arogya Sethu App and keep Internet on to run the app. “Our health officials will call to check everyday. Full cooperation should be provided to them by providing all requisite information. Stay home, don’t panic,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-focus-on-patients-kin-home-isolation-norms-get-tougher-in-t/articleshow/76394596.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Stranded fly into India amid quarantine confusion||HYDERABAD: Days into phase 3 of the Vande Bharat Mission, confusion continues over quarantining rules of international flyers returning to India. Passengers claim that different states (port of entry) have been following different norms, leaving them flustered. While some are allowing incoming passengers take a domestic connection, immediately after touching down on Indian soil, others are insisting that flyers be quarantined at the port of entry. Even the home quarantine rule is unclear, at many destinations. Said Partha B (name changed), a resident of Bhubaneshwar set to travel from London to Hyderabad next week: “Some of my relatives who travelled on a Vande Bharat flight to Delhi recently, were allowed to take a domestic flight from there to Bhubaneshwar and get quarantined in Odisha. I was hoping I would be allowed to do the same. But now it turns out, I have to complete my quarantine period in Hyderabad before I can travel to my home state.” As per guidelines issued on May 24, all international flyers must undergo a mandatory quarantine of 14 days — seven days institutional quarantine at their own cost and seven days isolation at home. “But what happens to people like me who do not have anybody in Hyderabad? How will we home quarantine,” asked Partha echoing the concerns of many others like him. “In fact, my friend who was booked on a flight from San Francisco to Hyderabad via Delhi, eventually cancelled her ticket due to lack of clarity over where she would need to quarantine. She has no family/friends in Delhi,” said Shraddha Saxena an IT employee. On social media too, people raised the concern, hoping for some clarity. Wrote S Yashwanth Anil Kumar: “@MoCA_GoI: Please can anyone tell me, for a passenger who wishes to travel from USA to Rajahmundry (RJA) via Hyderabad or Delhi, where will be the institutional quarantine. At layover Airport (Delhi or HYD) or at RJA or any option else?” When asked, Dr Anuradha Medoju, senior regional director (MoHFW) and in-charge of APHO (Airport Health Organisation) in AP and Telangana said: “Once a passenger comes out of Hyderabad airport, he/she has to undergo the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine.” She added: “While we have advised the state government to maintain the 14 day system, it is for the government to decide what happens to those who do not have homes in the city.” Sources, meanwhile, said that the home isolation period is fluid with many flyers travelling domestically, soon after completing the paid quarantine phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stranded-fly-into-india-amid-q-confusion/articleshow/76394614.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Woman kills self in Rishikesh day before wedding||HARIDWAR: A 21-year-old woman committed suicide in Rishikesh on Sunday evening just a day before her wedding. She locked herself inside a room and hanged herself from a ceiling fan. The suicide took place in Manjiyadi village under Muni-ki-Reti police station jurisdiction. After getting information of the suicide, police reached the spot and sent the body to district hospital for autopsy. In another such incident reported from the same village, a 17-year-old boy also hanged himself. Circle officer Narendra Nagar Pramod Shah told TOI, “The girl, identified as Pooja, hanged herself. Her wedding ceremony was due on Monday. And the boy, identified as Gajendra Singh, also committed suicide on the same day. We did not recover any suicide note from the victims. It is being investigated if both the deaths are related.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-kills-self-day-before-wedding/articleshow/76393405.cms||MS Nawaz
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Eight-year-old boy illegally adopted by couple 6 years ago in Madurai rescued||Madurai: An eight-year-old boy, who was illegally adopted by a couple in Madurai district six years ago, was rescued on Monday.The rescue was carried out by a team of officials from Childline and child welfare committee (CWC) with the help of police. No arrests have been made so far.Childline number 1098 received a call on Monday morning about the boy being adopted illegally. Officials at CWC were alerted. Childline and CWC officials and the Checkanurani police reached Iyyampatti village in the district.The boy was adopted by Karuppasamy and his wife Murgeswari, who are basket weavers.The couple spotted the boy wandering in torn clothes near Checkanurani when he was two-and-a-half years old. They already had two daughters aged 17 and 8 years. They decided to adopt him as they did not have a male child.The couple confessed that they were not the biological parents of the boy. They also managed to get his birth certificate with their names as parents. The couple had admitted the boy to a home recognised by the Madurai district administration as they could not afford his education in a school.CWC member B Pandiarajan said there was a burn injury on the boy’s left forearm. Initially, both the couple and the boy claimed that he had suffered the injury due to an accident. Later, they admitted that they caused the injury as he had stolen Rs 200. Officials did not accept the response, as it is against law, he said.The Checkanurani police registered a case under sections of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act 2015 based on a complaint from Pandiarajan. The boy was shifted to a reception home for the time being. He would be shifted to a home and enrolled in a school soon, Pandiarajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eight-year-old-boy-illegally-adopted-by-couple-6-years-ago-in-madurai-rescued/articleshow/76395670.cms||V Devanathan
June 16, 2020||Pune||Residents to allow domestic helps from non-sealed areas||Pune: Many housing societies have put in place guidelines to allow domestic helps from non-containment zones to work in households. The acquiescence comes after the district collector and Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioners clarified that the societies had to toe the government line and to make their own rules. “Our society is finalizing the rules and guidelines — they were dead against it, but the government’s intervention helped,” a resident of a Pimpri Chinchwad society, who has for the past week waged a battle against its office-bearers, said. Many housing societies have reportedly refused the entry of domestic help as they were afraid of a Covid-19 outbreak. Others have asked residents to sign an undertaking, taking full responsibility should anyone test positive. Via video call on Sunday, Pune Housing Federation (PHA) clarified to office-bearers that they would not face any legal action if anyone in the society tests positive.“ Managing a society is a community initiative. Legal liability lies with the government. It will not be society committee’s responsibility if someone is found positive, because societies cannot control where people come and go,” PHA chairman Suhas Patwardhan said on the call. The federation, which has nearly 18,000 members, said they cannot make their own rules, as the government has not issued a notification banning the entry of domestic help, unless they live in containment zones. “Not allowing will mean the poor will be left without jobs and could eventually create unrest,” Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-to-allow-domestic-helps-from-non-sealed-areas/articleshow/76395350.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Burrabazar murder: Accused lured toddler with chanachur||Kolkata: A father of four, Shiv Kumar Gupta — the man arrested for allegedly flinging a one-and-a-half-year-old, a seven-year-old boy and a six-year-old girl from a fourth-floor balcony at Burrabazar on Sunday — had waited for the toddler to approach him first for the chanachur he was munching on. He had timed his crime only after his son left on an errand. The chilling relevations were made by the accused during his questioning at the Burrabazar police station. “He claimed he did everything in a fit of rage. Each time we asked him why he targeted the kids, he could hardly control his anger and claimed he loathed them,” said an investigating officer. Gupta used to shuttle between UP (where his other three sons stay) and Kolkata. “He said the lockdown had affected his business and that he was forced to stay in his room for three months. He thus saw the children whom he claimed teased and bullied him by spilling water on him and tugging at his dhoti, made faces at him and called him names. He claimed he felt that all their acts were not childish but deliberate as the children’s family continued to support them,” claimed the officer. Gupta had picked up the toddler and flung him on to the 5-feet-wide lane below. He had then chased the older boy and girl with such speed over a 30-feet distance that they could hardly raise any alarm. The gap — in chasing them and then trying to throw them — though allowed at least two locals, a woman and another man, to catch him in the act by the time he was throwing off the boy. The two neighbours are now the crucial links in the case. Cops are also recording statements of the two kids who have survived the attack. Gupta was produced before a city court on Monday and was remanded in police custody for 14 days. Police will soon place an application to record the account of the two witnesses before a magistrate. Cops have conducted a medical check-up of Gupta and have found that he was mentally sound and did not suffer from any depression or mental illness as has been cited by his family members. “His younger son had claimed his father had been behaving erratically and had been taking some medicines since the lockdown had hampered his business. We have found no history of mental stress. In fact, we are probing his role in how his wife died under mysterious circumstances 15 years ago. There are two versions — that she had committed suicide and that she had initially left on her own accord and found dead later,” said the officer. Locals said Gupta, who has been living at the chawl for seven years, had a history of picking up fights. “He used to remain high on marijuana and often used to return home drunk and pick up fights with other neighbours,” said Bhola Sonkar, a neighbour. “I came out to the balcony hearing screams of children and saw Gupta picking up the boy and throwing him out of the balcony. He was somehow saved as he landed on a tin shade. A toddler was already lying on the road bleeding. He also tried to throw another girl when I screamed and the girl’s mother and others came out of their homes to stop him,” said Tara Devi Shankar, one of the witnesses. (with inputs from Sudipto Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burrabazar-murder-accused-lured-toddler-with-chanachur/articleshow/76394615.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 16, 2020||Delhi||12 days on, two held for killing man over rivalry in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Twelve days after Rahul Nagar, a resident of West Vinod Nagar, was chased and shot by unknown assailants, police have arrested two men. Investigations have revealed the murder was triggered by an old rivalry. Nagar, who was allegedly involved in land grabbing, had reportedly thrashed a criminal from Noida, Kartar Bhati, around five years ago in a park and Bhati wanted revenge, police said. The arrested accused have been identified as Rinku (30) and Abhishek (21), both from Uttar Pradesh. In the CCTV footage from the last week of May, an Eeco car was spotted multiple times in the area, police said. It was there near a traffic signal on the murder day too. The car was traced to Kasna village in Noida and Rinku, its driver, was arrested. He said he would ferry four people to the area to conduct a recce. Abhishek, arrested following Rinku’s statement, revealed about the old rivalry between the victim and Bhati, who is in jail, said an officer. Police have also interrogated Bhati in jail, who allegedly expressed his anger for Nagar. The other accused are Vipin, Sumit and Sachin Bhati. After the murder, Vipin surrendered in Noida in another case and is in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-days-on-two-held-for-killing-man-over-rivalry/articleshow/76395342.cms||Sakshi Chand
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Application in HC says 2,500 U’khand workers still stranded in Thane||Nainital: An intervention application (IA) filed in the Uttarkahand high court (HC) has alleged that around 2,500 registered migrant workers from the state are still stranded in Maharashtra’s Thane district and despite several attempts, the Uttarakhand government has done nothing to bring them back. The division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, has now directed the counsel appearing for the state government to file a reply on the application by Thursday when the case will be heard next. "Paresh Tripathi, learned chief standing counsel for the state of Uttarakhand, would submit that the Government of Uttarakhand is, in view of the order of the Supreme Court, now obligated to bring back, all migrant workers and others stranded in different parts of the country, to the state of Uttarakhand latest by June 24, 2020; and he would obtain instructions regarding those residents of Uttarakhand who are allegedly stranded in the Thane district of the state of Maharashtra," said the bench in its order. The IA, filed by a Mumbai-based NGO named Pravasi Sahyogi Team, said that it was in connection with a PIL filed before the court that has highlighted the plight of migrant workers stranded across the country. The application said that though many migrant workers stuck in Maharashtra have been taken to Uttarakhand through two trains, there are still around 2500 people who have registered themselves with the state but have not been able to go back. The IA further said that despite several attempts by them to contact the state government officials and despite a letter written by the collector of Thane, the state government has paid no heed to their plight. Speaking to TOI, the counsel appearing for the NGO, Dushyant Mainali, said that “callous approach shown by the official towards the plight of the migrant workers who, in absence of trains or any other means of transport, have been forced to sustain themselves on borrowed money is against the order of both the Supreme Court and the high court.” "The Supreme Court had directed the state governments and the Centre to make sure that each and every migrant worker is taken to their homes by June 24, yet the state has paid no heed to these workers, many of whom have started the journey on foot," Mainali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/application-in-hc-says-2500-ukhand-workers-still-stranded-in-thane/articleshow/76393444.cms||Prashant Jha
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Fake e-passes, illegal travel to south districts on the rise||Madurai: Fake wedding invitations, duplicate e-passes and illegal travel without passes to their hometowns in the south are on the rise by those from Chennai and neighbouring districts who want to leave the hotspot. This is apart from increasing e-pass applications, which are mostly declined. Last weekend, at least three fake e-pass cases were booked by the police. It includes a bus with 38 passengers from Chennai and two tourist vehicles to Kanyakumari district. District administrations say such travels from Chennai are an issue of concern as it can even result in fresh outbreak in some districts. Madurai district administration was flooded with as many as 37,522 e-pass applications from across Tamil Nadu from June 1 to 15. More than 20% are from Chennai district alone. A total of 3,587 e-passes were approved for travelling from Chennai during this period. While 606 e-passes from Chennai to Madurai were approved on June 6, stringent scrutiny brought it down to a mere 52 passes on June 15. Pointing out that most recent applications are citing ‘stranded’ as the reason, officials said those who relocated to Chennai many years ago and have permanent address there do not fall under this category. Their applications are rejected. QR scanners are provided at checkposts to check the e-passes and more personnel have also been deployed to check the travellers. “There is a significant rise in people from Chennai applying for e-passes since the first week of June. From the second week, we started verifying each application and approving it based on the necessity,” Madurai district collector T G Vinay said. He added that they have tightened vigil on all roads connecting Madurai to avoid unauthorised travel. Vinay said that they have also formed village and ward level vigilance committees to check such travel through the village administrative officers. In Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts, villagers are voluntarily reporting or handing over those who reached the village in the wrong channel, to avoid fresh outbreaks in the locality. Of the 398 positive cases in Tuticorin till Sunday, around 160 are those who travelled from Chennai and their close contacts, accounting for 90% of the current positive cases. “Those travelling without a pass and entering through village roads is an issue of concern,” Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said. From 150 to 200 e-pass applications a day from Chennai region earlier this month the number has climbed to 250 to 300. “We verify and issue 30 to 40 passes a day for genuine reasons,” he said. While the GO says everyone from Chennai should be tested, those sneaking in put their family and others at risk, he added. He recalled an incident in Seithunganallur where 11 in a family were infected following an illegal travel from Chennai. “This is one of the many such instances,” he added. Kanyakumari district administration has come across a few fake wedding invitations to travel to their district. “There are also incidents of excessive people applying for a death for which only 20 persons are permitted,” collector Prashant M Wadnere said. Since people travelling from faraway places to Trichy and catching the train to Nagercoil have tested positive, the district has made swab collection mandatory for all train travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fake-e-passes-illegal-travel-to-south-districts-on-the-rise/articleshow/76395674.cms||M K Ananth
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Fresh positive cases in hill districts push up state-wide infection rate||Dehradun: With almost 1,700 cases in the last month, many of which are from the hill districts, the state’s infection rate has reached 4.54%. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based research organisation Social Development for Communities (SDC) Foundation, who is closely monitoring Covid-19 stats in the state, said that infection rate is highest in hill districts, whereas the plains have lower percentage of infection. “Infection rate is defined by the percentage of positive cases out of the total number of tests done in a region. As per our analysis, Tehri has maximum infection rate of 11.25%, followed by 8.19% in Nainital, 7.3% in Bageshwar and 7.1% in Almora,” said Nautiyal, adding that Champawat has 6.31% infection, followed by 4.9% and 4.8% in Pauri and Rudraprayag respectively. In Pithoragarh, the infection rate is 4.2. In the other districts, namely Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, the infection rate is lower than 4%. The maximum number of tests — 14,200 — were done in Dehradun, followed by 6,400 in Haridwar and 5,166 in US Nagar. Meanwhile, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the state reached 1,845 on Monday, with 26 fresh cases reported on the day. The total number of patients who have recovered in the state reached 189 the same day, after 78 people were discharged. “Patients are being discharged as per the revised guidelines of the central government, which says that people with very mild symptoms can be discharged after 10 days of onset of symptom, and with no fever for three consecutive days. There is no need for a negative test in such cases,” said additional secretary health Yugal Kishore Pant. Meanwhile, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Rishikesh began offering chemotherapy and dialysis to patients from Monday. These services were shut for almost two months, as the institution was designated as a Covid hospital. AIIMS Rishikesh will also be starting its regular OPD after 70 days from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-positive-cases-in-hill-districts-push-up-state-wide-infection-rate/articleshow/76393423.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt-pvt sector joint fight a better strategy, says guv||HYDERABAD: Welcoming the decision of the state government to increase Covid-19 testing, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that it would have been better had the public-private participation to deal with the crisis began at an earlier date. Interacting with experts during a video conference on the Covid-19 situation in the state, Soundararajan said she had anticipated a rising infection rate in the state. “I was thinking that tests could have been more since the beginning of the outbreak. Currently, the state is in a very challenging situation,” she said. Soundararajan said that with doctors facing physical attacks, their morale will be low. “Such incidents should not happen. The police should create some kind of force to prevent such attacks,” she suggested. On the PG medical examinations, she said, “Future and life of children is more important. I am the chancellor of the university, I have conveyed my views to the government,” she said. She heard suggestions from the experts on how to handle the situation. Those suggestions will be shared with the state government soon. During the conference with the governor, experts said the bodies of those who showed Covid-19 symptoms before death must be tested so that family members can be isolated, experts said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-pvt-sector-joint-fight-a-better-strategy-says-guv/articleshow/76394625.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Bats descend on litchi orchards, give Doon residents sleepless nights||Dehradun: Dehradun may be famous for its litchis but many residents with litchi trees in their garden are currently having sleepless nights as the litchi trees bloom and bear fruit. The reason is bats. Groups of bats have been reported in many residential localities swooping down on the litchi trees and pecking at the fruit, especially at night. Rajendra Mathur, a resident of Subhash Road, told TOI, “Bats attacking litchi trees is a big cause of concern for us. We have tried covering the trees with foil and put on neon lights to scare away the bats but nothing has worked as the bats come at night and in the morning, we can see half-eaten litchis strewn on the ground.” He added that bats had been around earlier as well during the litchi flowering season “but this year, their presence is cause of concern as we fear that they may pose a grave health risk and transmit the Covid-19 virus.” What has added to the problem is that professional workers who “rent” litchee trees from the owners to sell the fruit and keep part of the profit, haven’t been available this year. These labourers stay up all night to guard the trees during the flowering season and create commotions to keep the bats at bay. “Due to lockdown and the general fear surrounding bats in the wake of the coronavirus, none of the professionals arrived this year. Fearing the bats would destroy all the litchi, we had them picked before time,” said Shabnam Suri, a resident of Dalanwala. Meanwhile, wildlife scientists said that although fruit bats feasting on litchis have no known link to Covid-19, it’s not advisable to consume fruit pecked on by bats as they might transmit other viruses or bacteria. Dr Sanjay Molur, co-chair, Chiroptera Conservation & Information Network of South Asia (CCINSA), Zoo Outreach Organization, Coimbatore, who was among the chiropterologists from six Asian nations that released a seven-point statement in April to alleviate the mass hysteria against bats, told TOI, “Covid-19 has not come from bats. They have a coronavirus called “bats coronavirus” which is only about 91 to 96% similar to Covid-19, which leads to the assumption that bats transmit the virus. There are many steps before a virus establishes itself. It is still in its mutant form and still evolving, so killing bats is not a solution to its spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bats-descend-on-litchi-orchards-give-doon-residents-sleepless-nights/articleshow/76393430.cms||Shivani Azad
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Forest dept will distribute saplings through app to increase green cover||JAIPUR: Aimed at increasing green cover, the forest department will distribute over 165 lakh saplings through its newly launched mobile app. People can download the app from Playstore and check saplings of their choice. A senior official said the department will link the data of 565 nurseries which are situated across the state. The app will also provide information on 125 varieties of saplings, including fruit, medicinal plants, tree, timber, ornamentals and shrubs. “We have designed a forest management and design support system (FMSM) app. The data of all the nurseries will be uploaded till June 20. From the app, buyers can learn about the quantity and species of plants available in any particular nursery.” The department aims at reaching maximum people for plantation as the moderate forest cover area and open forest cover area have declined in the last two years in Rajasthan. An official source said, “Rajasthan is a forest deficient state, according to India State of Forest Report (ISFR) 2019. Although the state’s forest cover had seen marginal increase of 57.51sqkm as compared to 2017, the moderate forest cover area and open forest cover area shrank.” Tree cover of the state had decreased by 154sqkm as compared to the previous assessment reported in ISFR 2017. Tree cover in Rajasthan is estimated as 8,112sqkm. “Every year, there is need to plant a minimum 75 lakh sapling across the state. Public participation is very important to improve green cover,” said an official The official further claimed, there are constant efforts to improve the green cover in the state. However, more is required to increase the green cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-dept-will-distribute-saplings-through-app-to-increase-green-cover/articleshow/76395354.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Corpn discourages visits to pregnant women and elderly||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has started pasting stickers in front of houses, where pregnant women and the elderly reside, asking visitors to not enter as these they are highly susceptible to Covid-19. Although the work started a couple of days ago, it gained momentum only on Monday.The sticker urges visitors to wash their hands and legs using soaps before entering the house if the visit cannot be avoided. It also carries contact information of corporation, state and central government helpline numbers. Officials have also urged people to contact the local body to provide information on people, who have recently returned from other zones such as Chennai and other states.A health official said that 1.5 lakh houses, where people aged 60 and above live, have been identified in the 100 wards. The teams formed to check fever door-to-door have been asked to paste the stickers in such houses. All the 1.5 lakh houses and other houses with pregnant women will be covered in seven to 10 days, he said.The official said that the rate of Covid-19 positive cases among pregnant women is on the rise. It is becoming difficult to tackle such cases during delivery at hospitals. Moreover, newborns too, will stand the risk of getting infected with the virus, he said. Similarly, elderly people are more prone to the disease as their immunity level will be too low for them to withstand the virus. Most of them may have other underlying health conditions, which will make it difficult for them to recover successfully, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-discourages-visits-to-pregnant-women-and-elderly/articleshow/76395679.cms||V Devanathan
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||With WFH, talent hunt no longer location specific||HYDERABAD: Having tasted success with work from home (WFH) after the outbreak of Covid-19, mid-sized Hyderabad-based ZenQ is now expanding presence to IT hubs like Bengaluru and Pune, albeit virtually. The independent software testing service provider is shopping for talent in the IT hubs but has no plans to set up offices there or even ask the new hires to relocate to Hyderabad. “We have made remote working a part of our strategy as we are running short of skills in certain areas and it’s difficult to find those skillsets in Hyderabad. With WFH, talent has become location-agnostic and companies no longer need to set up a physical presence to attract it,” said Murali Bollu, the CEO of ZenQ and former HYSEA president. Recently, TCS too announced that by 2025, it will have 75% of its employees working remotely. In fact, during the lockdown, IT & ITeS companies have continued hiring and onboarding freshers and lateral hires, all remotely. With WFH proving to be an efficient and workable business model, companies are finally waking up to its potential as a talent acquisition strategy. “While I see nearly 10% of the workforce moving into remote working immediately, over the next one to one and a half years I see this number go up to 20-30%,” said GR Reddy, founder, Husys Consulting, an HRFM company. “As part of outplacement services for international companies, we are doing sessions for senior level talent, asking them why they need to relocate from Hyderabad, when their family is settled here and they can work for any company sitting right here. We are also asking companies why do they need their senior team to sit in their Hyderabad HQ when they can telecommute from, say Mumbai or Bengaluru, and travel here once in a while,” he added. For outplacement and career transition services provider Randstad RiseSmart India, remote working has been a way of life much before Covid-19 happened and its general manager Joel Paul expects remote working to start becoming a norm soon and coming to office an exception. “At Randstad RiseSmart, we hire talent in whatever location we get and they work virtually. Post-Covid-19, companies too are realising that they can get the best talent anywhere in the world and they can save on talent acquisition costs,” Paul added. However, companies are still a bit cautious about hiring remote workers, pointed out Vikram Ahuja, co-founder, Talent500 by ANSR. “We are seeing that a lot of companies are now okay with hiring complete remote workers in locations they don’t have offices. However, many clients are still being conservative with hiring such talent and doing so in smaller numbers since they are still unsure how complete WFH will evolve,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-wfh-talent-hunt-no-longer-location-specific/articleshow/76394629.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Online work, classes spur hike in sales of laptops||LUCKNOW: The shift to work from home and online classes in times of coronavirus has boosted the sale of laptops in the city. According to records of traders associations, the sale of laptops in the range of Rs 23,000 and Rs 27,000 has doubled in the past fortnight after shops were allowed to reopen. As inter-state plying is restricted, several electronics stores which used to get supply from Mumbai and Chennai have gone out of stock. Secretary of Lucknow electronic goods traders association Saurabh Saini said, “The sale of laptops priced below Rs 30,000 has increased, resulting in their shortage. There are few takers for laptops which cost Rs 35,000 and above. The demand can be met once we receive consignments from other states.” Electronics shop owner in Nakhas Anant Bijlani said, “We received an order of 33 laptops ranging between Rs 25,000 and 27,000 from a private firm, but we could supply only 19.” “College and school students are also coming in substantial numbers to buy laptops. We have sold around 17 pieces over the past week,” said Narendra Dixit, the owner of a shop in Aliganj. Hitesh Uppal, a sales executive, said he bought a laptop after work from home became the norm as he couldn’t managed things through mail on smartphone as it was a tedious job and resulted in errors in work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-work-classes-spur-hike-in-sales-of-laptops/articleshow/76395355.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||JDA camp for PRN Scheme fails to attract plot owners||JAIPUR: Jaipur Development Authority’s (JDA) attempt to fill its coffers by restarting regularisation camps for Privthi Raj Nagar (PRN) colonies looks bleak. Only four owners turned up at the camps on the first day on Monday. No owners whose plots are situated in PRN (south) showed interest to procure lease deeds. To maintain social distancing norms, JDA is organising camps to invite applications from 25 plot owners a day. These camps will continue and officials are hoping turnout will increase in future as most people are currently scared due to Covid-19 fear. Plot owners, however, said the regularisation camps cannot achieve the aim as the JDA has fixed high fees for regularisation and majority of people cannot afford it. Giraj Singh Khangarot, president of Prithvi Nagar Sangharsh Samiti said, “Not many residential plot owners would apply for leave as they are really poor and cant afford to pay heavy charges. The capable plot owners have already procured lease deeds. The government should be providing relaxation to these plot owners rather than increasing rates.” The civic body has set a target to issue lease deeds to all the PRN plot holders till November 2020. Residents who will fail to procure lease deeds on time will have to pay double development and regularisation rates to regularise their plots. For a 100 square-yard plot, JDA will charge Rs 300 regularisation charge (per square yard), which will include allotment rates. Similarly, for plot size between 101 and 300 square-yards, JDA will charge Rs 480. The agency will charge regularisation rates of Rs 720 (per square yard) for plots bigger than 301 square yards and up to 1,000 square yards. Owners having a plot of more than 1,000 square yards will have to give 1.5 times regularisation charges. For regularising a marriage garden in the scheme, which has been developed on a plot size above 2,000 square yards, the JDA has fixed Rs 1,500 (per square yard) regularisation charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-camp-for-prn-scheme-fails-to-attract-plot-owners/articleshow/76395358.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Doon admin releases list of 32 nodal officers for quarantine centres||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration has released a list of 32 nodal officers for all the quarantine centres in Dehradun to ensure basic amenities — including television, magazines, and books, among others — for the people put under quarantine there. The nodal officers will also be responsible for regular health checkup of patients. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava told TOI, “The nodal officers will be given the powers of executive magistrates and will be able to handle any emergency situation and directly attend to the complaints from the people under quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-releases-list-of-32-nodal-officers-for-quarantine-centres/articleshow/76393418.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||If need arises, every constituency will get a Covid care centre: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that, if required, the government will set up a Covid care centres in all 40 constituencies. All those who test positive will be kept in Covid care centres while those requiring treatment will be admitted to the Covid hospital, he said. Sawant told reporters that in the next phase, sports stadiums and complexes will be converted into Covid care centres, and that necessary infrastructure has been created for this. Addressing the objections cropping up from citizens to the setting up of Covid care centres in their localities, the chief minister cautioned against indulging in such politics. “They (people) don’t have problems if Covid positive patients are found in their locality, but they don’t want a Covid care centre in their area or taluka. What kind of politics is this,” he said. “We have to fight the diseases, not Covid patients. If the need arises, then the government will have to set up Covid care centres in every constituency,” Sawant said. Monday saw the total number of Covid-19 cases in the case cross the 500 mark, a relatively lower figure compared to that seen in the rest of the country, but Sawant urged the people to remain alert. If the first person who tested positive for Covid-19 from Mangor Hill, or even if the doctor who treated him initially, had been alert enough to immediately inform the government about the symptoms, then this present situation faced by the state could have been avoided. “Due to the Mangor Hill incident it has spread in Goa and even health workers are found Covid-19 positive,” he said. “Every individual should take care of himself and his family to protect them from Covid-19,” he said, reiterating on the importance of using face masks, sanitisers and maintaining social distancing, and being alert and responsible enough to report symptoms immediately. Sawant said that people of Goa should not ostracise the health workers who have been found positive. “We have to respect those health workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-need-arises-every-constituency-will-get-a-covid-care-centre-cm/articleshow/76395361.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||7 yrs on, residents still get sleepless nights||Dehradun: People living in Rudraprayag and other adjoining districts still get sleepless nights while remembering the June 16, 2013, calamity, which left over 4,000 people dead or missing. Rudraprayag resident Alok Negi recalls, “When the calamity struck the area, we had no idea on how things will get back on track. Roads were washed away, bridges got damaged and it was water everywhere.” He added that collective effort saw the restart of the Char Dham yatra from 2014. Due to the works done in the past seven years, 2019 witnessed a record turnout of over 10 lakh. Agastyamuni resident Jagmohan Singh said that the site of cars and buses being carried away and houses “falling like pack of cards” still are fresh in the minds of people. “It was a tough time and it took years to come out of the memories. It is encouraging to see things back on track after many years,” Singh said. Congress Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat said that more development work is required in the Kedar Valley, which is home to over a lakh people. “The area needs a state or national level university or educational institute. Besides, better health and educational facilities are required in the entire region,” he added. In a recent video conferencing session with PM Narendra Modi, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh gave a detailed information about various ongoing works at Kedarnath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-yrs-on-residents-still-get-sleepless-nights/articleshow/76393482.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajya Sabha polls: Congress and BJP MLAs to move to Jaipur hotels||JAIPUR: In times of crisis, lawmakers are giving a shot in the arm to the bleeding tourism sector. While the ruling party has booked JW Marriot for its MLAs, the opposition party will check into Crown Plaza Hotel from Tuesday. “All our party MLAs will gather at the BJP headquarters at 11am for registration, this will be followed by a meeting 12 noon onwards,” said Vimal Katiyar, media incharge, Rajasthan, BJP. At meet they will also be advised on following social distancing rules Sources said d that thereafter the MLAs along with senior party leaders will head to a hotel till the polling on June 19. “Programs include a rehearsal on the voting pattern. The MLAs will be divided into two groups and the first 51 will vote for Rajya Sabha nominee Rajendra Gehlot while the remaining will vote for Onkan Singh Lakhawat. It will be followed by the senior party addresses,” said a source. Here three RLP MLAs will join the BJP lawmakers. Senior leaders like Murlidhar Rao, national general secretary of BJP will join the party MLAs soon. Meanwhile, former health minister Kalicharan Saraf has slammed CM Ashok Gehlot’s offer of 5,000 tests to the neighbouring states on Tuesday. “The Gehlot government has not able to meet its target of conducting 25,000 Covid-19 test and offering to others is beyond our comprehension,” said Saraf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajya-sabha-polls-congress-and-bjp-mlas-to-move-to-jaipur-hotels/articleshow/76395368.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Quake on double fault line minimized impact: Study||Rajkot: The earthquake measuring 5.3 on the Richter scale with epicentre in Bhachau in Kutch could have been damaging had it not been on a double fault line, believe scientists at department of earth and environment science of Krantiguru Shyamji Krishna Verma Kachchh University also know as Kutch university.They said that epicentre of Sunday’s quake and that of the devastating earthquake of 2001 (6.9 on Richter scale) were both near the South Wagad fault line (SWF) near Bhachau. Professor M G Thakkar, head of department of earth and environment science at Kutch university said “The 2001 quake occurred at single fault zone, while Sunday’s earthquake was on double fault zone system.”He explained, “The (Sunday’s) quake did not cause damage because the stress which accumulated was absorbed in double fault line. The surface wave got absorbed, and energy dissipation was much more then in case of single fault zone.” According to Thakkar, the last earthquake of similar magnitude above 5 on Richter scale was felt in 2012 from Kutch basin. It had also triggered panic among the people who had rushed out of houses. “This earthquake was on double fault line, one is South Wagad and other is Kanthkot fault line which is 30km in the north,” he added. Thakkar said that the other differences between Sunday’s quake and 2001 quake was that the former quake was cleo focus quake that means it was not much deeper, just 10km deep. While the 2001 quake was 20 to 22km below the surface.Over a dozen after shocks have been reported till 4am on Sunday ranging from 2.2 to 3.7 on Ricther scale and five after shocks were felt on Monday. “These after shocks give us proof that this is a new earth quake. The fault line was not very long but it activated other segment of SWF,” Thakkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/quake-on-double-fault-line-minimized-impact-study/articleshow/76393518.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Medicos: Made to give consent for exams||HYDERABAD: Days ahead of the final examinations, post-graduate students from various private medical and dental colleges in Telangana, on Monday, claimed that they were being forced by the management to sign an undertaking, consenting to the tests. Junior doctors alleged that at least three private medical colleges from Nalgonda, Karimnagar and Mahbubnagar are coercing final year postgraduation/diploma students to sign the undertaking. “We are not sure as to what led private college managements to make students sign such an undertaking. We are waiting for the court to take a decision on the matter,” said K Mahesh Kumar, president, Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association. The final year PG exams in colleges affiliated to Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) are scheduled from June 20. “Already 60 doctors are infected by the coronavirus so far. If the examination is held, more doctors are at the risk of contracting it,” said a junior doctor. College managements refused collection of such undertaking from PG students. “For any private college, it doesn’t matter if the exams are postponed or not,” said Narasimha Rao, president of Telangana Private Medical and Dental Colleges Association. When asked, Karunaker Reddy, vice-chancellor of KNRUHS too denied knowledge about any such undertaking. “I have not received any such complaint from students. Any such undertaking is irrelevant as the matter is sub-judice now,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medicos-made-to-give-consent-for-exams/articleshow/76394639.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Oppn parties demand increase in Covid testing||Madurai: Elected representatives belonging to opposition parties staged a demonstration in front of district collector office on Monday morning urging the district administration to increase the number of Covid-19 tests conducted daily and to trace every person entering the district. The protesters marched from Thiruvalluvar statue to the collector’s office. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, Madurai East MLA, P Moorthy and Thiruparankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan led the demonstration along with representatives from various political parties such as DMK, CPM and VCK. Talking to the media, they said that number of tests in Madurai district should be increased to 3,000 a day. They said that around 30,000 people from other districts including Chennai have entered Madurai district during the lockdown period, but only a fraction of them have been tested. Efforts should be taken to test everyone entering Madurai district to control the spread of Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/oppn-parties-demand-increase-in-covid-testing/articleshow/76395682.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||As Mussoorie’s Mall Road remains deserted, traders fret over ‘lost tourist season’||Mussoorie: In Mussoorie, the iconic Mall Road bears a deserted look and the usual lines of tourists visiting shops and hotels have disappeared. The Covid-19 pandemic has left the peak tourism season disrupted with shopkeepers and hoteliers struggling to find customers. Local residents say that they have never seen the Mall Road like this in the past several years. “I have never seen the Mall Road this deserted during the month of June. It gives an eerie feeling,” said Pramod Kapoor, a senior citizen. Traders say that May and June are the peak months for tourist activities in the Queen of Hills but the lack of visitors has marred the tourist season and left businesses with huge losses. “Except for shops selling daily essentials, every other business — including hotels, restaurants, and stores selling non-essential items— is suffering financially,” said Deepak Gupta, a hotelier. Although city hoteliers have decided to take a decision on opening their establishments for business on June 18, some locals say that the government guidelines, which make it mandatory for tourists to undergo quarantine upon arrival in the hill resort, is not good for hotel business. “Till the situation improves and quarantine norms are lifted, tourist activities won’t return back to normal, and Mussoorie will continue to bear the brunt of losses,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-mussoories-mall-road-remains-deserted-traders-fret-over-lost-tourist-season/articleshow/76393460.cms||Anmol Jain
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Armed gang kill dog, loot gold||Madurai: An armed gang barged into a house belonging to a farmer near Palani in Dindigul district at midnight on Sunday and robbed gold jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh at knifepoint and killed a dog kept for security purpose. Police sources said Murugasamy from Thalaiyuthu village heard someone knocking on his door. The house is isolated and located within his farmland. When he opened the door, a gang of around 10 people barged into the house and took the family of six hostage and robbed them of the jewellery they were wearing and escaped. When the family members came out looking for help, they found their dog stabbed to death. On information, a police team led by Palani DySP Vivekanandan reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. A case was registered with the Saminathapuram police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/armed-gang-kill-dog-loot-gold/articleshow/76395680.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt should rework Covid-19 plan: Experts||HYDERABAD: Former secretary of Union health and family welfare department K Sujata Rao on Monday said there is a strong need to set up a committee of public health experts to evolve strategies even as Covid- 19 cases shoot up in Telangana. Participating in a video conference of experts conducted by governor Tamislisai Sounderarajan on the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, she said escalating testing should have been done much earlier. “It is surprising to see that despite having good medical and health infrastructure in the state, testing wasn’t done earlier,” she said. Apollo Hospitals Hyderabad president Dr Hari Prasad said it should be made mandatory to test patients set to undergo any kind of surgery. “ If they are positive and doctors perform surgery unaware of their condition, they will be exposed,” he said. “The insurance companies should include the cost of PPE,” he said. Indian Medical Association (IMA) Telangana unit president Dr Vijender Reddy said there is need to look into the legislation brought out during YS Rajasekhar Reddy’s regime in united AP for the safety of doctors. The demands and concerns of junior doctors including postponement of exams and quality of personal protection equipment (PPE) should be considered, he said. Ganesh (name changed) from Hyderabad, the first Covid-19 patient to receive plasma therapy has urged recovered patients to donate plasma for the benefit of those who are still battling the infection. A state testing policy has to be evolved based on local conditions, rather than strictly adhering to broad guidelines of ICMR, experts suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-should-rework-covid-19-plan-experts/articleshow/76394635.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Questions being raised on search panel for Rajasthan University vice-chancellor||JAIPUR: The search committee appointed to choose the next vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University is now being criticised for not adhering to the rules of Rajasthan University Act, 1946 and UGC regulations. There are four members in the panel and according to Rajasthan University Act and UGC regulations, any person in the sphere of higher education not connected with the university will be eligible to be appointed in the committee. C S Meena, former joint secretary of UGC and an eligible candidate for the post wrote to governor Kalraj Mishra stating that Prof PC Trivedi, a search committee member, is directly connected to the university. Trivedi was the head of the botany department of the varsity till 2006. The letter also states that Trivedi is still drawing pension from the university and has supervised PhD students which makes him non-competent to be part of the committee. Meena has demanded that Trivedi should be immediately removed from the panel and functioning of the committee should be put on hold. The letter was sent on June 8, but the governor was yet to take any decision on it. The tenure of the current vice-chancellor is coming to an end on July 11. According to university rules, the four-member committee will have nominees from the state government, UGC, university syndicate and chancellor/governor. While Trivedi has been nominated by the state government, another member of the committee R.D.Saini, who has been nominated by university syndicate, has served as principal in an affiliated college of Rajasthan University at Jhunjhunu. A faculty member who wished not to be named said, “Internal politics in the university by the Congress affiliated teachers want their man to sit on the throne. Current vice-chancellor’s tenure is about to end and so everyone wants to complete the formalities as soon as possible though the rules are being violated. The governor should take cognisance of the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/questions-being-raised-on-search-panel-for-ru-vc/articleshow/76395364.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||400-500 deaths missed? Clean up data, Maharashtra government tells BMC||MUMBAI: The city's Covid-19 death toll could climb substantially as the state government has asked the BMC to revisit hundreds of deaths that may not have been added to the pandemic toll. Multiple sources confirmed to TOI that Covid-19 mortality numbers in the city could jump by 400-500 though civic authorities were tightlipped about the exercise. Mumbai's toll touched 2,250 on Monday.  Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas issued a notice on June 11 to the civic body stating all municipal corporations and districts had undertaken a data reconciliation exercise. The letter said state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta had directed that data cleaning be completed by June 15. The letter ended with a caution that "any data mismatch brought to notice subsequently would be viewed very seriously". Sources told TOI the data cleaning exercise was prompted by concerns that many Covid deaths in Mumbai were not being added to the toll. Speaking to TOI, Ajoy Mehta said the decision to get the data reconciled was made after discrepancies were noticed in many cases.  BJP's Devendra Fadnavis alleged on Monday that the BMC has not accounted for 951 Covid-19 deaths in the city. He alleged that of the 951 cases, various hospitals had reported 500 cases as Covid-19 deaths, but the death audit committee, which certifies deaths, is yet to certify them as such. ‘Cleaned-up data will be out soon’On the discrepancies, Mehta said, “There was an entry of a Covid-positive patient in our system, but he was neither discharged nor his death added to the tally as he may have died due to other medical complications like a cardiac arrest. But since he was Covidpositive, his death should have been reported as a Covid death,” Mehta said. He added that as per the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the death of a person who has tested positive for an infectious disease has to be reported as death due to that disease, except in three situations—if the person with the infection died in an animal attack, accident/ crime or suicide. “Even if a death has not taken place due to Covid but the person had Covid, the Act clearly says the death can be due to any cause but if he is having an infectious disease, it has to be reported,” Mehta said. He said the death certificate can mention the cause of death as cardiac arrest, but it has to be reported as a Covid-19 death. Mehta added the exercise of cleaning up data will be completed in the next 2-3 days and will be made public. “There is no reason to hide any data. We want the data to be as clean as possible as it is only then that we can plan for the situation. Also, in this case, the data will be used as records and we cannot be casual about it,” he said. He also said that if it is found someone has not reported deaths as Covid deaths intentionally, action will be initiated. While civic officials couldn’t be reached for an official comment, many said the matter had been blown out of proportion. A senior doctor, part of the civic death review committee, said many deaths were yet to be analysed and had hence not been added. “These are bulky files that have to be downloaded from email. Why will we hide deaths? We even label deaths as Covid-suspect,”he said. Fadnavis in a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray, said undercounting was a “criminal offence.” He said the state had set up death audit committees in every district and at corporation levels, and there were clear guidelines from WHO and ICMR on identifying cases. Besides, the government circular stated every case should be decided in seven days. He asked who had pressured the committee not to reveal the actual death figures and sought to know what action would be taken against audit committee members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/400-500-deaths-missed-clean-up-data-maharashtra-government-tells-bmc/articleshow/76396084.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Photographer sells masks to help starving puppetry artists||Tirunelveli: Just like the barber in Madurai, yet another individual in south Tamil Nadu is helping people who have been worst-affected by the lockdown. Meet P Pappuraj, a social activist in Tirunelveli district, who sold masks to help a group of leather puppetry artists, who were running short of food.The 45-year-old activist is a native of Veeravanallur. He recently identified 25 families, who were into leather puppetry, in distress as they were running out of essentials during the lockdown.The group of artists stayed at Kongathanparai village. Prior to the lockdown, they exhibited shows to earn a living.Pappuraj, a photographer by profession, did not have enough resources to help the artists. However, he decided to earn more money by selling masks to purchase essentials for them.He purchased masks at Rs 5 per piece from prison bazaar and sold them at bus terminals and roads. He asked all his customers to make a small contribution to help the artists.In a week, Pappuraj managed to raise Rs 6,000. His friends, who owned shops in Tirunelveli city, also decided to pitch in. Irudhaya Selvam contributed Rs 20, 000 and another friend Sanjay Gunasingh gave Rs 8,000.Pappuraj said, “We purchased 13kg of rice, 22 varieties of groceries, vegetables and distributed it to the artisans. They thanked us a lot and said that this would help them for another 20 days.”The photographer had earlier contributed during disasters like Gujarat earthquake, 2004 tsunami and the recent Gaja cyclone. To earn that extra money, Pappuraj took up activities like cleaning footwear and vehicles at petrol bunks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/photographer-sells-masks-to-help-starving-puppetry-artists/articleshow/76395684.cms||V Devanathan
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Teen killed by friends, arrested||Madurai: A 19-year-old youth was stabbed to death by his friends during a drunken brawl in the district on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as U Sridhar from South Street in Sholavandan. The accused, his friends, are S Gopalakrishnan,18, and K Shankaran, 18, from Mullipallam Police said that the three, working with a coconut commission trader in Sholavandan, drank liquor at Mullipallam graveyard late on Sunday. Sridhar, in a drunken state, had demanded money from the duo. As they said they did not have money, he asked for their mobile phones so that he can sell it. As the duo refused, Sridhar warned them of attacking with a beer bottle and broke an empty bottle. Assuming he would murder them, the duo broke their bottles and stabbed him. Sridhar died on spot .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teen-killed-by-friends-arrested/articleshow/76395685.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court cancels 1st round of counselling for med PG admissions||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Friday cancelled the first round of counselling for medical PG admissions and directed the state government to conduct a fresh round by including additional 89 seats allotted for implementation of economically weaker sections(EWS) quota as per MCI letter on February 27. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma issued the order on a bunch of petitions by Kamlendra Singh and others. The court said as the first and second rounds of all India counselling had already commenced, it was not time for the state government to conduct it for all the seats without delay, said Shobhit Tiwari, counsel for a petitioner. The court further said the state government was free to fill EWS 10% quota by applying the plain roster. The EWS reservation should be applied according to roster for only the 89 seats which are made available by MCI for implementation of EWS quota. Tiwari said MCI issued letters to all state medical colleges asking them to include an additional 89 seats in the PG course in the EWS category. But the colleges released the result of the first round of counseling on April 26, without adding 89 seats in first round of counselling on April 11. The court said though admissions given in the first round of counselling were cancelled, if a student was allotted the same college, his admission be given accordingly. In other cases, where a student has not been able to get a particular seat, his fees already deposited, be returned. The exercise should be immediately conducted on completion of the all India counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-cancels-1st-round-of-counselling-for-med-pg-admissions/articleshow/76395371.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajya Sabha elections: Rajasthan Congress MLA questions policy of ‘imposing’ candidates||JAIPUR: Even as Congress and independent MLAs supporting the Ashok Gehlot government are holed up in a resort near Jaipur ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls fearing poaching, senior Congress MLA Bharat Singh has written to AICC general secretary in-charge Avinash Pande and other leaders questioning the party leadership’s policy of ‘imposing’ RS candidates on state MLAs. Talking to TOI, Singh said he was upset that his letter was leaked selectively to the media. The letter was also sent to chief minister Gehlot, PCC president Sachin Pilot and chief whip Mahesh Joshi. Singh said people with no connection to the state are nominated for Rajya Sabha seats and once elected they have nothing to do with the state or the MLAs. He said this has now become a trend in all parties including BJP. Singh pointed out that it was never the case before. “They walk into the state with their equation in Delhi as they need a place in the Parliament. Rajya Sabha has now become green pasture for such leaders who have lost ground in their own states,” said Singh. Bharat Singh, a former minister, represents Sangod assembly seat from Kota district in the assembly. He joined the legislators here only on Sunday (June 14) as he was busy in his constituency. Singh said that “It is a foregone conclusion that the party will win two Rajya Sabha seats in the upcoming elections. The kind of seriousness shown by the party leadership this time is unprecedented and never witnessed before.” He pointed out that if the party makes the same efforts for Lok Sabha elections, result would be different for the Congress party. But what happens is just the opposite. “Once the Rajya Sabha elections are over, the leaders will become indifferent. From My experience I can say that most of the Rajya Sabha MPs cannot even recognise their voters (MLAs) who elect them,” said Singh in his letter. The party has nominated AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and local leader Neeraj Dangi for two of the three Rajya Sabha seats going to polls in the state. Earlier, former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Sigh was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande on the continued defiance of food minister Ramesh Meena not joining the Congress legislators at the hotel said the party leadership was in touch with him. He added that the minister was not staying at the hotel due to some personal reasons. On Monday Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate enlightened the legislators on the serious economic crisis the country has been put under PM Modi. At night they were shown film on acid attack survivors, ‘Chhapaak’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mla-questions-policy-of-imposing-candidates-for-polls/articleshow/76395370.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad section officer murder solved, 1 held||HYDERABAD: Police have solved the murder mystery of 56-year-old University of Hyderabad (UoH) employee and arrested a centring worker. B Sathyanarayana, 56, UoH section officer, was murdered near Himayatsagar on June 6. The Special Operations Team of Cyberabad and Rajendranagar police, scoured CCTV footage and found a man travelling with the victim on the latter’s scooter from a toddy compound in Bandalguda to Himayatsagar. Police on Sunday arrested Mohammad Azeem and he confessed to have committed the murder. “The accused and the victim consumed toddy and later on the suggestion of Azeem, went to an isolated place at Himayatsagar to consume some more toddy. After murdering Sathyanarayana, the accused stole his scooter and Rs 4000 cash,” ACP Rajendranagar, Ashok Chakravarthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-section-officer-murder-solved-1-held/articleshow/76394645.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||With over 400 FIRs, South Goa police close to netting Rs 1 crore in lockdown violation fines||MARGAO: The South Goa police are inching towards reaching Rs1 crore mark of fines collected by the police from violators of prohibitory orders imposed during the lockdown. The South Goa police have so far booked over 400 FIRs under Section 188 of the CrPC for violating section 144 of the CrPc and netted an amount of nearly Rs82 lakh in fines. The highest amount of fines—Rs13 lakh—was collected by the Ponda police station. Altogether 855 people were arrested for violating the prohibitory orders and 278 vehicles seized during the period. Margao sub-division consisting of Margao town, Maina Curtorim, Colva and Cuncolim police stations, topped the list with 158 cases booked during the lockdown period with 250 arrests. 99 vehicles were seized and Rs28 lakh collected from fines at all the four police stations of Margao sub-division. Altogether 104 cases were booked by all four police stations coming under the jurisdiction of Quepem sub-division consisting of Quepem, Curchorem, Sanguem and Canacona police stations. The Quepem sub-division arrested 199 people and seized 82 vehicles, while Rs14.5 lakh were collected from fines. At the Vasco sub-division consisting of Vasco, Verna, Mormugao, Vasco railway and Dabolim airport police stations, altogether 92 cases were booked and 255 people arrested. Altogether 74 vehicles were seized and fines aggregating Rs23 lakh were collected by all the five police stations. The Ponda and Collem police stations coming under the Ponda sub division booked 48 cases. A total of 151 people were arrested, 23 vehicles seized and Rs15 lakh was collected through fines. The data was released by the South Goa police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-over-400-firs-south-goa-police-close-to-netting-rs-1-crore-in-lockdown-violation-fines/articleshow/76395688.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Highest one-day spike of 40 cases recorded in city||Lucknow: City’s Covid-19 tally catapulted to 620 with 40 more cases – biggest spike in a single day so far. It included 27 employees of the private call centre running the CM helpline on Monday. As number of employees of the helpline and their contacts found infected touched 85 since June 5, accounting to over 13% of the total cases reported so far, the chief medical officer (CMO) on Monday issued a show-cause notice to the call centre director after inquiries revealed that Covid-19 infection control guidelines were allegedly not being followed in totality at the two-floor office housed in a building in Vibhuti Khand, Gomtinagar. The centre has about 700 employees. The first case was reported here on June 5 when a woman employee, a resident of Chinhat, was found to be infected. She tested along with several others in her locality after a laundry worker associated with a health institute, living in the area, was diagnosed with the disease. The order to sanitise the office was given a day after the woman tested positive. However, when more cases poured in, the centre was sealed on June 10. All employees were asked to home quarantine. However, despite that in 10 days after the first case surfaced, 80 employees and five of their contacts have been diagnosed with the disease. The number is likely to increase as colleagues who had been in close contact with those found infected and latter’s family members are also being tested. “Alarmed by the high number of cases, we inquired the staff members who tested positive for the infection about the precautionary measures at the centre. They informed us that the distance between two workstations was less than a metre and central air condition was kept operational even after a few staff members tested positive till June 9. The staff members also admitted that they also took social distancing casually. This means that infection had already passed to many by the time the building was sealed and employees were asked to home quarantine,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. “We also found that staff strength was not reduced to minimum in the office as per the guidelines after the first case surfaced and training of fresh recruits continued. In the show-cause, we have asked the director to reply in seven days to all the anomalies in the safety protocol as told to us by the employees,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/highest-one-day-spike-of-40-cases-recorded-in-city/articleshow/76395373.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun-Lucknow flight service to resume today||DEHRADUN: In welcome news for commuters, flight services between Dehradun and Lucknow would resume from Tuesday. A private airline service will operate one flight each day to and from Dehradun. Confirming the report, Jolly Grant Airport Director DK Gautam said that flight services to Lucknow would resume from Tuesday and efforts are on to resume flight service to Kolkata as well. At present, flight services have become operational from Dehradun to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Pantnagar. However, air connectivity to Mumbai remains intermittent due to operational issues pertaining to the airline which provides the service. The approximate passenger load of six daily flights (on an average) operating from Dehradun has been around 500. This, the experts say, is a good load considering the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-lko-flight-service-to-resume-today/articleshow/76393519.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Officials prioritise replenishing water resources, utilising CAMPA funds||Dehradun: In a meeting held between the senior officers of the forest department and the state government officials on Monday, some major decisions pertaining to forest and wildlife related works in Uttarakhand were taken. During the meet, it was decided that the CAMPA (Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act) budget will be used for not only afforestation purpose but also for reviving dry rivers, making a monkey sanctuary, collecting pine needles, mitigating forest fires, and planting high-value medicinal plants in the van panchayats to develop a source of livelihood for the villagers. The officials present at the meeting disclosed that the state had funds to the tune of Rs 3.03 lakh in its CAMPA account in April. And this year, projects worth Rs 15,868 lakh were approved by the Centre for 2021. A senior official, present in the meeting, told TOI, “Through CAMPA funds, rogue elephants of Haridwar forest division would also be collared in the wake of upcoming Maha Kumbh in the holy city. Emphasis was also laid on developing Brahma Kamal (Saussurea obvallata) nursery at Kedarnath forest division.” Additionally, Rs 1,500 lakh will be spent on rivers — Koshi, Shipra, Khoh and Nyar. The officials also agreed upon working for replenishing original ponds of the forests to ensure healthy and intact water availability for wild animals. Meanwhile, methods to improve the survival rate of lakhs of newly-planted saplings by the forest department under CAMPA initiatives were also discussed in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/officials-prioritise-replenishing-water-resources-utilising-campa-funds/articleshow/76393488.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt’s Covid-19 test move too little, too late, says Congress||HYDERABAD: Terming the TRS government’s decision to allow private hospitals and labs to conduct Covid-19 tests as “too little, too late,” Congress has demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao not stop at 50,000 tests with focus only in and around Hyderabad.  The government should bear the cost of Covid-19 testing and treatment in private hospitals, demanded Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy. Welcoming the decision to permit tests in private hospitals and labs, he said chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao delayed the decision by one-and-a-half months although the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had authorised 18 private hospitals and laboratories to conduct Covid-19 tests in addition to nine government hospitals/institutions. Former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir demanded that the testing and treatment of coronavirus patients should be completely free for poor and middle-class sections of society. Also, Covid-19 treatment should be included in the list of diseases covered under the Aarogyasri scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govts-covid-19-test-move-too-little-too-late-says-cong/articleshow/76394656.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Hemanta@100: Tribute to owner of golden voice in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The event to celebrate Hemanta Mukherjee’s birth centenary was being planned for the last one year. Now that it has been cancelled owing to the lockdown, the organizers, NGO Heritage Bengal, are trying to set up an archive in memory of the legend. Born on June 16, 1920 and known as Hemant Kumar in the Hindi film industry, Mukherjee’s signature songs like Yeh nayan dare dare still resonates in the hearts of music lovers across the world. Rajyasabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, chief patron, Heritage Bengal, that promotes the state’s heritage, said, “Had the pandemic not been there, we would have had a memorable programme at ICCR on Tuesday. The car Hemanta da rode would have been displayed.” Civil engineer Swapan Lahiri owns the 1948 Plymouth that Hemanta had sold to his father, Supravat, in 1977. “The original engine is 72-year-old and has never been opened till date. It took us a year-and-a-half to restore the car. I still have the original receipt signed by him,” said the 70-year-old EM Bypass resident. The car was displayed at the two-day centenary run-up held at Rabindra Sadan on February 14. Heritage Bengal is now trying to set up an archive that could give the next generation a glimpse of this legendary singer-music director-composer and film producer. “Some of his belongings should be in the Southern Avenue flat. The property has changed hands. So, we don’t know if we can get anything from there,” said Ray. Heritage Bengal is in touch with a private collector and ardent Hemanta fan, Joydeep Chakraborty, a mathematics professor at Nagar College, Murshidabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hemanta100-tribute-to-owner-of-golden-voice/articleshow/76394665.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 16, 2020||Surat||Over dozen Surat textile firms under CGST scanner||Surat: Over a dozen textile industrialists in the city have come under the scanner of the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department for their alleged involvement in the Input Tax Credit (ITC) scam that could be to the tune of Rs 15.50 crore.The CGST officials had arrested two persons in connection with the fraudulent availment of Rs 15.50 crore ITC by floating 16 bogus firms last week. CGST sources said that Rajesh Mundra and Kamal Kishore Mundra, who are brothers, took GST registration for 16 bogus firms namely Rumi Overseas, Meenaxi Enterprise, Kasshish Fashion among others using documents of other persons to avail and pass on the ITC without actual receipt and supply of goods.The duo passed on about Rs 8 crore worth of ITC to about a dozen textile firms in the city without the actual purchase and sale of the fabrics by creating fake invoices. A senior officer of CGST asking anonymity said, “The Mundra brothers not only floated bogus firms, but they were hand-in-gloves with some of the reputed textile firms to fraudulently pass on the ITC to worth Rs 8 crore.” Official sources said that the Mundra brothers were in the past found involved in customs fraud and were arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). Rajesh Mundra was also arrested by the SGST authorities in February for similar fraud in different set of firms operated by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-dozen-surat-textile-firms-under-cgst-scanner/articleshow/76393568.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Payments for invigilators duty still unpaid||Dehradun: Even after 3 months, several invigilators who monitored Uttarakhand Board of School Education board exams haven’t been fully paid yet. These exams were conducted before the first nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The invigilators were supposed to get Rs 44 per session for their duties. When queried, an official of the education department told TOI, “Some part of the budget allocation got disrupted due to the lockdown. Thus, some payments are pending. However, the invigilators need not worry as they will be paid their dues very soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/payments-for-invigilators-duty-still-unpaid/articleshow/76393504.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 16, 2020||Madurai||350 register for Neet crash course, but poor internet worries many||Madurai: Around 350 government and aided school students from Madurai district have registered for the free Neet online e-box crash course set to begin from Tuesday. However, students and teachers are concerned that not all would be able to fully make use of the programme as they lack access to good internet connection. On Monday, a link was shared for all registered students to test and check if they could connect. “The students were taught how to connect using the link by sharing it via WhatsApp. The classes will start on Tuesday. As per the schedule, there will be classes for two hours each in the morning and afternoon. During the first week, the focus will be on lectures by experts and discussions,” said Selvan Arputharaj, assistant headmaster of Virudhunagar Hindu Nadar Higher Secondary School. The tests would be done via Google Forms and students would also be able to check their scores and the answers by themselves immediately. “What can we do when students tell us their phone or laptop’s internet connectivity is poor? Also, Neet coaching is different from ordinary classes and lectures. There needs to be focus and a lot of discussion of questions which will not be possible online,” said a government higher secondary school headmaster. According to officials from the office of the chief educational officer (CEO), Madurai district, all Class XII students from government schools have the free laptops given by the government which they can use for classes. “We are unable to make any alternative arrangements for internet connection for students,” said an official. Meanwhile, students and teachers are also anxious whether the Neet exam itself will be postponed or cancelled this year due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/350-register-for-neet-crash-course-but-poor-internet-worries-many/articleshow/76395687.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Borders closed, unable to access pension for 3 months, say Nepalese soldiers who served in Indian Army||Pithoragarh: More than 1,600 ex-Indian Army personnel, mainly those Nepalese citizens who had served as soldiers in the Gorkha Regiment, have been unable to draw pension for the past three months as the India-Nepal border is lying closed due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. These personnel (or their widows), who are residents of Baitadi and Darchula districts of Nepal that border Pithoragarh district, get their pension deposited in the State Bank of India (SBI) on the Indian side of the border at places like Jhulaghat, Jauljibi and Dharchula. Kamlesh Joshi, manager of SBI, Jhulaghat, told TOI that in his branch, there are 700 accounts of Nepalese personnel who have served in the Indian Army and an equal number at the Dharchula branch as well; SBI, Jauljibi, has accounts of 200 pensioners. “According to our estimates, the Nepalese ex-soldiers in the area, most of whom have been NCOs (non-commissioned officers) in the Indian Army, are drawing a cumulative pension of around Rs 50 lakh per month from the banks,” he added. Heera Singh Bisht, one of the pensioners who is based in Baitadi in Nepal, told TOI over phone that all the pensioners are having a tough time as they have not been able to withdraw funds from the bank for almost three months. “The border was sealed on March 25 and all movement between India and Nepal was ceased. As a result, we have not been able to go to our bank on the Indian side.” On being queried why the pensioners cannot use net banking facility or ATMs of Nepalese banks to access their funds, Hem Chand, a pensioner, said that “none of the pensioners have access to online banking facilities and neither is there any bank on our side of the border with which SBI has a collaboration.” Hem Chand added: “Our demand to both governments is to make some arrangements for former personnel of Indian Army living in Nepal to be able to access their pension. We have also put forth our problems to Nepalese authorities, too, but no action has been taken yet,” he added. Meanwhile, when apprised of the problem faced by the pensioners, MS Jodha, officer of the district soldiers’ welfare office, Pithoragarh, said that the issue had not been brought to his notice by any Nepalese pensioner yet. “We have an office at Mahendra Nagar in Nepal which the pensioners can approach for redressal of their problem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/borders-closed-unable-to-access-pension-for-3-months-say-nepalese-soldiers-who-served-in-indian-army/articleshow/76391421.cms||Prem Punetha
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Car sales up as Covid-scared people shun public transport||HYDERABAD: IT sector employee Supriya Saxena has always preferred taking the office cab or metro rail to work. But today she is looking at buying her own car as she feels it will reduce her chances of contracting coronavirus. Ditto for Pradeep Kumar, a sales executive residing at Sanathnagar. “I am looking for a small car with basic features for my daily transportation needs. Earlier, I used to travel in a bus or metro but I feel I will be risking the health of my entire family if I continue to do that,” he said. With social distancing becoming the new normal, people seem to be more reluctant to use public transport and are veering towards prioritising purchasing their own car, a survey by consultancy firm EY on the impact of COVID-19 and the national lockdown on car sales and consumer buying behaviour has found. The study, which surveyed 1,100 people, had 74% respondents saying that owning a car would become a priority post the lockdown. Of these, 48% were car owners and 26% were non-owners. But with economic activity slowing down, consumers seem to be looking at lower priced or entry-level vehicles or even used cars, with the EY survey finding that 57% of first time buyers are likely to buy pre-owned cars and 26% of non-owners are likely to buy hatchbacks. Interestingly, 70% of people who said they won’t buy a car will do so because of economic or financial difficulty, EY said. The ongoing COVID-19 crisis has likely fueled the first-time buyer customer segment for entry level new cars and used cars,” said Vinay Raghunath, partner & automotive sector leader, EY India. Automobile dealers in the city said that despite automobile showrooms not being fully functional, they have started seeing an uptick in business post lockdown relaxations. “Sales have increased after the lockdown relaxation. We are hoping there will be a further increase in sales,” RC Raju, executive director, Varun Motors told TOI. “Enquiries have increased and car sales have certainly picked up but they are not as good as what it used to be before Covid-19,” Saral Talwar, executive director Talwar Group and FADA (Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations) council member. Overall car sales in the city and country remain subdued with dealers saying that whatever little sales they are logging now are mainly on account of three factors -- pent up demand as car showrooms were closed for nearly two months, people who can afford a second car opting for entry-level hatchbacks for additional personal mobility options and finally, vehicle purchases being made before the onset of the inauspicious Ashada Masam. K A Narayana, CEO of Automotive Manufactures said many people are still reluctant to buy as there is no clarity about the economic situation in the coming months. Data released by FADA on Thursday revealed that nationwide passenger vehicle (PV) retail sales in May declined 86.97% to 30,749 units as compared to May 2019. ndia's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki said it had to cut production by 98% in May 2020 to 3,714 units and is partnering with financing companies to roll out specialised vehicle loans to boost sales. Interestingly, unlike Hyderabad, where most people are looking for entry-level vehicles, auto industry sources said they are seeing a preference for high-end models in tier-2 cities like Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. “It’s quite surprising that in places like Vijayawada and Vishakapatnam, people are opting for higher end cars. Whereas in Hyderabad, there is a mixed response,” said Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-sales-up-as-covid-scared-people-shun-public-transport/articleshow/76394667.cms||Moulika.KV
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to raze dilapidated buildings in Secunderabad||SECUNDERABAD: As many as 60 dilapidated buildings that were constructed nearly seven decades ago are ready to soon be bulldozed by the civic authorities. The move is part of a drive launched by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to identify and raze dilapidated buildings that may collapse and pose danger to human lives. “The process to demolish dilapidated structures in Begumpet and Tarnkaka in Secunderabad Zone will begin in another week. During the 2016 survey, the GHMC had identified 150 dangerous structures in Begumpet and another 95 in Tarnaka. The civic body has planned to demolish them in a phased manner,” Krishna Mohan, the assistant city planner at GHMC for Begumpet and Tarnaka told TOI. “All the identified old structures that were built over seven decades ago, either with mud or bricks, have been damaged in absence of maintenance and going through numerous monsoon. These buildings are not fit for habitation and may collapse, causing human casualty,” Krishna Mohan added. The GHMC has already served notices to the owners of the identified buildings. While few of them are busy getting repair works done for obtaining a structure stability certificate, a few others have expressed their consent to let the civic body demolish the buildings. Musheerabad ACP Uma Prakash said that a total of 48 such old structures have also been identified in his jurisdiction. Of them, owners of 20 structures, have taken up repair works and remaining are ready for demolition. “Notice period for demolition of dilapidated structures will be over soon,” the ACP official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-raze-dilapidated-buildings-in-secunderabad/articleshow/76394675.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SDRI unearths royalty evasion of Rs 2,500 crore by mining firm||JAIPUR: The State Directorate of Revenue Intelligence has claimed to have unearthed a royalty evasion of Rs 2,500 crore from Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL), the largest mining company in the state. Following an investigation, the SDRI intimated about it to the state mining department which has now given a notice to the company. According to SDRI sources, HZL is operating five mines in Rampura, Aguncha (Bhilwara), Sindesar Khurd, Rajpura Dariba (Rajsamand), Jawar (Udaipur) and Kayad (Ajmer) for the exploration of lead-zinc in the state. In addition to lead-zinc, silver and cadmium are also obtained as a by-product. “Under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, the company involved in mining has to declare the minerals and by-products derived from quarrying to the Central Government Department of Mines Bureau and the State Government Department of Mines and Geology,” said an officer of SDRI on condition of anonymity on Monday. SDRI in its detailed investigation found that the exact quantity of silver and cadmium received by the company as a by-product for the past several years was not reported by HZL to the state government. Officials added that the production data of HZL from the year 2012-13 to 2017-18 had non-uniformity. “The production data of the company that was sent to Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) of the central government and to state government’s mines and geology department lacked uniformity. With documentary evidences we found that the data was being manipulated by the company. Based on our investigation, the additional director, mines (vigilance) has sent a notice to HZL on May 20. The company is supposed to pay the royalty within 30 days of receiving the notice,” Sanjiv Singh, director general, SDRI told TOI on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sdri-unearths-royalty-evasion-of-rs-2500-crore-by-mining-firm/articleshow/76395377.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pregnant, dumped for revenge||Ahmedabad: For 181 Abhayam Women Helpline counsellors, this case may have recalled a film plot with a dark twist. A woman falls in love with a man, gets pregnant, and is then jettisoned as part of an elaborate revenge strategy in a family feud.The 21-year-old woman from Maninagar called the helpline after her family learnt about her pregnancy. “The lockdown complicated the case. The woman was initially not sure about her pregnancy,” said a counsellor. “When her family had a test done, it emerged that she was already four months pregnant. Her abortion could not be done as her family had started talks with the man’s family.”The man’s kin refused to accept her citing the families’ enmity. Then the woman’s family called the helpline and approached police. “The man and his family were told that he could go to jail on the charge of rape,” said the counsellor. “He was also told that it was his moral responsibility to take care of the woman and the child. Eventually, the case ended with the couple marrying in court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pregnant-dumped-for-revenge/articleshow/76395375.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Taxi drivers seek cover to make up losses||Madurai: The Madurai tourist taxi drivers and owners association has urged the government to help them get relief from insurance companies for the losses incurred by them during the Covid-19 pandemic. The association made this and other representations to the government through the district administration on Monday. They stated that there are nearly 10,000 drivers in the district and no one has received any relief or assistance from the government during the lockdown. Drivers are badly hit by the lockdown as they could not operate their vehicles for 85 days and will not be able to be get back to business for at least a few more days. The drivers said that they are struggling to feed their families, apart from which they are finding it difficult to pay the road tax, insurance premium, monthly instalment for the vehicle and the fines imposed on them for inability to pay the dues – despite moratorium announced by the government. Drivers also sought extension of deadline for the various certifications for their vehicles that should have been obtained from the regional transport officers and relief from fitting new speed governors in their vehicles till normalcy returns. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/taxi-drivers-seek-cover-to-make-up-losses/articleshow/76395686.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||Fuel sales in Goa half of pre-Covid figures||PANAJI: Fuel consumption in Goa remains around half the pre-lockdown levels as tourist taxis and private interstate buses remain off the roads. Fuel retailers said that with Goans travelling less within the state to meet relatives or for recreation, petrol and diesel sales remain far from pre-Covid-19 levels. Data from the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas puts Goa’s annual consumption of petrol and diesel at around 184 thousand metric tonnes (TMT) and 316 thousand metric tonnes (TMT) respectively. “Fuel consumption is around 60% of what it was pre-lockdown,” said partner at Gauri petrol pump, Porvorim, Padma Kamat. “From 15% in April, it gradually increased, especially after May 3, and had touched 70%, but ever since Covid-19 cases started rising, there has been a drop.” Among states, Goa has the highest per capita consumption of petroleum products at 547 kg in 2018-19. Only the Union territories of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have a higher per capita consumption. Data for 2019-20 has not yet been collated by the ministry. Tourism activity and interstate travel, coupled with high variation in fuel prices tend to favour Goa, with vehicles from other states also topping up their fuel tanks while passing through the state. Goa also has a higher vehicle density compared to the number of people living in the state. “When taxis and buses start in a full fledged manner, then fuel sale will return to normal. Because of the pandemic, people are not travelling, they are not visiting relatives or going out,” said president, all Goa petrol pump dealers association, Paresh Joshi. Joshi said that fuel consumption in the state stands at around 50-55%. Kamat said that the hike in fuel prices has not affected fuel consumption. “People may complain about it for a few days, but eventually they will fill fuel,” said Kamat. Petrol and diesel prices in India rose for the ninth day in a row, making retail fuel costlier by more than Rs 4 per litre since June 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fuel-sales-in-goa-half-of-pre-covid-figures/articleshow/76395376.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||No headway on MBC quota issues: Kirori Singh Bainsla||JAIPUR: A meeting of Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti, headed by Kirori Singh Bainsla, concluded that the state government hasn’t resolved issues related to 4% MBC reservation even five months after agreement with it. Bainsla said he will soon talk to the chief secretary. Meanwhile, state government reconstituted the ministerial committee on MBC reservation. “Last time when we met chief secretary D B Gupta and other officers on January 18, they had assured us that all issues related to MBC reservation will be resolved. I will meet the chief secretary again and seek his reply,” said Shailendra Singh, general secretary of the samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-headway-on-mbc-quota-issues/articleshow/76395374.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jodhpur||SOG arrests hawala traders with Rs 16 lakh in Jodhpur||JAIPUR: The Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police on Monday unearthed a hawala trade racket and arrested two persons with illegal possession of Rs 16 lakh from Jodhpur. SOG is already on an alert mode following a complaint by Congress on poaching of MLAs and has activated its sources to find any illegal delivery of unaccounted money. Acting on a specific input, SOG officials chased a man and nabbed him while he was delivering Rs 16 lakh to another person in Jodhpur. “We had a specific input that some hawala traders are active. After a long chase, we arrested one 19-year-old youth Mukesh Bishnoi while he was delivering Rs 16 lakh to Murlidhar Daga, a native of Nagori Gate in Jodhpur,” said Anil Paliwal, ADG, SOG and ATS. Both have been handed over to Mahamandir police for investigation. “Mukesh was a carrier who delivered the money to Murlidhar and now the investigation would be on where the money was to be delivered. We will have to further unearth the chain,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sog-arrests-hawala-traders-with-rs-16-lakh/articleshow/76395383.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: St Xavier’s College alumni adopt Amphan-hit village in Kakdwip||KOLKATA: After St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata donated Rs 10 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Amphan Relief Fund, St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association has decided to adopt a village in Kakdwip in the Sunderbans which has been severely affected by the recent cyclone. Fr Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata and president of the Alumni Association said, “The alumni had earlier adopted a village named Bholakhali in North 24 Parganas after Aila. This time, it is a village in the South 24 Parganas which has been devastated by the recent cyclone Amphan. It is our human responsibility to respond with all the care we may extend. Our spiritual service to the Lord beckons us to reach out.” On Sunday, while flagging off the third successive consignment of relief materials which was to be distributed among the affected, Savio said, “By providing relief materials, like ration and other essentials, meant for 500 families, the college and its alumni will establish a lasting connection that will go beyond this immediate assistance. A village in the Kakdwip area will be identified in consultation with the local authorities.” The college and alumni will also conduct a thorough socio-economic survey of the village and design a plan of action, putting a priority on education, healthcare and skill-development training. Savio emphasized that this will be “amalgamated into the existing college-to-village and village-to-college project”. “We celebrate the recent recognition received from MHRD in NIRF by sharing our concern for the marginalized and the downtrodden in the remote rural areas, people who have been rendered homeless and dismayed by the cyclone that has hit us.” The project will also address the environmental issues in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/st-xaviers-college-alumni-adopt-amphan-hit-village-in-kakdwip/articleshow/76394680.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||South TN sees 140 new cases in biggest single-day spike||Madurai/Trichy: With 140 new cases, the southern districts saw the highest ever single day rise in Covid-19 cases on Monday since the beginning of the outbreak. The 140 cases, which include 16 imported cases, took the region tally to 2,409.Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded more 50 cases in a single day once again pushing the tally to 1,294 on Monday. Three districts - Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam in the delta contributed 32 cases to the tally.Most cases in the region were reported in Tuticorin (38) and Madurai (33) districts. Out of the 38 cases in Tuticorin, four of them are imported cases. The district tally has now risen to 436, third highest in the region. Madurai district, which has been continuing to see a sharp rise in cases has become the district with the second highest Covid-19 cases in the region. In Madurai, out of the 33 cases on Monday, three cases where Chennai returnees while all other cases were local cases. The local cases were mainly those with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms from various areas including Thathaneri, Goripalayam, Vilangudi, Mela Anuppanadi and Sellur, and contacts of Covid-19 patients. A 43-year-old man working at Mattuthavani vegetable market also tested Covid-19 positive after showing symptoms of fever and cold. The total cases in the district are now 442, including four deaths as per the latest state medical bulletin.Tirunelveli recorded 25 more cases on Monday including eight imported cases. The district, which saw high numbers of imported cases from other states last month, is now also seeing a rise in local cases. It has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region with 489 cases. Theni reported 11 fresh Covid-19 cases including two imported cases while Virudhunagar reported nine local cases on Monday.The total number of Covid-19 cases as per the latest state medical bulletin in Sivaganga is 57 on Monday. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Tenkasi (8), Kanyakumari (5) and Dindigul (2). Ramanathapuram did not report any new Covid-19 case on Monday.Thanjavur district saw 12 more new cases, which include six women. The district’s total tally touched 167 cases. Ten more positive cases were recorded in Nagapattinam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-sees-140-new-cases-in-biggest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76395691.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Madurai||Doctors and nurses summoned to Chennai to aid in Covid-19 fight||Madurai: As many as 200 postgraduate (PG) doctors and 50 newly-appointed nurses from various southern districts have set off to Chennai, the Covid-19 hotspot in the state, in order to deal with the emergency situation. Though there are no concerns of shortage in medical staff in southern districts, including Madurai, if the cases increase, the doctors may be required to return to work back here.President of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association, Dr K Senthil said 180 PGs from the Madurai Medical College and the remaining from government medical colleges were summoned to Chennai in a communication received on June 11.“Almost all of them reached Chennai by 4pm the next day, using their own vehicles by and carpooling, to deal with the emergency. The doctors co-operated as it was necessary to move workforce to areas where there is a shortage,” he said. “As of now, this mobilisation of PG doctors would not be a problem for hospitals like the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, but as the next 10 days are crucial and Covid-19 cases are expected to peak, we would definitely need more hands,” Senthil said. He also said that they had not witnessed any issue of doctors or nurses, refusing to come to work out of fear. Meanwhile, 50 nurses from Madurai, Virudhunagar, Theni, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul districts, who were among the additional 2,000 nurses, recently appointed by the state government on a temporary basis, left for Chennai early on Monday. The nurses left by a special bus arranged by the Madurai Medical College. The nurses will report for work in government hospitals at Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur. However, so far, no nurse already employed in government institutions in Madurai district has been deputed to work in Chennai and nearby districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-and-nurses-summoned-to-chennai-to-aid-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/76395689.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Coimbatore||3 new cases reported in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: After being Covid-free for 36 days, the Nilgiris district registered three positive cases on Monday.All the three people, including a woman, have a history of travel to other districts and states.The 52-year-old woman, from Kappachi village in Thummanatty panchayat here, had visited Mettupalayam a few days ago. A 22-year old truck driver hailing from Kuzhisolai area in Ooty town had unloaded carrots at Kalasipalyam market in Bengaluru. His throat and nose swabs were collected on the return journey. A 54-year-old man, resident of Thaimalai in Melur panchayat here, had visited Annur a few days ago.“All of them have tested positive for Covid-19,” said deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy.The infected were shifted to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore, collector J Innocent Divya said. “The places where they stayed have been sealed and declared containment zones,” she said. With the three active cases, the Nilgiris has registered 17 coronavirus cases so far. The district now has six containment zones, including the three new zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-new-cases-reported-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76395384.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Last 100 cases added in just 5 days||Lucknow: The first 300 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city in about two months from March till May, but the figure doubled in a month thereafter, indicating the intensity of the surge after the lockdown rules were gradually relaxed. The same is also reflected in the fact that it took 36 days to cross the 100-mark after the first case surfaced on March 11, but the last 100 patients (from 501 to 600) were added in just five days. Earlier, the fastest growth was witnessed from April 17 to 23, when 100 cases (from 101 to 200) were reported in a week. Cases reported till then were mostly with travel history or connected to Tablighi Jamaat. As strict lockdown was enforced, it took 21 days for cases to crawl from 201 to 300-mark on May 13 and next 17 days to cross 400 on June 1. Relaxation in lockdown began in the first week of June and numbers grew with cases climbing from 401 to 500 in just 10 days from June 1 to June 10. Five days later, the 600-mark was breached on Monday. Health officers said that the factors responsible for surge include neglect of precautions by people. Also, since testing has also increased, cases are being detected at a faster pace than earlier, they added. Of the total 620 cases reported till date, the number of women patients is about half of the men. Similarly, of nine deaths reported so far, three were women and six men. All were in the age group 60-80 and had comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/last-100-cases-added-in-just-5-days/articleshow/76395380.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Merces lockdown near success, local business shut||PANAJI: The hustle-bustle in the morning to grab a plate of the famous Bappa’s pao-bhaaji, the sounds of negotiation in the village fish market, and the anxiety to start the day on a Monday morning seemed missing. For the villagers of Merces, it was as though they had gone back to the last week of March when the lockdown was first imposed. After the panchayat imposed a six-day lockdown, starting Monday, most of the business establishments downed their shutters, except essential commodities. Many people from Chimbel travel to Merces to work as domestic help, carpenters, labourers, etc. Sarpanch Rufina Quadros said that they cannot block their access to the village by imposing barricades, but they can minimise contact through the lockdown. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Chimbel are rising due to which we are worried. We wanted to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed and there is no scope for infection, which is why we decide to go on lockdown,” Quadros said. “Most of the residents have informed the Chimbel-based people working for them to wait for the village lockdown to end before resuming duties,” she said. The panchayat had held a meeting last week wherein they resolved to go on lockdown for six days. A day prior, on June 14, a vehicle went around the village making the announcement about the lockdown dates and appealing to villagers to step out only for necessities. On Monday, only medical stores, clinics and fair price shops were kept open. “Cafes and restaurants in the village have voluntarily decided not to open. We had, however, anticipated this and made breakfast at home, itself,” a housewife said. While most locals stayed indoors, working professionals were seen commuting to work and public transport was also operational. “The lockdown is being implemented well in the village and we’re cooperating with the panchayat’s rule,” Sameer Palyekar who manages a chemist store in Merces said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/merces-lockdown-near-success-local-biz-shut/articleshow/76395382.cms||Nida Sayed
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar man duped of Rs 1 crore with promise of government jobs||AHMEDABAD: A 53-year-old labour contractor living in Gandhinagar was allegedly cheated of Rs 1.05 crore by a man and his wife who assured them of government jobs for their wards way back in 2015. Kishore Prajapati, the victim, lodged a complaint with Sector 21 police station, against the couple Rinku Patel and her husband Bharat. Prajapati’s daughter Hetal works in a private firm. “Rinku and Bharat began visiting my house in Gandhinagar and began telling me that they could get government jobs for my elder daughter Roshni, my second daughter Hetal and my son Kaushik. Bharat said I would have to spend some money to get my children government jobs, to which I agreed,” said Prajapati in the FIR. After a while, on April 8, 2015, Bharat took Rs 1.82 lakh from Prajapati towards getting his children the government jobs. He subsequently took various amounts of money from him, in cash and through bank transactions. Later, whenever Prajapati asked Bharat about the jobs, he evaded questions by making one excuse or the other. Bharat and Rinku kept telling Prajapati that they would secure jobs for Roshni and Kaushik in Isro and he would have to wait for a few days. According to FIR, Prajapati ended up paying the couple a total of Rs 1.05 crore. As they kept demanding more money, he suspected something fishy and refused to give them any more. Rinku and Bharat then stopped answering Prajapati’s calls. Prajapati also went to meet them to ask about his money, but they kept evading him. Recently, when Prajapati pressured them to return his money, they threatened him. “They said that they have links with political leaders and no one could harm them,” said Prajapati. Prajapati finally approached Sector 21 police and filed a complaint of cheating, breach of trust and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-duped-of-rs-1-cr-with-promise-of-govt-jobs/articleshow/76395378.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops first say Rath Yatra route as usual, then backtrack||AHMEDABAD: City police seem to be uncertain about this year’s Rath Yatra route. They hastily issued a statement saying that the usual path would be followed this year for the 143rd procession of Lord Jagannath’s chariot but later withdrew it. Officials said that it was a mistake by the city police PRO, as the route and time details were wrongly forwarded to media persons. Officials said that the route and time of the Rath Yatra is still not decided. The Rath Yatra is to be held on June 23. On Monday evening, the PRO of city police sent an email and WhatsApp message with details of the Rath Yatra event. These showed the same route as usual for the Rath Yatra. Some 50 minutes later, police sent another mail and image on WhatsApp, asking to not use the previous press statement with the route and time of the Rath Yatra. Additional commissioner of police, traffic, J R Mothalia, said that it was mistake and the statement was not right. “It was last year’s route and time details which was sent to mediapersons by mistake,” he emphasized. DCP, city control, Vijay Patel, said that the details of the Rath Yatra route, its alternative route and time, which was to be sent to traffic officials had accidentally been sent to mediapersons. “Permission to hold the Rath Yatra is still pending,” he said. Earlier this month, Jagannath temple trustees said that all the pre-event rituals such as Jal Yatra, Netrotsav, Mameru, would be held with minimal attendance of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-first-say-rath-yatra-route-as-usual-then-backtrack/articleshow/76395385.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||Even as Goa CM, panchayat min slams local lockdowns, Chimbel shuts for 7 days||PANAJI: Even as chief minister Pramod Sawant joined his state party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade in denouncing village-level lockdowns, the Chimbel panchayat on Monday declared a voluntary self-lockdown in the village from Wednesday to Tuesday. “We had a meeting and unanimously decided to have a lockdown,” Chimbel sarpanch Chandrakant Kunkolkar said. “Except pharmacies and ration shops, no shop will be kept open. Milk shops will function till 8am.” He also said that horticulture outlets will be open from 8am-11am. A circular to this effect was issued by the panchayat, but later revoked. However, the stipulations in it shall continue to be observed. Chimbel is a part of the St Cruz assembly constituency, represented by BJP’s Antonio ‘Tony’ Fernandes. “The circular issued by the Chimbel panchayat has been withdrawn, but the people will observe the voluntary lockdown,” he said. Another village in the constituency, Merces, is also under a seven-day self-lockdown, a move supported by Fernandes. However, panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho on Monday said that panchayats have no authority to impose lockdowns. “I fully agree with Sawant that panchayats have no authority to impose lockdowns and keep the village closed,” he said. Sawant had earlier said that “village panchayats can’t impose their own lockdowns”. The issue of local lockdowns put the BJP in a catch-22 situation, with sharp differences emerging between the party establishment and the government. Even as Sawant on Monday criticised self-lockdowns, state BJP vice-president Anil Hoble had earlier told reporters that the CM supported his (Hoble’s) call for a self-lockdown in the village. The ever-growing number of self-lockdowns became a talking point after most villages that did so belonged to assembly constituencies represented by BJP legislators. TOI has earlier reported how lockdowns in Sattari’s Guleli and Keri have the backing of health minister Vishwajit Rane, and Sancorda’s call has the support of PWD minister Deepak Pauskar. Pauskar had even said that the state government supports local-level lockdowns instead of the entire state being locked down. “Self-lockdown is a good concept,” he had said. However, a slight pushback against lockdowns began over the weekend, and on Sunday, Agarwada in Pernem, which had called for a self-lockdown in Saturday, backtracked after Pernem police told the panchayat that it has no powers to impose lockdowns. The state BJP president too spoke out against lockdowns on Sunday. “If some villagers come together and decide willingly to stay indoors, they can do it,” Tanavade said. “However, they cannot block the roads or fine people.” However, St Cruz MLA Fernandes, when told that the state government is against local lockdowns, said that the sarpanch is the first citizen of the village, and can take such decisions. He, however, said that as of now, there’s no need to declare Chimbel a containment zone. He said that the people will be provided face masks, as a lot of them don’t wear one. Meanwhile, Chimbel primary health centre medical officer Dr Jude D’Souza said that the situation is under control and there’s no need to panic. “We have our OPD, and we will carry out testing based on symptoms,” he said. “We will control the spread of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-as-cm-panchayat-min-slams-local-lockdowns-chimbel-shuts-for-7-days/articleshow/76395387.cms||Murari Shetye
June 16, 2020||Trichy||House burgled, 219 sovereign gold, Rs7 lakh stolen||Thiruvarur: Miscreants looted 219 sovereign of jewellery and Rs 7 lakh in cash from a locked house early on Monday near Koradachery in Thiruvarur district. Three special police team have been formed under the deputy superintendent of police, Thiruvarur, to nab the culprits. According to police, Sarbudeen, 34, a native of Athikadai village near Koradachery, who was working in the gulf, has arrived at his native place after the lockdown. He was stayingwith his wife, two children and two sisters. He had gone to his relative’s house located next street for a get-together along with his family in the evening on Sunday. When they returned home on Monday morning, they were shocked to notice that the front doors of his house were broken. The almirahs also were broken and 219 sovereigns of gold ornaments and cash to the tune of Rs 7 lakh were found missing. However, police estimated the value of the stolen gold ornaments at Rs 22 lakh. On information, Koradacheri police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Forensic experts were pressed into action to lift fingerprints. A case was also registered by police based on a complaint lodged by one of the relatives of Sarbudeen. Three special investigation teams have also been formed headed by Thiruvarur deputy superintendent of police Dinesh to nab the culprits. Earlier, police inquired the Sarbudeen’s family members and their relatives and housemaids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/house-burgled-219-sovereign-gold-rs7-lakh-stolen/articleshow/76395693.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||CCTV cameras to detect body temperature at Charbagh railway station||LUCKNOW: One look at a high-tech camera will decide whether you can enter the railway station or not. Thermal CCTV cameras based on artificial intelligence were installed at the entrance of Charbagh railway station on Monday to detect and restrict entry of people with high temperature and those not wearing masks. A CCTV camera at Charbagh railway station.Two cameras have been installed where passengers queue up for luggage scanning before entering the platform. The CCTV camera with face recognition technology measures body temperature and displays it on the screen. It also detects if someone is without a mask or not wearing it properly. The personnel supervising the monitor alert the guard on noticing a person with high body temperature or one without mask. “Manual thermal scanners have been replaced with thermal CCTV cameras to make checking fully contactless. This will benefit both employees and passengers,” said senior divisional commercial manager of Northern Railway Lucknow division Jagtosh Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cctv-cameras-to-detect-body-temp-at-rly-stn/articleshow/76395395.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s date with annular solar eclipse...||Kolkata: The pandemic may have altered the rhythm of life but the rhythm of nature remains unchanged. This Sunday, a spectacular cosmic event promises to shift the spotlight from the gloom surrounding daily new highs in Covid infection count as well as deaths as the city gets to view the second solar eclipse in six months. However, the eclipse will appear partial from Kolkata just as it had done on December 26, 2019. From time to time in their elliptical motions of the earth going round the sun and the moon going round the earth, they can come to such a position, that the sun, moon and the earth are in a straight line. At times they are not only in a straight line but also lie on the same plane and that is the when we get a solar eclipse like the one on June 21. According to MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research director (research & academic) Debiprosad Duari, the annular solar eclipse in which the moon’s disc partially covers the sun and leaves a ring of fire around it, will be visible for 35 seconds from Suratgarh and Anupgarh in Rajasthan; Sirsa, Ratia and Kurukshetra in Haryana; and Dehradun, Chamba, Chamoli and Joshimath in Uttrakhand. In Kurukshetra, the eclipse will begin at 10.21am and last 35 seconds. The maximum duration of the annularity will be a little east of Joshimath, where the partial eclipse will start at 10.27am. Annularity will begin at 12.09pm and end at 12.10pm, lasting for 39 seconds. Then the eclipse will end completely around 12.54pm. In Kolkata, the partial eclipse will begin at 10.46am, reach its greatest phase at 12.35pm, with 65.5% obscuration and will end at 2.17pm. Duari cautions that though the eclipse will be partial over Kolkata, it should not be viewed through naked eyes. Birla Industrial & Technological Museum will webcast the partial solar eclipse as viewed through a telescope positioned in the BITM campus on June 21. The webcast will happen from 10.46am to 2.17pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatas-date-with-annular-solar-eclipse-/articleshow/76394691.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University notice to Mumtaz college for breaching Covid curbs||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University took a strong note of Mumtaz PG College not following its directives and calling students to campus to submit examination forms leading to violation of social distancing and served a show-cause notice to the college on Monday. LU had directed all its 170 affiliated college not to make students submit a hardcopy of the examination form. Despite the orders, scores of students reached college to submit forms. No social distancing could be maintained in the rush. In the notice, dean of college development council, LU, Awadhesh Tripathi has sought an explanation from the college on why students were called when the entire process is being done online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-notice-to-mumtaz-college-for-breaching-covid-curbs/articleshow/76395406.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Nine-day door-to-door drive to check Covid cases from June 21||JAIPUR: The state government has launched a state-wide campaign ‘Inform, Educate and Communicate’ (IEC) to control the number of Covid-19 cases. The nine-day door-to-door campaign will start from June 21. The decision was made during a review meeting on corona held at the CM’s residence on Sunday late evening keeping in view the rising number of cases since Unlock 1 is in effect from June 1. It is going to be the biggest door-to-door exercise in combating Covid-19. The announcement for the same was made by the state health minister Raghu Sharma on Monday. “This is part of the active multi-level surveillance programme combating Covid-19 in the state. The health workers, including Asha Sahyogini and ANM, will be carrying out a door-to-door survey to track symptomatic and asymptomatic patients across the state. The exercise will run till June 30,” said Sharma. Under the IEC campaign, a massive awareness programme will be held involving all elected representatives from MLAs, municipal councillors, sarpanch to name a few. “They have been directed to distribute pamphlets and to utilise all effective communication tools to spread the word about the infectious virus. From basic precautions to the symptoms of the virus will be part of the content,” Sharma said. He informed that the step is being taken as an average 250 cases have been registered since June 1. During the review meeting, Gehlot also expressed concern over the violations of the rules related to social distancing and face masks being reported from across the state. Sharma, while talking to reporters at the hotel where Congress MLAs are lodged, said, “It seems people have forgotten that corona has not disappeared and it still can infect people if the rules are not followed properly.” Divulging details of the state’s offer to provide Covid-19 test to five neighbouring states, Sharma said the state is conducting 12,000-13,000 tests per day, while the capacity is 15,000 per day. “Soon, the capacity will reach 40,000 in the state with testing centres in all districts. Considering the situation of poor testing in some of the neighbouring states, we decided to provide them with the assistance of 5,000 tests per day on need basis. It will be extended to other states if required and achievable for us,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/campaign-to-check-door-to-door-covid-19-cases-testing-facilities-opened-to-other-states/articleshow/76395403.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Promote digi cash, no entry for kids below 10, businesses told||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has issued detailed guidelines for commercial and non-commercial establishments in the state with most resuming functioning despite the spike in Covid-19 cases. According to the order issued on Saturday, no person with fever, cough or difficulty in breathing should be allowed to enter any building. They should, instead, contact the Disha helpline. Wearing of masks is mandatory, as are facilities for washing of hands provision of sanitizers. All employees should also clean their hands periodically using sanitizer or soap. While children below the age of 10 are banned from entering these establishments, those above 60 have been advised against visiting them, as far as possible. Social distancing should be maintained in all such places. Also, each establishment should display the available online service facilities. While queue system is mandatory to reduce crowding, offices and outlets should promote appointment system to the best possible extent, the order said. While air circulation is to be maintained by keeping open all doors and windows, if at all air conditioners are being used, doors and windows should be opened periodically to ensure proper air circulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/promote-digi-cash-no-entry-for-kids-below-10-businesses-told/articleshow/76392398.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal may be clouded by low pressure on Bay of Bengal||KOLKATA: A low-pressure, set to form over north Bay of Bengal could trigger heavy showers in Kolkata and south Bengal this weekend. Weathermen expect the system to form in the course of the week and lead to heavy showers. Moderate rain is predicted in Kolkata and the rest of south Bengal through the week. “Monsoon clouds have moved into the region last Thursday. Ever since the currents are in full flow and have been triggering rain regularly. The showers have so far been moderate in south Bengal. But they will get heavy in north Bengal this week,” said RMC Centre director GK Das. Monsoon arrived in Kolkata and major parts of south and north Bengal on Friday and repeated drizzles drenched the city. Clouds had started moving into the region on Thursday riding on a low-pressure over Bay of Bengal. On Friday, the monsoon currents covered most parts of Gangetic Bengal, Sikkim and north Bengal. The currents covered the rest of the state on Saturday. This year, monsoon has arrived on schedule and with the currents moving steadily across the country, rain could be sufficient, felt experts. “Monsoon is driven by low-pressures and depressions that trigger heavy showers and keep the rain count ticking,” said a meteorologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/-may-be-clouded-by-low-pressure-on-bay-of-bengal/articleshow/76394695.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||MPT’s hospital notified Covid care centre||VASCO: The Mormugao Port Trust’s (MPT) hospital at Headland Sada, Mormugao, has been notified as a Covid-19 care centre to house asymptomatic patients. The notification was issued on June 13 by South Goa collector and chairperson of the South Goa District Disaster Management Authority Ajit Roy. Sources at the MPT hospital said that the hospital’s general OPD, pharmacy and observation centre for its staff and pensioners will now be conducted at Dr Ambedkar hall at Headland Sada. The hospital will refer patients with serious illness to Goa Medical College and Hospital at Bambolim, sources said. Meanwhile, the Mormugao Port and Railway Workers Union and Goa Port and Dock Employees Union have written to the deputy collector of Mormugao, to designate some other centre such as hotels as Covid-19 care centres, rather than taking up the MPT hospital. They said that the around 15,000 port employees, pensioners and their dependents, who regularly avail medical treatment at MPT hospital, will be deprived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpts-hosp-notified-covid-care-centre/articleshow/76395404.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Village imposes lockdown after woman tests positive||HYDERABAD: With a woman testing positive for coronavirus, Gambhiraopet village in Rajanna Sircilla district went into a self-imposed lockdown on Monday. DM&HO Suman Mohan Rao said it was the people who had opted for a voluntary lockdown. “All we told them was that they would have to take care that Covid does not spread and explained to them the situation,” he told TOI. So far, 22 Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in Sircilla district. In fact, the first coronavirus victim in Sircilla was a woman from Ghambhiraopet.  Panchayat authorities explained the situation to all establishments and a decision was taken to observe a three-day lockdown. Prior to this, a self-imposed three-day lockdown was observed in Mustabad too. Sarpanch Katakam Sridhar Panthulu said only medical shops would be allowed to function. As per the new relaxations for lockdown, there are no containment zones if any Covid cases are detected. But, Gambhiraopet had decided to go for total lockdown. “While this is voluntary and not imposed by the administration, we have to follow it for our own safety. We will recommend for cancellation of shop licences if the lockdown decision is not adhered to,” the sarpanch warned. According to health officials, more than 1,400 people are in home quarantine and health check-ups are being done on them twice a day. Initially, there were cases of Delhi-returnees from Markaz. Later, some migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra and other districts had tested positive. There are also some travellers from Gulf countries who tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/village-imposes-lockdown-after-woman-tests-ve/articleshow/76394693.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 16, 2020||India||Pension hurdle for Army’s retired Nepalese soldiers||PITHORAGARH: More than 1,600 ex-Indian Army personnel, mainly those Nepalese citizens who had served as soldiers in the Gorkha Regiment, have been unable to draw pension for the past three months as the India-Nepal border is lying closed due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. These personnel (or their widows), who are residents of Baitadi and Darchula districts of Nepal that border Pithoragarh district, get their pension deposited in the State Bank of India (SBI) on the Indian side of the border at places like Jhulaghat, Jauljibi and Dharchula. Kamlesh Joshi, manager of SBI, Jhulaghat, told TOI that in his branch, there are 700 accounts of Nepalese personnel who have served in the Indian Army and an equal number at the Dharchula branch as well; SBI, Jauljibi, has accounts of 200 pensioners. “According to our estimates, the Nepalese ex-soldiers in the area, most of whom have been NCOs (non-commissioned officers) in the Indian Army, are drawing a cumulative pension of around Rs 50 lakh per month from the banks,” he added. Heera Singh Bisht, one of the pensioners who is based in Baitadi in Nepal, told TOI over phone that all the pensioners are having a tough time as they have not been able to withdraw funds from the bank for almost three months. “The border was sealed on March 25 and all movement between India and Nepal was ceased. As a result, we have not been able to go to our bank on the Indian side.” On being queried why the pensioners cannot use net banking facility or ATMs of Nepalese banks to access their funds, Hem Chand, a pensioner, said that “none of the pensioners have access to online banking facilities and neither is there any bank on our side of the border with which SBI has a collaboration.” Hem Chand added: “Our demand to both governments is to make some arrangements for former personnel of Indian Army living in Nepal to be able to access their pension. We have also put forth our problems to Nepalese authorities, too, but no action has been taken yet,” he added. Meanwhile, when apprised of the problem faced by the pensioners, MS Jodha, officer of the district soldiers’ welfare office, Pithoragarh, said that the issue had not been brought to his notice by any Nepalese pensioner yet. “We have an office at Mahendra Nagar in Nepal which the pensioners can approach for redressal of their problem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pension-hurdle-for-armys-retired-nepalese-soldiers/articleshow/76396090.cms||Prem Punetha
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer pvt bus owners protest, demand 6 months tax waiver||JAISALMER: Private bus operators of the district are demanding tax waiver for six months, as the vehicles were off road during the lockdown because of the pandemic. All private bus owners of Jaisalmer district have expressed their inability to operate, unless the tax is waived. The bus operators on Monday parked their buses before the district transport office and handed over the keys of their vehicles to the transport officer. They submitted to the DTO a charter of demands addressed to the chief minister and warned to self-immolate and of a ‘chakka jam’ if their demands were not met. The private bus operators say that they are not in a position to pay the tax of six months so the tax should be waived. In the memorandum submitted by Jaisalmer private bus’ union, it has been said that the state government on May 31 permitted to run buses under unlock 1.0, but bus operators had to face a lot of problems. They said that as the buses remained parked during the lockdown, the economic condition of the bus owners worsened. They said in the earlier memorandum submitted to CM it was demanded to waive the tax for additional six months and to extend vehicle document for one year and to give concession in toll tax for many years, but in this regard, the government did not give any relief, due to which there is resentment and private bus operators have demonstrated before the district transport office. Bus operator Kanvraj Singh Chauhan said that there is a lot of difference in what the CM says and what he does. The buses were parked for such a long time and bus drivers had to be paid salary, despite that, the government instead of giving an assistance amount to driver and conductor, is asking for tax. The state government is cheating the bus operators, he said. When the government needed them, it requested them to ferry migrants and labourers to their districts and the bus operators taking money for diesel, helped the government in all possible ways, but today, the government is cheating with the operators. If the government does not accept the demands, then the bus operators will be forced to agitate, he added. Another bus operator Ashok Tanwar said that drivers and conductors were sitting at home and vehicles were not moving for three months. He said they are not able to pay salaries to drivers and conductors and will die of hunger. “Government should pay attention towards our demands otherwise we will bring our vehicles to a halt and agitate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-pvt-bus-owners-protest-demand-6-mth-tax-waiver/articleshow/76395410.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||New machine at Goa Medical College, testing up by 450 per day||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said that the Abbott M2000 machine, which will facilitate speedy RT PCR tests and will test 450 samples a day, has been installed at the virology laboratory of the Goa Medical College (GMC). With the new machine, the state will be able to ramp up its testing facility. With the old set-up, GMC was able to conduct about only 60 to 80 RT-PCR tests a day. Goa enhanced its testing capacity by installing TrueNat machines at district and sub-districts hospitals enabling 1,500 to 2,000 tests to be conducted per day. Rane said he has also moved a file for conducting antibody testing with a strict protocol in place. He said due to the rise in cases, and as part of a precautionary measure, residents in areas neighbouring the Covid hospital, will also be screened. “Thermal screening of all residents will be done and in case of any suspicion, the person will have to go through swab testing to rule out Covid-19,” he said. After a kitchen staff at the ESI hospital tested positive for Covid-19, more than three of his contacts have been found positive. Earlier this month, local transmission was detected at Mangor Hill, Vasco, following which cases linked to the area have been found in many other parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-machine-at-gmc-testing-up-by-450-per-day/articleshow/76395409.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Allahabad||Why curbs on OPDs in hospitals, Allahabad high court asks UP govt||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the state government and the chief medical officer (CMO) of Prayagraj to apprise the court on June 18 as to how out patient departments (OPD) in private and government hospitals have been restricted. Hearing a PIL filed by one Vishal Talwar and others, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Yashwant Varma fixed June 18 as the next date of hearing. Appearing for the petitioners, their counsel Shahid Kazmi and Anand Prakash Paul contended that non-Covid-19 cases should be treated by hospitals in the state as they used to be treated earlier before the outbreak of pandemic. The petitioner has requested the court to set aside government notifications issued on March 23 and May 31, that directed government and private hospitals to restrict treatment of non-Covid patients. In the petition, it has also been requested to direct the authorities to ensure that hospitals treat patients suffering from other ailments or diseases than the patients suffering from Covid-19. The court has been further requested that the authorities be directed to create a separate set up/ infrastructure for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The PIL has been filed in the wake of a pregnant woman’s death last weekend in Noida after eight hospitals denied her admission. The PIL before the High Court also urges for a probe into the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/why-curbs-on-opds-in-hosps-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/76395414.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 16, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee: Officials of farmers’ body robbed of Rs 23 lakh at gunpoint||ROORKEE: Two unidentified bike-borne miscreants robbed Rs 23 lakh from officials of Farmer Services Society (FSS), a leg of District Cooperative Bank (DCB), in Jhabreda near Roorkee. The robbers took the officials at gunpoint on Tuesday afternoon, looted the money, and escaped the spot. The officials were going to deposit the money in a DCB branch Jhabreda when the crime took place. Police have started a massive manhunt to nab the robbers. According to DCB chairman Pradeep Chaudhary, two officials of Jhabreda-based FSS were going to deposit Rs 22,62,000 in Jhabreda branch of DCB at about 2.30pm. The officials were on a motorcycle when two unidentified bike-borne miscreants robbed them at gunpoint and escaped. "It is a shocking crime which has exposed police failure in the town," said Chaudhary. Soon after, a police team led by Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S rushed to the spot. "We have started a search operation and are gathering CCTV footage of various points to identify them. As the loot took place in broad daylight, action will be taken against those policemen who failed to prevent the crime," said the senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/officials-of-farmers-body-robbed-of-rs-23l-on-gun-point/articleshow/76393626.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Home-care for Nizamia patients||Hyderabad: Chronically ill patients, who were discharged while undergoing treatment at the Government Nizamia General hospital earlier in March, will now be able to avail medical care at home. City-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), in collaboration with the Nizamia hospital, has launched home-care services for the patients. Around 80 patients were abruptly discharged in March after the state government’s decision to convert the Unani hospital into a level 1 quarantine centre for Covid-19 patients. “I was discharged from the hospital overnight without any prescription and medicines. Due to this, I had to suffer a lot. Otherwise, I might have been cured so far,” complained Mohd Mustafa, a paralysis patient. The Home care services , has dedicated team of physiotherapist, patient care-givers and counsellors, who visit each of the displaced patients, mostly in Old City. “So far, 12 patients have been covered in one week. The team is taking all precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. Many patients from Nizamia are from weaker economical sections. With restricted healthcare services for such patients, the home care model has been a boon,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-care-for-nizamia-patients/articleshow/76394703.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||ESI scam: ED conducts search in Vijayawada, to register PMLA case||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate (ED) sleuths from Hyderabad on Monday conducted searches in Vijayawada regarding the ESI scam involving former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu and in connection with the Amaravati land scam. ED officials visited Vijayawada and met investigating officials of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), special investigation team and Crime Investigation Department of Andhra Pradesh police. Sources in ED told TOI that the teams are in Vijayawada to collect information and documents about three cases ESI scam, Amaravati land scam and Agrigold scam. “We already have a case of Agrigold where lakhs of investors were duped. Our teams collected more information regarding the case. ESI scam is the fresh case. After verifying the documents like FIR, we will register a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” said an ED official said. The ACB had recently arrested Atchannaidu and others in the ESI purchases scam. ACB investigations revealed around Rs 150 crore had been swindled in the purchases worth Rs 988 crore between 2014 and 2019. Two former directors of ESI Ramesh Kumar and Vijay Kumar were also arrested in connection with the scam pertaining to purchase of medical kits, furniture and medicines. The accused had also produced fake bills and invoices to defraud the exchequer. It is alleged that the accused committed the offence on behest of then minister Atchannaidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/esi-scam-ed-conducts-search-in-vij-to-register-pmla-case/articleshow/76394316.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 16, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: 64 new cases, two deaths recorded in Surat||Surat: As many as 11 new Covid-19 cases of the 64 reported on Monday were linked to operational diamond units in the city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) the total coronavirus cases in the city has risen to 2,678. Katargam zone has been reporting the highest number of cases for the last few days. Out of 64 cases on Monday, 24 were from Katargam. Meanwhile, two more patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 107. The deceased include a 60-year-old woman from Limbayat zone and a 75-year-old woman from Katargam. “Since last few days, Covid-19 cases are being reported from diamond units, especially in Katargam zone. On Monday 11 cases were reported which are linked to diamond polishing units. I have requested diamond unit owners to allow one person at one unit so that a safe distance is maintained,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, SMC commissioner. SMC chief also urged the business community to avoid non-essential travel to Maharashtra. “We have found Covid-19 infection in people travelling to cities of Maharashtra. Since many cities of Maharashtra including Mumbai are hotspots for the virus, people should avoid travelling there,” Pani said. SMC officials said that there are 725 active cases in the city, out of which 121 patients are on oxygen support, 40 patients on BiPAP in the city. On Monday, 65 patients were discharged in the city. Meanwhile, three more Covid-19 cases were reported in Surat district on Monday taking the total cases to 244 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-64-new-cases-two-deaths-recorded-in-surat/articleshow/76393664.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||We don’t want another Mangor Hill in Quepem: QMC chief||QUEPEM: By Monday evening the Quepem town wore a deserted look after news that two more members of a family tested positive for Covid-19 in Koleamoddi, even as a lockdown was to start on Tuesday. Earlier, two members of the same family had tested positive for the virus. The Quepem Municipal Council (QMC), with the cooperation of the business community, has declared a six-day lockdown from June 16 to 21. “We don’t want another Mangor Hill in Quepem town. Our MLA and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Chandrakant Kavalekar had been informed about the lockdown,” QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik told TOI. The first cases reported in the town were on Sunday, when a woman and her daughter-in-law tested positive for the virus. On Monday, woman’s husband and their granddaughter also test positive. Swab samples of 20 persons who were in close contact with the patient were collected on Monday. The QMC chairperson said he fears community transmission will commence in the town, and has appealed to the shopkeepers and citizens to comply with the norms of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-dont-want-another-mangor-hill-in-quepem-qmc-chief/articleshow/76395415.cms||Johnny M
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||Seven teachers test positive for Covid-19 in Dharwad||Dharwad: Seven teachers of an English medium high school tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday, sparking off fear of more teachers contracting the infection. The teachers who were confirmed infected on Saturday reportedly contracted the virus after they came in contact with a woman teacher who attended the school when the lockdown norms were eased. After the woman was confirmed infected, the authorities asked about 30 teaching and non teaching employees who were in contact with her, and their throat swabs were sent for medical examination. The seven employees have now been admitted to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and other staff members of the school have now been quarantined for 14 days. This is perhaps the first case in Karnataka where teachers of one school have tested positive for novel coronavirus. Consequently, parents have made it amply clear that they would prefer to keep their children at home for a year than send them to schools. The teachers had been asked to attend their respective school to prepare for the SSLC examination. A teacher admitted to being worried with seven of their brethren testing positive for the novel coronavirus. “We are not averse to working but we cannot afford to put ourselves in jeopardy. We could either be asked to work from home and visit school in batches whenever essential. The authorities appear not to be too concerned about the problem,” he said. Additional commissioner of the department of public instruction Major Siddalingayya Hiremath told TOI that the government had put in place all safety measures, which all schools were required to comply with. “There is no danger to anyone as long as the rules are followed. If we find that these norms are violated, action will be initiated against the management,” Hiremath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/seven-teachers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dharwad/articleshow/76394453.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||3 killed as jeep topples near Hanur||Mysuru: Three persons were killed on the spot and 10 others sustained injuries when a jeep in which they were travelling toppled near Koramanakattari J village at Hanur taluk in Chamarajanagar district on Monday. The deceased are Nagaraj, 65, Nanjunda, 60, and Chikkasiddamma, 55, residents of Hunasepalya village in Kollegal taluk. The injured were rushed to Hanur and Kollegal government hospitals. They were returning to their native place in a pick-up vehicle after attending a wedding at Odeyarapalya village when the tragedy took place. Hanur police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-killed-as-jeep-topples-near-hanur/articleshow/76392952.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||KTPS stops issuing work order for expansion works||NAGPUR: Koradi Thermal Power Station (KTPS) authorities have not issued work orders for preparatory work of the 2x660 MW expansion project following its cancellation by the state cabinet. A proposal has been sent to the Mahagenco head office in Mumbai to take a final decision. A KTPS spokesperson said that some structures of the existing 2x210 MW units were overlapping with the site of the proposed units. “These structures had to be shifted for clearing the site for the new 660MW units. As per approval of the Mahagenco board, tenders worth Rs28.11 crore had been invited. They had been awarded but the work order had not been issued. Now the head office will take the final decision in this regard,” he added. The preparatory works were being done through four tenders. The first included construction of a major store area, including a store shed, warehouse, stack yard and its roads and drains due to fouling of the major store of the 2x660 MW unit. The second was the construction of the peripheral compound wall. The third was the construction of the watch towers and the weighbridge. The last was providing parking area and chain link for isolation from existing three 660MW units. The land requirement for the proposed project was 176 acres, including internal roads and the green belt, which is available on the KTPS premises. The proposed project was to come up on the land occupied by five scrapped units — four 120MW and one 200MW. These units have been dismantled and land was being cleaned. While rejecting the terms of reference (TOR) for environmental clearance of the expansion project, the expert appraisal committee (EAC) had observed that land for the project was not available as the old units had not been dismantled completely. KTPS authorities then swung into action and expedited the dismantling work. Despite high pollution in Koradi area, Mahagenco has chosen this site because of availability of land, water and coal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ktps-stops-issuing-work-order-for-expansion-works/articleshow/76395146.cms||Ashish Roy
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||CM BS Yediyurappa announces Rs 23 lakh in compensation for seven who died drowning in Karnataka's Mandya||MANDYA: Within 24 hours of seven persons drowning in three separate incidents in Mandya district, chief minister B S Yediyurappa announced monetary compensation to the bereaved families. On Sunday, three members of a Dalit family drowned at a waterbody in Biranahalli, while four others met a watery grave at Cholasandra in Nagamangala taluk and KR Pet taluk. In Biranahalli, a woman and two of her daughters allegedly drowned while washing clothes in a lake. In Huliganganahalli, Abhishek, 16, drowned in a canal while bathing his cows. The other three victims are Rashmi and Inchara from Cholasandra village, and Kumar from Adhihalli. On Monday, the chief minister extended Rs 23 lakh compensation — Rs 15 lakh to the members of the Dalit family, and Rs 2 lakh each to the other bereaved families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-announces-rs-23-lakh-in-compensation-for-seven-who-died-drowning-in-mandya/articleshow/76392041.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Activists want only Nalwadi’s statue at KRS entrance||Mysuru: Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam was envisioned by maharaja Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, who sold the royal jewels to ensure its completion, while Sir M Visvesvaraya was the chief engineer and dewan of the Mysore kingdom, who helped bring the dream to fruition, said historian PV Nanjaraj Urs, weighing in on the controversy surrounding the state government’s proposal to erect statues of both the king and his minister at the entrance of the reservoir. Urs is spearheading the protest against the government’s project to have the statues of Nalwadi and Visvesvaraya at the South Gate of KRS. The activists on Monday met chief engineer (south) of the water resources department, and communicated their opposition to the execution of the government’s initiative. The activists opined that only the statue of the king must adorn the entrance of the reservoir, while an idol of Visvesvaraya could be installed elsewhere on the premises of the dam. The activists have intensified their agitation against the backdrop of Mandya district in-charge minister Narayana Gowda stating that the government would confer with the erstwhile Mysuru royal family on the best way forward. The memorandum that the activists submitted to the chief engineer stated that the government must cease all work on the project, and make its stance clear on the controversy first. GV Seetharam, Nandeesh G Urs, Basavaraj Naik and Arvind Sharma were among the activists who were among those who met and submitted the memorandum to the chief engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/activists-want-only-nalwadis-statue-at-krs-entrance/articleshow/76392494.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||With creative masks, weavers and tailors making ends meet||NAGPUR: A plain mask can be transformed into one that looks creative and is beautifully hand-embroidered due to the talented artisans and tailors who are designing and stitching for Lamiya Basrai. She established her design house 27 years back and with a current work force of 35, her dedicated team members are adding that personal touch to make masks comfortable and attractive. Basrai opted to use organic cotton khadi which is a soft fabric. It is produced by using ethical processes and also supports the weaver community. The fabric is completely chemical free and is naturally dyed. Inspired by nature, their masks are woven, stitched and embellished by skilled artisans. “Sustainability is the need of the hour for businesses like ours. We need to keep it going for ourselves and the people who look up to us to feed their families. Keeping this in mind we started looking for alternatives to fall back on so that we could make ourselves self sufficient work wise. As we all know masks have become the need of the hour and so we thought of mass producing it and also keeping it exclusive at the same time by embellishing it with our signature embroideries,” said Basrai. Their work is being highly appreciated locally as well as worldwide, and now clients are getting their personalized masks (for women, kids and men). One can find the design of a camera, flower, beer bottle or even cartoons on the masks. “We have started getting orders from the United States and UK. It gives us immense pride and happiness to be able to provide an international market to our labour intensive handmade products. We are expanding our product range by manufacturing masks for kids and men as well,” added Basrai. Nikhil Maher, a tailor associated with Basrai for over eight years, feels that producing such creative masks has given a new hope to artisans. “I’m a tailor and the primary step of making a mask involves cutting and stitching. I’m very happy to be associated with this venture. Our masks are exclusive and one of a kind. We are spreading our talent and calibre amid the lockdown” he said. Mohammed Isteyaq Ansari, who transforms the soft fabric of the mask into a creative one with beautiful embroidery, spoke about the tremendous response which is also helping the community economically. “We were scared to sit idle after the lockdown was announced. Apart from the other necessary help, we were more than delighted when Basrai thought of producing such masks. Now we have work which keeps us busy. It is attracting clients from all over the country and also helping us in earning our livelihood,” he said. Mohan Talewar, a tailor, who is working with Basrai for over 26 years, gave an insight into the number of masks they make in a day and its growing popularity on social media sites. “On an average, we produce 30 masks a day. Our team works to give the best look to the mask, right from cutting the piece to making various designs. It has caught the attention of many on the Internet” he said. Basrai has a team of workers and artisans who hail from different parts of the country. They are earning their daily bread by contributing in producing masks. Farid Ahmed and Darshana Sadamake have also been a part of her team for years and are working day in and day out to craft funky and eye-catching designs. Asger Ali, who also does embroidery, said, “We have a variety of beautifully hand woven and machine made designs on the masks. We have also started making masks for kids and men. For kids, cartoons are woven. Some even have the shapes of fruits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-creative-masks-weavers-and-tailors-making-ends-meet/articleshow/76395114.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi, DK record 26 +ve cases, left with 330 active cases||Mangaluru/Udupi: Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts accounted for 12% of the total 213 Covid-19 cases reported across Karnataka on Monday. While Dakshina Kannada recorded 24 cases, Udupi accounted for 2, taking the coastal districts’ 24-hour tally to 26. Nonetheless, Udupi tops the state chart with 1,028 positive cases recorded thus far. Dakshina Kannada district on the other hand has recorded 289 cases, according to the state bulletin. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said out of the two cases, one had returned from Mumbai two-days ago and tested positive after showing symptoms. The other case is that of a primary contact of a lab technician — fourth in the same family to test positive. The district presently has 207 active cases undergoing treatment at the designated Covid hospital and 820 of them have been discharged and are under home quarantine. Noting that some among the 207 positive patients are coming across as repeat positives during mandatory testing, DC said doctors are paying due attention to their treatment. Administration has also taken steps to send people arriving from outside the state to home quarantine and such houses are being sealed with police tapes. He advised people not to visit such homes and warned residents of strict legal action if they venture out. In DK, 23 out of 24 patients have returned from Saudi Arabia on June 7, 10 and 11, and includes two pregnant women, taking total active cases to 123, DC Sindhu B Rupesh said. The other case, P-7001 is designated primary contact of P-5066, she said, adding five patients were discharged during the day. Two persons – one a 72-year-old male and the other 52-year-old male are undergoing treatment at the designated Covid hospital, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-dk-record-26-ve-cases-left-with-330-active-cases/articleshow/76394091.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s rice exports boom amid Covid-19 gloom||NAGPUR: Covid outbreak may have brought down volumes in other businesses but there has been a sharp increase in export of rice from Nagpur. After business remained dull in March and April, the inland container depot (ICD) of Indian railways’ subsdiary Concor has recorded a 50% jump in export traffic, surpassing even pre-Covid times. This is only because of rice exports, said sources. Mainly the thick-grain parboiled rice is exported from this region. Part of poor man’s diet, the rise in exports has also led to an increase of Rs 50 to 75 a quintal in the domestic rates. A senior official in Concor said as against an average export of 2,000 containers in a month before Covid, the ICD here has clocked a volume of over 3,000 containers in May. The going continues to be strong in June. Imports remain down by 50% but the increase in exports has balanced that, said the official. Rice grown in Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh has a market in West Africa and Russia. Sources said the pandemic has hit business in competing countries and even other domestic centres. This has brought exporters to Nagpur which is considered a safer centre to operate from. Shipping agent Shiv Kumar Rao from M/s R&Y Logistics said business was down in Vietnam and Thailand which are the other major rice exporters in the African market. The pandemic has hit operations in Mumbai and Visakhapatnam and other ports too. With this procurement and dispatch of consignments is now happening from Nagpur. Exporters have also increased their procurement from rice mills in central India compared to other parts of the country. Umesh Motwani, the treasurer of Vidarbha Rice Millers Association, said Indian traders have an advantage of over $50 a tonne compared to rates offered in Thailand. As against of $500/tonne in Thailand, traders here are offering a rate of $410 to $425 for delivery at African ports. For Russia, it is $440to $450 a tonne till the port. The rice harvested in April and May has a major demand in Russia, he said. The rates are expected to be higher in Thailand because unlike India the food industry has not been opened up entirely elsewhere. The logistics bottlenecks are expected to have led to the rates increase in other countries, he said. Satish Chawla, an exporter from Raipur, said workers and drivers were not available in other major ports of the country, due to which the containers are being directly stuffed from Nagpur so they can be shipped from the ports. However, compared to the last year, overall export demand remains low. The Concor source added that the imports of consumer durables remain down, maybe because of the reduction in demand due to falling incomes domestically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-covid-gloom-regions-rice-exports-boom/articleshow/76395188.cms||Shishir Arya
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Crack down on sand thieves, ministers tell officials||NAGPUR: Home minister Anil Deshmukh has directed the revenue officials to take strict action against sand thieves and smugglers in the region. He had organized a meeting in this regard through video conferencing on Monday. The minister said officials should not just penalize vehicles transporting illegally excavated sand but also seize them. The officials found colluding with sand smugglers should also be punished, he added. Deshmukh ordered setting up of a checkpost in Nilaj on Umred-Bhiwapur road. Close circuit television (CCTV) cameras should be installed at all checkposts to keep a watch on illegal transport of sand. He told the district collectors to fix the offset price of sand. Guardian minister Nitin Raut said revenue and police departments should jointly crack down on sand smugglers. Telangana model needed to be studied and implemented here. Minor minerals monitoring cells exist in every sub-divisional office. They need to become more active and hold regular meetings. Raut asked revenue officials to install CCTV cameras at Khapa, Wadegaon and Sawangi sand ghats in Nagpur district. Chandrapur guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar complained that sand was being regularly transported illegally on Bhandara-Nilaj road. A checkpost should be set up on this road. He also demanded that the government determine the demand and supply of sand in the area. The quantity of sand to be excavated from ghats should be determined on the basis of this study and sand ghats should be auctioned accordingly. He directed the revenue department to constitute flying squads to crack down on illegal sand transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crack-down-on-sand-thieves-ministers-tell-officials/articleshow/76395133.cms||Ashish Roy
June 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Easing of lockdown norms gives fresh hope for Beary Bhavan||Mangaluru: Among the many projects, the execution of which has been stalled owing to the Covid-19 crisis, is the construction of the Beary Bhavan, a dream project of the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy. However, with the restrictions being eased, the academy has decided to prioritise the completion of its ambitious project, which is estimated to cost Rs 6 crore. The state government has already sanctioned a sum of Rs 3 crore for the project through the Karnataka State Border Area Development Authority. The academy hopes to establish the bhavan as the focal point of all cultural, social and literary activities associated with the Beary language, which is the mother tongue of a large number of people along the Karnataka coast and some parts of Malnad region. “We are very close to sealing the deal on the land we have chosen for the bhavan, and the district administration has assured us of all possible cooperation in this endeavour of us,” Rahim Uchil, president of the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy, told TOI. In a clear indicator of the academy being in the earnest about expediting work on the project, its office was shifted from a rented property to the Samarthya Soudha, adjacent to the Mangaluru taluk panchayat office. “This will help the academy save money otherwise spent on rent, and all the funds thus saved can be used for the fame of our language. We do not want to seek more funds from the government, which is already plagued by financial difficulties,” said Uchil. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had, in this year’s budget, had earmarked funds for construction of permanent offices for Beary and Konkani Sahitya academies. “Ours is a closely knit community, and the aim of the academy is to host a slew of cultural activities at the bhavan, once it is complete,” Uchil added. Bearys Beary is the name of a community of Muslims found mostly in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Much like the Navayathis along the Konkan coast, and Moplahs of Malabar coast, the Beary community has its own set of unique customs and traditions. The Couchman Survey Records of 1891show that the chief indicator of the community is the ‘Beary’ sufficed to the names of men, and ‘Beardy’ to that of women. Beary Muslims follow the Shafi School of Islamic Jurisprudence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/easing-of-lockdown-norms-gives-fresh-hope-for-beary-bhavan/articleshow/76393647.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Submit faculty complaints by June 18: JNTU||Hyderabad: The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU), Hyderabad on Monday directed the managements of affiliated colleges to furnish their faculty complaints compliance’ report by June 18. “The University received few complaints regarding termination of faculty/non-payment of salaries/part-payment of salaries...all the managements/principals of affiliated colleges are hereby informed to furnish the details...” read a circular by JNTU registrar M Manzoor Hussain The direction was issued hours after the registrar attended a virtual meeting with members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA) on Monday. He said that action will be initiated if colleges fail to submit data and added that the said data will be submitted to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who is also the chancellor of the varsity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/submit-faculty-complaints-by-june-18-jntu/articleshow/76394292.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Farmers to get Rythu Bandhu dole in 10 days||HYDERABAD: With farmers getting ready for monsoon cultivation, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed officials to deposit Rythu Bandhu amount within 10 to 12 days. The CM said farmers have responded to the government’s suggestions on the regulated farming and getting ready to sow seeds in 1.25 crore acres. The CM held a high-level review meeting on Rythu Bandhu and regulated cultivation on Monday with agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy and Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy along with other officials. He said every farmer should get the benefit and the amount should be deposited in their accounts in a week or ten days time. KCR instructed officials to prepare a plan for the rabi season crops as they did it for the monsoon (vanakalam) season. “Apart from advising farmers on which crops they should cultivate during the rabi, seeds for the crops suggested should be made available by the officials,” he said. In the previous rabi season, all types of crops were cultivated in 53.5 lakhs. This rabi season, due to availability of water from the projects as well as the good rains, the crop cultivation may increase by another 10 lakh to 12 lakh acres. “Maize, which was discouraged during the monsoon, can be cultivated in rabi. Paddy should be cultivated in 45 lakh acres, Maize in 6 lakh to 7 lakh acres, chickpea in 4 lakh acres, groundnut in 5 lakh acres and vegetables in 1.5 lakh acres. Make availability of seeds accordingly,” the chief minister said. Officials said that based on the government’s instructions, already seeds were sown in 11 lakh acres. The farmers have also purchased seeds based on the suggestion given by the government on the crops to be cultivated. State govt releases another Rs 1,500 crore for Rythu BandhuThe government on Monday released another Rs 1,500 crore under the Rythu Bandhu scheme. Earlier, the government had released Rs 5,300 crore. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said that despite the Covid-19 crisis, the government had released the funds. “Like no other state, Telangana allocated Rs 7000 crore towards its agriculture budget,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-to-get-rythu-bandhu-dole-in-10-days/articleshow/76394262.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Rains continue unabated in Vidarbha, cause waterlogging in several parts of Nagpur||NAGPUR: Monsoon has arrived in the region with full force. Continuing with daily rainfall, the city received 14.2 millimetres rain on Monday. Heavy downpour commenced in the afternoon and continued intermittently for about an hour. Rains affected traffic on several busy roads due to waterlogging. The control room received a call of residents rescuing a man from a well in Adivasi Gond Colony in Sakkardara area, fire personnel said. They also rescued three stranded cows and attended to four tree uprooting calls from different areas of the city. A portion of wall and ceiling of the dilapidated Chitnispura Wada in Mahal area collapsed due to heavy rains. No casualty was reported in the incident, said fire department officials. Chandrapur was wettest in Vidarbha region with a total rainfall of 54.1mm. Wardha recorded 37.6mm rain, Amravati 27.4mm, Yavatmal 27.7mm, Washim 18.3mm, Gadchiroli 14.5mm, Bhandara 14.2mm, Buldhana 6mm and Gondia 2.8mm. The maximum temperature recorded in the city on Monday was 32.3 degree Celsius, which was nearly five degrees below the normal mercury levels. Minimum temperature of Nagpur was 24.2 degree Celsius. Akola was the hottest in the region at 35.1 degree Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature was recorded in Chandrapur at 21.6 degree Celsius. As per the forecast of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, heavy rainfall along with thundershowers is expected to hit the city in the coming week. The maximum temperature is expected to further drop to 30 degree Celsius, while the minimum mercury level is expected to remain between 21 and 24 degree Celsius. Heavy rainfall is predicted all across Vidarbha in the coming days. The southwest monsoon set over Vidarbha four days back — three days before the normal date for onset of monsoon. The overall season rainfall is likely to be 103% over Central India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-continue-unabated-in-vidarbha-cause-waterlogging-in-several-parts-of-nagpur/articleshow/76395126.cms||Manka Behl
June 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha to take Rath decision on relevant date and in interest of public||BHUBANESWAR: With Puri Rath Yatra barely a week away and the pressure mounting on the government from different quarters to clear its stand on how the festival will be observed in the middle of the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government said it is closely watching the situation and will announce its decision at an appropriate time. Keeping in mind the spread of the Covid-19 virus in Odisha, the state government is constantly monitoring the situation and any decision with regard to the holding of the Rath Yatra festival will be taken on the basis of the objective situation of the pandemic as on the relevant date and keeping in mind the interest of the public at large, read the state government’s recent counter affidavit in Orissa high court. The government’s response (related to Rath Yatra amid the Covid-19 pandemic) was highlighted in the judgment passed by the bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Biswajit Mohanty on June 9, a copy of which was available on Saturday. While disposing of separate petitions filed by two persons, the court already left it to the state government to take a call on the Rath Yatra and consider the deployment of heavy machinery or elephants to pull the chariots. Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati on Monday said the Rath Yatra should be observed in accordance with the temple tradition. At the same time, the Hindu seer said the government’s Covid-19 guidelines should not be thrown to the wind. “I will give my advice if the government approaches me. Either they (government) can observe Rath Yatra by conducting all the rituals inside the temple or they can host the festival outside (as is the tradition) without the participation of devotees,” the Shankaracharya said. He, however, refused to comment on how the chariots would be pulled. Notably, the Orissa high court’s order said the state government should adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines, including it’s (state government’s) own decision of the ban on social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions and other large congregations till June 30. “The ban on the participation of devotees in Rath Yatra appears almost imminent. Our only worry is how to pull the chariots (if the government allows). Social distancing cannot be maintained during the Pahandi procession of deities from the temple on to the chariots and the pulling of the giant chariots. People, mostly servitors, are not in favour of using heavy machines or elephants to pull the chariots. We hope that a final decision will come within two days,” a temple official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-take-rath-decision-on-relevant-date-and-in-interest-of-public/articleshow/76393635.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s death toll crosses 100, +ve cases top 3000||NAGPUR: With 6 deaths reported for the second consecutive day, Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death count surpassed the century on Monday. Three of the deaths were registered in the rural parts of Yavatmal, two from Akola and 1 from Nagpur where a critical patient from Madhya Pradesh died. Vidarbha’s death now stands at 104. Also, as reported by TOI on Monday, six is the highest number of deaths registered in Vidarbha. A 135 cases were also reported and that took Vidarbha’s positive cases to 3,080. On Monday, Nagpur has 1,063 cases and Akola 1041. Totally, 70 patients recovered from the virus and were discharged from the region taking the recovery count to 1,976. At 406, Nagpur has the highest number of patients undergoing treatment. While cases are growing across the state, the number of deaths being reported over the last two days is a major cause of concern for Vidarbha. 15 days of June has seen 37 deaths and at this rate it could surpass May’s total of 54 deaths. 64% of the deceased are male patients. Akola still accounts for more than 50% of the total Vidarbha count. Akola now has 53 deaths, the highest in Vidarbha. Nagpur and Amravati have 17 deaths each, Yavatmal has 7, Buldhana 5, Wardha and Washim 2 each and Gadchiroli 1. Chandrapur, Bhandara, and Gondia are the districts where no deaths has been reported till date. When it comes to age-group, the highest 30 deaths in Vidarbha are of the patients from 51-60 years of age group. Total 24 of the deceased were between 61-70 years, while 23 of them aged between 41 and 50 years. Most of the deceased had severe comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension while many of them had acute illnesses. Four of the deceased were between 20 to 30 years of age. But, they were having critical health issues, addictions and other problems. Two SRPF jawans — both 35 — from the Wadali camp are among the 10 who tested positive in Amravati, taking the district’s count to 348. Three patients also walked out free to take the count of discharged patients to 253. The old city of Badnera threw up two more cases — males aged 23 and 75. While the former is from Malipura, the latter is from Chaman Nagar on Pimpri Road. In Amravati district, Badnera (28) is second to Masanganj (40). A 52-year-old female from Jama Masjid in Sabanpura locality, who was being treated at a private hospital, tested positive at a private lab in Nagpur. AMC sources said that she has been shifted to the Covid hospital. A 47-year-old man in institutional quarantine at Walgaon tested positive today to take that tehsil’s tally to 12. Machchisath was another new locality to report a positive case — a 63-year-old man. Kamela Ground went again into containment zone after a 30-year-old male tested positive. This is the sixth case from the locality and it includes one death. On Monday, Sharda Vihar reported two cases — 55-year-old man 50-year-old woman — to take the colony’s count to 3. In Chandrapur, a 25-year-old man residing in Kerla Colony in Krishna Nagar tested positive. He was put into institutional quarantine at the Government Engineering College after returning from New Delhi. His swab sample was collected after he developed symptoms on Sunday. The total of positive patients in Chandrapur has now reached up to 48. A total of 12 cases have been found under Chandrapur Municipal corporation. Apart from this, nine cases have been reported in Ballarpur, Warora, Rajura, Mul, Bhadravati, Brahmapuri, Korpana and Nagbhid taluka headquarters. In rural areas, six cases have been reported in Chandrapur taluka, two in Ballarpur taluka, one in Pombhurna, two in Sindewahi, three in Mul, 10 in Brahmapuri and three in Nagbhid taluka. One infected person belongs to another district. Out total 48 patients, only 23 are under treatment in the district. The three deceased in Yavatmal are a 60-year-old man from Pusad and, 45-year-old man and 66-year-old woman from Darwha. There are 39 people in the GMC isolation ward of whom 32 are under treatment. Meanwhile, an intensive survey is planned at the PHC level to identify Covid-19, SARI and ILI patients. The health workers would conduct the survey with the help of thermal scanner and pulse oxymeter. Gondia saw another blast on Monday when 14 returnees from Gulf countries on ‘Vande Bharat’ flights tested positive. The district count of 86 is the sixth highest in Vidarbha. However, only 17 are undergoing treatment, with 16 being gulf returnees. The rural spread of Covid-19 is taking a serious turn in Buldhana. On Monday, 12 new patients were reported – 11 from Malkapur and 1 from Lonar. These cases include an 8-month old baby boy from Hanuman Chowk in Malkapur and his 27-yr-old mother. Buldhana’s total cases are now 130, including 81 recoveries and 5 deaths. Three patients went home after recovering from the virus in Gadchiroli. This reduced active cases in Gadchiroli to 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vids-death-toll-crosses-100-ve-cases-top-3000/articleshow/76395266.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Man held for killing wife, passing it off as accident||CHAMARAJANAGAR: Chamarajnagar police have unravelled the truth behind the death of a woman, who was found in a well under mysterious circumstances about three months ago. Establishing this as a murder, police have arrested her husband for the crime. Five others involved in the crime are absconding. When Hajira Banu was found dead in a well at Nagavalli village in Chamarajnagar taluk on April 20, her family members had claimed that she had accidentally drowned. But after a probe, police discovered that it is a case of murder. They had acted on the tip-off by the children of Hajira, according to which their father Abdul Habeeb is the culprit. The last rites of the deceased woman were performed at the village, after which her children went to their maternal grandfather’s home. Police said that the children revealed that their mother was in fact murdered by Abdul and his family members who also dumped the body into the well. Following a complaint filed by Hajira’s father and based on the account of eye-witnesses, police cracked this case. They exhumed the body and conducted an autopsy. Chamarajnagar SP H D Anand Kumar on Sunday said that they have arrested Abdul on charges of killing his wife. “During interrogation, police found that the couple was not in good terms, and this could be the reason for the crime,” the SP said, adding that they have launched a manhunt for the other five accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-held-for-killing-wife-passing-it-off-as-accident/articleshow/76393083.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||NWR readies 150 isolation coaches for Covid-19 patients in Delhi||Edited - 265 pics available Jodhpur: The North Western Railway is sending 150 rail coaches in the form of isolation wards for Covid-19 patients in New Delhi. The NWR has altered a total of 266 coaches for isolation of Covid-19 patients at its different divisions in pursuance of the government directions. Amid the exponentially surging Covid cases in New Delhi, the NWR has been directed by the Railway Board to provide these coaches in Delhi on the recommendation of the Delhi government. According to chief PRO (NWR) Abhay Sharma, NWR has converted 266 coaches as isolation coaches keeping in view the spike in corona cases. “Of these, Ajmer division has converted 85 coaches, Jodhpur division 83, Bikaner division 50 and Jaipur division has converted 48 into isolation coaches,” he said. Of these 266 coaches, the first batch of 150 coaches is being despatched for Delhi while the remaining coaches, which are ready, will be sent as per as per requirement in future. Sharma said the major alterations in the regular coaches included removal of berths, redesigning the toilets, installing transparent curtains for separation and installation of fittings required for medical equipment and devices besides provisioning of other important facilities required. Besides this, roof insulation has also been provisioned in these coaches with a view to reduce the temperature in the coaches for the areas with high temperature. This includes applying special heat resistant paint on the roofs or installation of canopies. Meanwhile, the NWR has rolled out 12 special train services for different destinations with a view to provide relief to the common man looking forward to travel by trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-readies-150-isolation-coaches-for-covid-19-patients-in-delhi/articleshow/76395417.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 295-crore pact signed for smart city command centre||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) on Monday signed a contract with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for implementation of the Integrated Command and Control Center (ICCC). K K Yadav, commissioner, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation and CEO, Chandigarh Smart City signed the contract on behalf of CSCL and Prabha Goyal, general manager, Bharat Electronics Limited, Panchkula represented BEL. The contract worth Rs 295 crore includes civil construction of the Integrated Command and Control Center (ICCC) Complex, including buildings for ICCC, SCADA Systems (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) of all utility services and Police Command Centre (PCCC). The command centres shall have on-premise data centre hosting relevant solutions for all field systems and data analytics tools. This will help in informative decision making, better disaster management and smarter governance. ICCC shall monitor smart field elements like CCTV surveillance cameras wherein more than 1,000 cameras shall be installed for real time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings of Chandigarh like water works, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools, among others. They will be installed on 285 locations. The system will have advanced video analytics and shall generate automatic event alerts, helping with real time surveillance of the city. It shall also generate alarms for specific incidents. The Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) will cover traffic enforcement systems including red light violation detection (40 junctions), over speed violation (10 locations), automatic number plate recognition (40 junctions) and 20 entry and exits of the city. Besides making roads safer, Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) shall monitor real time traffic conditions and use artificial intelligence as well as machine learning technology to improve signal timing. This system shall be installed on 40 junctions. Public address system and variable message signs shall be installed to disseminate information to citizens in the audio-visual format. For communication, city wide optical fiber cable backbone of around 250 KMs shall be installed. CSCL officials said citizens of Chandigarh shall be greatly benefited from this project. CCTV surveillance cameras shall reduce incidents like vehicle theft, irresponsible driving, loitering, illegal parking and trespassing etc. They will also improve women’s safety indices. TMS and ATCS solutions shall not only help improve traffic conditions but also make roads safer by enforcing traffic laws on violators. Variable message signs and public address system shall broadcast real time information to commuters on the move. This system shall help in better management of events and incidents in the city and efficient disbursal of governance services, they said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-295-crore-pact-signed-for-smart-city-command-centre/articleshow/76394710.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||May stretch Merces shutdown if Chimbel scenario worsens: Sarpanch||Panaji: The village of Merces may extend its lockdown after gauging the situation at the end of the week, the village panchayat said. “We will see what the situation in Chimbel is by the end of the week. Accordingly, we shall discuss the matter with the villagers and take on call on whether the lockdown must be extended,” sarpanch Rufina Quadros said. TOI had earlier reported about the rising number of cases in the neighbouring village of Chimbel. Soon after, municipality workers and vegetable vendors who live there were tested. She said that the plan initially was to go on an eight-day lockdown, however, considering people’s businesses would have to be kept shut, they decided to reduce it to six days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/may-stretch-merces-shutdown-if-chimbel-scenario-worsens-sarpanch/articleshow/76395416.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Southern Bypass repair work starts||Kolkata: Chairman of KMC board of administrators and state urban development minister Firhad Hakim, on Monday, got the repair work started on the 14-km two-lane Southern Bypass stretch from Kamalgazi flyover end to Baruipur Padmapukur More. Last year the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) had come up with plans to repair and revamp the Southern Bypass stretch that had been lying in tatters. The KMDA officials had floated tenders to take up the Rs 75 crore repair work. The officials said the work was supposed to start much earlier this year but got delayed due to the lockdown. The agency selected for the work will also monitor the stretch for the next one year, KMDA sources said. It will take about six months to revamp both sides of the 14-km flank, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/southern-bypass-repair-work-starts/articleshow/76394736.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman seeks help to bring son’s body from Thailand||HYDERABAD: A woman from the Old City has urged Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to help bring back the mortal remains of her 37-year-old son Mohammed Jahan Khan from Thailand. The Indian embassy in Thailand responded and assured Sadeqa Jahan Begum of all help. “We are in touch with the family and are coordinating the process,” the embassy said on Monday. According to Sadeqa, Jahan’s friend Salman Ali had called them and informed that he had died of a heart attack. “Please ask the Indian embassy in Bangkok to arrange for sending his mortal remains as we have no one to help us and we cannot bear the expenditure,” the family said in a letter to the minister. Jahan, a resident of Khaja Bowli, had gone to Bangkok on February 14 on a visit visa in search of a job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-seeks-help-to-bring-sons-body-from-thailand/articleshow/76394724.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Global report shows city’s e-bus success||Kolkata: The International Energy Association’s (IEA) flagship report – Global Electric Vehicle Outlook (GEVO) 2020 — was released on Monday at Paris. The report is based on the study of deployment of e-buses in Kolkata that shares the spot with the three cities of Shenzhen, China; Helsinki, Finland and Santiago, Chile. The GEVO-2020 has showcased Kolkata — the only Indian city covered by the report — as a role model in e-bus operation. The head of energy efficiency division, IEA, Brian Motherway, said the city is an inspiration for other cities across the world. Transport minister Suvendu Aadhikari said, “With the motivation and inspiration from the chief minister Mamata Banerjee, we have taken up several measures to introduce electric mobility in the state.”  The International Energy Agency published a case study on the impact of increasing e-buses in Kolkata. The WBTC introduced 80 domestically manufactured e-buses to reduce pollution while 150 more will be introduced in the mid-term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/global-report-shows-citys-e-bus-success/articleshow/76394715.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Babri case: Implicated by Congress in vendetta, says Vinay Katiyar||LUCKNOW: While deposing before the special CBI court, conducting Babri demolition trial, BJP leader Vinay Katiyar on Monday denied every allegation of conspiracy to demolish the disputed structure. “I was implicated in the case as there was Congress led government at the Centre and due to political vendetta I was roped in the case for ulterior reasons,” deposed Katiyar before the special court. He appeared before the special court on its direction as the court has been proceeding to record statement of accused since June 4 in order to enable them to elaborate their innocence. The trial court is speeding up proceedings in order to conclude it by August 31 to comply directions of the Supreme Court. Katiyar had appeared on June 4 for getting recorded his statement under Section 313 of CrPC, but due to paucity of time, the court could not record his statement. Katiyaron Monday appeared in the court along with his lawyer KK Mishra and responded to more than 1,000 queries. To most of the questions, Katiyar either said he did not know or he was implicated. After recording statement of Katiyar, special judge SK Yadav directed other persons who are less than 65 years of age to appear before it on Tuesday for their statements. Former deputy PM LK Advani, BJP leaders MM Joshi and Uma Bharati have already been exempted for appearing personally till further order of the court. The special court directed its office to write to jail superintendent, district jail, Sonipat, Haryana to arrange for recording statement of an accused Ram Chandra Khatrithrough video-conferencing from jail on June 20. It asked the office to furnish the copy of letter to district judge, Sonipat for information and necessary action. Khatri is in Sonipat jail in connection with another case and hence he had earlier requested the special court to summon him from jail to Lucknow. But the special court decided to record his statement from jail through video-conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/implicated-by-cong-in-vendetta-katiyar/articleshow/76395419.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 16, 2020||Goa||‘Milind Naik responsible for my arrest’||VASCO: Late Sunday night the Vasco police arrested the vice-president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC), Sankalp Amonkar, and five others for violating Section 188 and not maintaining social distancing during a press conference addressed by him at his office in Baina. He was later released on bail. At the press conference, Amonkar had opposed the decision to notify MPT’s hospital as a care centre for Covid positive patients and suggested that the Kala Bhavan auditorium at Sancoale be instead used for the purpose. Amonkar blamed urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik for getting him arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/milind-naik-responsible-for-my-arrest/articleshow/76395420.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Elders felt fear & neglect during lockdown, says study||KOCHI: Senior citizens are a tad worried after authorities resorted to strict measures to ensure that they are not exposed to Covid-19. While social distancing is the present norm for disease prevention, it has left many of the elderly in a desolate state, said a national online survey conducted by HelpAge India across 17 states and four Union territories. The survey, ‘The Elder story: Ground reality during Covid-19, Impact & Challenges’ was done by making calls to the aged and uploading their information via Google documents by volunteers. In Kerala, 200 persons were included from urban and rural areas in Kollam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Wayanad. “We found that there is a strong fear among the elderly based on the different reports they see in the media. When they read that their age-group is the most-vulnerable, there are many who wonder if their treatment would be neglected as they are not expected to survive. Another concern was availability of medicines during lockdown. To a large extent, we have managed to send medicines through different agencies,” said state coordinator of HelpAge India Biju Mathew. He said many of the elderly feared loss of income as many of them do some small jobs. Others are depending on their children and that too is a concern. The study found that around 91% of the surveyed were aware of Covid-19. Among the elders whose livelihoods were affected, 67% were in the 60-69 age-group, 28% in the 70-79 age-group and 5% in the 80-plus category. It meant, over 30% of those aged over 70 had issues on job front. Almost 62% of the respondents reported chronic diseases such as asthma, hypertension, diabetes or cancer. Of these, 53% were from rural areas. Also, 42% reported that their health had worsened during lockdown and 64% respondents were from rural areas. Respondents also admitted that access to food, groceries & medicines; access to domestic help and banking/ATM services were the top three issues they faced during lockdown. Also, 61% of the respondents felt socially-isolated at home during lockdown. Here, the rural-urban distribution was equal. Unlike previous years, HelpAge did not release break-up of data, findings of respective state because of the huge criticisms they face from state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/elders-felt-fear-neglect-during-lockdown-study/articleshow/76392435.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Thalassemic kids join global campaign||Vadodara: The coronavirus pandemic and the global lockdown badly hit the blood banks across the world. With depleting stock of blood, thalassemia major patients from across the world came together to raise awareness through art about the need for blood donation. Some 112 kids from India who suffer from thalassemia on Sunday participated in the awareness campaign supported by city-based NGO The Wishing Factory (TWF). “The idea of the art competition was floated by the United Kingdom thalassemia Society (UKTS) and we joined hands with them. Children from 45 countries from all over the world participated,” said Parth Thakur, founder of TWF. “Not only have we been bowled over by the overwhelming response and the creativity, but also the high degree of empathy shown in the children’s artwork,” said Gabriel Theophanous, chairman of UKTS. The kids have made artworks showcasing the lives of thalassaemia patients and how they have to regularly visit hospitals to undergo blood transfusion. Several kids have also pasted their paintings on the doors and windows of their houses to make people in their neighbourhood and others aware about blood donation. “As per a report India needs 13 million units of blood every year but every year there is a deficit. Due to lockdown the condition has only worsened,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/thalassemic-kids-join-global-campaign/articleshow/76393685.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 16, 2020||Surat||Two more containment zones in Surat||Surat: After Covid-19 cases reported from diamond polishing units in Katargam zone on Monday, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) shut some of the units and imposed penalty for not maintaining social distancing at some units in Katargam zone. SMC declared two containment zones in Sarthana area on Monday. Around 5,000 houses and over 20,000 people live in these two containment zones. According to SMC officials, an account section of Manu Impex (diamond polishing) was shut and ten workers have been quarantined. Similarly, SMC also shut one portion of the Maruti Impex building in Katargam zone and quarantined 11 diamond polishing workers at the unit. The civic body shut the second floor of a diamond polishing unit of Radha Krishna Gems in Gotlavadi area in Katargam zone and 38 of its workers were quarantined. “We have collected penalty from diamond polishing units which were not following rules,” said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-containment-zones-in-surat/articleshow/76393695.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Pradhan among 4 booked for anomalies in MNREGA work||LUCKNOW: Four persons, including the village head of Itaur in Gonda district, were booked in connection with irregularities in MGNREGA work. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also suspended the village development officer and secretary for their involvement in the act of corruption. A penalty was also imposed on all the accused. An official said the matter pertained to the digging of a pond near the house of one Vijay Shukla in gram panchayat Itaur of Mankapur development block in Gonda. An amount of Rs 2.608 lakh was approved for the work but instead of providing jobs to workers under MGNREGA, the village head and the secretary used an earth mover for the work. A complaint was made in this connection after which a probe was conducted. The claims made in the complaint were found to be true. “The CM is personally monitoring all works under MNREGA. An FIR has been lodged against village head Gomti, gram rozgar sewak Madan Prasad, secretary Amita Yadav and owner of the earth mover used for digging of pond. Village development officer and secretary have also been suspended,” the official said. A notice has been issued to village head and orders for the recovery of amount have been issued against the village head, secretary and gram rozgar sewak. A fine of Rs 1,000 has been imposed on all the accused and the contract of gram rozgar sewak has also been terminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pradhan-among-4-booked-for-anomalies-in-mnrega-work/articleshow/76395426.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||TPF leader in touch with top Maoist: NIA||HYDERABAD: The NIA said vice-president of Telangana Praja Front (TPF) N Krishna was in contact with Telangana Maoist state committee secretary Haribhushan. However, Krishna’s family denied the charges and accused the state and central governments of attempting to suppress the “voice of voiceless”. Accusing Krishna of working in cahoots with Telangana Vidyarthi Vedika (TVV) leader Bandari Maddileti, who was arrested on charges of having a nexus with Maoists, NIA said TPF leader is a member of one of the three “magic wands” of CPI (Maoist) party. “A scrutiny of electronic devices seized from Maddileti’s house revealed that united front is one of the three magic wands of Maoists to topple democratically elected governments and capture power. Krishna is vice-president of one such united front, TPF,” NIA officials alleged. NIA also said that to garner public support, the accused take up various issues affecting the society to recruit young persons. “Krishna was closely associated with activities of TVV and connected to leaders like Haribhushan. He used to go to forest to meet Maoist leaders,” officials said. However, Krishna’s daughter Vennela told TOI that her father has got nothing to do with Maoists. “Our family has been residing in Hyderabad for the last 15 years. My father has never met anyone from Maoist party. He has always been expressing alternative voice against the government on various issues and hence he is being targeted. Krishna has contributed a lot for Telangana formation. But now, the state and the Centre have made false allegations against him,” she said. TPF members, on Monday, said that people who have opinions which are at variance with government’s stand are being targeted and harassed. “We demand that Krishna be released immediately,” TPF president Ravi Chandar said. Krishna was produced before a judge through a video-conferencing from a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpf-leader-in-touch-with-top-maoist/articleshow/76394762.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Worried, students dial Panjab University helpline||CHANDIGARH: “The company that hired me two months ago has withdrawn the offer letter and there is a placement freeze in market. What should I do?” “I was planning to go to abroad for further studies, but Covid-19 has axed my plans due to which I have lost hope of a bright future.” “I am clueless about the examination and it seems my entire year will be wasted due to delay in result. What should I do?” These are some of the queries that have been flooding the helpline set up by the department of psychology, Panjab University, ever since the nationwide lockdown has been lifted. Since May, calls from final-year students of postgraduate, undergraduate and Class XII have increased and till date 200 have approached the PU helpline from across Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. To share the stress and anxiety, the students are calling in groups to discuss their career and education issues. Department chairman Professor Seema Vinayak, who is also heading the helpline team, said most of the callers had shown signs of stress and anxiety regarding their future. She added that many were hopeful that after the lockdown was lifted, things would streamline. “However, with the passage of time they have realised that their future plans to go aboard, appear in competitive examination and placement have been affected due to which they are feeling low. It is matter of concern as few callers especially, who are bright students, are under lot of stress about their career.” From the last one week, even parents have also started making calls on the helpline to take guidance on how to handle their children, who are in stress due to Covid-19 lockdown that had affected their studies. Prof Vinayak said dealing with stress and anxiety at the initial stages was a must as it could later on turn into depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/worried-students-dial-pu-helpline/articleshow/76394742.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Government college pioneers ‘blended learning’||KOCHI: As institutions of higher learning struggle to adapt to the new normal, a government arts and science college which successfully developed a ‘blended learning’ model three years ago using open-source tools has become a guiding force for the teaching community in the state. Sree Neelakanta Government Sanskrit College (SNGS), Pattambi, has so far trained hundreds of college and higher-secondary school teachers in Moodle, using an open-source learning management system (LMS). It also employs a customized version of the LMS to train PSC and UGC aspirants. This has helped it generate annual revenues of up to Rs 8 lakh. SNGS has its origins in ‘Saraswathodyothini’, a Sanskrit school founded by Neelakanta Sarma, popularly known as Punnaseri Nampi, in 1889. It attracted students of all castes and was known as the ‘Nalanda on the banks of Nila’. At the heart of the model, which combines online learning with physical classrooms, is the student-centric approach which is empathetic of their vulnerabilities and limitations of digital access. “A student attending live classes via video conferencing apps would have to exhaust at least 1GB of data. So our focus was on creating resources that require minimal data such as streaming audio and text,” says Santhosh H K, head of department of Malayalam, which plays a lead role in the virtual-learning initiatives. SNGS, which has customized LMS platforms for several government colleges, uses around 50 tools to create accessible resources for students. The most prominent among them are podcasts, which, unlike videos are not data intensive. “The impetus is on providing interactive content like quizzes. Students also use the Moodle app to access content, even while offline,” said Santhosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-college-pioneers-blended-learning/articleshow/76392469.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 crisis may scar mind besides damaging the body: Study||CHANDIGARH: With the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging lives across the world, psychiatrists feel its mental health repercussions outweigh the physical impact. This has been documented in a published study by Prof Sandeep Grover of the department of psychiatry, PGI. With suicides becoming increasingly common and most people experiencing anxiety, fear and uncertainty due to Covid-19, psychiatrists are worried about the fallout of the pandemic on mental health. As Prof Grover said, “We have observed that pre-existing mental illness can worsen with stress and anxiety due to the pandemic. They are also some who could not continue with their medication and counselling during lockdown.” In one of the studies, Prof Grover has emphasised that at the time of the pandemic, people with pre-existing mental illnesses are more likely to develop symptoms. “This is compounded by the fact that due to lockdown many patients are running out of their ongoing medications. These people may be more vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection because of difficulty in remaining confined to one place or inability to follow the measures required to avoid infection.” Voicing concern, Prof Priti Arun, in-charge of the psychiatry ward in Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 said, “No one is immune to psychological issues. As most are not going out or having a routine schedule, there may be severe mental health problems. When one is working, there is engagement and we do not become desperate. With this pandemic, there is fear and stress. The fear is so much that there are people still drinking warm water in summer as they feel that they might get infected with the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-crisis-may-scar-mind-besides-damaging-body/articleshow/76394730.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Parents, schools debate on online class fees & efficacy in Kerala||KOCHI: Many parents in Kerala are sceptical about online classes, the prime medium for imparting education to students amid lockdown. Unhappy parents and school managements are debating the effectiveness of the system and the fee involved. Schools admitted that many parents are saying a hefty tuition fee for online class is not optimal when there is an economic slowdown due to the pandemic. Schools said parents were asking either not to charge tuition fees or reduce fee for online classes saying the online class duration lasts for two or three hours, which they feel is ‘insufficient’. Schools are opposing their claims, saying fee cannot be reduced as teachers have to put in more effort now. Also, they added that the limited screen time (duration of direct interaction with students) were based on the guidelines from ministry of human resources development and CBSE’s alternative online calendar that mentions appropriate screen time for each age-group. “Many parents have a misconception that online classes are the digital version of what happens in a classroom and expect the same duration during online classes. That is not possible as prolonged screen exposure is unhealthy for students and teachers, mentally and physically. MHRD and CBSE suggest activity-based learning where students are given tasks based on an online lecture and another session to clear doubts. These onscreen durations for each age-group differs by one or two hours and it is based on scientific studies,” said Sreekumar Kartha, principal, Global Public School, Thiruvaniyoor in Ernakulam. He added that teachers have to put in much more effort to compile resources. “They have to be in touch with parents and children more frequently to ensure that they engage more productively. We try to explain the same to parents, but many are confused,” he added. President of Kerala CBSE Schools Management Association T P M Ibrahim Khan said most schools are operating under financial strain and tuition fees cannot be reduced. “Many schools have reduced annual fees and withdrawn fee hike this academic year. Tuition fees are used to pay the salaries of staff and teachers who are working more hours now,” he said. Meanwhile, many parents, who support online education, said government should bring a common system to conduct online classes instead of leaving it at the discretion of each school. “My daughter is in Class X and she had four hours of live, online class yesterday. How are schools ensuring that students comprehend lessons fully? Most schools in Thiruvananthapuram are competing with each other in terms of conducting live sessions and the system is disorganized,” said the parent of a student at a leading school in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/parents-schools-debate-on-online-class-fees-efficacy/articleshow/76392452.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government approves seven TP schemes for Gandhinagar||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has approved seven new town planning (TP) schemes for development of urban infrastructure in the state. These include six draft TP schemes and one preliminary TP scheme for Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Earlier, in the first week of Unlock 1.0, eight TP schemes were approved. Five draft TP schemes, Nos. 383, 140/A, 140/B, 141 and 144 are in Kalana, and the draft TP scheme No. 404 is of Sanathal. The preliminary TP Scheme No.36 is for Chharodi. With the approval of six draft TP schemes of Ahmedabad-AUDA, particularly Kalana village extension, 600 hectares of land will be available for development. The authorities, AMC and AUDA, have received 215 plots for public use under the six draft TP schemes. Some 25.65 hectares will be developed as housing for socially and economically weaker sections (SEWSH), 22.0 hectares for parks, open plots, playgrounds etc., 26.20 hectares for social infrastructure, and 68.00 ha is to be made available for sale. The chief minister has approved 25 TP schemes, including 11 draft TP schemes, 11 preliminary TP schemes and three final TP schemes in the past three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-approves-seven-tp-schemes-for-city/articleshow/76395425.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||BJP MLA asks collector to streamline distribution of ration||JAIPUR: Sanganer BJP MLA Ashok Lahoty met collector Joga Ram on Monday and submitted a memorandum requesting him to streamline the mechanism of giving ration to non-NFSA (National Food Security Act) beneficiaries, including migrant workers. He registered a complaint with the collector on the issue of sending text messages saying ration would be distributed to Non-NFSA beneficiaries from June 12. Lahoty even said he would launch an agitation if they didn’t start distributing ration in his constituency from Tuesday. While the state government had sent text messages to migrant workers and others (who are not covered under NFSA) stating that they will get free ration from June 12 to 17, the district supplies officer on Friday in an order said free ration would be distributed to families of migrant workers and people belonging to the special categories from June 15. The text message stated each family would be given 2 kg dal and each family member will be provided 10 kg wheat. It also asked them to collect the ration from the fair price shops and also carry their Aadhaar or Jan Aadhaar cards. “There are about 4.17 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries in Jaipur. They are sending SMSes to them to reach the fair price shops to collect ration, but there isn’t enough stock. This led to confusion among the migrant workers. They reached the ration shops, but came back empty-handed. So, I have submitted a memorandum requesting the collector to streamline the mechanism,” Lahoty said. “If they didn’t have the stock, they shouldn’t have sent the messages or they should have sent messages to only those who came under the shops which were distributing ration. The collector assured us the distribution will be streamlined by tomorrow (Tuesday),” he added. Meanwhile, on Monday, free ration was distributed to the families of migrant workers and others (non-NFSA beneficiaries) at 61 fair price shops in Jaipur. Collector angry over not setting up flood control rooms Jaipur: Collector Joga Ram on Saturday expressed anger over not setting up flood control rooms in some of the zones under the municipal corporation by June 15. He asked officials to set up the control rooms without elay. He also asked PHED officials to share live locations of the tankers with district administration when they are sent for supply of water to various localities. He directed officials of the medical department to take action against fficials involved in negligence in the distribution of medicines to patients in Jamwa Ramgarh block, despite availability of stocks. He said Jamwa Ramgarh medical officials must send information of the number of beneficiaries and location of mobile OPD vans for one week through geo-tagging at least three times a day to the CMHO-1. He instructed the district level officers of various departments to solve the problems related to their departments by conducting maximum field visits. The collector directed the officials to get the proposal done at the earliest by contacting the MLAs regarding Rs 25 lakh allotted for assembly area-wise water supply during emergencies. He also asked the JVVNL officials to dispose more than 1,000 complaints quickly. Joga Ram said due to the spread of Covid-19, in the last three months there has been a gap in meeting the targets of other general health parameters like immunization/vaccination in various blocks. “The block medical health officers will have to work harder to narrow down the gap,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mla-asks-collector-to-streamline-distribution-of-ration/articleshow/76395422.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Think twice before hiding travel history||If you don’t want to declare your complete travel history to the health department or inform the Covid-19 helpline, think twice as you could be inviting legal action.The public health department plans to issue at least two more legal notices on Monday - one to a 51-year-old nurse from Narasimanaickenpalayam and another to a private hospital in the city. The department has already issued notices to a family in Bommanaickenpalayam and an auditor’s family in Velandipalayam. Officials are mulling over converting these notices to FIRs if the situation does not improve.The health department on Monday issued a notice to a private clinic on Avinashi Road, Chinniampalayam, under the public health act of 1939 and the epidemic disease act of 1897, for not declaring the 28-year-old as an influenza-like illness case on Tuesday itself and not testing him for covid-19, or referring him to a test for the illness. Besides this, they have issued a notice to a 51-year-old nurse from Narasimanaickenpalayam for not declaring that her son had a travel history to Chennai.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/think-twice-before-hiding-travel-history/articleshow/76395421.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
June 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for raping minor girl||Man arrested for raping minor girl: The all women police, Thudiyalur, arrested a 20-year-old man on Sunday for raping a minor girl. The arrested person was identified as Nithyanandan, a construction worker from Kembanaickenpalayam. He had eloped with the 17-year-old victim on June 13. After the girl’s parents filed a missing complaint, the Annur police traced Nithyanandan’s whereabouts and arrested him. The girl was rescued and handed over to her parents. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Nithyanandan had raped her. After the case was transferred, the all women police registered a case against Nithyanandan under sections 3 (penetrative sexual assault) and 4 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and arrested him on Sunday evening. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/76395424.cms||---
June 16, 2020||India||Disease burden of ischaemic heart disease more on those below 65 yrs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ischemic heart disease is the leading cause of heart failure in India and the disease burden is more on the younger generation (less than 65 years) when compared to that of other countries, says the first National Heart Failure Registry (NHFR) which was released on Monday. The study says the 90-day mortality rate in heart failure patients is 17%, which is high when compared to that of cancer. The 7-day mortality among the heart failure patients was 6.4%, 30-day mortality was 12.2% and 90-day mortality was 17.1%. The study, conducted as part of the registry, found that less than half of the eligible patients receive guideline-directed therapy and mortality is reduced among those who have received it. “The higher 90-day mortality in heart failure (HF) patients calls for a nationwide audit and quality improvement initiatives,” says the NHFR. The NHFR is a multi-centric, hospital-based registry of HF patients, funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In January 2019, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences was designated as one of the nodal agencies to create a national heart failure registry by the ICMR. “The NHFR recruited consecutive HF patients from 50 centres (200 patients from each center) across 24 states in India from January 2019. Consecutive patients admitted with the diagnosis of acute decompensated HF conforming to the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2016 criteria were enrolled into the registry. We collected demographics, clinical, laboratory, imaging, and other diagnostic data at baseline from all registered patients in the registry by using a structured document,” said NHFR co-ordinator Dr S Harikrishnan, who is also the national principal investigator. As part of this, the team analyzed the data of first consecutive 6,437 patients who have completed the 90-day follow-up in the NHFR. The mean age of the study population was 60.5 years and men comprised more than two-third of the population (68.8%). Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction was the most common form of presentation (65.6%), followed by HF with mid-range ejection fraction and HF with preserved ejection fraction. If the heart muscle is too weak, the condition is known as heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). Ejection fraction is used to assess the pump function of the heart; it represents the percentage of blood pumped from the left ventricle per beat. Ischemic heart disease was the predominant etiology for HF (73%), followed by dilated cardiomyopathy in 17.2% of the population. Rheumatic valvular heart disease was prevalent in 5.9% of the study population, said Dr Harikrishnan. Hypertension and diabetes were the most frequent co-morbid conditions for heart failure (48.5% and 44.4%, respectively). Tobacco use is 33.2%, atrial arhythmia was prevalent in 10.5%, while chronic kidney disease frequency was 9% in the study population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disease-burden-of-ischaemic-heart-disease-more-on-those-below-65-yrs/articleshow/76396092.cms||Rajiv G
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC starts intra-state super luxury bus services||JAIPUR: Anticipating to the response and demand, Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) on Monday started its super luxury buses on some of the selected routes within the state. RSRTC CMD Naveen Jain said in view of people’s demand, the super luxury bus services of deluxe depot of Rajasthan Roadways were started in many cities. “As far as RSRTC is concerned, people are showing confidence in our buses. Proper sanitisation, abiding social distancing norms and checking of passengers have increased confidence of travelers. I think people will take more time to believe in private operators. This is the best time for us to give the best of services to the public,” said Jain. On Monday, services between Pilani and Jaipur, Jaipur-Udaipur, Udaipur-Jaipur, Jaipur-Anupgarh, Jaipur-Kota, Kota-Jaipur, Jaipur-Ganganagar, Ganganagar-Jaipur, Jaipur-Pilani, Jaipur-Jodhpur, Jodhpur-Udaipur, Udaipur-Jodhpur, Jodhpur – Jaipur and Jaipur to Bikaner were operated. “We have also made online booking available for the passengers on our website at www.rsrtconline.rajasthan.gov.in. A passenger availing online ticket can get assured 5 per cent cashback on the booking. For those who are unable to get online ticket, it is available at the counter or by the bus conductor onboard,” said an officer. Passengers were happy to see the operations of the super luxury air-conditioned buses. “I have been using this service for a long time. Thankfully it started. The buses are cleaner and I am also taking every precaution,” said Madhu Mishra who was travelling to Pilani from Jaipur. In the interstate category, RSRTC has already been operating its super luxury bus to Gurugram from Jaipur. “We are also hopeful to start our buses for Delhi soon,” said an officer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-starts-intra-state-super-luxury-bus-services/articleshow/76395432.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP seeks funds for biodiversity parks along Ganga river||LUCKNOW: The state has sought funds from CAFMPA (Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority) and under MGNREGA to create biodiversity parks in 27 districts along the Ganga. Sources said that the work would start as soon as the funds come. “Parks can’t be created in a day or two and it needs funds,” said sources. Proposals seeking funds have been sent to the Centre. The state government last year had planned to create biodiversity parks along the river in 27 districts. The parks were planned on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as the purpose behind the biodiversity parks was also to clean the river. The river would be cleaned through a technique called phytoremediation where water is made to flow through boulders and after being filtered is held up in retention ponds. The ponds would have plant species that help increase level of dissolved oxygen in water. The retention ponds would be fenced to keep visitors away. But, the visitors would be educated on the technique and the diverse flora and fauna at the park. To attract tourists, biodiversity parks would have nature trails and butterfly parks. Sites for the parks have been identified. In most of the districts, the forest department has its own land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-seeks-funds-for-biodiversity-parks-along-ganga-river/articleshow/76395437.cms||Neha Shukla
June 16, 2020||Surat||Surat: Court allows minor rape survivor to abort||SURAT: A local court here on on Monday allowed a 15-year-old girl to terminated her 20-week pregnancy that was result of rape by by a 25-year-old man. The police had approached the court seeking permission for abortion on June 9 only after the the girl’s mother filed a rape complaint with Puna police. Police had also told the court that the accused in the case Kuldeep Yadav, a labourer, had left the city during lockdown. On Monday the court granted permission to abort the foetus. “As per the court’s order the abortion will be carried out by the doctor at civil hospital. DNA samples of the foetus will also be collected to match it with that of the accused,” said a police officer at Puna police station. According to police complaint, the accused Yadav has been booked for rape and sexual assault to minor under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police said that the girl did not tell her parents about the sexual assault till she suffered from abdominal pain. During medical examination it was revealed that she was pregnant and the doctors informed the police. In July 2019, the 15-year-old was raped by some unidentified man and a complaint was registered in this regard at Puna police station. Accused in that offence it yet to be identified. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/court-allows-minor-rape-survivor-to-abort/articleshow/76393714.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Hand over flats or return money to Mumbai buyers’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission has ordered a real estate developer in the city to either hand over possession of flats or return the amount charged from four Mumbai-based persons after the construction did not come up eight years after the flats were booked. Gopal Procon Pvt Ltd and Sejal Shah, who is named as its director, have been ordered to return Rs 21.16 lakh to three persons – Rajesh Shah, Mahendra Shah and Hasmukh Shah – with 10% interest since 2012. The developing firm has also been ordered to return Rs 35.86 lakh with interest to Ashok Shah. The buyers are from Matunga in Mumbai. Besides the order for returning the money with interest, the developer has been ordered to pay compensation of Rs 15,000 to each of the customers towards mental harassment and costs incurred on the case. They had booked four flats in a scheme titled V3 World promoted by the company near Vaisnodevi Circle on SG Road. The customers booked flats of two different sizes and paid the booking amount in March 2012. In August, 2012, three customers paid Rs 20.16 lakh and Ashok Shah paid Rs 34.86 lakh and the rest of the payment was to be made at various stages of construction. They were promised possession of these flats in March 2013. When the customers came down to Ahmedabad and visited the site, they were shocked because there was no construction at all. Upon inquiry, they were told that the company was awaiting environment clearance from the government. After the deadline passed and convinced that the construction would not be put up, the customers started demanding their money back. In 2017, all four customers moved the consumer court, which issued notice to the company and Shah, but the notice was not received. After hearing the matter, the consumer court ordered that the developer should give possession of the flats once the customers make full payment or they should be given their money back with interest. In 2014, customers from Ahmedabad, who had invested in this scheme, had lodged an FIR for cheating against the company and its directors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hand-over-flats-or-return-money-to-mumbai-buyers/articleshow/76395429.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||New state help desk to reach out to people||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to reach out to people through a unique initiative, christened “Bangla Sahayata Kendras (BSKs)” — a computerized help desk to make available different state-provided online services at the grassroots level. “The state has decided to set up 2,744 BSKs across the state. We have a readymade infrastructure and will make use of that effectively. The BSKs will be established in 324 block development offices, 66 sub-divisional offices and in all the 23 District Magistrates’ offices. Apart from that, we have 813 libraries and more than 1,500 primary health centres,” a senior official at the secretariat said. “The panchayat and rural development department will be the nodal department for implementation of the project,” the senior official added. Following instruction from the CM’s office, on June 9, panchayat and rural development secretary M V Rao wrote to all the District Magistrates for the establishment for the BSKs within July 15 so that they can start functioning from July end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-state-help-desk-to-reach-out-to-people/articleshow/76394765.cms||Saibal Gupta
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tortured, woman tries to kill self in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Harassed for not bearing children, Bhagyashree Rajput, 27, of Rakhial attempted suicide by consuming pesticide on June 14. The woman is at present under treatment at Shardaben Hospital. She has lodged a complaint against her husband, Saurabh Rajput, her father-in-law Hiralal Rajput, and her mother-in-law Usha Rajput, among other in-laws. Based on the complaint, Rakhial police have registered an offence against the accused. The woman has mentioned in the FIR that she married Saurabh Rajput in January 2014. She has said he and her in-laws treated her well in the first two years of marriage. However, as they realized that she could not bear children, they started torturing her and alleged that she was having an extramarital affair. On the day she attempted to kill herself, she had been beaten up. “After she consumed pesticide, her husband made her vomit,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tortured-woman-tries-to-kill-self/articleshow/76395433.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Coimbatore||28-year-old man dies of suspected Covid at CMCH||Coimbatore: A 28-year-old man who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on June 12 with breathing difficulties died on Sunday, making him the first patient to die of suspected Covid-19 in the district. The patient’s Covid-19 test taken on Saturday was found to be “borderline positive” or “inconclusive”. He was tested again on Sunday just before his death, results of which are still awaited.Officials of public health department who spoke to his family said that the man was working as an agent in a lorry office, assigning drivers for trucks carrying fuel for Indian Oil. “The family said he developed fever and flu symptoms on Tuesday and approached a private clinic on Avinashi Road in Chinniampalayam. They had given him a cough syrup and tablets and sent him home,” said deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar. On Thursday, when he again went to them, they gave him a medicine and injection and sent him back. On Friday, when he went back to them with breathing difficulties, they referred him to CMCH..CMCH authorities took the patient’s Covid-19 sample on Saturday. “His results came borderline positive on Sunday, after which they shifted him to ESI Hospital, but he died enroute,” said a health department official. “Since his results were borderline positive, we took another sample on Sunday,” he added. The patient’s body, not handed over to his family, was specially packed by department officials and cremated at Aathupalam crematorium.The health department has begun tracing his contacts, including testing his family members in Chinniampalayam, people who attended to him in the private hospital and people in his lorry office. The department has issued a notice to the private clinic for not conducting a Covid-19 test on a patient with influenza like symptoms and notifying the health department about him. Meanwhile, three people who landed in the city from Chennai on Sunday night tested positive, including a 36-year-old air force officer, a 16-year-old girl from Erode and a 60-year-old woman from Namakkal. “The officer skipped quarantine and went home. But we have notified the air force and asked him to get admitted immediately,” said a health department officer. Three more people, including a 23-year-old woman from Ganapathy, a 30-year-old from Karamadai and 69-year-old man from Vellakinar who had gone to CMCH for various issues like delivery and gastrointestinal issues, were declared positive by the state government on Monday. This takes the total number of covid cases to 180.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/28-year-old-man-dies-of-suspected-covid-at-cmch/articleshow/76395431.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Do not ignore flu symptoms: Doctors||COIMBATORE: The death of a 28-year-old man on Sunday has led to the public health department and doctors sounding a note of caution for people with flu-like symptoms, in order to convince them to get a check-up done immediately. Doctors said they are noticing many asymptomatic Covid-19 patients undergoing rapid changes in their lungs, and a drop in oxygen levels. “We advise people with even slight flu-like symptoms to contact Coimbatore Medical College Hospital or primary health centres and get tested if the doctor recommends,” said deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar. Many patients go into a state of “happy hypoxia”, where they do not realize that their oxygen saturation levels drop below 94%. They say it is these patients who end up sinking suddenly, like what is being seen in Chennai. “Because many of them do not realise that their oxygen levels are dropping or that their lungs are seeing changes. In the current lot of patients, at least 50% of them are seeing symptoms and lung changes,” said ESI Hospital dean, Dr Nirmala. Speaking about how treatment protocols for patients have changed, in the main Covid-19 hospital in the district, hospital doctors said the initial lot of symptomatic patients, who mainly comprised of the New Delhi conference attendees, included hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, Oseltamivir, vitamin C and multi-vitamins. “However, with more patients now seeing lung changes, we are administering some patients with steroids, giving them high-flow oxygen, proning them and giving them antibiotics additionally,” said the dean. “We are also now trying out a new antiparasitic drug called Ivermectin on some patients,” she added. “We also have decided not to put patients on ventilator as much as possible,” she added. Doctors at ESI Hospital said one of the main contributors to this achievement is patients being detected early and brought it early. “We do chest CT immediately on arrival and if we see lung changes, start treating it accordingly before it worsens and becomes a full blow pneumonia,” said the covid-19 nodal officer for the hospital, Dr K Ganesamurthy. The growing number of cases with lung changes, has led to many households, especially ones with senior citizens and people with co-morbidites, now buying pulsometers. “ It is quite scary to know that our oxygen saturation levels may be dropping, even before we have strong Covid-19 symptoms, and we honestly don’t know who has covid-19 and who doesn’t,” said R Thambiyannan, a resident of R S Puram, who reopened his hardware business more than a month back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/do-not-ignore-flu-symptoms-docs/articleshow/76395428.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Firemen spray pesticides, blare siren to drive away locusts in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Forest officials and district administration on Monday swung into action to save the ecological park, Laharpur (Baghmughalia), from locust attack. They sprayed pesticides on trees through fire tenders, besides blaring hooter to drive the locusts away. Locust swarms were spotted over Bhopal’s sky on Sunday and a day later, they were spotted again in the ecological park. As the park is located near a residential colony, several residents approached the district administration seeking help. Officials said the locust swarms entered Bhopal via Vidisha and Berasia. The agriculture department had tried to stop the locusts, but a large number entered Bhopal city limits by Sunday evening. On Sunday night, they camped at Laharpur ecological park in Katara Hills. From around 6am, the teams of all departments started efforts to drive them away. A chemical was sprinkled and loud noises made to disperse them. This exercise went on for about four hours till the place was free. After receiving the information from forest department, the fire brigade reached the park to handle the situation. “It took around 3-4 hours for the fire brigade to drive away the locusts from the park,” said fire officer, Sajid Khan. He added that the hooter and siren helped them a lot. “All fire tender blared the siren and hooter simultaneously to shoo away the insects besides spraying pesticides on trees,” added Sajid. Officials said that in the 1990s, such a locust swarm invaded Bhopal and caused extensive damage to crops ad vegetation in many places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/firemen-spray-pesticides-blare-siren-to-drive-away-locusts/articleshow/76393709.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Wedding guest brings Covid-19; bride, groom & 85 others quarantined in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A bride, groom, baraat and relatives – some 85 people in all – were quarantined in a town in MP’s Chhatarpur soon after the marriage was solemnized on Sunday as one of the guests, who had come from Gurugram, tested positive for Covid-19. The CEO of Chhattarpur panchayat got the marriage performed in his presence to ensure that all of them were quarantined. The Covid-positive guest is a close relative of the bride and was tested upon his return three days ago. The report was released on wedding day, sparking a frantic search by the administration to track him down, said officials. Their search ended at a marriage pandal near Ghuvara town of the district, some 250km from Bhopal. The Covid patient was found cooking sweets for the reception of Laxmi Ahirwar and Avdhesh Ahirwar. The groom is a farmer, and both families belong to two villages near Ghuvara town. The patient is the brother of a sarpanch. There was quite a sensation at the wedding when district officials, led by an additional collector, turned up and broke the news of a ‘Corona positive’ person among the guests. Avdhesh, the groom, later said, “I thought the marriage would be stopped and got worried as there is no good mahurat in the coming days.” But the administration let the wedding continue and officials waited patiently as the rituals continued deep into the night. Once everything was over, it was off to the quarantine centre. Additional collector Himanshu Chandra said, “We did not stop the marriage because of the mahurat, but decided to quarantine the bride, groom and three of their relatives at an institution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/wedding-guest-brings-covid-bride-groom-86-others-quarantined/articleshow/76392476.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||AirAsia endangering flyers, alleges pilot||MUMBAI: An AirAsia India commander on Monday alleged that he was suspended by the airline for raising his voice against practices that endanger the safety of the aircraft and passengers. The allegation came in a video posted on social media. Captain Taneja, a former IIT-Kharagpur graduate, who joined AirAsia India in May 2019, said pilots who took sick leave had to forgo the weekly leave that followed. “Pilots who have prior plans, like attending a wedding on the weekly day off, need to report for duty even when they are ill and unfit to fly,’’ he said. Another issue was ‘flap 3’ landings, which saves about 8kg of fuel every time the aircraft lands. AirAsiaIndia pilots have to achieve a target of 98% ‘flap 3’ landings, he alleged. But on short runways, like Imphal, or during poor weather conditions, a ‘flap 3’ landing is unsafe and a full one should be done, said the pilot, who was suspended pending charges of indiscipline. The tweet had 20,000 likes by evening. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said it had started an investigation and would take action based on its outcome. AirAsia India stated it stand firmly on its value of ‘Safety Always’. “The safety of our guests is of paramount importance in every aspect of our operations. AirAsia India is cognizant of the matter in regard to a social media post put up by one of its employees. We are cooperating with the DGCA. As a policy, AirAsia India does not comment on matters pertaining to its business or employees,” the airline said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/suspended-pilot-blames-airasia-for-endangering-fliers/articleshow/76394780.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Covid spirals in Bhopal’s slums; 52 cases take tally to 2,387||BHOPAL: After the Banganga slums in TT Nagar, slums in Bhim Nagar and Piplani are reporting Covid-19 cases. The three areas combined have reported more cases than the main Jehangirabad area. The increase in cases in the densely populated area contributed to 52 new Covid-19 cases reported on Bhopal on Monday. Overall, since the pandemic began, the state capital has reported 2,387 cases. Low-cost housing colonies along Patel Nagar, Barkhedi, have also reported new infections. There are around 700 slums in the state capital. With the rainy season picking up pace, these areas are expected to witness an increase in waterborne and other ailments. Combined with Covid-19, these locations pose a clear and present threat for the administration. Predictive measures like shifting of people to quarantine centres outside the outbreak areas has taken place. Bhima Nagar, located near Panchsheel Nagar, reported six new cases in Monday. A day earlier, 10 patients tested positive for the infection in the same locality. The slum area in Piplani reported five positive cases on Monday. Govindpura sector has also reported over 30 cases in the past week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-spirals-in-citys-slums-52-cases-take-tally-to-2387/articleshow/76392500.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown breathes life into Mohali bus stand||MOHALI: Even as life came to a standstill during the Covid-19 lockdown, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT-Mohali) came alive after over three years. Chandigarh and Mohali-based buses of the Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) resumed operations on Monday after March 2017, when the bus stand was closed for operations after change of government in the state. Punjab and Pepsu roadways started operating buses from ISBT Mohali after UT administration closed operations of ISBT-43 over fears of Covid-19 community spread. On December 17, 2016 the new terminal at ISBT Mohali was inaugurated by then Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. Only one terminal of the bus stand was made operational at the time. Thereafter, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) lost elections and the ruling Congress abandoned ISBT, which it described as a “white elephant.” The company constructing and operating the ISBT also went bankrupt and fled. “Buses will run only within the boundaries of Punjab and Chandigarh, with halts only at bus stands and not at bus stops falling on the way,” said Bhupinder Singh, director, Transport, Punjab. “If the bus is running from Mohali to Amritsar, it will halt only at Jalandhar bus stand, not at the bus stops in Balachaur and Phagwara,” he explained. Passengers will have to maintain social distancing while buying tickets from counters. It is mandatory for them to wear face masks at all times during the journey. Not more than 25 passengers will be allowed in a bus with the capacity of 52 seats. Two passengers will be accommodated on three seats, with the middle seat will be kept vacant. One passenger will occupy the adjacent row with two seats. Bhupinder Singh said seats which are not to be occupied will be marked with cross marks, adding that there was no notification regarding operation of private buses. Being the primary authority to control the working of the bus stand, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had already sought clarification from the Insolvency Resolution Professional (IRP). This was after the company went into liquidation and called for expressions of interest under regulation of insolvency and bankruptcy. But it did not find any takers so far. IRP is appointed as an insolvency resolution professional to manage the resolution process and as a liquidator to conduct liquidation of a corporate debtor. Thereafter, national company law tribunal (NCLT) went in for liquidation of the company under regulation of insolvency and bankruptcy. However, sources in Gmada said the authority is also looking into the aspect of taking over operations of the bus stand in its own hands, for which modalities are being worked out. In 2009, GMADA signed an agreement with C&C Towers Company with the assurance that the project would be completed within 30 months. But more than eight years have passed and commercial towers have not been completed, though bus terminal has become operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-breathes-life-into-isbt-mohali/articleshow/76394767.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 16, 2020||Rajkot||Cong opens overbridge on Aji dam for public||Rajkot: The Chunaravad Dudhsagar overbridge on Aji dam in the eastern part of Rajkot was declared open for general public by Congress workers on Monday. The opposition in the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) alleged that ruling BJP was not interested in development works in eastern part of the city because the people there had voted for the Congress party.Leader of opposition in RMC Vashram Sagathia said, “The work on the bridge was supposed to be completed in 2018 but ruling party and administrative wing of RMC were not interested in completing work. It was because of Congress’ representations at various levels, that the work is finally over.”Sagathia added that the work of the bridge was completed but the BJP was planning to inaugurate it or set it open for general public. “So we have decided to inaugurate the overbridge and open it for the use by general public,” he added. It was the Congress party that had demanded the overbridge in 2013 and thereafter held protests on various occasions. Ultimately, the bridge was sanctioned in 2016 and its foundation stone was laid by the corporators of both the BJP and Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-opens-overbridge-on-aji-dam-for-public/articleshow/76393736.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||In lockdown, 33 gave up on life in Mohali, 21 in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH/PANCHKULA/MOHALI: A total of 21 cases of suicide took place in Chandigarh during lockdown. Maximum of 33 suicide cases in the Tricity were reported in Mohali. Four cases were reported in Panchkula. According to the suicide data of Chandigarh, most of the 21 persons who committed suicide hanged themselves. Despite talk of depression triggering suicide during lockdown, police did not confirm this. Absence of suicide note and family inputs has made it difficult for them to ascertain the reasons for suicide, police said. On March 19, a 32-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Ramdarbar late at night. The deceased was supposedly anxious due to closure of his workplace but no suicide note was found. On May 16, a BA second year student student allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her residence in Dhanas. Again, the reason is not clear. In Panchkula, four cases of suicide were reported during lockdown. One person attempted suicide by jumping off a mobile tower in Chunabhatti village. Panchkula police said of the four suicide cases reported, two were from Rajiv Colony, one from Fatehpur village, Sector-20 and one from Tanda village, Chandimandir. According to data provided by Mohali police officials, 33 cases of suicide were reported from March 15 to June 15. Of these, police initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc (Police to enquire and report on suicide) while cases were registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. Superintendent of police, investigation, Harmandeep Singh Hans said, “We make sure to complete all the formalities on our side.” Recently, a 15-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself on Sunday. She left behind a suicide note saying, “Sorry Mummy Papa.” Police said cases under Section 306 of the IPC are mostly registered on recovery of the suicide note, which clarifies whether the victims were forced to commit suicide or whether they took the extreme step on their own. Police said a postmortem report clarifies facts to a greater extent and a suicide note is given more weightage than statements of family members. In most cases of suicide in Mohali during the lockdown, prime reasons were depression as well as stress. On June 2, a 35-year-old man committed suicide in Derabassi because of losses suffered during the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-lockdown-33-gave-up-on-life-in-mohali-21-in-ut/articleshow/76394757.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure early disposal of issues related to industries: IIDC||LUCKNOW: Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon on Monday directed all departments associated with industries to take responsibility for their action and resolve issues as per guidelines within a fixed timeframe. He said industrial development was the priority of the government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath had given strict instructions to settle all issues at the earliest. Addressing a meeting of Udyog Bandhu on Monday, Tandon and other senior officials reviewed 17 cases, including a complaint by Rice Millers Exporters Association of Ghaziabad. The association said it was not getting exemption from mandi fee in import of paddy and export of rice out of the state. The association was informed that as per a notification issued by the state government, mandi fee will not be payable in trade areas outside mandi yards and the scope of the mandi committees has been limited to mandi complexes. On another issue related to payment of stamp duty on amalgamation of land, it was clarified that stamp duty will be payable on the consideration of additional processing fee deposited in cases of amalgamation of plots. If amalgamation has been done without payment of processing fee, a stamp duty of Rs 100 has to be paid in the supplementary deed. Hathras industries raised concern regarding high monthly electricity bills as billing was done on KWH and KWA parameters. The IIDC directed the UP Power Corporation Ltd to find technical solution to the issue and make appropriate provision in billing software within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iidc-ensure-early-disposal-of-issues-related-to-industries/articleshow/76395451.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion may be deferred till governor returns||BHOPAL: The expansion of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet expected after the Raja Sabha elections in Madhya Pradesh is likely to be delayed further due to the illness of governor Lalji Tandon. Governor continues to be in a Lucknow hospital since June 11. Sources in the BJP disclosed that the party high command may give a go ahead for the cabinet expansion this week, but it will take two more weeks till Tandon returns after recovery. “The Governor was hospitalised in Lucknow on June 11 with breathing problems, fever and urinary infection. He has been kept in ICU under observation where his condition is improving. Till he is discharged and returns swearing in is not possible,” said a senior BJP state functionary. Sources further disclosed that BJP is also trying to contain the dissent within the party ahead of Rajya Sabha elections as several leaders who had lost assembly elections in 2018 are now seeking a ticket for bypolls . Several leaders have also sought time from the party state president VD Sharma, organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe to stake their claim for a berth. "The cabinet expansion will be taken up when necessary. There is no confusion or delay and the BJP is ready with team spirit and unity," said BJP state president, VD Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-cabinet-expansion-may-be-deferred-till-governor-returns/articleshow/76393732.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru schools force parents to buy textbooks for virtual learning||MYSURU: Even as uncertainty persists about reopening of schools in the state in the wake of Covid crisis, several schools in the city have asked parents to buy textbooks and notebooks for Class 8 students for virtual learning. The city has nearly 88 schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and some of the private unaided schools reportedly sent messages to parents on WhatsApp asking them to buy textbooks and other stationeries from them. Bhagyalakshmi, one of the parents whose child had been studying in a CBSE school told TOI that she had received a message from school authorities on Sunday. “I am confused after receiving this message as it’s about my kid’s future — whether to buy the textbooks for my child or not. More so as the the uncertainty over reopening schools is not yet cleared by the government,” she said. However, the school authorities claimed they were not forcing parents to buy textbooks. “The decision is left to the parents. A majority of them approached us for books. As per the directive from the government, we have not been collecting fees either,” said school authorities. Deputy director of public instruction Dr Panduranga told TOI that the department has so far not received any official complaint from parents regarding the issue. “We will monitor such activities and schools that are flouting norms will face strict action. Parents may not be coming out in public or lodging compliant to the department as they their children will be harassed by the school authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-schools-force-parents-to-buy-textbooks-for-virtual-learning/articleshow/76393306.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||NGO takes up Covid awareness programme||Nagpur: Care India, an NGO running projects on water conservation and women’s development in Wardha and Yavatmal districts of the Vidarbha region carried out an awareness drive among the rural populace on Covid-19 management. Women used methods like rangoli and poster making to spread awareness in the villages. The NGO has been taking up women-centric activities for quite some time. These include sensitizing the women towards the overall conditions and training them to take decisions in day-to-day affairs. Now, a message of coronavirus prevention is being spread through the women trained by the NGO too, said Nitin Khadse, a Care India worker. They were taught about Covid distancing, use of masks and maintaining cleanliness to prevent the spread of disease, he said. The programme was conducted by field coordinator of Care India, Dyaneshwar Borkar. The slogan ‘Stay home and stay safe’ was given to the trainees. Apart from creating awareness, certain misconceptions related to Covid-19 spread were also dispelled, said a note by Care India. Others who were part of the initiative included Mahendra Kopade and Priti Chikaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-takes-up-covid-awareness-programme/articleshow/76425342.cms||Shishir Arya
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||At 75% recovery rate, Rajasthan tops nation in curing Covid-19 patients||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has achieved an important milestone in the battle against Covid-19, coming on top for recovery rate of patients in the country. The state has a recovery rate of above 75%, meaning that 75 patients from 100 confirmed cases have recovered from the virus. While Rajasthan has topped the list of states having the highest recovery rate, it is followed by Punjab with a 74.7% recovery rate. Odisha has a recovery rate of just above 70% and MP over 72%. But even as the state did well in treating patients, its Covid toll breached the 300 mark on Monday. After nine more deaths, the fatalities now stand at 301. Till Monday night, the state has reported 12,981 cases. Out of those, 9,785 persons have been cured, which is 75.3% of the confirmed cases reported in the state. “Despite cases being constantly reported, the state is leading in the country in the Covid recovery rate. It is in the first place. Also, the duration of doubling of cases has also increased, which is 28 days now,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. The health department is attributing the high recovery rate to ‘aggressive’ Covid testing. “Aggressive testing, leading to early detection of cases, combined with quality healthcare have helped Rajasthan achieve this. Mission Life Saving has enabled us to identify high risk and vulnerable cases earlier than usual, contributing to the higher recovery and comparatively less mortality,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Bharatpur third district in state to report 1,000 casesThe state has achieved the target of conducting 25,000 Covid tests daily in three months. Over six lakh tests have been conducted since March in the state. However, new cases are on the rise. Bharatpur became the third district in the state reporting 1,000 cases on Monday after Jaipur and Jodhpur. Among the nine persons who died on Monday, one belonged to Bharatpur. Four died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 137. One died in Udaipur, while three others belonged to other states. The districts which reported new cases are Pali (46), Jaipur (41), Dholpur (33), Alwar (38), Jodhpur (20), Sikar (19), Jhunjhunu (18), Sirohi(10), Barmer (10), Jalore (9), Hanumangarh (7), Sriganganagar (6), Ajmer (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Churu (3), Kota (3), Nagaur (2), Bharatpur (2) , Bhilwara(2), Bikaner(2), Karauli (2), Bundi (1), Tonk (1), Udaipur (1) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-75-recovery-rate-state-tops-nation-in-curing-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76395447.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Lower courts need to hear petitions of runaway couples: HC||Chandigarh: Flooded with petitions filed by runaway couples from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, seeking protection of their life and liberty, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that such petitions need to be heard by the district courts. Allowing protection to one such runaway couple from Jalandhar, Justice Rajiv Narain Raina said, “I believe it to be the most demeaning childlike work high court judges have been forcibly tasked with by a creation of the ingenious Bar and a solution needs to be devised to cast the burden on some other alternative mechanism of redress including by amending the law and conferring such power on the subordinate judiciary etc.” He further added, “This is just a suggestion to unburden the court from this litigation.” Observing that the protection-seeking couple’s photographs being attached with the petition as a marriage proof was not required, the court directed the high court registry to do away with this practice which was unnecessarily burdening the court. “Time has come to trim them (petitions) to the basic demands of pleadings,” Justice Raina observed while passing the judgment on June 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lower-courts-need-to-hear-petitions-of-runaway-couples-hc/articleshow/76394774.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Devotees line up to pray at places of worship in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Religious places of the city reopened on Monday, after almost three months with many precautions to ensure the safety of devotees from coronavirus. Temples, mosques, gurudwaras, along with other places of worship, installed wash basins and kept liquid soaps and hand sanitizers at the gates for people to wash their hands and feet before entering the premises and strictly adhere to social distancing guidelines. Around 200 devotees of Lord Shiva visited the Badwale Mahadev temple to seek the blessings of the deity. “The temple gates were opened at 7 am and devotees were asked to take their shoes off and wash their hands and feet before entering the temple. As many people wanted to have darshan, we had to deploy volunteers for crowd management, asking the people to maintain social distancing. It was a little difficult to manage things on the first day as people wanted to enter the garbh-graha, but we did not allow entry there as it is quite small. We even shut the well and did not allow devotees to make offerings at the temple,” said Prakash Malviya, member of Badwale Mahadev temple committee. Rajgopal Tiwari of Pandhmukhi Hanuman Mandir in Chunabhatti said, “Many devotees came to offer prayers at the temple after reopening. We had made it clear that no one will be allowed to enter the temple without masks and maintained proper social distancing. The temple had been sanitized on Sunday and we also asked devotees to wash their hands before entering and after leaving the temple.” Education director, Taj-ul-Masjid, Dr Mohd Hassan, told TOI that there were hardly 30 people who came for the namaz on Monday afternoon. “The people coming to offer namaz were asked to perform wazu at home and carry their own janamaz, if needed. They washed their hands and feet before entering the mosque and offered the namaz by maintaining proper social distancing,” he said. Pramod Jain Himanshu, president of the Digambar Panchayat Trust Committee of Bhopal said that all Jain temples were equipped with wash-basins and devotees were not allowed to touch anything, even to seek blessings of the deity inside the temple. “We had made it very clear that devotees will not be allowed to perform the abhishek, nor touch the idol to seek blessings. They were checked for temperature before they entered the temple. They bowed their heads before the idol and left. No devotees were allowed to sit inside the temple premises,” Jain said. Gurudwaras of the city also abided by the government guidelines to maintain social distancing and asked devotees to keep their masks on. “Many people from the Sikh community visited the gurudwara and followed the guidelines laid down by MHA. People washed their hands and offered prayers before Guru Granth Sahib. We had made circles for social distancing and allowed only a handful of people inside the Darbar Sahib at one time,” said Gurucharan Singh Bhatti, PRO Bittan market gurudwara. Churches of the city are yet to open and will hold the mass on Saturday evening and Sunday. Some churches opened for an hour in the evening, but did not invite devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/devotees-line-up-to-pray-at-places-of-worship/articleshow/76392512.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Guard yourself against e-crime in Covid-19 times||KOLKATA: As cyber crimes continue unabated, the department of Information Technology has now put up links to two apps on its website which will help anyone who has lost his or her money online. From teaching people how to preserve the url from which the victim has been duped, simple steps to ensure the fraud doesn’t happen again to knowing who to approach to complain, these apps can act as quick guides for novices. Cyber lawyer and special public prosecutor Bivas Chatterjee has used the lockdown to develop both apps. The first is a Bengali version of important cyber laws applicable here and the second addresses the issue of evidence collection in cyber crimes. There is also a Hindi version of the first app. All three are now available in Google play store for free. “With the courts not working during the lockdown, I realized I wanted to do something constructive to help develop cyber awareness. It was then that the idea of developing apps to help everyone easily understand cyber laws came to me. The cases discussed in the apps are close to me since I was the special public prosecutor in all of them,” he said. “The Banglai Cyber Aiyn app is like a guidebook and talks of how to save oneself from frauds and introduces some basic rules. I have also incorporated the types of cyber crimes in vogue here and the salient features of the IT Act. The second app dwells on the processes and legal issues involved to build a strong case in case someone gets duped online. It deals with the nature of electronic evidence, cyber forensics and chain of custody. A portion of the Indian Evidence Act and IT Act, relevant to electronic evidence, is also provided here, apart from relevant portions of landmark judgements on electronic evidence,” said Chatterjee. Criminal lawyer and cyber case expert Anushree Mondal said the apps have become a help for even legal students. “Knowledge on these laws is limited even within the legal fraternity. More and more such apps will help increase domain knowledge and make people aware,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guard-yourself-against-e-crime-in-covid-times/articleshow/76394771.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Techies showing no interest in on-site projects abroad: Survey||HYDERABAD: A majority of the IT professionals are not keen on taking up on-site projects in other countries after the Covid-19 outbreak, a survey has revealed. The survey, conducted by Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), offered an insight into how professionals’ perception have changed with a 14-point questionnaire. It was conducted within a month and had a sample size of 500 people. The result of the survey revealed that 57% of techies would rather remain at their home than fly abroad for lucrative options like on-site projects. Further, 82% of the respondents said that that work from home (WFH) should be extended beyond lockdown as well. As many as 89% of techies also said that bonds with their families have improved while they were working from home. They reported better relationshops with spouses and other family members. Sundeep Kumar Makthala, TITA global president, said the survey aimed to understand how WFH is being implemented. “WFH is helping IT professionals strengthen their family bonds as they are spending more time at home. Previously, work apart, travel would take two to three hours more,” he said. Issues with internet connectivity, missing teamwork and occasional power outages remained key challenges for WFH. About 62% of those surveyed said they had no work pressure in WFH. The survey, however, said that about 48% were putting in 8-10 hours work and about 29% said they were putting in 10-12 hours of work at home. A majority of the companies did not give any incentive for WFH. The survey said about 45% of the respondents used their bedroom as workplace, about 23% used the main hall to work, 4% worked on floor, 3% on the balcony. About 24% had a dedicated work pod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techies-showing-no-interest-in-on-site-projects-abroad-survey/articleshow/76394778.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held for cheating psychiatrist in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Sleuths from the cybercrime police station on Monday rounded up three persons for cheating a psychiatrist of Rs 59,000 on the pretext of selling him a sim card with a choice phone number. Cops are hunting for another four members of the gang of fraaudsters, who are not from Gujarat and are supposedly based in Mumbai. The accused held on Monday, Vijay Rathod, 40, of Bhavnagar, Prashant Joshi, 43, of Vastral and Jignesh Karia, 40, also from Vastral, will be formally arrested after reports of their Covid-19 tests arrive, police said.  The fraudsters used to send out bulk SMS with the offer to sell attractive phone numbers at a premium. Psychiatrist Vishwamohan Thakur fell in their trap and lost Rs 59,000 in trying to get a choice number. Thakur had lodged a complaint at cybercrime police station on Saturday. In his FIR, Thakur, 54, of Water Lily Adani Shantigram near Vaishnodevi, stated that in January, he had received a message on his phone giving him the option to purchase any one of four mobile numbers given in the message. Thakur is a practising psychiatrist with his chamber in Juna Vadaj. “The message contained an email address and a phone number in a fictitious name, in this case Varun — for contact. The message stated that it would cost Rs 50,000 to buy a number and in total it will cost Rs 59,000 including GST at 18%,” said a police official. Desiring the phone number offered, Thakur sent the money to the bank account given by the fraudsters. When the sim card failed to arrive despite repeated interactions, Thakur realized he had been cheated and approached police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-for-cheating-psychiatrist/articleshow/76395445.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP will pay back with interest, Nara Lokesh warns YSRC||TIRUPATI: TDP national general secretary and former minister Nara Lokesh on Monday strongly denounced the arrest of his party leaders, while warning that the YSRC’s witch-hunting tactics would be ‘paid back with interest’ by TDP. Following the arrest of former Tadipatri legislator JC Prabhakar Reddy for his alleged involvement in the BS-III vehicles scam on Saturday, Lokesh met his elder brother and former MP JC Diwakar Reddy at Tadipatri in Anantapur district and extended solidarity. “First, they got (former minister) K Atchannaidu arrested in the ESI scam though he had absolutely no role to play in it. They offered him Rs 50 crore to make him join YSRC but when he refused to budge, he was arrested. The Jagan government is desperate to finish off the TDP. Their approach is clear: Desert TDP and join us, or we will send you to jail,” Lokesh alleged. Diwakar Reddy’s family has been in the transport business from the pre-Independence days, Lokesh said. “The ruling party is targeting their financial roots by slapping fake cases because they have declared they will remain with TDP. Those who are supporting the witch-hunting policies of this government should keep in mind that they will have to face legal consequences. The TDP will pay back with interest when our time comes,” warned Lokesh. Reacting to the Lokesh’s allegations, YSRC leader and Anakapalli MLA Gudivada Amarnath said the TDP is getting jittery. “The party realises it may have to conduct its next annual Mahanadu inside the jail as several of its leaders are being arrested in various scams. TDP is trying to use the BC (backward caste) card in Atchannaidu’s arrest to gain public sympathy. How are BCs related to Atchennaidu’s arrest?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-will-pay-back-with-interest-lokesh-warns-ysrc/articleshow/76393756.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana fares poorly in welfare of street vendors: Report||CHANDIGARH: The urban local bodies (ULBs) in Haryana have fared poorly in implementing the welfare schemes and rules for the street vendors, who are considered a vital part of the urban economy in providing affordable goods to the public, especially the urban poor and migrant labourers. A report — prepared by the Delhi-based policy think tank, Centre for Civil Society (CCS), with the assistance of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), says: Haryana has identified over 1 lakh street vendors but has distributed identity cards to only 1,000. “It could only score 32.48 points out of 100, since it has hardly implemented four out of the 11 steps under the Street Vendors Act, 2014, analysed by the study. Haryana has seen a fall in its score on the compliance index recorded at 45 last year. No vendor has been issued a vending certificate till now. ULBs in Haryana are yet to submit vending plans, demarcate vending zones and constitute grievance redressal committees,” report pointed out. As per estimates, 2.5% of the country’s population works as street vendors, they are a source of self-employment and entrepreneurship. However, due to lack of clearly defined rights and failure in implementation of rules, street vendors have to face harassment and extortion. MoHUA had last week released the report prepared by the CCS on the basis of the data of 3,248 ULBs of 28 states and Union territories up to March collected by the team of Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM). After Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh has ranked second on the compliance index calculated on the basis of the extent of implementation of 11 steps on the basis of the Act. Chandigarh has one ULB as compared to 110 ULBs in Andhra Pradesh. By implementing eight out of the total 11 steps, Chandigarh scored 75 points. The Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh has recognised more than 21,000 street vendors and out of these, only 10% have been issued certificates of vending. ULB in Chandigarh had not issued identity cards to any street vendor till March. Among the three states of the region – Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh – Punjab has emerged as the best state by identifying around 90,000 street vendors. ULBs in Punjab have issued identity cards to around 34,000 of street vendors till date. Punjab is one among the only four states – others being Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland and Uttar Pradesh – that have constituted grievance redressal committees for street vendors in the country. The agrarian state has also constituted two grievances redressal committees. Punjab has scored 63.18 points, by implementing 10 out of the 11 steps. Two ULBs in Himachal Pradesh — Bilaspur Sadar and Hamirpur — are among the 22 top performing ULBs in the country. No other ULB from the region is on this list. But the hill state has seen a drop in its score by more than 15 points this year. HP scored 51.21 points out of 100, by implementing eight out of total 11 steps. The state is yet to form grievance redressal committees for street vendors. Though 89% of towns in HP have completed surveys, only 5,000 vendors — less than 0.8% of urban population — have been identified till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-fares-poorly-in-welfare-of-street-vendors-report/articleshow/76394781.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 16, 2020||Surat||Leading diamantaire Arun Mehta dies||Surat: The diamond industry in Surat and Mumbai will remain completely shut on Tuesday to mourn the death of Arun Mehta, industry doyen and founder of the world’s leading diamond company Rosy Blue. Sources said that the diamond industry has lost the ‘Bhishma Pitamah’ of the industry in Arun Mehta. Mehta, 80, passed away at his Mumbai residence on Monday and is survived by his son and two daughters and many grandchildren. In the late 1970’s, Mehta was one of the pioneers of the diamond industry and he founded B Arunkumar and Company, which was later rechristened to Rosy Blue. His participation and efforts in a number of trade organisations contributed immensely to the growth of the whole industry. Meha was a member of the managing committee of the Bharat Diamond Bourse for a long period. He was also associated with the Bombay (now Mumbai) Diamond Merchants Association and a member of the Working Committee of The Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) for over 20 years.Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “Arunbhai will not be remembered only for his business prowess, but also becoming a mentor and contributing to the training and guidance of several of our country’s leading diamantaires. His approach was practical, simple and effective, leading him to be one of the most sought after advisors and problem-solvers be it for personal or professional issues.” Many of his endeavours were focused on the growth and development of the Banskatha region, and the Palanpuri community as a whole. Notably, he served as chairman of Palanpur Samaj Kendra, Mumbai and of Vidyamandir Trust, Palanpur for several years, and he was also associated with Sir Kikabhai Premchand Trust, Banaskatha District Kelavni Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/leading-diamantaire-arun-mehta-dies/articleshow/76393764.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||UT starts process to e-auction 94 liquor vends||Chandigarh: The UT excise and taxation department on Monday started the process of e-auctioning 94 liquor vends. The liquor contractors can participate in the e-auction by paying a participation fee of Rs 3.50 lakh for every vend, which is non-refundable and non-adjustable. A senior UT official said contractors can bid till June 22 and auction will be held on June 23. The new amended excise policy for 2020-21 will come into force from July 1, which was recently approved by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. Under the new policy, excise levies on country liquor have not been increased and raised by 10%. on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). To promote low alcoholic content beverages, beer, and wine and to boost Indian wine industry, the licence fee has not been increased and kept at Rs 12,000 for the whole year. The label registration fee of wine has been reduced from Rs 10,000 per brand to Rs 7,500 per brand. The excise duty of microbrewery has not been increased and remain Rs 30 per bulk litre to shift consumers from hard to soft liquor. The licence fees of microbrewery, restaurants/pubs and bar have also not been increased from last year. Cow, Covid cess Cow cess has already been imposed at Rs 5 per bottle on 750 ml of country liquor, Rs 5 per bottle on 650ml of beer and Rs 10 per bottle on 750 ml of whisky and will be deposited by the wholesale licencees in the dedicated bank account of the municipal corporation. The levy of Covid cess will also be there in the amended excise policy. The cess will be at 5% on minimum retail price of all categories of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-starts-process-to-e-auction-94-liquor-vends/articleshow/76394784.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Students in Kyrgyzstan to return soon||HYDERABAD: Thousands of Indian medical students in Kyrgyzstan heaved a sigh of relief after they were informed by the Indian embassy that they will soon be able to fly back home. A student from Telangana, who has been waiting to return to India since the lockdown was announced, told TOI that the embassy messaged them stating that it was expecting permission for resumption of flights by Tuesday morning and an announcement would be made soon. “Every flight will take off a day after after original dates mentioned in our forms,” the embassy informed. It also said that if anyone does not want to wait and wishes for refund of money, the procedure could be initiated. There are at least 29 students from Sangareddy, who have been waiting to return, including 25 from the Medak Ordnance factory premises, two from Patancheru and two from Beeramguda. Several students, including those from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, were left disappointed after the Vande Bharat flights were discontinued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-in-kyrgyzstan-to-return-soon/articleshow/76394792.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 16, 2020||Kolkata||First day, first show: 250 devotees visit Belur Math in West Bengal||HOWRAH: More than 250 people visited Belur Math, the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission, on Monday. The shrine was open for two hours in the morning (9am-11am) and two hours in the evening (4pm-6pm), with a slew of sanitization and social distancing norms in place. At the gate, there were foot-pedal operated hand sanitizers. A route was charted for visitors past the four shrines that have allowed darshan for the moment and back to the gate, with floor markings six feet from each other. The sprawling campus can hold 500 people maintaining six-foot distance from each other. However, only 10 people were allowed inside the shrine at a time. At each critical point, monks were on duty to ensure rules were followed. At the end of the day, general secretary of Belur Math Swami Suvirananda expressed happiness over the way devotees adapted to the new order, maintaining discipline throughout. He described the atmosphere of Belur Math as “spiritually charged and reverberating with the reverence that devotees brought in with their presence” after a gap of over two and a half months. Devotees were allowed to visit shrines dedicated to Sri Ramakrishna, Sri Ma, Swami Brahmananda and Swami Vivekananda. The residence of Swami Vivekananda has been kept out of bounds for the visitors for the moment. There was a bifurcation on the return route, with one channel moving towards the jetty and the other moving towards the gate that leads on to G T Road. Devotees had to pay their respects, but no one was allowed to sit for pranaam or meditate. Prasad distribution has been put on hold for the time being, besides the book distribution and museum visits. A shamiana has been constructed outside the gate where people can take shelter in case of rain. “Gradually, as things improve, we will probably think of opening up the book store, the items that our self-help rural groups make and sell, and the museum,” Swami Suvirananda said, adding that the guest house is unlikely to reopen before November. The two senior monks of Belur Math who had contracted Covid-19 and are hospitalized were doing well, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-day-1st-show-250-devotees-visit-belur-math/articleshow/76394785.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||Online classes taking mental, physical toll on children: Study||JAIPUR: Parents have expressed concerns over behavioural changes among children who now spend long hours on mobile phones, laptops, TVs and tablets following the Covid-19 lockdown. Childen have developed symptoms like dry eyes, headaches and show conditions such as depression, anxiety, insomnia, other than having become obese.  Along with these, they exhibit behavioural changes such as bedtime fear, stubbornness, throw tantrums, make careless mistakes, have lower attention for household tasks, avoid routines than before, and show lesser interest in indoor games or playing with peers. These have been found by a study on increasing incidences of screen addiction due to online classes during the pandemic, and its association with psychiatric disorders in youth. 65% kids use mobile phones for classes The study, conducted by JK Lon Hospital, the state’s biggest government-run child facility, has found that the use of mobile phones and laptops has increased significantly during lockdown. The team of physicians observed that there has been a rapid increase in the average screen time of children as a result of online classes. There has been an increase in the average screen time from 2.25 hours per day, before the lockdown, to 8.30 hours per day, during the lockdown. A near three-time increase in the daily average screen time. About 45% of the children found it difficult to sleep immediately after going to bed. It has been reported by parents that these children were earlier accustomed to sleeping immediately after going to bed. About 50% of these children did not feel sleepy even after 20 to 60 minutes in bed, while 17% woke up in the middle of their sleep, and on an average, took around 20 to 30 minutes again to get back to sleep. The study showed that 65% of children were using mobile phones for online classes, while others used laptops and tablets. For the education provided through the online medium, up to 33% parents did not see any change in the level of interest or education of their children, whereas, 19% of the parents said that these levels were worse than before. Around 65% of the children were seen to have some addiction for their devices, which were being used by 50% of these children only recently. These kids were not able to stay away from the devices for even half an hour, the study shows. About 6.3% of these children started waking up at night with nightmares, and stubbornness also increased to 32%. Instances of uncontrolled rage in children also increased by 30%. The study also noted an increase in carelessness, lack of attention to household tasks, routine changes such as not cleaning teeth, not taking baths on time, etc. During this time, there was also a decrease in children’s interest in playing indoor games. “Prior to this study, there was sufficient evidence captured in studies from around the world to demonstrate that excessive use of screens resulted in blocking the neurological transmissions in the brain and affecting the physical development of these children. The present study has proved the same to be true in Indian conditions as well,” said Dr Ashok Gupta of JK Lon Hospital. Under Dr Gupta’s guidance, the study was carried out by his colleagues at the Department of Paediatric Medicine, Dr Dhan Raj Bagri, Dr Ramesh Chaudhary, Dr Kamlesh Aggarwal and Dr Vivek Athawani. “Kids are spending more than 7.5 hours in front of a screen, making life sedentary and increasing the risk of obesity. Motor vehicle accidents increase with use of mobile devices. Epigenetics demonstrates that environment influences genetic expression. Prolonged use of mobile phones has been found to be associated with the thinning of cerebral cortex, which causes impairment of intellectual abilities and negative effects on physical, mental and social development of paediatric population,” Dr Dhan Raj Bagri, assistant professor (pediatrics), JK Lon Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-classes-taking-mentalphysical-toll-on-children-study/articleshow/76395453.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Soon, oximeters in each colony for faster health survey, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Monday that the state government was contemplating the idea to provide oximeter at mohalla and colony level. This would make the task of health survey easier. Besides, it would enable common people to participate in the efforts towards Coronavirus control, he said. While reviewing the Coronavirus situation in the state through video conferencing on Monday, he further said that Coronavirus pandemic was coming under control in MP but cautioned the officials that there was no room for laxity. The state government was also thinking of enlisting help of people in ensuring that the norm of social distancing was followed. Volunteers from among the people would be recruited for the purpose. While referring to popular proverb that the God only helps those who help themselves, the CM said that without community action, the Coronavirus pandemic can't be overcome in the state, country and the world. Without caution and self-discipline, control on Coronavirus pandemic was not possible, he emphasised. It is not the responsibility of administration alone to ensure that the norms prescribed for Coronavirus control were followed, it was also responsibility of the people as well, he said. It was imperative that people wear masks, don't spit in public, maintain good hand hygiene and social distancing. Crowd control was not duty of the police and the administration, it can also be effectively done by exercising self-discipline, Chouhan added. He further asked people to avoid large assembly, not hold functions and if it were necessary, keep the guest list small and make the guests observe social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/soon-oximeters-in-each-colony-for-faster-health-survey-says-cm/articleshow/76392529.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Wall construction for Halwara airport to begin by June end||Ludhiana: If all goes according to plan, the construction of boundary walls at the Halwara airport will start by June end. The Land Acquisition Authority has meanwhile “shared” the coordinates of the land, which is a map related to four sides of the acquired land, with Airport Authority of India (AAI) to facilitate the construction of Airport. On May 23, the then deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal had declared in the presence of additional chief administrator (ACA) GLADA Bhupinder Singh that the 161.2703 acre land required for the construction of this civil terminal has been acquired at Aitiana village in Raikot and the authority has taken possession of the said land. ACA GLADA said after taking possession of the land, they have shared coordinates of the same with AAI and shown them the land as well. He added that besides that they have asked B&R wing of PWD department to prepare estimate for the construction of the boundary wall of the acquired land. GLADA officials said on their part, the agency has completed its job and it is up to the state government and AAI to carry forward the work speedily. A senior officer of the AAI, asking not to be named, said after getting the coordinates of the acquired land, they will seek no objection certificate (NOC) from Halwara Airforce Authorities, as they will use later’s run away for operation. He added that NOC is a must for ARP (airport reference point). “We have also sought the approval from AAI board for getting the construction work of the buildings started and hope to get the same soon. Our planning directorate will also make the map of the temporary terminal building after we get approval and once the work on that starts, work on permanent structures will also run side by side. B&R wing of state government department has also made two estimates for construction of boundary wall, one of which is by using bricks (which will cost around Rs.3 crore) and the second one is concrete structure (whose estimate cost is around Rs.5.5 crore),” said the officer. “We hope that we will get approval soon and the work on the boundary will start by June. It’s height will be around eight feet and then around two and half feet concertina wire will be installed on that. We plan to get a temporary terminal as early as possible as we want to shift operation from Sahnewal airport to Halwara airport before this year end,” he added. According to him, the airport terminal complex will be state of art with latest equipments including cute (common use terminal equipment) system, inland baggage, face recognition system for walk through identification facility for passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wall-construction-for-halwara-airport-to-begin-by-june-end/articleshow/76394782.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jaganmohan Reddy reviews project proposals for Kadapa steel plant||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to speed up negotiations to establish the Kadapa steel plant. The chief minister reviewed the project proposals with his officials at the camp office on Monday. The chief minister told them to have Rs 500 crore equity for the steel plant and zero-in on the companies to take up the plant work in PPP mode. An official apprised the chief minister that initial talks were held with big industry players like Hyundai Motors, Tata Steels, Essar Steels, besides others. The companies have shown interest to work with the government over the steel plant, which is proposed at 3 million tonne annual production capacity. The officials tabled before the chief minister, the proposals, which they have already shared with the industry players and their response. They told the chief minister that the industries have expressed willingness to take up the work and complete it as per schedule. The formalities of selecting the company to take up the work will be done in the next two months. The steel plant would take two years, including establishment of the township and provision of infrastructure in the plant, to be completed. The work on soil test too is in progress and would be completed by June end, an official informed the chief minister. The work on compound wall and laying internal and external roads besides providing power supply too would be completed in June, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-reviews-project-proposals-for-kadapa-steel-plant/articleshow/76393770.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: First fee regulatory body meet inconclusive||CHANDIGARH: The fee regulatory body of UT Chandigarh held its first meeting following complaints from hundreds of parents during lockdown. Sources said it was decided that parents who filed complaints in groups would be asked to submit individual affidavits and a reply would be sought from respective schools. However, no decision on any issue was taken on paper. The fee regulatory body is also considering giving schools 15 more days to upload their balance sheets on the website. The department did not decide anything on parents’ request to direct schools to not charge late fees till a decision was taken on the complaints filed. According to orders issued by the Chandigarh administration, fee for June has to be paid by the 15th of the month. Sources said there was no rule under which the committee could ask schools not to charge late fees. An official requesting anonymity said, “Nothing has been decided yet. We are waiting for minutes of the meeting. It was discussed that all parents who are part of joint complaints would be asked to submit affidavits as is required with every complaint under Section 11 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institution Act, 2016 and then schools’ reply would be sought on the same.” According to details shared by officials of the education department, 69 complaints (mostly through e-mail), have been filed against 19 unaided private schools for fee hike, collection of fee and failure to upload income, expenditure account and balance sheet on school websites in line with provisions of Section 5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institution Act, 2016. Of the 79 recognised private schools (including 22 minority schools), 51 have not uploaded income, expenditure account and balance sheet on school websites. The district education officer, Chandigarh served show cause notices to these schools. After receiving the notice, 12 schools uploaded income, account and balance sheets for the year 2018-19 on the school website. “Remaining schools will be given another 15 days to do the needful, failing which action will be initiated against them,” a member of the fee committee stated on condition of anonymity. An office has been assigned for the committee in Sector 42. Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association said, “The committee is visibly under pressure of private schools, finding lame excuses to delay the disposal of complaints. Each complaint is supported by at least one affidavit. The committee must have sought replies of schools on the basis of the same. This committee could not even decide the sole complaint it received prior to the lockdown which had the complainant’s affidavit as well as the school’s reply. Asking for individual affidavits of all parents is wholly unnecessary paperwork during Covid-19 days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-meeting-of-fee-regulatory-body-remains-inconclusive/articleshow/76394795.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Drunk man set ablaze his scooty at petrol pump, held||Bareilly: A 35-year-old “inebriated” man allegedly set ablaze his scooty at a petrol pump after an argument with staffers over the payment in Bareilly’s Sheeshgarh area on Sunday night. However, the petrol pump staff acted promptly and doused the fire. A video of the incident also went viral. Police said the man, who was in an inebriated condition, was arrested on Monday. According to police, Surendra went to a petrol pump and got into an argument with staffers over the payment of fuel. “He abused pump staff and beat them up. And then in a fit of rage, Surendra took out petrol from his two-wheeler and burnt the vehicle. The pump staff doused the fire,” said police. Sheesgarh police station SHO Rajkumar Tiwari said, “The accused has been arrested and booked under IPC sections 436 (mischief by fire or explosive), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-man-set-ablaze-his-scooty-at-petrol-pump-held/articleshow/76513462.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress workers join BJP in CM’s presence||BHOPAL: The BJP on Monday launched its publicity campaign from village Mehgaon in Sanchi assembly constituency of Raisen district, to highlight the achievements of one year of Modi 2.0. The campaign was kicked-off by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP state president VD Sharma ahead of bypolls in the state. During the campaign, several Congress workers also joined BJP in the presence of CM Chouhan. The CM said that decisions taken by PM Narendra Modi in one year were never expected by anybody. “Abrogation of Article 370, paving way for the construction of Ram temple, Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and law against triple talaq are some of the decisions which were never thought of,” said Chouhan, while addressing the gathering. “The Congress government was formed on lies and it never fulfilled its promises. It was involved in corruption, which resulted in poor development of the state,” said Chouhan. During the campaign, BJP leaders also handed over letters written by Prime Minister Modi to the public. The party is also preparing for the bypolls from the Sanchi assembly seat. Here Scindia supporter and former minister, Prabhuram Choudhary is likely to get the BJP ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-kicks-off-publicity-drive-from-sanchi/articleshow/76393781.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Sale of banned BG-3 cotton seeds rampant in Guntur||GUNTUR: Notwithstanding the ban imposed by the state government, the sale of BG-3 cotton seed is rampant in the district as farmers have started early sowing operations. Traders, particularly in Palnadu region, are selling BG-3 seeds at a premium. Sources said the traders are claiming that BG-3 seeds would give at least 20 quintals of cotton per acre while it would be around 12-15 quintals per acre for normal seed. Sources said the traders are receiving Bhis G-3 seeds from Karnataka and Telangana as restrictions on parcel vans and cargo vehicles have been eased now. Some traders from Kurnool and Prakasam too are engaged in the sale of the banned seed to local merchants. With top officials in the district administration are burdened with the Covid-19 crisis, the agriculture department has not set up any task force to crackdown on banned seeds sale. Many farmers are rushing to buy the banned seed despite the state government making arrangement for sale of quality seeds through Rythy Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). “We will take action if any trader is involved in the sale of banned seeds,” said agriculture joint director Vijaya Bharati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sale-of-banned-bg-3-cotton-seeds-rampant/articleshow/76393774.cms||Samdani MN
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Junior civic colleges excel in Inter exams||Amaravati: The students of two municipal junior colleges in Nellore city have come out with flying colours in their annual examinations. Both colleges reported 100% pass in the results announced two days ago. Many students in both the colleges secured high GPA. This is the first-batch from the PNMC mahila junior kalasala to complete the intermediate course as it was set up only in 2018. Second-year student N Indu secured 9.82 grade points in the MPC stream and bagged the first rank. Shaik Tasin got 9.79 GPA and Shaik Rizwana secured 9.78 GPA. Similarly, Shaik Arifa scored 9.69 GPA in BiPC stream while Shaik Asifa Anjum secured 9.67 GPA. “Our students have excelled in both MPC and BiPC streams and set new records. They outsmarted students from many private corporate colleges,” said junior college principal P Srinivasa Rao. He said that students have also outshone other students in their first-year results with high GPAs. He said that Shaik Sahera Banu got 451 marks out of 470 in MPC, Jayasudha got 445 marks and P Susmitha 441 marks. Shaik Sadaf stood first with 427 marks out of 440 in BiPC stream and Shaik Musharaf Firdose stood in the second place with 425 marks. In Nellore Municipal Junior College (NMJC), K Praveen Kumar scored 460 out of 470 in MPC branch while Naramala Tanuja scored 431 out of 440 in BiPC stream in the first-year intermediate examinations. The municipal administration department had set up two junior colleges, both in Nellore town, four years ago. Although, the state government promised to expand them, the plans remained only on paper. Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna demanded that the state government should start junior colleges in all the municipal corporation cities from the upcoming academic year to support poor students. He said the absence of government colleges in urban areas is driving the students either to drop out of higher education or pay astronomical fees in private colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/junior-civic-colleges-excel-in-inter-exams/articleshow/76393793.cms||Samdani MN
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Hearing on plea for transfer deferred||MOHALI: The district and sessions court on Monday deferred hearing on an application filed by Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Singh Multani, seeking transfer of the case over latter’s disappearance from the court of additional district and session judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal. The court of Rajinder Singh Rai, however, restricted the ADJ’s court from pronouncing final orders on the case till the sessions judge decides upon the matter of transfer. The court also put former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, the prime accused, on notice of reply over the transfer plea and fixed June 23 as the next date of hearing. The application for case transfer was filed after ADJ Monika Goyal's court on May 11 granted interim bail to Saini in anticipation of SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to the earlier FIR. Stating that he fears unfair proceedings, Palwinder Singh Multani sought transfer of the case. In the previous hearing, former Punjab Police officer, Gurmeet Singh Pinki, the whistle blower in the case over alleged involvement of former DGP in the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani after a bomb attack in 1991, recorded his statement in the court under Section 164 of the CrPC. In a 2015 interview with a magazine, Pinki accused Saini of being instrumental in the abduction and disappearance of the then CITCO employee. Thereafter, a fresh FIR was registered against Saini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hearing-on-plea-for-transfer-deferred/articleshow/76394811.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 16, 2020||Surat||Surat retains maximum A1 track record||Surat: Maintaining its track record of highest number of A1 grade-holders in the state, 189 students from Surat city and district have secured the top-grade in the class XII general stream exams, the results for which were announced on Monday. Rajkot with 108 students came a close second, while 40 students from Ahmedabad city and 16 from Ahmedabad rural secured the A1 grade. In the recently-announced class X and class XII science exams also the highest number of students securing A1 grade were from Surat. In the class XII science results, out of 44 students securing A1 grade in the state 19 were from Surat while in class X results 350 students secured A1 grade from Surat. Overall 80.66% students cleared the class XII general stream exams from Surat. Interestingly, in south Gujarat, Dang has the highest percentage of students clearing the exam. Dang is the third in the state with the highest percentage of students clearing the exam after Patan (86.67) and Banaskantha (85.66). A total 84.06 % students cleared the class XII general stream exam. “Surat is maintaining its track record of overall good result in board exams since the past few years. It is due to hard work by students, proper guidance by teachers and support from parents,” said H H Rajyaguru, district education officer, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-retains-maximum-a1-track-record/articleshow/76393803.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Four Mohali MC officers in dock over purchase of tree pruners||MOHALI: An inquiry into the purchase of tree pruning machines for exorbitant prices has indicted four officers of the Mohali municipal corporation (MC). They have been asked to appear before the additional chief secretary (ACS), local bodies, Punjab on June 19. The inquiry was conducted by former additional district and session judge B R Bansal. The four officer in question are executive engineer (Xen) Naresh Batta, now posted at Hoshiarpur, Vinayak Kumar, deputy controller-finance and accounts (DCFA), now posted at Ludhiana, Mohinder Pal Singh, assistant corporation engineer, now posted as sub-divisional engineer at the head office, local bodies department head office in Chandigarh, and Surinder Goel, junior engineer, now retired. The report reads, “The civic body was not aware about the technical specifications of the machine and relied only on one quotation, whereas the MC should have opted for expression of interest (EOI) to get wider participation in tender process. Even the tender approval was accorded without specifying the amount... The amount of Rs 89.50 lakh was paid in advance to the bidder, although there is no evidence to prove, if the bidder had submitted performance security deposits at 5% of the value of the work order as per agreement.” The report stated that the said officers failed to asses or quantify the work, for which the machine was being purchased. Also the advance payment of Rs 89.50 lakh to the company was not through ACFA, but released by the DCFA in violation of norms. Former Congress Councilor Kuljit Singh Bedi said, “The indicted MC officers must be held responsible for causing losses to the public exchequer. Punjab government must set an example for others by taking strict action against such officers and if possible make recoveries from them.” The tree pruning project went into rough after the Punjab local bodies discarded the project terming it as overpriced and alleging connivance of then Mohali Mayor with the dealer. However, the Mayor filed a petition against the orders and eventually won the case. After that, the Punjab local bodies ordered the MC commissioner to initiate proceedings for recovery of money paid to the dealer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-mohali-mc-officers-in-dock-over-purchase-of-tree-pruners/articleshow/76394796.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Harassed Telangana worker returns from Saudi||HYDERABAD: A worker from Nizamabad who allegedly suffered torture at the hands of his employers in Saudi Arabia has been rescued. Ankamolla Ravi (31) returned home to his family at Cheepoor village in Armoor on Monday. A video of Ravi bleeding from his head and on the face had gone viral after he shared it on social media last month. He explained that he was physically tortured by his employer when he said he wanted to go back to India. Tweeting the video on May 24, former Nizamabad MP Kavitha Kalvakuntla described that the torture of the worker had gone to the ‘next level’ and urged external affairs minister S Jaishankar to rescue him. She said the attacks on the worker continued even after the embassy was apprised of what had been happening. In another video that he made before his departure from Jeddah on June 14, Ravi thanked Kavitha, the embassy and others for the efforts that were made to rescue him. Ravi had been working in Saudi Arabia for six years in a date palm farm. Ravi’s wife Sujatha also wrote to the State Human Rights Commission and ministry of external affairs to rescue her husband. “Pleased to inform that due to our persistent efforts Ravi who was facing abuse at the hands of his employer is going back today. Before departing, Ravi expressed his appreciation for the team. Happy to assist,” Consulate General of India (CGI), Jeddah, said. The flight reached Hyderabad on Sunday night and Ravi reached his home in Nizamabad on Monday. “At one point of time, Ravi even contemplated suicide but was encouraged to not lose heart as our team was working on rescuing him,” Telangana Jagruthi general secretary Naveen Achari told TOI. The employer was counselled to give Ravi an assurance that he would allow him to go back to India. On June 2, the employer was made to release Ravi and he was provided accommodation in Khorma. He was brought to Jeddah on June 12 and flown back to India on June 14. A health check-up was done for Ravi after his arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harassed-t-worker-returns-from-saudi/articleshow/76394799.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Woman kills two children after quarrel with husband||HYDERABAD: Upset over her husband frequently harassing her, a woman drowned her two children in a water body in Suryapet district on Monday. While she had also decided to kill herself, she backed off at the last minute. Suryapet police said that Nagamani’s 9-year-old daughter and her 6-year-old son died after they drowned in the Saddula cheruvu. By the time police reached the spot, the boy’s dead body was floating. On Monday morning, the locals found Nagamani crying beside Saddula Cheruvu. When they enquired,, she said that her children had drowned. She disclosed during interrogation that it was she who pushed her two children into water. She said she had also planned to jump but due backed off due to fear. Nagamani got married to Prashant nearly 10-years-ago. Prashant, who is allegedly an alcoholic, used to harass her. On Sunday night, the couple quarrelled with each other. The annoyed woman took both her children and left the home. After reaching Saddula Cheruvu, she drowned them. A case was registered against her and she was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-two-children-after-quarrel-with-husband/articleshow/76394815.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||Goa CM refuses to denotify Colva Covid care centre||COLVA: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday has assured a delegation of Colva panchayat members, led by local MLA Churchill Alemao, that the 50-odd asymptomatic Covid-19 patients currently housed in the Colva residency would be shifted to the South Goa district hospital within a week’s time. However, the chief minister said that in future if the number of patients surpasses the number of beds at the district hospitals, then patients will be moved to the residency. Colva sarpanch Anthony Fernandes said that after giving the delegation a hearing, the chief minister agreed with them and assured them that the 50-odd patients who are already housed there would be shifted to the district hospital in Fatorda, after the infrastructure is ready. Panch member Pio Furtado told TOI, “We were demanding denotification of the order, but the CM refused our suggestion saying that in case of emergency the government should have space to treat the patients.” Villagers of Colva on June 13 had objected to the government’s decision to notify the residency as a Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients. The delegation told the chief minister that the surrounding area was highly populated and that, at any given time, the beach, which is in the vicinity, sees hundreds of visitors. Sawant told the delegation that the government is in the process of setting-up 500 beds at the district hospital and it would take around a week to get it ready and till then to have patience, Fernandes said Those present at the meeting said that Sawant agreed with the suggestion of the delegation to immediately direct the health services to provide patients with hospital scrubs, which they have to wear throughout the quarantine period, and to increase the number of police personnel at the site so that patients are not tempted to stray on the beach and to nearby restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-refuses-to-denotify-colva-covid-care-centre/articleshow/76395461.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||GO issued promising 9-hr power to farmers, solar energy to be tapped||Vijayawada: The state government on Monday issued an order fulfilling the promise of nine-hour free power during daytime for the farmers. This is likely to cost the governmentRs 8,900 crore. The agriculture sector consumes 12,221 million units per year. Hence, the government has proposed to tap solar power to meet this power requirement. Accordingly, it had assessed 300 sunny days, promising an average power generation of 5.75 KW. West Godavari, Chittoor, Kadapa, Ananthapur and Kurnool districts have been identified to get solar power in the first phase and solar plants have been proposed in West Godavari, Chittoor and Nellore districts. The cabinet had already cleared the solar power project to generate 10,000 MW power that would meet the government’s promise of nine-hour free power. The government has also decided to lease out land for the power plants, the GO said. The district collectors would be asked to identify the government land, assigned land and patta land to be leased out. If the assigned and patta land are acquired for the solar plants, the government would pay the due share of lease amount to the respective assignees and owners, the GO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/go-issued-promising-9-hr-power-to-farmers-solar-energy-to-be-tapped/articleshow/76393808.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||His is special for family, school too||Vadodara: He is physically challenged and visually impaired since his birth. But on Monday Devashish stood out from the rest as he topped English medium section of Sama-based Urmi School. With 70% and 86 percentile, Devashish topped class 12 arts stream with B2 grade, scoring highest in two divisions, counting for over 100 children. Devashish now plans to do further studies in music and psychology. “He comes in the 100 % disability category as he is physically challenged and visually impaired. But he is very intelligent and sharp. He can grasp all the concepts,” said his father Dr Omprakash, a paediatrician working with state-run SSG Hospital. “At home, I used to read all the lessons, formulate answers of each question and record it. Once, recording used to get over, we would transfer it to the laptop so that he can listen to it. After he finished hearing the recording, we used to start question and answer section with him,” said Omprakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/his-is-special-for-family-school-too/articleshow/76393842.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Two-day budget session likely, TDP to attend in black shirts||VIJAYAWADA: The budget session is likely to be held only for two days. The issue would be decided at the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting of the assembly to be held on June 16. The two Houses would meet separately on Tuesday for the budget session. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan would address the two Houses on live from Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada. The two Houses would then adjourn to have the BAC meetings where the government would table the agenda for the session. According to the information available, the government has formally decided to have the session only for two days due to the extension of lockdown. It is said that finance minister Buggana Rajendranath would table the 2020-21 budget in the House after the BAC meeting. It will accept the budget and the finance bills on June 16 and 17 and adjourn sine die, the sources said. Initially, the chief minister wanted to have a week-long session, which includes Rajya Sabha election on June 19. Officials at the assembly have made elaborate arrangements for the session keeping in view the Covid 19 guidelines. They have already closed the visitors’ galleries and media point, and issued advisory to the legislators asking them to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. Meanwhile, the opposition TDP has decided to attend the assembly session in black shirts as a mark of protest against the arrest of its deputy floor leader K Atchannaidu in the ESI scam. TDP is holding protests across the state against the arrests terming it as political witch-hunt by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and plans to hold similar protest in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-day-budget-session-likely-tdp-to-attend-in-black-shirts/articleshow/76393821.cms||Gopi Dara
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 50% rainfall for June in first fortnight, showers expected till Thursday||MUMBAI: In the first fortnight of June itself, the India Meteorological Department (IMD)'s Santacruz observatory recorded 50% of the required rainfall for the month. This, despite the fact that the onset of monsoon was officially declared only on June 14. Private weather forecasting agency Skymet has said Mumbai can expect heavy to very heavy rain till Thursday. While the required rain for the month is 493.1mm, by 5:30pm on June 15, the IMD's Santacruz observatory had recorded 245.5mm. On Monday afternoon, the BMC's automatic weather station in Andheri West and East recorded 60mm and 57mm rain, respectively. This led to waterlogging in Andheri subway and traffic had to be suspended for a while. Weathermen said the significant downpour in the city was due to the after-effects of Cyclone Nisaraga and a strong monsoon current. In the 24 hours between June 14 and 15 (8.30am-8.30 am) when monsoon's onset was announced, though, the IMD's Colaba observatory recorded 27.6mm of rainfall and Santacruz just traces. "It was a soft onset. The coming week's models indicate enhancement of rainfall over the west coast," said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. Parts of the city witnessed showers on Monday, though they were not continuous. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Tuesday and Wednesday for parts of Thane and Palghar. An orange alert indicates heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places. Rainfall is yet to pick up momentum over the seven lakes that supply water to the city. As on Monday, the lakes had 1.8 lakh million litres or 12.4% of the total required water stocks. This is higher than 97 thousand million litres (6.70 %) last year on the same date though.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra's Chandrapur with 63mm rainfall and Washim 60mm were among the wettest places in India on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gets-50-rainfall-for-june-in-first-fortnight-showers-expected-till-thursday/articleshow/76396107.cms||Richa Pinto
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Vet varsity organises webinar on industry-academia interface||Ludhiana: As Covid-19 lockdown has adversely affected the dairy processing sector, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) had organised a webinar on Monday to explore the ways to convert crisis into opportunities. The webinar was organised on Monday by the dairy technology department, College of Dairy Science & Technology, Gadvasu, under the guidance of Dr S K Uppal, dean College of Dairy Science and Technology and Dr Prakash Singh Brar, dean, College of Veterinary Science and principal investigator- ICAR, NAHEP, Institutional Development Project (IDP). Dr S Sivakumar, head, dairy technology department and organising secretary of the webinar welcomed the participants and resource persons from different parts of the country and also discussed the importance of the webinar in the present scenario. Sudhir Kumar Singh, managing director, Jharkhand Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited, Ranchi, discussed with the participants the status of dairy cooperatives in India before and after COVID 19 outbreak. He focused on the challenges faced in dairy industry during the Covid-19 pandemic — from the procurement of milk to sales. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, associate professor and head of dairy technology division of Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Dairy Technology, BASU-Patna, presented his views on the role of dairy processing in combating the adverse impact on dairy Industry in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. He discussed in detail about the value addition of milk. He said losses can be mitigated if milk is converted into various traditional Indian dairy products owing to higher profit margin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vet-varsity-organises-webinar-on-industry-academia-interface/articleshow/76394846.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP legislative council bypoll to be held on July 6||Vijayawada: The Election Commission issued a notification on Monday to fill the vacancy in legislative council that fell vacant after TDP MLC and former minister Dokka Manikya Varaprasad quit the party on March 9 and joined YSRC. The election to the seat will take place on July 6 and counting of votes will be done on the same day. Nominations for the seat will be accepted till June 25 and the term is scheduled to expire on March 29, 2023. In the 58-member legislative council, there are three vacancies in the local bodies quota, two in nominated quota and one in the assembly quota. The Election Commission is yet to announce elections to them. It must be mentioned here that the assembly had passed a resolution seeking the abolition of the legislative council. The resolution is pending approval from the Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-legislative-council-bypoll-to-be-held-on-july-6/articleshow/76393854.cms||Gopi Dara
June 16, 2020||Goa||Congress accuses govt of dadagiri||Condemning the arrest of GPCC vice-president Sankalp Amonkar and others, Congress president Girish Chodankar said police action was borne out of frustration as the chief minister had “lost control on the administration and miserably failed to handle the pandemic besides reviving the economy of the state.” The government should not attempt to suppress the voices of the people, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-accuses-govt-of-dadagiri/articleshow/76395470.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Surat||Migrant auto driver’s daughter shines||Surat: When lakhs of migrant workers were leaving the Diamond City with disappointment during the lockdown, the family of Nandini Dubey stayed back in anticipation of her class XII result. All her hard work paid off when she finally passed the class XII commerce exams with flying colours on Monday when Nandini scored 91% marks and secured A1 grade in class XII commerce. Daughter of an autorickshaw driver, Nandini studied 13 hours in school and four hours at home to secure a place among state-toppers. She now aims to clear the chartered accountancy exam. “I focused on my study and my family supported me. I also received good guidance from my school teachers that helped score good marks,” said Nandini, a student of Mauni International School. She wishes to do graduation in business administration. Her father Pradip, drives an auto-rickshaw since young age had to quit studies after class X due to poor financial condition of his family. Pradip’s father was a labourer in Kamrej and he came from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh around 50 years back. “I could not study but since my daughter was brilliant I decided to give her good education. She scored 80% marks in class X after which I changed her school to ensure best guidance,” said Pradip. The family had to shift their home from Varachha to Godadara since they could not afford the rent for home. Pradip goes to drop Nandini to her school 12 kms away in rickshaw daily at 6 am and she returns at around 8 pm. “I want to tell the migrant workers who returned to their native states in large number recently that they should have stayed back in the city that gave them everything. This city gave us employment and facilities for which we should help the city become stronger,” said Pradip..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-auto-drivers-daughter-shines/articleshow/76393887.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Sidhu, BJP and AAP on radar of Taksalis’||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) leaders on Monday decided to approach like-minded people with a “panthic agenda” to bring them on a common platform for constituting a third political front in Punjab. The party held its core committee meeting chaired president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura here. The meeting was attended by party secretary general Sewa Singh Sekhwan, Bir Devinder Singh, Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad, Ujagar Singh Wadali and Harsukhinder Singh Badal alias Bubby Badal. Later, Sekhwan said the core committee had asked Brahmpura to meet former SAD leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Sindh Dhindsa in a day or two. “We will meet SAD 1920 president Ravi Inder Singh, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, former MP from AAP Dharamvira Gandhi and such other like-minded people,” he said. He said Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu could join them if he left the Congress. “Sidhu is a good person, but he is in a bad party,” he said. Sekhwan said their party was ready to speak to the BJP only if it broke its alliance in Punjab with SAD. But, he underlined that their party would not compromise with the federal structure of the country in which they expect no unilateral decision by the Union government to save the federal structure. Sekhwan said their party could also contact AAP and BSP for working on a common platform in Punjab. “The Badal family and the Captain Amarinder Singh family are hand in glove in looting Punjab,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-bjp-and-aap-on-radar-of-taksalis/articleshow/76394856.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Summer break: Showers to cool Ludh on Thursday, monsoon by month end||Ludhiana: If we go by met department’s prediction, the city is going to a get a break from the blazing sun. The department said monsoon is likely to arrive in Ludhiana by month end. And there are chances of rainfall around Thursday. Director met department Surender Paul said monsoon is expected to reach Ludhiana by around June 27 or 28. He added that monsoon is expected to remain normal. The met director further said pre-monsoon activity is expected to start in Ludhiana around June 20 and 22. He added that before that there are chances of light to moderate showers in Ludhiana around Thursday and Friday and same may be recorded between 10 millimeters to 30 millimeters and the temperatures might dip before pre-monsoon showers. The met department authorities said in the next few days, the day and night temperatures are expected to rise. They added that humidity is also expected to rise. The met department website predicts maximum (day) temperature to rise to 41 degrees till Thursday whereas minimum (night) might rise to 28 degrees. The day temperature in city on Monday was recorded at 41.7 degrees, which is four degrees more than normal. The night temperature in Ludhiana on Monday was recorded on the higher side at 27.2 degrees, which is two degrees more than normal. The residents had to grapple with hot weather during the day on Monday. “It was quite hot today so it was difficult to go outside. Thankfully, with Covid-19 new norma, it was possible to work from home these days. Mostly, I remained in my air conditioned room and worked from there,” said Manohar Singh, a marketing professional. The children also didn’t venture out due to hot weather. “I didn’t go out to play with my friends as it was very hot outside and my mother didn’t allow me. For most part of the day, I studied and occasionally played computer games,” said Arun, a nine-year-old boy from Civil Lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/summer-break-showers-to-cool-ludh-on-thursday-monsoon-by-month-end/articleshow/76394858.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Minority panel chief quizzed over post on social media||New Delhi: The Special Cell of Delhi Police on Tuesday questioned Delhi Minorities Commission chief, Zafarul Islam Khan, who has been booked in connection with a sedition case for his social media post earlier this year. The 65-year-old had earlier approached a city court seeking stay on his arrest, citing his age and the risk of being exposed to the corona virus. Delhi Police had sent a notice to Khan last week asking him to join the probe. On Tuesday afternoon, he reached the Special Cell’s office in Janakpuri where the cops questioned him regarding his Facebook post and the timing and the reason behind putting it up. On April 28, Khan had put up a post on the social media platforms saying: “Thanking Kuwait for standing up with Indian Muslims.” He also mentioned that “Zakir Naik is a respected name in the Arab and Muslim world.” Khan later claimed that he had apologised for the timing of the post, citing the pandemic, but refused to remove it from his Facebook profile. Cops have already visited Khan’s residence in Zakir Nagar and collected documents and the laptop, from which the posts were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minority-panel-chief-quizzed-over-post-on-social-media/articleshow/76414112.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19 deaths in Haryana hit 100 as 12 die; 514 cases take tally to 7,722||CHANDIGARH: Number of Covid-19 casualties in Haryana hit 100 on Monday with 12 new deaths reported in the state. Highest in a day, 514 new cases were also reported during the day, taking the state’s count to 7,722, while maximum 562 patients were reported cured as well. With the latest cases, the state has a total of 4,057 active cases. Among the casualties, 68 were male and 32 female. In the overall patients’ tally, 5,293 are male and 2,429 female. Monday’s deaths have pushed the death rate to 1.30%, while the recovery rate has gone up to 46.15%. Gurugram continued to top the chart in terms of positive cases. The district recorded maximum 183 cases, 6 deaths and 511 recoveries during the day. Now, it has total 1,664 active cases. Gurugram is followed by Faridabad with 128 cases and five deaths. The district has total 1,405 active cases and seen 33 deaths. Sonipat reported 63 new cases and the overall tally stands at 599. Twenty-one cases each were reported from Rohtak and Bhiwani, and 18 cases each from Rewari and Karnal. Mahendergarh reported 13 new cases, 10 in Fatehabad, and nine cases and one death were reported from Jhajjar district. Eight cases surfaced in Hisar district, five in Sirsa, four each in Ambala and Kurukshetra, three cases in Panipat district and two cases each in Nuh, Jind and Kaithal districts. One case has been reported from Panchkula. With testing of 189,914 samples to date, the Covid-19 testing rate in the state has gone up to 7,492 per million per day. Out of these, the total samples, 176,714 were found negative. As many as 52,618 persons have completed the quarantine period, while 37,467 persons are under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/covid-deaths-in-hry-hit-100-as-12-die-514-cases-take-tally-to-7722/articleshow/76403584.cms||Manvir Saini
June 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala banks on caution, issues SOP for short visits||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Persons – who are coming to Kerala for a short visit from other states – will be allowed to stay for a maximum of seven days without mandatory quarantine after obtaining entry passes through covid19jagratha portal. The government has issued a detailed SOP and health advisory for people who come here for business, official, trade, medical purposes, court cases and issues related to property management. Since placing such visitors in home or institutional quarantine is not feasible, government allowed them to visit the state for a short period. Students, who arrive to write exams or other academic-related purposes, can also avail this facility and stay for three days before the start of their exam and three days after the exam ends. Such students shouldn’t leave their rooms for any purpose other than the approved one. As per SOP, visitors should go directly to the hotel or their place of stay without halting anywhere in between the place of arrival and place of stay. They shouldn’t meet other persons or visit places other than the purpose for which they got permission. They should not visit hospitals or public places during their stay. Visitors should provide details of their local itinerary along with the purpose of visit, local accommodation and a contact person. Any deviations during the visit shall be informed to authorities with valid reasons. District collectors concerned, after verifying the details, will approve short visit. The local contact persons/company/sponsor will also be responsible for this short stay. They can order food through room service or online food delivery. They should not extend their stay without obtaining prior permission from the authorities concerned. Collectors, district police chiefs and other heads of departments should ensure that such visitors follow SOP meticulously and leave after the permitted period. Visitors should contact DISHA helpline 1056, if they develop mild symptoms such as fever, sore throat, cough, breathlessness or diarrhoea. They shouldn’t leave their room without the permission of the local public health authority. If they develop even mild symptoms they should be moved to Covid treatment centres, tested and based on the result, further management options should be offered, said the health advisory. If the traveller tests positive within 14 days after his return, he/she shall inform the control room at once. If the traveller fails to follow any of these conditions, he/she will have to undergo institutional/paid quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-banks-on-caution-issues-sop-for-short-visits/articleshow/76392630.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||KGH mortuary shut as doctor tests positive||VISAKHAPATNAM: After a postgraduate doctor of the forensic medicine department at Andhra Medical College (AMC) tested positive for Covid-19, the King George Hospital (KGH) mortuary has been closed temporarily for about two weeks with all doctors, PGs, paramedics and mortuary staff sent to quarantine. The final-year PG doctor, who had recently returned from Guntur, may have contracted the virus while travelling or while conducting postmortem on a deceased Covid-19 patient, according to doctors. Along with the PG doctor, two other medicos from the orthopaedics and general surgery departments have also contracted the virus, after which 76 health workers including doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitary workers and ward boys have been quarantined, informed KGH superintendent Dr G Arjuna. “Though initially they have tested negative, but for safety, all 76 will have to be in institutional quarantine for seven days and home quarantine for another seven days and a final Covid-19 test will be done before they can report to duty,” Dr Arjuna said. The AMC department of forensics medicine and toxicology faces an acute staff crunch in faculty, medicos and Class IV staff, including mortuary workers. Speaking to TOI, head of the department of forensic medicine Dr (Major) V Chandrasekhar said, “We are supposed to have two professors, two associate professors and four assistant professors. The two professor posts and one assistant professor post are vacant and we are left with two associate professors and three assistant professors.” Dr (Major) Chandrasekhar added, “After the PG tested Covid-19 positive, the entire department staff has been quarantined and therefore the police will have to arrange the postmortems at Government Hospitals in Bheemili and Anakapalle for the next two weeks. Samples from dead bodies are also being sent to the lab to ascertain the Covid-19 status of the deceaseds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kgh-mortuary-shut-as-doc-tests-positive/articleshow/76393873.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 deaths in Haryana hit 100 as 12 die; 514 cases take tally to 7,722||CHANDIGARH: Number of Covid-19 casualties in Haryana hit 100 on Monday with 12 new deaths reported in the state. Highest in a day, 514 new cases were also reported during the day, taking the state’s count to 7,722, while maximum 562 patients were reported cured as well. With the latest cases, the state has a total of 4,057 active cases. Among the casualties, 68 were male and 32 female. In the overall patients’ tally, 5,293 are male and 2,429 female. Monday’s deaths have pushed the death rate to 1.30%, while the recovery rate has gone up to 46.15%. Gurugram continued to top the chart in terms of positive cases. The district recorded maximum 183 cases, 6 deaths and 511 recoveries during the day. Now, it has total 1,664 active cases. Gurugram is followed by Faridabad with 128 cases and five deaths. The district has total 1,405 active cases and seen 33 deaths. Sonipat reported 63 new cases and the overall tally stands at 599. Twenty-one cases each were reported from Rohtak and Bhiwani, and 18 cases each from Rewari and Karnal. Mahendergarh reported 13 new cases, 10 in Fatehabad, and nine cases and one death were reported from Jhajjar district. Eight cases surfaced in Hisar district, five in Sirsa, four each in Ambala and Kurukshetra, three cases in Panipat district and two cases each in Nuh, Jind and Kaithal districts. One case has been reported from Panchkula. With testing of 189,914 samples to date, the Covid-19 testing rate in the state has gone up to 7,492 per million per day. Out of these, the total samples, 176,714 were found negative. As many as 52,618 persons have completed the quarantine period, while 37,467 persons are under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-deaths-in-hry-hit-100-as-12-die-514-cases-take-tally-to-7722/articleshow/76394878.cms||Manvir Saini
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Many don’t have ticket to ride, but railways expects bigger crowd||MUMBAI: The railways re-started local train services in the city on Monday after an unprecedented suspension of services for almost three months with an estimate of 1.3 lakh passengers on mind. Commuters were way fewer, possibly as train services were announced late on Sunday. “The crowd is expected to be bigger tomorrow as word about the services has spread. The (government) departments too will identify and instruct essential service staff to report to work which means more people will join the workforce,” said a railway official. The BMC, in a meeting with all other municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to streamline train travel, decided e-passes with QR code will be issued to eligible employees in a few days. It will be based on the Mumbai police’s current system. The first train operated was from Panvel to CSMT at 4.03 am on Harbour line, followed by CSMT-Karjat at 5.15 am. On Western Railway, first train was from Virar at 5 am for Dahanu. The second was for Virar-Churchgate and Churchgate-Virar at 5.30 am. When services began, there were as few as 50 people onboard. “As the hours passed, more people came in but it was in the range of 200 to 500 on trains,” said a CR official. All passengers wore masks and many took other precautions like wearing gloves. Orderly scenes like essential workers queueing up unfolded outside most major stations, including Virar, Dadar, Vashi, Panvel, Thane and Mulund, on Monday. Passengers couldn’t stop raving about how the trains had reduced travel time and given them more time with their families. Most compartments were near empty, and passengers at Virar station couldn’t believe their eyes. “Excellent arrangements were done at stations and social distancing norms were followed at stations and booking windows,” said Rail Yatri Sangh’s Subhash Gupta. The railways has decided to extend the validity of passes to the extent of days lost due to the lockdown, said WR’s chief public relations officer Ravinder Bhakar. The resumption of services, after the state government asked for it several times, came as a huge relief to those who had been commuting by bus so far. “It was not a pleasant journey as it took at least two hours to reach Bhaba hospital. By train, I can reach in one hour,” said Ganesh Salunkhe, who boarded from Titwala. Many passengers took trains to return home after they had travelled by bus to their places of work. A small group is disappointed trains have limited stops. Shiraj Shaikh, who stays in Mumbra, said: “The train should stop at smaller stations north of Thane so that we too can avail of these services instead of a tiresome journey by bus.” (With inputs from Sujit Mahamulkar, Nitasha Natu, Sandhya Nair, Vijay Singh and Nishikant Karlikar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-many-dont-have-ticket-to-ride-but-railways-expects-bigger-crowd/articleshow/76396086.cms||Manthank Mehta
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Time to replace Persian words in land records with Punjabi and English||As government functioning are becoming more and more transparent the world over especially among democracies, it will always be in mutual interests of the citizen and the state to become more transparent. There are so many Persian words being used in the land records and at a few other government offices, which are difficult for a layman and even educated residents. In fact, there is a requirement to set up a committee to go through the glossary of all revenue related terms/words/phrases and suggest a simple terms in Punjabi and English so that a common man does not face problems. A glossary should be made and just replace the Persian words in the land records society in phases so that it is done over a period of time. Or in simple terms, a school student should be able to read out the sale deed of an acre of land of his father without really getting bogged down by difficult words and phrases which only few knowledgeable persons knowing the nuances of the revenue language can interpret as of present. While I was researching on this subject, I discussed the subject with various serving and retired revenue departments officials. It became imperative that that there is requirement of translation of the Persian/Arabic/Urdu terms into English as well. This will be helpful as most people in administration and judiciary are well conversant with the English language and most orders in revenue departments as well as in Punjab and Haryana high court/Supreme Court judgments are written in English. Secondly, about 80% to 90% complaints to the lowest functionary, that is patwari, are pertaining to misspellings of names and there is a lot of harassment and corruption at the lowest level for correction of names in land records. Written Punjabi is very easy to be misspelled to different names. But if the name is written in English and the spellings are settled once for all for the proper noun as in case of the name of a land owner as well than lot of cases of complaints of names misspellings can be eradicated to a large extent. What will be the benefits arising out of these these changes ? By making it simple it will become easily understood by all classes of masses as both the languages used will be very simple, self explanatory and not complex. It will lead to higher satisfaction of the government functioning because previous governments have never thought of it. The administrative as well judiciary will welcome this change as it will become easy to understand and adjudicate. Lesser documents as both the languages will be available instantly so there will be no requirement to submit notary attested copies of translations for the client departments/litigants from here onwards . Overseas investors will be able to understand our documents that are available online without looking for translations, which will simplify doing business with the government because every investor has to somehow or the other has to acquire/lease/rent a piece of real estate to establish his /her business in the state. It will be seen as a welcome move by investors from other states as well. It will increase the state governments outreach to the Punjabi NRIs who own land or want to buy /invest in the state as the land /revenue departments documents will become easy to understand, simple to deal with and lesser problems will be there which otherwise are hidden behind the veil of Persian and Arabic revenue terms. Although a small section of persons who benefit from the domain knowledge may not like it, but rest will be in favour once implemented. It will lead to early settlement of land disputes as the land records will be easily interpretable and understandable by all concerned. How we can bring in more changes to bring awareness of land, revenue and its functioning? The Punjab School Education Board should be nudged to introduce chapters in its curriculum about land measurements, hectares, acres, their further sub divisions of kanal, marla, etc. The questions could be about conversions of small acres and standard acres. The problem of dividing of the shares of the land equitably among eligible family members as per the will/ share etc can be included. So that people become revenue literate and will not fear revenue documents. The revenue department can run short vocational courses in revenue record knowledge, study, interpretation can be run online for beginners /youth. The real estate firms are always looking for retired revenue department persons because of their domain knowledge as well as for their liaisoning capability. Now, they turn to young trained persons. (Writer is a social activist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/time-to-replace-persian-words-in-land-records-with-punjabi-and-english/articleshow/76394868.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune’s death toll soars past 500, case count tops 12,000-mark||Pune: The Covid-19 casualty count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) breached the 500-mark on Monday, almost two-and-a-half months after the first coronavirus death was recorded in Pune on April 2. With this, PMR has become second after Mumbai in Maharashtra to record more than 500 deaths. Thirteen deaths were recorded in the region on Monday, taking the total toll to 511. Besides, the patient tally in PMR also surged past 12,000-mark on Monday, with 318 people testing positive for the contagion in the area in the 24 hours. Of the fresh cases, 257 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, pushing PMC’s tally beyond 10,000. The neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad added 32 cases and 29 patients were reported in rural parts and Cantonments in the Pune district. The positive cases had reached the 11,000-mark on June 12 and took just four more days to cross 12,000-mark. The district health office’s report said about 269 critical patients were being treated at various hospitals in the region, while the total active cases were 3,810. A total of 303 patients were declared cured and discharged in the last 24 hours, it stated. The death count in PMR had reached over 400 on June 5. It took just nine days to add another 100 deaths. Among deaths reported on Monday, three were recorded at the Sassoon hospital. These included a 69-year-old woman from Yerawada, a 42-year-old man from the Dandekar bridge area, a 90-year-old woman from Gokhalenagar. A 75-year-old man of Bopodi died at District hospital in Aundh. Three patients succumbed at Naidu hospital and the rest at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-death-toll-soars-past-500-case-count-tops-12000-mark/articleshow/76395488.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four more Vande Bharat flights to land in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Four more repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat mission are expected to land in Vizag city between June 16 and 18, carrying around 500 passengers. It will be recalled that Vande Bharat flights to the city had started on May 26. So far, around 7,000 persons from the two Telugu-speaking states have landed in Vizag. Vice-president of Tours and Travel Operators Association of Andhra Pradesh (TTAA) O Naresh Kumar said the flights will depart from Manila, Doha, Dhaka and Kyrgyzstan. Air India has informed director of Visakhapatnam International Airport that flight number AI 1309 from Manila-Chennai-Vizag would reach at 8.20 pm on June 16 with around 100 passengers and a direct flight from Doha would arrive in the city later that night. AI 1225 would reach at1.00 pm on June 17 with 87 passengers, while another flight from Bishkek-Delhi-Vizag would arrive at 7.05pm on June 18 with 162 passengers. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-more-vande-bharat-flights-to-land-in-vizag/articleshow/76393923.cms||Siva G
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||‘Operation Paatal’: 654 held with illegalweapons in Bareilly division in 48 hours||Bareilly: As many as 654 accused were arrested with illegal weapons in four districts of Bareilly division and 18 illegal weapons manufacturing units were busted in 48 hours by police under the “Operation Paatal” launched by DIG (Bareilly division) Rajesh Pandey. Under the operation, responsibility was delegated to the in-charge of every beat to ensure that all weapon dealers, manufacturers and history-sheeters were monitored briefly and illegal weapons were seized from them. The operation was secretly launched in the night of June 13 and completed on June 15. A total of 654 accused, including history-sheeters, were arrested with illegal firearms — 42 rifles and 1,151 bullets — in Bareilly, Rampur, Pilibhit and Budaun districts. The DIG told TOI, “After the Baradari shootout in Bareilly, where seven goons opened fire in the air with country-made pistols and a stray bullet killed a youth, I noticed that weapons were easily available to them, which is also a reason behind the sudden rise in the crime rate in the division. So, I delegated responsibility to every beat in-charge to recover illegal weapons and find their suppliers. It was a 48-hour operation, and now if any crime is committed using the illicit weapon in a beat, then the beat in-charge would be transferred to the reserve police lines and an investigation would be set up against him.” “We have arrested 178 people in Bareilly, 198 in Shahjahanpur, 191 in Budaun and 84 in Pilibhit with illegal weapons. Police also busted 18 illegals arms manufacturing units and a total of 651 FIRs have been registered. We are sure that the operation will help us control the crime rate in Bareilly division. Besides, it will also help in maintaining peace during the upcoming panchayat elections,” added the DIG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/operation-paatal-654-held-with-illegalweapons-in-bareilly-division-in-48-hours/articleshow/76392649.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||TDP will pay back with interest, Lokesh warns YSRC||Tirupati: TDP national general secretary and former minister Nara Lokesh on Monday strongly denounced the arrest of his party leaders, while warning that the YSRC’s witch-hunting tactics would be ‘paid back with interest’ by TDP. Following the arrest of former Tadipatri legislator JC Prabhakar Reddy for his alleged involvement in the BS-III vehicles scam on Saturday, Lokesh met his elder brother and former MP JC Diwakar Reddy at Tadipatri in Anantapur district and extended solidarity. “First, they got (former minister) K Atchannaidu arrested in the ESI scam though he had absolutely no role to play in it. They offered him Rs 50 crore to make him join YSRC but when he refused to budge, he was arrested. The Jagan government is desperate to finish off the TDP. Their approach is clear: Desert TDP and join us, or we will send you to jail,” Lokesh alleged. Diwakar Reddy’s family has been in the transport business from the pre-Independence days, Lokesh said. “The ruling party is targeting their financial roots by slapping fake cases because they have declared they will remain with TDP. Those who are supporting the witch-hunting policies of this government should keep in mind that they will have to face legal consequences. The TDP will pay back with interest when our time comes,” warned Lokesh. Reacting to the Lokesh’s allegations, YSRC leader and Anakapalli MLA Gudivada Amarnath said the TDP is getting jittery. “The party realises it may have to conduct its next annual Mahanadu inside the jail as several of its leaders are being arrested in various scams. TDP is trying to use the BC (backward caste) card in Atchannaidu’s arrest to gain public sympathy. How are BCs related to Atchennaidu’s arrest?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-will-pay-back-with-interest-lokesh-warns-ysrc/articleshow/76393907.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||B Krishna Rao is new Visakha rural SP||Visakhapatnam: IPS officer Boddepalli Krishna Rao, of the 2014 batch, said that he would take the help of technology to implement people-friendly policing and control extremist activities in the district as well. Krishna Rao took charge as Visakha Rural district Superintendent of Police from the Babujee Attada who was transferred to SIB, an anti-Naxal activities intelligence wing. Krishna Rao worked as officer on special duty (OSD) in the anti-Naxal operations wing in the district earlier. The main challenge for him is to control Maoist activities in the district that share borders with Koraput, Malkangiri of Odisha, and East Godavari and Vizianagaram of AP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/b-krishna-rao-is-new-visakha-rural-sp/articleshow/76393931.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Spruce up health infrastructure in NCR cities, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Sounding an alert to the National Capital Region (NCR) cities in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked the officials concerned to strengthen hospital infrastructure in anticipation of infections from neighbouring Delhi. The national capital has so far recorded over 41,000 cases of Covid-19 and UP has been holding Delhi responsible for most of its positive cases in areas close to the state’s border. On Monday, the CM directed the administration officials of Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr and Baghpat to strengthen L1, L2 and L3 facilities for Covid-19 patients in case there is a rise in cases due to cross-border movement. Cases in Noida crossed 1,000-mark on Monday. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has again emphasized on the need for social distancing and wearing of masks. If district authorities do not take suitable action against offenders, they will be held answerable.” “The chief minister has said that discipline is as important during unlock phase as it was in times of lockdown. Unlocking is being done on the condition that social distancing will be followed, people will wear masks, will not spit and it will be ensured that there is no crowding and overloading of vehicles. People should strictly follow the 9pm-5am curfew,” he said. Awasthi said the home department had conveyed the guidelines for unlock to district administrations and police asking them to ensure implementation. “Acts like spitting, not wearing masks or not following social distancing have been made punishable by fine under the Epidemics Act,” he said. Meanwhile, nodal officers deputed to review the situation in 11 sensitive areas left for their respective districts on Monday. The teams, comprising a senior bureaucrat of secretary or principal secretary level and a senior official in the health department each, will spend a few days in the districts assigned to them and inspect medical colleges, micro management in hospitals, condition and availability of ventilators, oxygen, PPE kits and consumables. They will also take stock of electronic Covid care system support, prevention of medical infection and surveillance for Covid cases. “The CM has said that death rate can only be controlled when there is timely intervention. There should be enough oxygen supply and backup in hospitals,” Awasthi said. Sensitive districts include Agra, Meerut, Firozabad, Moradabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Jhansi and Basti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spruce-up-health-infra-in-ncr-cities-says-yogi/articleshow/76395492.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Namdhari chief booked for criminal conspiracy||LUDHIANA: The Haryana Police has booked namdhari sect leader Thakur Uday Singh of Bhaini Sahib in Ludhiana for criminal conspiracy in a robbery case at Jiwan Nagar in Rania of Sirsa district. The case pertains to an August 2018 incident but was registered on June 11, 2020 after a probe by a deputy superintendent of police. Other charges against the sect chief include rioting, unlawful assembly, wrongful confinement and criminal trespass among others. Gurpreet Singh of Sant Nagar village in Rania, who is manager at Messrs Namdhari Dharam Kanda (weighing bridge) there, had told cops that on August 25, 2018, he was on duty at dharam kanda when three men locked him inside a room after taking away his phone and then lead a mob of around 200 people to ransack the premises. He said they had razed a service station nearby with a JCB and taken the debris away in tractor trolleys after releasing him. The complainant said he had immediately informed Namdhari Gurdwara Parbhandak Committee president Sukhdev Singh and the police. He alleged the accused had acted at the behest of Thakur Uday Singh to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere of the village by hurting religious sentiments. However, Bhaini Sahib spokesperson Lakhbir Singh has rubbished the charges, saying the complainant party had encroached on Thakur Uday Singh’s land and they had gone to take possession of it. He said they had carried relevant documents at the time and were accompanied by police. He said they were taking legal opinion into the FIR registered against the sect chief and will challenge it and also file a defamation case against the complainant. Meanwhile, the rival namdhari faction has welcomed the police action, saying the sect has never been led by a “self-declared guru” and person booked for criminal offences. Lauding police action, namdhari leaders Navtej Singh, Harvinder Singh and Tajinder Singh said they wanted a thorough investigation into the matter. “Due to their political approach, the usurpers of the sect headquarters are complicit in various nefarious activities like drug smuggling and fake currency printing. But the Punjab government and the Punjab Police have never taken any action against them, which has made them emboldened them. It was because of all this that matriarch Mata Chand Kaur ji was murdered,” they alleged. Rania Police Station SHO sub inspector Sadhu Ram said the matter is being probed and no one has been arrested in the case as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/namdhari-sect-chief-booked-for-criminal-conspiracy-in-sirsa/articleshow/76394884.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 16, 2020||Nashik||NMC set to slap Rs 200 fine on those without mask in public||Nashik/Aurangabad: Experts the world over have observed that face masks, social distancing and proper hygiene are effective in curbing Covid-19 spread. However, some people still are ignoring the safety instructions, prompting authorities to consider strict measures. In Nashik city, the civic body, trying to curb the spread of the infection, has taken cognizance of people ignoring the mandatory rule of wearing masks in public and has decided to slap a Rs200 fine on each violator. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has formed teams to take action. Civic officials pointed out more than 650 people have tested positive in the past 25 days alone. There were 48 patients in Nashik city till May 20, but the tally has now crossed the 700-mark.In Aurangabad district too, in the past seven days, case-count has gone up by 800. Highlighting the role of masks in preventing pre-symptomatic transmission of the infection, Aurangabad-based doctor and IMA office-bearer Anupam Takalkar cited a WHO report. He said if a person is Covid-19 infected, s/he may start showing symptoms only on the fifth or sixth day after contracting infection. However, s/he can start spreading the infection three-to-four days days before symptom onset. Takalkar said there is a misconception that an asymptomatic person cannot transmit the infection. “Symptoms appear, depending on one’s immunity, after five to six days. If a person is coughing, sneezing or has fever, we take preventive steps. But we tend to ignore pre-symptomatic transmission,” he said. “Individuals who experience symptoms have a higher viral load on or just prior to the day of symptom onset, relative to the period later on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-set-to-slap-rs-200-fine-on-those-without-mask-in-public/articleshow/76392687.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 pandemic halts child adoption||Bareilly: Since lockdown was announced, the orphanage in Bareilly has been faced with an unusual problem — adoptions of the little angels growing up there have stopped. Warne Baby Fold in Civil Lines is full of babies with almost identical stories of disparity, grit and survival against all odds. That includes Bareilly’s “miracle baby”, who was found alive in an earthen pitcher buried at a cremation ground, and survived despite spending nearly 48 hours in the grave. Then there is a baby girl from Nawabganj who was prematurely born and dumped in garbage, packed in a polybag. She spent hours amidst the infection; street dogs and cats, but miraculously survived. The orphanage’s superintendent, Primrose Edmond, said there are 14 children with them currently, all of whom are hale and healthy. Besides the “miracle baby”, the orphanage has hosted a girl who was rescued as a new-born last year, after she was dumped in a sugarcane field, where it was found with red ants crawling all over. She was rushed to hospital, and survived. Earlier this year, she was adopted by a Bangalore-based couple. She also informed that several couples, including BJP MLA Rajesh Mishra alias Pappu Bhartaul, had shown interest in adopting the “earthen pitcher baby”. However, by the time legal proceedings could be carried out, lockdown had been imposed. Edmond told TOI, “We’re ensuring that all children in the orphanage are given proper care and attention. Adoption process has halted for the moment, as we have instructions not to allow any outsider to visit the centre and meet the children. We follow instructions from the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), so children here may have to wait for long to find a permanent home.” CWC (Bareilly) member D N Sharma told TOI, “Adoption has stopped because of the pandemic. We’re waiting for fresh guidelines from the government. Till then, we’re ensuring that the children living in shelter homes are not facing problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-pandemic-halts-child-adoption/articleshow/76392686.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 16, 2020||Pune||PCMC hopes to analyse 1,000 coronavirus samples daily||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is set to ramp up Covid-19 testing to 1,000 tests a day from the 300 it was carrying out last week. On an average, until June 12, the PCMC could test 162 samples a day at the over half-a-dozen public and private facilities it has been relying on. Over the two days of the weekend, the number rose to over 650. “In March and April, the turnaround time (from tests to results) was 24 hours. But now, due to the pile-up, the backlog of tests is as much as five days,” said Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner. The civic body is set to add a dedicated test facility at the civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital and is tying up with more private labs. The YCM's infrastructure is also being shored up and the plan is to make it the lead test centre for Covid-19 in the 181 sqkm civic limits. “We are adding infrastructure to carry out about 376 tests within a 12-hour timeframe. If run continuously, we can do double that every day,” Hardikar said. The PCMC is also requesting labs and hospitals such as the National Institute of Virology and BJ Medical College to help with tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-up-testing-to-1000-from-300/articleshow/76395495.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 16, 2020||Amritsar||Bless our separatist agenda: SFJ to Akal Takht jathedar||AMRITSAR: Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s ‘Khalistan’ comments, despite his belated attempts to clarify, seem to have encouraged Sikh separatists to seek his support for their cause. The US-based separatist body Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) has urged him to perform ‘ardas’ on July 4, when it will begin voter registration for ‘Referendum 2020’ to seek people’s opinion on separate Punjab from rest of India. The Sikh body has deliberately chosen the date, as it was on this same day in 1955 that police had arrested Sikh leadership demonstrating in support of Punjabi Suba. In a missive to the acting jathedar on Monday, SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu urged him to perform ‘ardas’ at the Akal Takht on July 4 the in memory of the July 4, 1955 incident and on the day SFJ will open its voters registration in Punjab. “SFJ is opening voter registration in Punjab on July 4, 2020, for non-governmental Referendum 2020 and we seek Sri Akal Takht Sahib’s blessings in this endeavour for Sikhs’ rights,” Pannu urged the acting jathedar. Sikh scholars here are of the view that acting jathedar’s and the SGPC president’s comments on Khalistan had given the Sikh separatists an opportunity to “rope in” Sikh religious leadership. On July 6, Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had said that “every Sikh wants Khalistan and they will not say no if it is offered to them by the Indian government”. On June 13, Harpreet Singh had issued a release stating he did not denounce Khalistan but only said that “Sikhs couldn’t be defined by the idea of Khalistan alone”. The acting jathedar could not be contacted for his comments, but his personal assistant Jaswinder Singh said he had given his statement in a press release issued on June 13 from Talwandi Sabo. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s support to Referendum 2020 was exposed on Monday, after some people here received a recorded call from an US number, with the caller identifying himself as Imran Malik of SFJ from Karachi and asking them people to get ready for voter registration on July 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bless-our-separatist-agenda-sfj-to-akal-takht-jathedar/articleshow/76394896.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||For Sreenivasulu, this is his 2nd stint as Vij police chief||Vijayawada: Outgoing city police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Monday handed over the reins of Vijayawada police commissioner to B Sreenivasulu on Monday. Sreenivasulu, who served as additional commissioner in the city for almost six months, was city police commissioner from 2013 to 2014. Addressing a joint press conference, Tirumala Rao recollected his 23 months’ service as police commissioner and said that it was one the ‘busiest’ tenure. “Since I took charge, several events came about in quick succession – be it elections, swearing-in ceremonies and even the pandemic. I am quite satisfied in setting up initiatives like Cheruva, setting up of cybercrime police station amongst others,” Rao said. Sreenivasulu reminisced his previous tenure as the city police commissioner which was eventful as well. From witnessing bifurcation, 2014 general elections and seeing the commissionerate itself upgraded to additional director general – rank, Sreenivasulu functioned as the city’s top cop during a major transitional period in the state. Sreenivasulu, an IG-rank officer who was conferred with IPS in 1998, did work as assistant commissioner (west zone) within the commissionerate in 1990.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/for-sreenivasulu-this-is-his-2nd-stint-as-vij-police-chief/articleshow/76393962.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||As work dries up at Jawahar Autonagar, labourers hope for financial assistance||VIJAYAWADA: At the Jawahar Autonagar industrial estate, automobile mechanics and daily wage earners who lost their livelihoods with the lockdown wait for work. The pandemic has hurt small and marginal businesses here after transport operators stopped coming forward for maintenance works. Vijayawada, the automobile hub of Andhra Pradesh, has close to 2,000 small to large-scale transport operators. One lakh families in the city depend on the associated industries in Jawahar Autonagar, most of which are connected to truck maintenance and repair works. With the fall in interstate movement of trucks, workers in the automobile mechanical industry are struggling to make ends meet. “Altogether 12 mechanics work in our shed. Clutch repairs, break works and other repair works occupy a major portion of our work. No truck owner is coming forward for the repairs with the financial crisis and we are facing difficulty in meeting daily expenses,” said K Bose, who runs a mechanic shed at Jawahar Autonagar. Truck drivers and cleaners who are out of work have been demanding financial support from the state government. “State government helped autorickshaw drivers and cab drivers by giving Rs 10,000 under YSR Vahana Mitra. Our situation is pathetic and most of the mechanics and lorry drivers are not in a position to feed their families. State government should announce a special package for motor mechanics and truck drivers immediately,” said Jasti Narayana Rao, a transport operator from the city. The Communist Party of India (CPI) and trade unions have supported the demand of truck drivers and operators and requested the state government to announce immediate financial assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-work-dries-up-at-jawahar-autonagar-labourers-hope-for-financial-assistance/articleshow/76393963.cms||Venu Lanka
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Now, Urs-e-Tajush Shariah in UP to be observed online on June 28||Bareilly: Taking no chances after running into controversy last year, the organisers of second Urs-e-Tajush Shariah have decided to observe this year's event online on June 28, mainly due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Urs - widely followed in Uttar Pradesh and rest of the country - will be observed to commemorate the second death anniversary of Mufti Mohammad Akhtar Raza Khan Qadri alias Azhari Miyan, an influential Sunni Barelvi cleric. A poster announcing the event's schedule was released on Monday. Salman Hasan Khan, national vice-president, Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, said, "It has been decided that Urs-e-Tajush Shariah will be observed online. During the event, all religious speeches will be broadcast online on social media. During the tradition of 'Kul Sharif' [the main prayer ceremony of Urs when Azhari Miyan breathed his last], the family members of Tajush Shariah will be present at his dargah to offer prayers while his followers across the world will pray from their respective homes at the same time." In 2019, the district administration had initially granted permission to hold a two-day Urs-e-Tajush Shariah at Islamia ground. However, after opposition from certain organisations claiming the Urs to be a "new tradition", the administration cancelled the earlier permission. Later, the admin allowed the organisers to hold a daylong event at their private madrassa. Azhari Miyan had died due to illness on July 20, 2018, but the date of his Urs has been decided in accordance with the Islamic calendar. He was the great grandson of one of the most distinguished Islamic scholars of the sub-continent, Ahmad Raza Khan, popularly known as Aala Hazrat. Ahmad Raza Khan had founded the Barelvi movement in South Asia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-urs-e-tajush-shariah-in-up-to-be-observed-online-on-june-28/articleshow/76392703.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Eight-year-old raped by father||Rampur: An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father on Sunday, inside their home at a village in Milak tehsil, while her mother was away. Neighbours had called up to inform the mother, who had gone to visit her parents. The mother rushed back to the village and lodged a police complaint against her 35-year-old husband. Later that day, an FIR was filed under charges of rape, and he was subsequently arrested. ON being informed, senior police officials reached the spot and arranged for the victim to be sent for examination at the Rampur district hospital. Speaking with TOI, Milak circle officer (CO) Dharam Singh said, “The incident took place within the territorial jurisdiction of Milak police station. The 35-year-old accused, a daily wager, was booked for rape and relevant sections of POCSO Act. He has been sent to jail.” Singh added, “The medical report confirmed rape and on Tuesday, the victim will be produced before the magistrate to have her statement recorded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-year-old-raped-by-father/articleshow/76392693.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||Corona takes big toll on social sector spending||Call it the Covid-19 effect. Philanthropic or social sector funding has taken a huge blow with certain non-profit organisations even facing an existential challenge as all funding activities get centralised around fighting the pandemic. The sector stares at a huge drop, with CSR (corporate social responsibility) funding expected to fall by an estimated 30-60% over the next two years. Going forward, economic distress faced by companies will be a double whammy for the sector. Officials working in the non-profits space told TOI the social sector is expected to face a drying up of CSR spending, with a bulk of it being channelised to meet the Covid crisis, including initiatives like the PM Cares Fund. Many domestic and foreign philanthropies who have announced large-sized Covid response initiatives are unlikely to make new/bold bets this year. Several others are repurposing their current commitments to support the pandemic response, impacting other social challenges, including non-Covid public health initiatives.The drying up of CSR funds, together with the downward pressure on corporate profitability over the years, is expected to significantly reduce CSR funding across sectors, experts say. Says Pritha Venkatachalam, partner, The Bridgespan Group, a philanthropy advisory, “Most companies have contributed substantially to the Covid-19 response, either to the PM-Cares Fund or chief ministers’ funds (across states) as well as to their own CSR Covid-19 interventions. This contribution of resources, paired with the downward pressure on corporate profitability over the coming years, is anticipated to significantly reduce CSR funding that supports India’s Sustainable Development Goals across sectors. Even if the quantum of CSR funds is inevitably lower, CSR donors could reorient their giving in three ways—proactively supporting the vulnerable and most marginalized groups; rebuilding resilience of communities through for example, sustainable livelihoods and stronger primary health systems; and collaborating smartly to leverage scarce resources for greater impact.’’ A few philanthropies are adopting a wait-and-watch approach to ensure funding headroom for a post-emergency phase; while some nonprofits—with the support of primarily their existing funders, have rallied or repurposed their programs to work on health and/or socio-economic needs of the pandemic, a Bridgespan study across 40 organizations, shared exclusively with TOI, says. Deval Sanghavi, co-founder of Dasra, a strategic philanthropy foundation, says: “NGOs which have a higher dependency on CSR funds have seen a 20-40% drop in budgets, regardless of the sector they focus on. Their financial situation only gets worse next year with even greater deficits leading some to even shutdown. In other countries, governments have supported non-profit organizations with salary and rental payments for a three-to-six month period”. Covid funding will move from current focus on food, health and hygiene to rural education and livelihood, says Vineet Nayar, philanthropist and former chief of HCL Technologies. “Non-Covid project funding will reduce by 30-50%, thus we will see flight to quality, leading to consolidation around fewer high-impact projects. Secondly, many inflight projects will come to a sudden halt, leaving end beneficiaries worse off than before, and lastly we will see a significant number of people in the social sector lose their jobs”, he adds. The study highlights that philanthropic investment could be catalytic in supporting critical healthcare and socioeconomic needs, and vulnerable populations like migrant workers. Philanthropic funding has grown at a CAGR of over 17% over 2011-19, with an increasing share from domestic corporations and individual/family philanthropies, according to the Bain India Philanthropy Report 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/corona-takes-big-toll-on-social-sector-spending/articleshow/76395500.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal eases quarantine rules for bizmen, migrants||Shimla: Making changes in its quarantine requirements, Himachal Pradesh has decided to keep people visiting the state for business purposes and certain other categories of visitors out of the purview of quarantine requirements, said an official on Monday. Partially amending the previous order, the state executive committee (SEC) has now exempted industrial workers, industrialists, factory owners, traders, raw material suppliers, service provider and inspecting authorities from the purview of home quarantine. Quarantine requirements will also not apply to those visiting the state for trade, business, job, project and service purposes and commission agents (arhtiyas), with valid permit or e-pass and not coming from Covid-19 containment zones. As per the order issued by the SEC chairman, migrant labourers can be sent directly to the work site and they can start working immediately while following precautions. The amended order said all persons returning from high case load Covid-19 cities would be institutionally quarantined. Only for exceptional and compelling reasons such as cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness, persons above 65 years of age with co-morbidities and parents accompanying children below 10 years may be permitted to be home-quarantined for 14 days. It said the management or incharge or head of any NGO or charitable organisation, which has branches in Himachal Pradesh and travels to the state in connection with its affairs for a short duration, shall be exempted. In addition to instructions in the original order, use of Aarogya Setu app shall be mandatory in all cases, including exempted categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-eases-quarantine-rules-for-bizmen-migrants/articleshow/76394909.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Assistant sub-inspector dies of Covid-19||PUNE: An assistant sub-inspector posted with the special branch of the Pune police succumbed to coronavirus infection on Monday night at a private hospital in Hadapsar. He became the third victim of Covid-19 of the city police force. According to a senior police officer, the assistant sub-inspector (56) was admitted to the hospital about 15 days ago after he tested positive for the infection. A resident of Hadapsar, he was attached to a police station in the eastern part of the city. “The deceased assistant sub-inspector had comorbid conditions, including diabetes,” the senior officer said, adding that it was not known from where he got infected. Earlier, a constable of the Pune city traffic police and another constable from a centrally located police station succumbed to the contagion. A total of 62 personnel of the Pune police have tested positive for the virus so far. About 40 of them have been given discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assistant-sub-inspector-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76395505.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||80 BSP functionaries, workers join INLD||Chandigarh: Nearly 80 BSP functionaries and workers, headed by a former Haryana in charge of the party, joined the Indian National Lok Dal here on Monday. BSP former Haryana in charge Parkash Bharti said BSP supremo Mayawati broke the alliance with INLD after the Jind byelection, so they decided to join INLD on the basis of decisions taken in three state-level meetings of workers in Ambala and Rohtak. Bharti accused the BJP-JJP governent of having worked against the interest of poor and farmers and roadside vendors. He assured INLD leaders Abhay Singh Chautala and Nafe Singh Rathi of honoring the work the assigned to them during and after elections and to strengthen the organisation. Ellenabad MLA Chautala welcomed Bharti and other BSP workers and functionariesto the party fold. Interacting with media, Abhay said time had changed and people had seen the true face of BJP-JJP government. “Ye gathbandhan nahi, thug bandhan ki sarkar hai (This government is not an alliance of parties, but a partnership of crooks),’’ said Abhay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/80-bsp-functionaries-workers-join-inld/articleshow/76394912.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Heroin case: Police remand for Ambala BJP chief’s son, accomplice||AMBALA: A court here remanded the son of BJP’s Ambala district unit chief and a co-accused in two-day police remand on Sunday, a day after they were arrested with 60 grams of heroin. Amit Kumar, son of Ambala BJP chif Jagmohan Lal Kumar, was arrested along with Kalapnath, a native of Gonda district in Uttar Pradesh who lived in Ambala, by Haryana Police’s special task force (STF) on National Highway-44 on June 13. Ambala STF in-charge deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kulbhushan said Amit lived in Sector 7 of Ambala city, while Kalapnath had been residing near Manav Chowk. “Both accused were been produced before court on Sunday. The court granted their two-day police remand for further investigation,” the DSP said. On a complaint by sub-inspector Satnarayan, a case has been registered against Amit and Kalapnath under Section 21 (punishment for contravention in relation to manufactured drugs and preparations) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Parao police station on June 13. SI Satnarayan stated in the complaint: “On June 13, we received a tip-off that accused Amit and Kalapnath were to sell chitta (heroin) and they would be coming in a Honda City with the contraband in large quantity from Delhi to Ambala. Acting accordingly, we laid a naka at Shashtri Chowk light point on NH 44 and arrested two accused under limits of Parao police station. Upon checking, we recovered a total of 60 gm chitta from the possession of Amit and Kalapnath. One of them possessed 20g and the other 40g.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/heroin-case-police-remand-for-ambala-bjp-chiefs-son-accomplice/articleshow/76394907.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Not enough kits at UP's IVRI, testing of Covid samples hit||Bareilly: Lack of adequate number of diagnostic kits and reagents has severely affected the testing of human samples for Covid-19 at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI). Sources said biosafety laboratory-level 3 at IVRI was testing up to 450 samples per day from three districts of Uttar Pradesh - Bareilly, Budaun and Pilibhit. But now, the three districts have started sending samples to Lucknow instead. This may increase the wait time for Covid reports. After receiving permission from Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and UP government to test human samples for Covid-19, the state had decided that Bareilly district administration would provide kits and reagents from the budget of disaster relief fund. Though IVRI initially tested samples of Bareilly only, the government later attached Budaun and Pilibhit with the institute. "IVRI, however, has now run short of kits and these three districts have started sending their samples to Lucknow from Saturday onwards. On Monday, IVRI sent reports of 46 pending samples of Bareilly and 105 old samples of Pilibhit and the institute will receive fresh samples when kits are made available here. District administration of Budaun and Pilibhit have been requested to supply diagnostic kits and reagents," said a senior official. When contacted, Bareilly's chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, "We have started sending all samples for Covid-19 test to KGMU in Lucknow and there is no delay in arrival of reports. The procurement of kits will be done soon for testing at IVRI." However, Bareilly district magistrate (DM) Nitish Kumar said, "The capacity of IVRI’s laboratory is testing 150-200 samples per day but 350-400 samples are being tested here. IVRI continues to test samples for Covid-19 while the surplus samples are being sent to Lucknow." Meanwhile, Budaun DM Kumar Prashant said, "We have placed an order for purchasing 1,000 kits for IVRI and it will be supplied in a week’s time." While Pilibhit DM Vaibhav Shrivastava said, "The order has been placed with the supplier and we are trying to provide kits soon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/not-enough-kits-at-ups-ivri-testing-of-covid-samples-hit/articleshow/76392732.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Comorbidities add to rising Covid-19 death rate in Krishna||VIJAYAWADA: In spite of the intensive medical care provided by district authorities to high-risk categories, the rise in number of cases and deaths has become a matter of concern. Krishna district has so far registered 738 Covid-19 cases, including 27 deaths. The district death rate has increased over the last ten days, with 11 deaths reported since June 1. Clinical experts said most Covid-19 deaths in the district are of patients with comorbidities, or chronic health complications. The death rate, however, is around 3.5 per cent, higher than that of other districts. The district has had two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals since March. The Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College at Pedda Avutapalli handles low-risk cases and the Government General Hospital (GGH) beside Dr NTR University of Health Sciences addresses high-risk cases. Patients with diabees, asthma and other chronic diseases receive treatment at the GGH. Ventilators and other emergency equipment have been made available at GGH. The hospital has clinical experts and patients above the age of 55 receive focused treatment and a special diet while in isolation. The third Covid-19 hospital was inaugurated at Nirma Medical College, Ibrahimpatnam on Monday. Health wing authorities said an additional hospital will help relieve the burden on medical staff treating Covid-19 patients. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz urged the public to be cautious about the rapid spread of the virus and avoid unnecessary travel and meetings. He directed officials to ensure that children and the elderly refrained from using public transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/comorbidities-add-to-rising-covid-19-death-rate-in-krishna/articleshow/76393991.cms||Venu Lanka
June 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Sourceless’ infections puzzle team as more cases turn up||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The health team continues to be boggled by Covid-19 cases with unknown sources, including the latest positive case from Vanchiyoor. The team is awaiting confirmation on two more cases; a KSRTC driver and a person employed in a mobile shop. The team has learnt that the driver reportedly came from Thrissur and joined for duty at a city depot and developed symptoms five days ago. Another case is also being monitored within the city and he is learnt to have travelled to Malappuram. Both persons have been isolated. However, it is not known whether containment of areas and isolation of contacts have been initiated in both these cases. In both these cases, information regarding source of infection has been vague. Earlier, in the case of confirmation of infection in remand prisoners in three panchayats, containment and isolation were delayed for more than 24 hours before around 90 wards were declared as containment zones. The Asha worker, who was tested positive on Sunday, has got around 700 contacts and with sample collection impractical for such a broad spread of contacts, the team is focusing mainly on houses she had visited for supply of drugs to patients under palliative care. The swab results of family members, high-risk contacts and a few primary contacts are expected on Tuesday. While the contact tracing has covered her travel from May 31 till June 14, the team is struggling to pinpoint the source of infection. Although she has visited many houses during field work, symptomatic or suspected cases have not been reported in any of these houses. The team is probing the possibility of her contracting infection during her work hours at the tea shop which she runs along with her husband. The officials believe that the infection may have spread from the customers at the tea shop which may include frequent travellers to Tamil Nadu for transportation of goods. As regarding the 67-year-old person who was tested positive at Vanchiyoor, the health team is dealing with two issues; lack of evident source of infection as well as lapses in testing protocol. District collector Navjot Khosa said that she has asked for a detailed epidemiological report from General Hospital and Medical College Hospital regarding the case. It is learnt that the patient was presented with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) ; a common lung disease twice at General Hospital and once at Medical College Hospital but swab samples were not taken although samples are collected from persons coming with acute respiratory distress. District collector is learnt to have taken up the matter with health authorities in a meeting held on Monday as to how such a lapse could have occurred. The patient was admitted at General Hospital for four days and discharged and was again brought to General Hospital casualty on June 10 from where he was referred to Medical College Hospital. Although he was reported to have breathlessness, samples were not collected. The sources of infection in the case of Father KG Varghese, three remand prisoners, and an ambulance driver remains unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sourceless-infections-puzzle-team-as-more-cases-turn-up/articleshow/76394006.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||72-year-old from Jagraon succumbs to Covid-19||tnnLudhiana: A 72-year-old resident of Mansuran village in Jagraon succumbed to Covid-19 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on Monday. He was admitted to the hospital on June 14 with complaints of breathlessness. DMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said, “His chest x-ray revealed infiltrates. He was put on antibiotics and oxygen support. The patient was managed with a multidisciplinary approach and his sample was sent to the hospital’s virology lab on June 14. He tested positive the same day.”“He was monitored continuously and put on ventilatory support. His condition worsened and at 9.07am on June 15, he had a cardiac arrest. He was declared dead at 9.25am,” he added.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “He was diagnosed with Covid-19, diabetes, heart problems, pneumonia, sepsis and shock. With him, the death tally of the district has reached 20, including 12 from Ludhiana and eight from outside. All of them had comorbidities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/72-year-old-from-jagraon-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/76393993.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Household workers seek timely payment of salaries||BENGALURU: Hundreds of domestic helps staged a protest at the labour department’s office on Monday, highlighting problems they are facing in the wake of the Covid-19-induced lockdown and demanding job security and timely payment of wages. The protesters had also submitted a memorandum to the labour commissioner on June 15. Many helps said they haven’t received salaries for two months now. Radha K, an activist with Domestic Workers Union, said, “We visited the labour commissioner several times during the lockdown. Considering there was no outcome, we had no choice but to protest today.” She went on to say, “Many of these people here are the only earning members in their family. How will they feed their family? Isn’t nutritious food a right they can demand?” She said many big apartment complexes have a separate lift for domestic workers, but some have barred domestic helps from using lifts. “Some of these domestic workers are above the age of 50. They can’t be expected to use the stairs,” Radha said. V Laxmi, 37, a help, said, “I have been working in the same three houses for eight years now, two of which have not paid me my salary. They are well-off doctors, but they tell me ‘if you have no work you won’t get paid’. My husband is a construction labourer and he also had no income during the lockdown. I have to feed a family of five. The government has given us rice and we buy the cheapest vegetables and make a meal once a week.” They claimed many employers have told them not to come to work because they come from slums and they might infect children and senior citizens in their homes. “It is extremely hurtful for any human being when they are pointed at and told that they are bringing in the virus just because they do not belong to the same strata of life. On humanitarian grounds they could have paid at least half the salary,” Radha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/domestic-workers-seek-timely-payment-of-wages/articleshow/76394290.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Seven Chakan firm staffers test positive, 100 contacts in home quarantine||Pune: Seven employees of a private firm in Kadachiwadi village in Chakan industrial zone tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. They are residents of Shivajinagar, Warje Malwadi in Pune, and Pimpri and other places and were travelling to the company daily. Khed tehsil medical officer BB Gadve told TOI on Monday, “An employee of the firm had tested positive a few days ago. Thereafter, we had collected samples of 100 employees who had come in contact with him, last week. On Sunday, seven employees tested positive and the others were told to home quarantine themselves for two weeks.” Gadve said these workers are residents of Shivajinagar, Warje Malwadi, Pimpri and other places. “We have told the management of the company not to call employees who are residents of containment zones. We are going to issue a special notice to all the companies in Khed tehsil,” Gadve added. The Khed tehsil administration has formed a special team to visit companies and check their preparedness regarding Covid-19. “Our officials are in contact with companies and have been visiting them randomly ever since they resumed operations,” Khed tehsildar Suchitra Amle said. District collector Naval Kishore Ram, who met Khed tehsil administration officials last week, said, “The tehsil has the highest number of industries and most workers are residents of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Precautions to contain the spread of cases is necessary.” He will call another meeting with industry representatives. Dilip Batwal, secretary of the Federation of Chakan Industries, said most companies are following the government guidelines, maintaining social distancing, providing masks and thermal temperature checking. But employees need to take precautions. In this case, the first employee who tested positive had gone to meet his relative in Pune and got infected.” Chakan and the nearby areas have recorded 12 cases, so far. Seven are from the Chakan Municipal Council limits while the rest are from the adjacent villages which house private companies So far, Khed tehsil has recorded 42 Covid-19 cases, of which, 28 have been discharged. Two succumbed to the virus and 12 are being treated, Gadve said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-chakan-firm-staffers-test-positive-100-contacts-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/76395507.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Industrial estate in Dindori picked to attract investments||Nashik: The state government has identified the new industrial estate of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) at Talegaon-Akrale, in Dindori taluka of the district, among other places in the state to attract new investments. The government is working on attracting large foreign investments into the state after the Covid-19 crisis. MIDC has already set up a new industrial estate on 500 acres and infrastructure has also been developed. The place is just 7km from the Nashik airport. MIDC officials said they are eyeing investment from engineering and food processing sectors.“The state government is already working on attracting more foreign investments into the state. It is in touch with the Centre for the purpose and is also making efforts on its own,” said Nitin Gavli, regional officer, Nashik MIDC.Moreover, the state government is also in the process of framing a special policy for the state to attract foreign investors and large industries within the state,” said Gavli.MIDC has already created infrastructure like internal roads, approach roads, water supply, streetlight and other facilities at the new industrial estate.“This is really a good development in the interest of Nashik district. There is a need to promote industrial growth in the district. In the past decade, not a single new large industry had come to Nashik,” said Manish Rawal, a senior member of Nashik Industries and Manufacturers’ Association. It took around four-five years to develop new industrial estate at Talegaon-Akrale, but MIDC needs to speed up the efforts to bring new investment here, said Rawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industrial-estate-in-dindori-picked-to-attract-investments/articleshow/76392722.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 16, 2020||Shimla||Boy tests +ve after death, HP gets 38 new cases||Shimla: Test report of a 16-year-old boy from Piyuhara panchayat of Chamba district, who had died on June 13, on Monday showed him positive for Covid-19, though the exact cause of his death is yet to be established. During the day, 38 positive cases, including 19 from Solan district, were also reported, while 17 patients recovered, including seven in Kangra district. The deceased was living in a containment zone and his samples were taken after his death. Health officials said now samples of all those who attended his last rites would be collected. With the latest cases, the tally of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 556, out of which 195 are active cases, 11 have migrated out of state, 342 recovered and six persons died. The cases in Solan district are from Baddi area. They are said to be contacts of a patient from Gullarwala. The district administration has started the process to trace contacts of the fresh cases. In Chamba district, apart from the boy who died, another person — a 45-year-old female — tested positive. In Mandi district, a 39-year-old resident of Ladbhadol tehsil, tested positive after returning from Delhi. He had reached Ner Chowk along with his family members in two taxis. All seven, including the taxi drivers, are being shifted to institutional quarantine. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said one person, 50, has been tested positive in the district, while seven Covid-19 patients recovered on Monday. A total of 49,531 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Monday, of them 30,680 had completed 28 days of surveillance, while 18,851 were under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/boy-tests-ve-after-death-hp-gets-38-new-cases/articleshow/76394963.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Man threatens tenant with gun; video goes viral||BELAGAVI: A desperate landlord took the extreme step of threatening his tenant with a gun over unpaid rent at Chikkodi in Belagavi district on Sunday night. A video of the incident has gone viral. The Chikkodi police have registered two FIRs following a complaint by both the tenant and owner. On Sunday night Noor Ahmad Shapurkar entered the compound of his tenant Rohini Deekshit flashing his country-made single-barrel gun in an attempt to threaten her and recover the Rs 2,500 that was due towards rent for the house in which she lived. Rohini had allegedly defaulted on her rent during the lockdown. Shapurkar reportedly asked her to vacate the house when she failed to pay the rent for three months. He also kept the deposit towards the unpaid rent. However, Rohini still owed her house owner Rs 2,500 which Shapurkar had been demanding from her. As soon as Shapurkar entered the compound, there was a heated altercation between him and Rohini's family members. She reportedly told him that they would vacate the house after a month. The argument got physical with Rohini's family pushing Shapurkar. The video shows Shapurkar whipping out his gun and firing multiple shots in the air. Some of the bullets ripped through a portion of the roof, said a police officer. Police are investigating whether Shapurkar had a licence for the weapon. While Shapurkar has been hospitalised as he sustained injuries in his hand his son has been arrested in connection with the case, said police. Watch House owner opens fire over non-payment of rent in Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-man-threatens-tenant-with-gun-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76394429.cms||Shreyas HS
June 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 and swine flu can coinfect, make diagnosis difficult: Doctors||HYDERABAD: With the monsoon having set in, doctors do not rule out the possibility of coinfection of Covid-19 and human influenza A (swine flu). China has already recorded a case of coinfection in which both Covid-19 and swine flu viruses were present making it difficult for the doctors to diagnose the problem. As influenza A is now endemic to Telugu states and Covid-19 likely to become part of the viruses circulating in these parts, doctors observe that both viruses can stay in the same patient, requiring two tests to diagnose cases of coinfection. In a recent issue of ‘Journal of Emerging Diseases’, published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) of the US, Chinese doctors have reported a case of coinfection with novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) and novel influenza A virus in an elderly patient with pneumonia. “The case highlights possible co-detection of known respiratory viruses. We noted low sensitivity of upper respiratory specimens for coronavirus, which could further complicate recognition of the full extent of disease,” the Chinese doctors said in their research publication. Though India has not yet officially reported coinfection of Covid-19 and swine flu, city doctors point out such a scenario is possible as there are several cases of coinfection regarding diseases like chikungunya and dengue. They also call for simultaneous tests for Covid-19 and influenza A to rule out possible coinfection. Luckily, as both Covid-19 and influenza A do not have medicines for treatment and patients are treated based on symptoms, coinfection may not change the medicare regimen. “Coinfection with influenza A may be seen in a significant number of patients,” said Dr Suneetha Narreddy, consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals. Initially, all samples for Covid-19 were tested for influenza A, she said, adding that if “coinfection exists, then treatment of influenza A can improve Covid-19 outcomes”. Dr J Anish Anand, expert in internal medicine, however, makes a cautious observation on the coinfection. “Since there are no major case reports throughout the world of Covid-19 and influenza A coinfection, there is no need to panic,” he points out. Not ruling out the possibility of coinfection, Dr Anish said technically it can take place. “Superinfection of one bug over the other in any patient with low immunity can occur,” he said. The CDC publication had documented an elderly person, who was hospitalised in China with persistent fever and breathlessness. The doctors took his samples and tested for influenza A and Covid-19. While the test for influenza was positive, he tested negative four times. Finally, as there was no respite from fever and severe breathlessness, doctors conducted covid-19 tests using a new lab method – mNGS (metagenomic next generation sequencing) and rRT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) to diagnose Covid-19 coinfection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-and-swine-flu-can-coinfect-make-diagnosis-difficult-docs/articleshow/76394911.cms||Syed Akbar
June 16, 2020||Hubballi||Pvt schools demand package from govt to pay teachers’ salary||Hubballi: With the the state government restricting schools from pestering parents for fees and banning online classes till Class 5, private school managements are demanding a financial package from the government to pay salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff. The managements claim they have been paying salaries from April but cannot afford to pay from June since parents are not coming forward to pay fees after the government offered them moratorium. Jayaprakash Tenginakai, president, Dharwad District Unaided School Managements’ Association, told TOI: “The education minister has said not to collect fees forcibly from parents. The government should understand that private unaided schools in tier-2 cities are being run by institutional managements and not by company set-ups. We have always strived to provide quality education and infrastructure to students and better salaries to our staff. I condemn the move by the government which has been taken without consulting the stakeholders. If some schools are violating any norm set by the government or functioning just for profit, let the government initiate action against such schools,” he said. Association’s vice-president Lingaraj Patil alleged that the government has allowed private unaided schools in Bengaluru to collect 50% of fees but the same is not allowed in other cities. “The government should understand that annual fees charged by unaided schools in rest of Karnataka is hardly Rs 20,000 whereas it is in lakhs in Bengaluru. During Covid-19 pandemic, the government has not consulted us while taking any decision. Irked by this attitude, we are planning to approach the court soon,” he said. Association’s director Mahendra Singhi asserted that this issue should be handled with humane approach. “Teachers of unaided schools are also part of society and their welfare is the responsibility of the government, management and parents at large. Now, most of the managements are facing severe financial crisis. We will somehow manage to pay 33% of salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff, if the government helps us with 33% from its exchequer and allow us to collect 33% from parents. We will meet the chief minister soon” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pvt-schools-demand-package-from-govt-to-pay-teachers-salary/articleshow/76393192.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Most pre-nursery schools in Mysuru report zero admissions||Mysuru: Children in the three-to-ten age group having been identified as being among the most vulnerable to Covid-19 infection, parents are understandably apprehensive about enrolling their wards in pre-nursery schools. The fear of the novel coronavirus transmitting among the children has resulted in many Montessori schools in Mysuru not receiving any calls from parents inquiring about admission. Most of the schools that offer schooling to children below the age of five have not had any kids enrolled, forcing many of them to shut shop. However, there is a two-pronged reason for the decline in admissions to these schools: In addition to reservations among parents, the department of public instruction (DPI) is yet to greenlight admissions for all classes, ranging from pre-nursery to class X. DPI officials in Mysuru said that they were not aware of pre-nursery schools reporting poor admissions. President of the CBSE, ICSE State Board Private School Association, Mysuru Sudhakar Shetty said that, owing to the lack of guidelines from the government as to the norms to be followed for pre-nursery classes, there has been a lot of confusion over the issue. “Many schools have not had admissions to pre-nursery classes. The parents are worried about transmission of Covid-19 and are not enrolling their kids in schools,” Shetty added. Parents, on the other hand, said that they were unlikely to send their young kids to schools till as late as October, regardless of when the institutions would open. “Doctors want kids to wear masks, but getting children to obey such rules is easier said than done. Children share water, food, chocolates, etc. The chances for the infection to spread are very high in such an environment. So, until everything becomes clear, I won’t send my kid to school,” said Vaishnavi, the mother of a three-and-a-half year-old kid in Lakshmipuram. Teachers, meanwhile, are staring at a rather bleak future. The decline in admissions has further aggravated their already dented prospects. “We are paid very less to begin with, and now, owing to poor admissions, we may end up without a job. We are not getting jobs even among the big franchise institutions,” said Srimati, a pre-nursery schoolteacher in Mysuru. Block education officer for Mysuru rural Krishna reiterated the fact that the DPI had not allowed schools to commence admissions yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/most-pre-nursery-schools-in-mysuru-report-zero-admissions/articleshow/76393256.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Door-to-door survey in Yeola||Nashik: In a meeting with the government officials, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal ordered to conduct door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 patients in Yeola taluka. Yeola taluka witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The total number of cases is 62 with 9 active cases. Bhujbal represents Yeola taluka in assembly constituency. With the rise in the numbers of cases and the taluka witnessing the second wave of cases, Bhujbal conducted the meeting and took the decision. District health officer Kapil Aher said that the health teams will go door-to-door to carry out survey of people with reference to their age and also check for ailments they might be suffering from. Apart from Yeola, the health department will also carry out the survey in Manmad town of Nandgaon taluka. The rural areas have reported 361 Covid-19 cases of which 236 are active and 219 patients have recovered with 17 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/door-to-door-survey-in-yeola/articleshow/76392702.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Poacher shot at by mistake, four companions held||KARWAR: Five persons who had gone poaching in a forest near Malagi village in Mundgod taluk of Uttara Kannada district fired on their companion by mistake on Saturday. The five are - Mushtaq Ahmad Mohammad Saab Sheikh 33, Ismail Abdul Rehman Janageri, Maqbool Mohammad Sheikh, Ahammad Shareef Haidar Saab Sheikh and Suleman Budan Saab Sheikh - and are residents of Malagi and surrounding villages. When they were in the forest, one of them allegedly opened fire at an animal but the bullet accidentally hit Mustaq Ahmad Mohammad Saab Sheikh in his shoulder. As the vehicle the poachers had brought to the forest had a problem, they could not shift Sheik to a hospital. They allegedly called one of their friends for help and the entire incident came to light. When police enquired about the incident, the injured Sheik tried to mislead them by saying he was hit by a stray bullet when he was working at his farm on Saturday night. Police suspected something was fishy. During inquiry, it came to light that Sheik was shot at by his companions accidentally. Mundgod police have arrested Sheik’s four friends, while he is undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/poacher-shot-at-by-mistake-four-companions-held/articleshow/76392214.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||14-year-old gang-raped||LUDHIANA: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped at a park in Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, police said on Monday after registering a case against two accused. While one of the accused has been identified as Vicky, the police are yet to get details of the other. The minor said in her police complaint, “My father, a labourer, lost his job during the lockdown. In April, a man, who introduced himself as Vicky, came to our house and gave us ration. He took my phone number for providing help.” Thereafter, Vicky started calling her regularly and the two became friends. “On June 10, Vicky took me to a park in Sector 32 and called his friend. There, the two gang-raped me and threatened me against speaking about the incident. He then dropped me at my friend’s house,” she added. While looking for their daughter, the girl’s worried parents reached Vicky’s house. “When he came to know about it, he brought me to his house and I left with my parents. I was too scared to speak about the incident. On June 14, I mustered courage and told my parents about it,” she said. Her family took her to the police station, where a case was lodged under sections 376-D (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The cops suspect that the accused might be a member of an NGO that provided food and ration to the needy during lockdown. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/14-year-old-gang-raped/articleshow/76394010.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Biggest 1-day spike: 45 catch the virus in district||tnnLudhiana: In the biggest one-day surge so far, 45 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of 75 pending reports received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, 35 were positive and 40 negative. Later in the day, 11 more positive reports were received.”6 influenza-like illness cases Six cases had influenza-like illness (ILI). They included a 31-year-old man from Payal village, a 33-year-old man from Durgapuri, Haibowal, and a 39-year-old man from Hargovind Nagar. A 63-year-old woman from Jagraon and a 72-year man from Mansooran village in Jagraon are admitted to DMCH and a 57-year-old man from Rajguru Nagar is admitted to CMCH.22 are contacts of patients In contact tracing, 22 people tested positive. Four men and a woman are from Habib Ganj. They are contacts of a patient from the same area. A 36-year-old man from Field Ganj, who is a contact of a positive patient from Dashmesh Nagar, also tested positive. Others include a 29-year-old man from Amarpura, an 18-year-old man from Patiala, a 62-year-old woman and a 66-year-old man from Islam Ganj, a 52-year-old woman and her 24-year-old son from Sarjot Nagar. More than 10 persons from a vehra in New Janta Nagar have tested positive. They are contacts of a positive patient from the same vehra.Six tuberculosis patientsSix tuberculosis patients have contracted the virus. They include a 27-year-old woman from Gurmail Park, Tibba Road, a 33-year-old man from New Sarpanch Colony, Jamalpur, a 17-year-old man from Adarsh Colony, Sherpur, a 42-year-old man from Ranjit Nagar, Sherpur, a 20-year-old-woman from Gagan Nagar, Giaspura, and a 24-year-old-man from opposite old post office, Ghas Mandi.Two undertrials A 36-year-old Daba resident and a 45-year-old man, both of whom are lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail, have tested positive.11 othersEleven others include a 30-year-old man from Vijay Nagar, a 28-year-old man from Ambedkar Nagar, a 43-year-old-man from Madhopuri, who is on a ventilator at CMCH, a 40-year-old migrant from Bihar who is currently quarantined in Bohapur village in Machhiwara, and an 81-year-old woman from Civil Lines, who is admitted to DMCH. Besides, two Delhi returnees, a Sangrur man and two of Pathankot were also confirmed positive here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/biggest-1-day-spike-45-catch-the-virus-in-district/articleshow/76394002.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||PCB yet to decide on Sassoon’s plea to refer Covid patients to AFMC Hospital||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) is yet to decide on the overstretched Sassoon hospital’s June 8 letter requesting that Covid-19 patients originating from Pune Camp and adjoining areas be referred to the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) hospital, instead of Sassoon. In the letter, Sassoon’s medical superintendent told his counterpart at the PCB’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital that a Covid-19 review meeting (presided over by deputy CM Ajit Pawar) resolved on June 6 in favour of directing such patients to AFMC hospital. The letter also stated that the Sassoon hospital was handling patients to its full capacity and had very little scope to accommodate new patients. PCB CEO Amit Kumar told TOI, "No decision has been taken yet on this matter. We will meet the AFMC authorities sometime this week." In fact, the PCB has referred eight critical patients to the Sassoon hospital till date, he said. Commander Vijay B, the AFMC’s spokesperson, said he would seek information from his higher-ups, but he did not get back on the matter. There was no response to a written query on this matter sent through the Defence PRO till the time of going to the press. A senior officer from the Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area, which is the local military authority that controls Pune cantonment, said, “As per the MoD mandate, the district collector has to make an official communication to us. We haven’t received such communication yet. Military establishments can be utilised only when civil authorities’ inventory has proven inadequate.” Recently, Pune’s MP Girish Bapat had said at a PCB special meet that military healthcare establishments like AFMC, Command Hospital, among others, need to supplement the civilian hospitals’ effort to combat the contagion. "I have taken up this matter with the MoD. I have had discussions with senior officers of the AFMC. But we are yet to get favourable response from them," Bapat told TOI on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-yet-to-decide-on-sassoons-plea-of-referring-ncov-patients-from-camp-to-afmc-hospital/articleshow/76395511.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Two-month-old wins battle against virus||Tirupati: A two-month-old baby girl in Kurnool district recovered from Covid-19 on Monday. Sources in the district administration said the baby’s mother had gone to her parents’ home in Mumbai ahead of her delivery and before the lockdown was imposed. After the lockdown was relaxed, the mother and the newborn returned to Kurnool. Later, the woman, the baby and the baby’s grandfather tested positive for Covid-19 and were shifted to a state Covid-19 hospital for treatment. At the hospital, both mother and grandfather recovered soon while the baby girl was discharged only on Monday. The district administration said 24 persons were discharged from Covid-19 hospitals on Monday. So far, 853 persons including 668 from Kurnool town and 185 from other parts of the district have been treated and discharged from Covid-19 hospitals in the district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-month-old-wins-battle-against-virus/articleshow/76394009.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 16, 2020||Pune||Cops rope in actress Rinku Rajguru to create awareness about wearing masks||Pune: The Pune Police have borrowed a dialogue uttered by actress Rinku Rajguru in the Marathi blockbuster 'Sairat’ to drive home the importance of wearing masks.A video clip, shared by city police commissioner K Venkatesham on Twitter, shows Rajguru mouthing her famous dialogue, "Marathi madhe sangitlela kalta nahi ka? English madhe Saangoo ..." (Don’t you understand Marathi? Or, should I tell you in English) to reprimand a youngster for stepping out of his house without wearing a mask.The clip has been received well on social media platform, Twitter. It is one of the police’s ways to reach out to a wider audience, particularly youngsters, and educate them about the need to wear masks and follow social distancing norms in the wake of the surge in nCoV infections after easing of lockdown restrictions. "We have so far made 83 such clips for use on social media platforms," said deputy commissioner of police (EOW) Sambhaji Kadam.Kadam said, "We roped in Rinku Rajguru to reach out to maximum audience with a clear message. We wanted to stress on the importance of wearing masks before stepping out of the house. While shooting all these videos, police have followed social distancing norms," he said.Kadam said, "We have posted 83 videos to highlight the importance of wearing masks and sanitisers while stepping out of the house and also the work done by the police force during the lockdown, such as food distribution, helping migrant workers etc.""The video with the actress was designed to attract more attention and we decided to maintain her original punch lines in the awareness clip," he added.Police have also made some awareness clips on cybercrime after realising that many fraudsters were cheating citizens, claiming that they were in need of money or help during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-rope-in-actress-rinku-rajguru-to-create-awareness-about-wearing-masks/articleshow/76395509.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Exams are optional for students of X, XII, says CISCE||MUMBAI: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) on Monday told the Bombay high court that it will not force students of Classes X and XII to take the final examinations for pending papers scheduled to be held in July. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, for the CISCE board, told a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justive SS Shinde that it had decided to offer an option to all students, in India and abroad, of appearing for the exams or having their results completed based on their performance in internal assessment/pre-board exams conducted by their schools and results of board exams in papers they had written, according to such methodology as may be prescribed by the board. The board's decision, conveyed in a note, also stated that if for any reason it was not possible to conduct exams in the pending papers of ICSE (class X) and ISE (class XII) in July, it would declare the results based on internal assessment/pre-board exams. The board also said students could select their option till June 22. Thereafter, any change of choice was permitted, but before conduct of the exams. The court heard via video conference a public interest litigation to set aside the rescheduled timetable. The exams are from July 2- 12 for Class X and July 1-14 for Class XII. "The decision prima facie appears to us to be fair and reasonable," said the high court bench in its order. It also directed the state to indicate its stand on the board's decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-exams-are-optional-for-students-of-x-xii-says-cisce/articleshow/76396130.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||2 pose as Covid-19 surveyors, attack woman, rob house||Times News Network Ludhiana: Impersonating as Covid-19 surveyors, two women attacked a 31-year-old homemaker and robbed her house in Heera Nagar on Noorwala Road around Monday noon.Rashneet Kaur was alone at home when the incident took place. Her husband, Amarjeet Singh, and father-in-law had left for their machine tools factory in Miller Gunj in the morning. And the couple’s three children, 3-year-old twins and a 7-year-old, were at their tuition classes in the locality.Minutes after her domestic help left around 11.30am, the two women rang the doorbell. Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur said, “As the two women introduced themselves as survey agents, Rashneet let them in the porch. They asked her name and the number of members in her family. The next moment, they overpowered Rashneet, pushed her inside the house, locked the door and attacked her with a blunt weapon. As she fell unconscious, the duo broke almirah locks and escaped with gold and cash.”Rashneet’s brother-in-law Gurmeet Singh said, “Before the incident, Rashneet had made a call to her sister in Hoshiarpur. As soon as she gained consciousness, she redialled her number. As Rashneet could not speak anything, her sister kept calling her, but Rashneet did not answer her calls. Her sister then called up their relatives, who live in the same locality. They reached the house and found it ransacked.” The relatives then informed her husband.“The footage of CCTVs installed in the locality shows that the women had gone to several houses in the area. They even tried to enter the houses on the pretext of getting water and food. However, no one let them in,” the sub-inspector added.“The robbers have made off with Rs 8 lakh and 300g gold,” Gurmeet added.After recording the statement of Rashneet, a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-pose-as-covid-19-surveyors-attack-woman-rob-house/articleshow/76394024.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||With 57 lakh workers, Uttar Pradesh tops as MNREGS employer||LUCKNOW: More than 57 lakh unskilled workers were engaged in various projects under MNREGS in UP on Monday, making the state the largest contributor to employment generation in the country under the flagship programme. With 57.2 lakh people involved in some or the other project as on Monday, UP trumped Rajasthan to reach the first position, contributing 18% to the total employment in the country under th scheme. In second place, Rajasthan contributed 17% with 53.45 lakh workers employed, followed by Andhra Pradesh which contributed to 12% with 36.58 lakh workers, and West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh both contributing 8% at 26.72 lakh and 23.95 lakh workers respectively. “Earlier Rajasthan was ahead of us but as of Sunday, UP has occupied the first place. Under directions from CM Yogi Adityanath, UP has created 8.08 crore man-days. He has asked the state to create another 10 lakh mandays and we are working towards that goal,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. 30 lakh migrants returned to state during lockdownThe creation of mandays has been calculated from April 21, the date from which the government started distribution of job cards under MNREGA. With over 30 lakh migrants and their families having returned to the state during lockdown, the government is looking forward to generating sufficient employment to retain the workforce in the state. Other than MNREG schemes, other avenues that the government is considering for employment generation include work in MSMEs, construction and industrial sectors. The government has signed an MoU with industry bodies for creation of 11 lakh jobs within a year. “As construction work is set to gain momentum in the state, more opportunities will open up in the sector. Already, 3,083 projects worth Rs 41,750 crore are operational under PWD in which 41,468 workers are employed,” Awasthi said. He said another 54 projects were functional under construction and design services of Jal Nigam where 6,584 people were working. At least 3,711 workers are employed in 128 projects under AMRUT Scheme while 9,916 people are working in 444 projects being run by the Housing Board and Development Authority. Awas Vibhag has also restarted 926 projects in which 20,211 people are currently employed. Over the past few weeks, 22,26,254 workers have reached UP so far by 1,649 trains. One train each reached the state from Maharashtra and Karnataka on Monday. “UP is arranging special trains to ferry brick kiln workers from other states to their native places as kilns will close down operations during monsoon season. At least 14 trains have already been operated while nine more carried passengers to Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh on Monday. Another 20 are scheduled to operate in coming days,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-57-lakh-workers-up-tops-as-mnregs-employer/articleshow/76395518.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Kids lock themselves in car while playing; 2 choke to death, 2 others critical||Bareilly: Two of the four children, all aged between four and seven years, who accidentally locked themselves up in a car parked outside their house in Moradabad on Monday, died of suffocation. The other two are in a critical condition in hospital. The tragic incident occurred in Veerpur Than area under Mundha Pandey police station. The family had purchased a second-hand car on Sunday. Police said the kids were locked inside the car for a couple of hours and are suspected to have choked due to the lack of oxygen. The dead include Mohammed Altaf, 5, and Abshar Raza, 7, who were cousins while the other two, Mohammed Aftab, 6, and Mohammed Alfaiz, 4 are critical. Moradabad superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “The families got to know about the incident after the kids, who had gone outside to play on Monday morning, didn’t come back for hours. They began to look for them when the kids were spotted lying unconscious inside the car parked right outside their house. All of them were rushed to a hospital where two of them -- Mohammed Altaf and Abshar Raza -- were declared brought dead. The car was left unlocked and the children got into this.” “It is a matter of negligence on the part of the family and there is no foul play in the incident,” SP (city) Amit Kumar Anand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kids-lock-themselves-in-car-while-playing-2-choke-to-death-2-others-critical/articleshow/76392778.cms||Maria Khan
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Hi-tech device for touch-free ticket checking likely soon||Ludhiana: To avoid direct contact between ticket checking staff and passengers, the Northern Railway will soon install a high-tech Automated Ticket Checking and Managing Access (Atma) system at Ludhiana and other major stations in Ferozepur division. The system will allow the staff to check tickets sitting at a distance.Since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, they have been demanding adoption of modern gadgets to ensure their safety, as they remain in close contact with a large number of passengers. The railways has already installed Atma system at some major stations across the country, including Mumbai and Bengaluru.Welcoming the move, a local ticket checker said, “It’s the need of hour. While checking tickets or allowing entry to passengers to the station, we are constantly under the fear of catching infection.”According to them, the Atma system is the only way to prevent community spread of Covid-19. Another railway personnel said, “We are getting regular inputs about the successful execution of pilot project at some major stations. Installation of the system here will reduce the risk for ticket checking staff community.”Giving information on this, a senior Northern Railway official on condition of anonymity said, “We are collecting details from different railway station of the northern region for getting a clear idea about which station are suitable for installation of the advance system. It will be installed only where the daily passenger footfall is high.”Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “Local railway officials have already shared all important details with the NR authorities to facilitate early installation of the machine. A large number of passengers, especially in long-distance trains, board and de-board here, which becomes a challenging task for the local ticket checking staff.”The Atma system is likely to be installed towards the June-end or in the first week of July, the station director added.BOXHow the machine will workAfter the Automated Ticket Checking and Managing Access (Atma) system is installed, the boarding passengers will have to approach the pre-installed human thermal scanning device for touch-free body temperature measurement, which will display their temperature and face mask on the output screen and also on the screen with the ticket checking staff seated at some distance. Thereafter, they will have to show ID proof in the high-definition camera in the machine to ascertain the authenticity of ticket. Satisfied on all parameters, the ticket checkers will ask them to proceed through a two-way mike system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hi-tech-device-for-touch-free-ticket-checking-likely-soon/articleshow/76394027.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 16, 2020||Pune||Postal dept uses cold chain for Covid-19||Pune: The Pune division of the postal department has said it has invested in cold chain logistics technology to help firms and institutions, such as the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV), and city-based organization like MyLabs to transport Covid-19 testing kits all over the country. Postal department officials said the tie-ups have benefited over 3 lakh people to help them get tested. The use of cold chain logistics and dedicated vans capable of such technology have been crucial because of the “highly perishable” nature of the test kits and the need t deliver them to destinations in a strict, time-bound manner, an official said The requirement also came about due to the shortage of regular train or air corridors. Tying up with MyLabs, the official said, they transported test kits to as far as Delhi in the North and Chennai and Bengaluru in the South in special vans. The official added that the kits have also been transported to places such as Bhopal, Nagpur, Raipur and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/postal-dept-uses-cold-chain-for-covid-19/articleshow/76395512.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Examine glass formation findings on Lonar Lake bed: HC tells GSI & Neeri||Nagpur: A National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) scientist’s claim of “unique” glass formation on Lonar Lake bed has prompted the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to dig deeper. Taking cognisance of the findings and Lonar Lake water changing colour, the court conducted an urgent hearing on Monday and issued a series of directives to various authorities and scientific bodies to study the phenomenon and report findings. “Experts from Geological Survey of India (GSI) and National Environmental and Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) may examine findings of Nasa researcher Shawn Wright regarding formation of glass surface on the lake bed. As per him, the findings are unique and not found anywhere else on Earth, but were detected on the craters of Moon’s surface,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor said. “The investigations may be completed within four weeks,” the bench added. While hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Kirti Nipankar and others through counsel Anand Parchure, the HC directed city-based Neeri and Pune-based Agarkar Research Institute (ARI) — whose teams have already started research — to submit report of their findings in two weeks. The directives came after forest department informed that it had collected water samples with microbiologists’ help after the phenomenon, and sent them to the aforementioned institutes for study. TOI had reported that the change in colour was probably caused by an increase in pH, water level and salinity of lake water. Before adjourning the hearing till June 29, the bench directed all concerned lawyers to visit the historic lake within two days and inform about their findings. This includes senior counsel Chandrashekhar Kaptan, amicus curiae Ashutosh Dharmadhikari, Ravi Sanyal, NB Kalwaghe, government pleader Sumant Deopujari and additional pleader Deepak Thakre, besides Parchure. On possibility of water percolation from a nearby dam — which is at a higher level — into the lake, the judges asked the irrigation department to collect data from both places on regular basis and hand it to experts for comparative analysis. While examining the issue of Lonar-Kinhi road passing through an ecologically sensitive zone, the bench observed that a large quantity of unique material having geological and historical importance called ‘Ejecta Blanket’ is found there. “As per the research, it’s the same material which is in the stage prior to formation of diamond. It’s up to the authorities to shift the road. If not possible, they should take protective measures to prevent theft and pilferage of the Ejecta Blanket,” it said. "Until then, all construction activity on that road is stopped," the bench added. The judges directed the public works department and Buldhana collector to consider all aspects of the issue and submit a report to the HC constituted committee in a week while the members would give their suggestions in next three weeks. Regarding PWD’s failure to handover its rest house situated on the lake bank inside the sanctuary to the forest department, the judges said the latter was unable to exercise its control and restrict public access to the lake. “Recently, some people illegally entered the area and drank liquor. Though necessary action was taken against the encroachers, such activities shouldn’t be allowed in the future. The report of a two-member expert committee — led by Dr Linga Devroop — had suggested stopping boarding and lodging in the rest house.” The HC asked PWD to submit a report on handing over the rest house to the government and submit its copy to HC panel before June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/examine-glass-formation-findings-on-lonar-lake-bed-hc-tells-gsi-neeri/articleshow/76394926.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Financial straits drive 36-yr-old Dhandra Road man to suicide||Times News Network Ludhiana: Depressed over his poor financial state, a 36-year-old man committed suicide at his house in Sapranch Colony, Dhandra Road, early on Monday.Ravinder Singh was a water filter repairman. He was alone at home when he took the step. His wife, along with their daughter, had gone to her parents’ house in Moga a few days ago. Ravinder’s brother Jaspal Singh, a resident of Daba, said, “On Sunday, I called up Ravinder many a time, but he did not take my calls. Due to the lockdown, I went to his house on Monday morning. When he did not open the door despite repeated knocks, I called up the police. We broke open the door and found him hanging from a ceiling fan.” Basant Avenue police post in-charge ASI Ranjeet Singh said, “The family told that Ravinder was upset due to his poor financial condition. He was not getting any work due to the lockdown.”Police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/financial-straits-drive-36-yr-old-dhandra-road-man-to-suicide/articleshow/76394016.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||Final rites of retd Lt Gen Somanna held||Madikeri: The final rites of retired Lieutenant General Kodanda Nanjappa Somanna (93), who passed away on Saturday, was held at his residence in Virajpet with full military honours. The funeral ceremony was held according to the Kodava rituals and took place at 12.20 pm on Sunday. MEG Chief Arnal Gupta and paramilitary officer Panchal Gupta of the Indian Army led the military honours at the ceremony. Several retired army personnel from the district took part in the ceremony. The retired general is survived by his wife Renu, a daughter and a son. The general’s son Dr Nived who is in the US, was unable to attend the ceremony due to lockdown. Lt General Somanna commanded four Guards in Udaipur and he was DMO during Operation Blue Star. He retired as the Vice Chief sof the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/final-rites-of-retd-lt-gen-somanna-held/articleshow/76374181.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Asymptomatic patients to be home quarantined for 17 days||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Monday said the state government’s decision of June 6 regarding the home quarantine of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients would be implemented in the district with conditions as prescribed in the guidelines. The treating medical officer’s certificate stating that the patient had mild or no symptoms and the patient’s consent to get himself or herself home quarantined were the two most important conditions, he told a joint online conference addressed, among others, by Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram and police commissioner K Venkatesham. The patient would also have to furnish an affidavit in a prescribed format, he said. Mhaisekar said, “The duration of home quarantine will be 17 days from the day a patient shows mild symptoms or, in case of no symptoms, from the day the sample is collected for testing and no fever is reported for 10 successive days. No test will be required after the mandatory quarantine period is over.” He said, “The place where a patient seeks to get home quarantined must have adequate facilities and a person taking care of the patient on a 24X7 basis. Such caregiver must stay connected either by landline or cellphone with the hospital treating the patient. The caregiver and other members of the patient’s family will be given hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) prophylaxis as a precaution.” The number of nCoV deaths in Pune district crossed the 500-mark with total 501 casualties reported till 3pm on Monday. Of the 12,147 positive cases reported since the outbreak of the virus, as many as 7,619 patients have been discharged and 4,027 cases remain active in the district. The recovery rate was 62.72%, he said, adding that fresh cases were still being reported. Mhaisekar said efforts were on to double the Covid-19 testing capacity of public and private facilities in Pune, from the present 3,000 to 6,000 samples per day. “We have had meetings with the National Institute of Virology, which is working towards a 60-70% increase in its existing testing capacity, and the National AIDS Research Institute, which is trying to treble its capacity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asymptomatic-patients-to-be-home-quarantined-for-17-days/articleshow/76395526.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 positive cases: District is second in state||Ludhiana: The district is second in the state in reporting Covid-19 positive cases. Its case doubling rate (as per the past one week) is 13.4 days against the national average of 18.3.However, Ludhiana’s recovery rate is 41% which is 10% less as compared with the national average of 51%. In the number of positive cases reported, the state is seventeenth in the country and Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are the top rankers.To date, 139 patients have been admitted to the three levels of facilities in the district, which is the highest in the state. They include 47 patients admitted to level-I Covid care centres, 65 to level-II and 27 to level-III. Out of 139 patients in Ludhiana, five are from outside the district, including three from Jalandhar and one each from Pathankot and Ferozepur.After Amritsar, Ludhiana is second in the state in caseload. Till now, 396 cases have been reported, of which 146 were confirmed in the past seven days. There are 163 active cases, 218 cured and 12 deaths, of which two were reported in the past seven days. With this, the recovery rate is 41% and fatality rate 3%.As on June 15, testing data showed Ludhiana topped the state with 18,559 samples tested out of which 396 were positive. It was revealed that over the past seven days, the cumulative samples collected and tested were increasing at a daily average rate of 5.8% and 5.2%, respectively, in the district. Punjab has a testing capacity of 6,810, with 2,000 each at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot, 100 at CSIR-IMTECH, Chandigarh, 60 at PGI, 150 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and 500 at core labs. Punjab uses 88% of state government facilities, 2% of government of India facilities and 10% of private labs for testing.According to ICMR’s positive case analysis, 65% of men and 35% of women tested positive with 5% of positives falling in the age group of 0-10 years, 9% in 11-20 years, 21% in 21-30 years, 19% in 31-40 years, 15% each in 41-50 years and 50-60 years, and 11% and 3% in 61-70 years and 70-80 years, respectively.It was also revealed in the state’s Covid-19 response status report that most of the cases were asymptomatic direct high-risk contacts of confirmed cases. In the district, 11% cases were symptomatic and 55% asymptomatic.BoxVirus meterCovid-19 status: World — India — Punjab — LudhianaTotal cases: 7, 811,607 —- 3, 21, 406 —- 3,063 —- 369Cases reported in past 24 hours: 1,57, 457 — 11,811 —- 77 — 40Total deaths: 4,30,206 — 9,199 — 65 — 12Deaths in past 24 hours: 4,853 —- 309 — 3 — 2Case fatality percentage: 6% — 3% — 2% — 3%Recovered cases to date: 4,010,412 —- 1,62,326 —- 2,327 — 218Recovery percentage: 51% — 51% — 76% — 41% Active cases: 3,370,989 —— 149,881 —— 671 —- 163Active cases percentage: 43% — 47% —- 22% — 41.1%Cases per million population: 976 — 179 —- 102 —- 110--BoxState chartIn Punjab ---------- In LudhianaTotal 3,063 ---------- 396Cured 2,327 ---------- 218Death 65 ---------- 12Active 671 ---------- 163Recovery rate 76% ---------- 41%Case fatality rate 2% ---------- 3%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-positive-cases-district-is-second-in-state/articleshow/76394038.cms||Mehak Jain
June 16, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus may have links to one found in China mineshaft in 2013: Study||PUNE: Researchers in Pune have now theorised that the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, might have originated from a virus found inside a mineshaft in Mojiang, China, in 2013. The research, currently in preprint, has been submitted to the journal Nature and is awaiting peer review. Monali Rahalkar, a microbiologist from the Agharkar Research Institute, and Rahul Bahulikar, a scientist from the BAIF Research and Development, said they set out to analyse a probable connection between the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV2) and a close relative, RaTG13, believed to have triggered pneumonia in six Chinese miners in 2012. Three of them died. The molecular analysis of both these viruses is a 96.2% match, the scientists stated in their research. The exact origins of the novel coronavirus is still unknown. But it’s widely believed that bats carried the virus before it spread to humans. “RaTG13 is a virus whose genome was sequenced from a bat fecal swab collected in 2013. There are not many details on this interesting relative, so our curiosity grew,” said Rahalkar. The first introduction of novel coronavirus was in a research paper this year by lead researcher Peng Zhou of the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) and others. The Pune researchers said the Chinese paper did not have many details on RaTG13 and only mentioned that the new virus — of a bat origin — came from China’s Yunnan province. But Rahalkar and Bahulikar said there is a stronger link. Rahalkar said, “In that Nature publication, RaTG13 was mentioned in the same paper which described the novel coronavirus by principal scientist Dr Zheng-li Shi, also known as the ‘Bat Woman’ of China, and her group from the WIV.” The Pune scientists stated in their research that it is a known fact that the novel coronavirus and RaTG13 share 96.2% genome similarities, have highly identical spike protein and share the capacity to bind with human ACE-2 receptors. “It was important to understand where RaTG13 came from and this was the topic for research for both of us here in Pune,” said Rahalkar. The Pune scientists also found another virus, exactly matching a SARS-like coronavirus described by the WIV group in 2016, named CoV4991. They realised this renaming had created confusion amongst researchers worldwide. Rahalkar said, “Through molecular analysis, we confirmed that RaTG13 and CoV4991 represented the same virus. After extensive referencing, we also found that RaTG13 came from the fecal matter of the Rhinolophus affinis bat, collected from an abandoned mineshaft in a small town in Mojiang district, Yunnan province, China.” The scientists said further investigations into the mine revealed that it was linked to a 2012 incident in which six miners at the site developed pneumonia. The WIV group was involved in investigations at the time, Bahulikar said. Did three of the six miners die of pneumonia or Covid-19? Rahalkar and Bahulikar found that six miners were working at the Mojiang mine in 2012. Its mineshaft was full of bat feces and the miners were exposed to bat guano for nearly 14 days. The workers started falling ill soon and developed severe pneumonia and fever. Rahalkar said, “We studied a thesis paper by a master's student, Li Xu, who analysed the cases — including diagnosis and treatment — in detail. Out of the six affected miners, three died due to severe pneumonia and complications.” The patients were remotely observed by Dr Zhong Nanshan, one of China's best pulmonary doctors, who was also was the lead expert during the SARS outbreak of 2003. According to Nanshan, the miners had interstitial pneumonia which was primarily of viral origin. A SARS antibody test on the miners also indicated the role of a SARS-like coronavirus. Rahalkar said, “The severe pneumonia in the miners presents a very identical picture to that of Covid-19. Also, the next relative of SARS-CoV-2, RaTG13 was found in the very same mine shaft."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-may-have-links-to-one-found-in-china-mineshaft-in-2012-study/articleshow/76395537.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra schools may have to open 2 shifts||MUMBAI: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday gave a nod to the education department’s plan to restart schools in Covid-free parts of the state. In places that are reeling from the pandemic—which include most urban areas— the department will regulate digital learning hours. The department’s standard operating procedure (SOP) states schools will have to run in two shifts or call students on alternate days to avoid crowding whenever they reopen. The SOP applies to all schools in the state. Education department officials, along with school education minister, Varsha Gaikwad met Thackeray via video conference on Monday. While schools were supposed to start the new academic year on Monday (June 15), the CM’s approval for the SOP came only at Monday afternoon’s meeting. Thackeray directed that Covid-free zones could allow students to attend classes, but with adequate precautionary measures. In other parts of the state, the academic year was allowed to start through digital and online systems. The department’s standard operating procedure (SOP) outlines the measures to be taken by the education department, local authority, parents and teachers during the lockdown and reopening of schools. The SOP states schools will have to run in two shifts or call students on alternate days to avoid crowding whenever they reopen (see box). Schools would have to sanitize its premises, seat only child per bench with a maximum of 30 students in a class at a distance of at least one metre. Each school shift should be for a maximum of three hours. The schools and parents must take measures to avoid overcrowding during transport as well. For schools which can reopen, authorities have been given two weeks to implement the measures. Until then, schools have to ensure grains are sent to the child’s home and admissions are conducted using Google forms. It has also been decided that pre-primary and classes I and II will not have online classes. Educational programmes can be delivered to these students through television and radio. The number of hours for online classes each day has been capped – one hour a day for Classes III to V; two hours a day for Classes VI to VIII; three hours a day for Classes IX to XII. All online classes are required to include breaks. For schools in containment zones, reopening will be decided by the disaster management committee of the district or the municipal commissioner, in case of a municipal corporation. Speaking at an online event organised by Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) on Monday, Gaikwad said, “The SOP will bring more clarity on what the government is going to do and what schools must do to ensure students do not miss out on learning until schools reopen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-schools-may-have-to-open-2-shifts/articleshow/76395533.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
June 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Commercial productionof e-auto resumes at KAL||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The production of state’s first electric autorickshaw, the Neem G e-auto, has gathered steam. The commercial production of the e-auto is going on in full swing at the Kerala Automobiles Limited in Neyyattinkara. The bookings for e-auto had begun much earlier. The batteries for the vehicle had to be imported from China. Though the batteries had reached Delhi in March itself, however, it could not be transported to the production unit because of the lockdown. After the lockdown eased, the batteries have been transported to the state. The company aims to produce as many as 200 vehicles per month. There will be as many as nine sales and service centres for e-auto in the state. The centres at Attingal, Adoor, Chingavanam and Shoranur have already started functioning. The centres at Changanassery, Ernakulam, Moovattupuzha, Thrissur and Tirur will soon commence their operations. The KAL has reached at an understanding to launch the sales and service centres at Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as well. Once the Covid-19 threat comes down, more centres will be opened in northern states. In addition to the centres in other states, one centre will be launched in Nepal as well. The company that had a turnover of Rs 80 lakh in 2017-18, expects a turnover of Rs 25 crore in 2020-21. Plans are afoot to produce batteries for the auto-rickshaws indigenously in the state. The Travancore Titanium Products Limited is planning to produce the batteries using lithium titenate which is the main material required for lithium-ion batteries. KAL claims that the e-autos are capable of travelling around 100kms in a full charge but can increase the mileage even more if charged when the vehicle is resting. The company is also working out plans to begin electric charging stations across the state with help from Kerala state electricity board. An e-auto costs around Rs 2.5 lakh and could be operated at an expenditure of just 50 paisa per km. The company is also planning to set up charging stations at auto stands where auto rickshaws are usually stationed for long durations. Maintenance cost will also be lower than the ones run using petrol or diesel due to lesser number of mechanical parts in the vehicle, according to KAL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/commercial-productionof-e-auto-resumes-at-kal/articleshow/76394069.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur division, Maharajganj district top Uttar Pradesh in influx of migrants||LUCKNOW: The Gorakhpur division, comprising the home turf of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, has received maximum number of migrants in over two and a half months of lockdown, according to state government records. More than 30 lakh migrants have returned to UP during lockdown. According to records (TOI has a copy of it), Maharajganj district in Gorakhpur division received the maximum 7.11 lakh migrants which is also the highest in the state. Within Gorakhpur division, Maharajganj was followed by Kushinagar and Gorakhpur with 50,293 and 44,047 migrants, respectively. The pattern suggests that socio-economically backward eastern UP saw most of the migrants returning to their native places. Out of top 10 divisions from where maximum migration was reported, seven were in east UP and Bundelkhand region. These districts are Gorakhpur (8,38,313), Devipatan (2,72,905), Basti (2,65,392), Prayagraj (2,50,946), Ayodhya (2,45,403), Azamgarh (2,25,112), Varanasi (1,40,208) and Chitrakoot (1,15,760). After Maharajganj, the other districts which received maximum number of migrants included east UP’s Prayagraj (1,38,311), Sant Kabirnagar (99,941), Mau (97,073), Bahraich (91,956), Balrampur (88,522), Siddharthnagar (83,451) and Basti (82,000). According to experts, the poor socio-economic situation in east UP region forced people to migrate to other parts of the country in search of jobs. In contrast, least number of migrants were received in west UP and Rohilkhand. Out of 10 districts where influx of migrants was low, six were from west UP/Rohilkhand region. These districts are Bareilly (97,336), Aligarh (83,799), Moradabad (24,849), Meerut (22,688), Agra (22,642) and Saharanpur (7,707). Ironically, despite receiving low number of migrants, west UP districts have high load of coronavirus infections. Gautam Buddh Nagar, which comprises of Noida and Greater Noida, had the highest viral load with 498 active cases. Ghaziabad and Meerut were the other two districts with 272 and 170 cases, respectively. Agra had the highest number of coronavirus cases, of which 125 were active. Of the 19 districts in red zone, 14 were in west UP or Rohilkhand region. These districts are Agra, Aligarh, Amroha, Bareilly, Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Firozabad, GB Nagar, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Rampur and Saharanpur. Experts say that migration will affect the demographic profile of the state which gears up for census due next year. “Migrants are unlikely to move out for next 2-3 years given the intensity of the crisis,” an expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpur-div-maharajganj-dist-top-state-in-influx-of-migrants/articleshow/76395532.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||New academic session starts online in Maha||Nagpur: As reported by TOI earlier, state government today officially announced commencement of academic session for schools in online mode but placed restriction on daily screen time. While no online classes will be held for Std I and II, the daily screen time limit for Std III-V has been capped at one hour, Std VI-VIII at two hours and IX-XII onwards to three hours. For Vidarbha, the academic session begins from June 26. Students of Std I-II will have to rely on online study portals of the government (Diksha app etc) or TV and radio, which means the onus of studies is now on parents. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district), said this would put a big question mark on role of teachers of Std I-II. “What will they do till schools physically reopen or children are permitted to attend online classes? I don’t think schools in city can start before October, given the current situation,” said Mude. Government has also released schedule (SEE TABLE) for physical reopening of schools but it is subject to multiple conditions, which means parents need not panic. Schools and junior colleges can open only outside the red zones and that too if there has been no case of Covid-19 for minimum one month. The local competent authority will take a call whether or not it is safe to open them for children. Even after that, the school management will have to determine what’s the best course of action for them. Guidelines have also been issued on how schools have to function once they reopen. Working in two shifts will be the norm with each being of maximum three hours duration. The GR suggests calling students on alternate days and having just one student per bench to ensure Covid distancing. Schools have been asked to hold a management level meeting at least two weeks before reopening and plan out future strategy. This includes sanitization process, putting in place a plan for academics, staff rotation etc. State has asked schools to ensure that except teachers and students, no one must be allowed to enter the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-academic-session-starts-online-in-maha/articleshow/76394952.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Street Smart: Pedestrian-Only Market Gets Back On Its Feet||New Delhi: Ajmal Khan Road Market in Karol Bagh, having been pedestrianised, greets you with a colourful passage and symmetrically aligned benches along its entire length. You are able to view the streetscape without much problem because the regular crowds aren’t back yet. It’s not deserted either, for people are slowing coming back to the city’s only “open air mall”. Sitting on a street bench near the popular Punjab Sweet Shop, Ritu Dewan said that she had come to the nearby electronics hub of Gaffar Market to get the screen of her mobile phone fixed. “But the phone was just an excuse. It could have waited for some time,” Dewan chuckled. “Actually, I couldn’t wait any longer to come here for palak chaat and raj kachori.” Punjab Sweet Shop manager Raju Kumar smiled and said that seeing anew the contented faces of customers is a pleasant change. “The chahalkadmi (ambling) in the market has begun again,” he said. And though Kumar remembered that he couldn’t even take a breather in the pre-Covid times, he also acknowledged that Karol Bagh was clearly beginning to retrace those steps back to normalcy. Initially, a hub for its wedding attires and accessories, over the years Ajmal Khan Road has transformed into a hangout zone popular with youngsters. There’s fashion on sale along the street, evidenced by endless rows of mannequins in fetching ensembles, and plenty to sate the taste buds at well-loved eateries like Roshan Di Kulfi, Art of Spices and Karim's. Murli Mani, president of the Ajmal Khan Road Vyapar Mandal, said that all 300 shops in the market have resumed operations and the business is gradually picking pace. The market is now adjusting to the reality of living with the novel coronavirus. In a humorous acceptance of the new normal, the mannequins in lavish sherwanis and lehngas also wear matching satin masks. The boards outside the showrooms also seek to be instructive and reassuring. From Indya’s “Step in, Stay Safe”, Levi’s “Our Store is Clean. For your safety we sanitise the area frequently” to the Hush Puppies outlet urging people to “make your shopping experience safer” — the narrative is focused. Nikhil Malhotra, co-owner of a sherwani shop operating since 1954, said that while the market is now a multi-dimensional shopping centre, wedding attire remains at its heart. “Right now, the wedding orders we are trying to fulfil are those made earlier,” Malhotra said. “It will take 15-20 days for things to become more regular. But once people start coming here, they will also buy other stuff and will also eat and relax. These are all interconnected.” Some traders, however, worried that since the market dealt mainly with luxury items and not basic necessities, the recovery could be slow. To this, Devender Kumar, a bangles and make-up accessories seller, argued that Karol Bagh has something to offer for everyone. “From books at Arya Samaj Road to jewellery at Bank Street, from mobile phones at Gaffar Market to wedding clothes at Ajmal Khan and budget shopping at Tank Road, there’s something here for everybody,” he noted. “If you aren’t after costly branded items, a corner store will offer you a good quality duplicate.” Kumar added philosophically, “Right now the business is slow, but umeed pe duniya kayam hai (hope sustains the world).” Masks, hand sanitisers, even face shields, are necessary accessories for shoppers and shop owners alike. Kamal Kumar, a cloth merchant, is also selling hand sanitiser stands for Rs 1,100, with a 5-litre bottle of the protective liquid costing Rs 1,000. Pressing the foot pedal sends a dab of liquor into the user’s hands. “Once customers return in big numbers, each shop will need these stands and people needn’t touch the bottle to sanitise their hands,” explained the cloth seller. While there are demands from the traders that the restrictions on vehicles entering the street should be lifted to encourage visitors, some shoppers countered that pedestrianisation was the market’s unique point and an attraction for shoppers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/street-smart-pedestrian-only-market-gets-back-on-its-feet/articleshow/76414224.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Six wards turn containment zones in Kerala's Kattakkada||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District collector Navjot Khosa declared six gram panchayat wards in Kattakkada as containment zones on Monday after a health worker was tested positive for Covid-19 in the panchayat on Sunday. As per the proceedings issued by district disaster management authority, existing lockdown relaxations shall not be applied and strict lockdown measures shall continue until further orders in the panchayats declared as containment zones. The panchayat wards include Thoongampara, Ponnara, Ettiruthy, Killy, Kavinpuram and Kollode. The public exams in the schools will be allowed to continue as per the schedule of the government. However, strict social distancing and other containment measures will be ensured. The school authorities will provide separate rooms for those students who hail from families having a quarantined person. Only essential activities will be allowed in containment zones. The movement of persons in or out of the zones will not be permitted except for medical emergencies, maintaining supply of essential goods and services and to attend public exam. District medical officer will oversee the health activities planned. DMO has been directed to furnish a daily progress report to the collector by 6pm every day. According to the district collector, more than 60 live cases are being treated in various hospitals in the district as on Monday and epidemiological investigation has been carried out in each case and their primary and secondary contacts have been traced for effective containment. Although serious efforts are being made to find out the source of the infection, no epidemiological link, including confirmed travel history or contact with known Covid positive patients, could be established till date in the case of the Asha worker who has been tested positive. More than 500 contacts have been sent to home isolation. These contacts are not confined to any particular area and is spread over six wards in Kattakkada panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/six-wards-turn-containment-zones-in-kattakkada/articleshow/76394092.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man killed & robbed, 3 minors detained||PUNE: A tailor’s tag stitched on a deceased man’s shirt and trousers helped the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch to solve his murder and detain three minors. The police said the deceased man — Dattatreya Macharla (41), a power loom worker from Bhiwandi — was bludgeoned to death when he was walking home from Solapur district because he did not get any transport due to the lockdown. “The minors who were also walking towards Mumbai, killed him as they wanted money. However, they found only Rs500 and his cell phone with him,” assistant inspector of the crime branch Ram Gomare said. Gomare said the trio was from Telangana. “One of the minors has a criminal record,” he said. On June 8, morning walkers noticed a blood-soaked man lying unconscious on the bridge at Dehu Road. He was taken to a hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries around 9am. “We did not have any clues to ascertain the man’s identity, except tags of a tailor stitched on his shirt and trousers. There was a tailor’s name and ‘BWD’ written on the tag,” Gomare said. After confirming ‘BWD’ stood for Bhiwandi, Gomare and his team rushed there. “There were 25 tailors in Bhiwandi with a similar name. We visited all of them and managed to find the victim’s name,” he said. Macharla’s family told the police that before the lookdown, he had gone to his native place in Solapur district to attend a relative’s funeral, following which he was stuck there. “On June 1, he had started walking home from Solapur,” Gomare said. The police got Macharla’s cellphone number and found out that after June 8, one call had been made to Telangana from his cellphone. “We went to Telangana and traced the person. He told us that his son had called him. But, he did not know his son’s location,” Gomare said. The police got the man to Pimpri Chinchwad last week. “On Sunday, his son contacted him again from another number, which was from Yavat. We went there and took the minor and two others into custody,” he said. The investigation revealed that the minors wanted to go to Mumbai to join a criminal gang. They left Telangana and reached Nigdi on June 8 by taking lifts from vehicles and walking. “On the same day Macharla too had reached Nigdi. They met at Bhakti Shakti Chowk and decided to walk together,” Gomare said. On the way, the trio demanded money from Marcharla. He hardly had any money with him so he refused. Angered by this, the trio decided to kill him and rob him. “Late at night, when they reached the bridge at Dehu Road, Macharla decided to take a nap. As soon as he went to sleep, the trio bludgeoned him with a big stone and robbed Rs500 and his cellphone,” Gomare said. After the murder, they reached Mumbai but had to return to Pune as they were not allowed to stay there. “They had started working at a jaggery-making unit in Yavat,” Gomare said. 7 minors detained for creating ruckus at Pimple Nilakh The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Monday arrested four youths and detained seven minors for assaulting four persons with sharp weapons and damaging eight parked vehicles in Pimple Nilakh on Sunday. Assistant inspector of the crime branch, Ambarish Deshmukh, said the attack was a fallout of an old rivalry. “The kingpin of the gang is a minor, who had a fallout with the complainant — Rajkumar Pillay (25) of Pimple Nilakh — about a month ago over a trivial issue. The attack was orchestrated by the minor and his aides to settle scores,” Deshmukh said. Pillay lodged a complaint with the Sangvi police in this regard following the attack on him and his three friends around 10.30pm on Sunday. Deshmukh said that Pillay, along with his friends, was heading towards Sharada Colony when the suspects attacked him with sharp weapons. “They also damaged eight vehicles in the area before fleeing the spot,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-killed-robbed-3-minors-detained/articleshow/76395547.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 16, 2020||Mysuru||10 child marriages averted in Chamarajanagar, one in HD Kote||Mysuru: Chamarajnagar officials on Monday morning stopped 10 child marriages in the district, considered socially and economically backward. Another child marriage was stopped at HD Kote taluk in Mysuru district. According to N R Vijay, child protection officer of Chamarajanagar, all the 10 marriages were stopped by the authorities, who included PDOs, police and officials from different departments. ‘Three cases werer reported from Yelandur, Kollegal and Hanur taluks each, and one more from Chamarajanagar taluk,” he explained. According to sources at the child helpline, another suspected case in Chamarajanagar taluk is being investigated. “These marriages are done in early morning hours, say between 5.30am and 7.30am. During Covid crisis, lockdown-related anxiety and uncertainties force the parents to marry off their minor daughters. So there is a sudden spurt in such cases. Other reasons include pressure from family elders and community practices and the like,” Vijay added. Meanwhile, HD Kote taluk also reported a child marriage on Monday. This is one of the many such cases reported in the district in the recent past. E Dhananjaya, member of Mysuru Child Welfare Committee, said five child marriages were stopped on June 12, and another three on June 14. “Child Helpline 1098 received 32 complaints on child marriages between June 1 and 15. Thanks to timely action, all of them were stopped,” said Shashi Kumar, coordinator of the helpline in Mysuru. “As many as 95 complaints were received between March 22 and June 15. People can share related on child marriages or any other issues relating to children by calling 1098. Details of callers will be kept confidential,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/10-child-marriages-averted-in-chamarajanagar-one-in-hd-kote/articleshow/76394413.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Raj Nagar PWD Colony residents oppose q-centre||NAGPUR: The state government employees living in Public Works Department Colony in Raj Nagar on Monday protested the quarantine centre being created in four apartments in their colony. Family members of state government employees told TOI that converting four buildings comprising 64 flats in their colony into quarantine centre would expose them to coronavirus after nine quarantine people from these four blocks tested positive. “Instead of acquiring PWD quarters, the civic body should have used adjoining hostels of National Fire Engineering Service College,” they said. PWD Colony in Raj Nagar has around 214 flats. Of these, kept four apartment blocks are kept vacant to make staying arrangements for staff coming for winter session of state’s legislature. About a month ago, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation acquired the four blocks and made it into quarantine centres. A week ago, NMC had quarantined residents from Naik Talao-Bangladesh and Chandramani Nagar here. Now, nine persons staying here have tested positive for coronavirus triggering fear among the 164 families staying there. Residents told TOI they had requested the executive engineer’s office of state PWD to choose another location for the centre or provide them with sanitisation options to keep them safe from coronavirus. Senior PWD confirmed residents were opposing quarantine centre in PWD colony. The officials admitted there was also a threat for people residing in the adjoining Raj Nagar slum. They said that neither the police nor the civic administration have barricaded the quarantine centre to separate it from residential area. A senior NMC official explained the civic body was in a situation where it needed more and more centres to house the increasing number of Covid suspects. “If everyone keeps opposing centres in their locality, how will we work,” the official asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raj-nagar-pwd-colony-residents-oppose-q-centre/articleshow/76394974.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 16, 2020||Bareilly||Burglars attempt to loot ATM thwarted||Pilibhit: Burglars attemped to loot an ATM, barely 100 metres from Pilibhit Sadar Kotwali police station, on the intervening night between Sunday and Monday, but failed to so. The attempted break-in was spotted on Monday morning. Unidentified persons were booked for tempering with the front panel of the ATM machine. Police officers and Bareilly-based regional manager of the ATM company, Amit Mishra, rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said the incident took place at the ATM of India 1, a private company. The company had not deployed any security guard at the ATM. The police are examining the CCTV footage derived from the camera installed inside the ATM cabin to track the burglars, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/burglars-attempt-to-loot-atm-thwarted/articleshow/76392814.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Goa||‘Ex-min spent Rs 1,800 crore, but sewerage work incomplete’||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Monday handed over letters to 1,185 long-term PWD contract workers, enrolling them under the department’s Labour Supply Society (PWDLSS). On the sidelines of the event, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar criticised his predecessor, Ramkrishna Dhavalikar, for allegedly spending nearly Rs 1,800 crore to lay sewerage treatment pipeline networks across the state, but with no treatment plants in place. “Nearly Rs 1,800 was spent on sewerage systems, but other than the treatment plant at Navelim, no other plant is ready. Several loans were also taken for the laying of these lines, which we will have to repay now. The earlier PWD minister is responsible for this. There was no proper planning,” Pauskar said. He said that he is working with the officials of the sewerage corporation to commission the plant for Mapusa at the earliest possible. The minister further said that Goa has also been sanctioned Rs 12 crore under the central government’s Jal Jeevan Mission scheme. Under the scheme, the state government is required to put in an equal amount and ensure that every house is provided with a tap water connection as well as increase hours of water supply. Referring to the contract workers, who were until now working under a contractor or contract agency, Pauskar said, “They were on contract for nearly 20 years. The CM gave them appointment letters effective from April 1. All payments will now be as per PWDLSS regulations. They are very happy. They had not been not paid for the last four to five months due to their contractor’s negligence.” The enrolled contract employees will now be entitled to leave and medical reimbursement. The decision to enroll them under PWDLSS will also save the state around Rs 7 crore annually, PWD officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-min-spent-rs-1-8k-cr-but-sewerage-work-incomplete/articleshow/76395559.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Three-day quarantine for travellers from Delhi, Chennai||BENGALURU: In yet another change in its standard operating procedure on returnees from other states, the Karnataka government on Monday said travellers from Chennai and Delhi will have to undergo three days of institutional quarantine followed by 11 days of home isolation. Following a meeting with ministers and officials to discuss the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said, until now, only those arriving from Maharashtra had to mandatorily undergo seven days of institutional quarantine, while there was no such measure for people without symptoms arriving from other states. “But now we have decided to quarantine people coming from Chennai and Delhi in institutional facilities for three days as these two cities are witnessing a surge in positive cases,” Yediyurappa said. “These travellers will also have undergo 11 days of home quarantine.” He said restrictions were imposed also because cases in the state have seen a big increase after borders were opened. “Now we have to tighten measures to check the surge,” Yediyurappa said. Of the total 7,000 cases in the state, the CM said 4,386 are returnees from Maharashtra while 1,340 are their contacts. While admitting there are indications that infections are expected to increase in days to come, Yediyurappa said the government has no plans to impose another lockdown and that his government, in fact, is requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more relaxations. In the backdrop of the growing number of positive cases in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said the government has made special efforts to control the spread of the virus and has constituted a special taskforce for Bengaluru and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-three-day-quarantine-for-travellers-from-delhi-chennai/articleshow/76394169.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Thane||Thane: Accident victim is first cadaver donor in 2 months||KALYAN: After over two months, the city recorded its first cadaveric organ donation when a 61-year-old woman's son donated her liver to an end-stage organ failure patient on Monday. While Fortis Hospital in Kalyan said it was the first cadaver donation since lockdown, the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) said it was the second; the first took place on March 25. "It may be considered the first since the state issued special guidelines for transplants during Covid,'' said ZTCC president Dr S Mathur. The donor, Shaila Dhargawe, had an accident on June 10 in Ulhasnagar. Doctors at a nursing home declared her brain dead. "As she had pledged her organs and had an organ donor card, her children were keen to donate her organs," said Dr Mathur. She was moved to Fortis Hospital. "We could only retrieve her liver as there were no recipients for other organs," said a hospital official. The hospital said Dhargawe's son said his mother always wanted to donate her organs. -Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-accident-victim-is-first-cadaver-donor-in-2-months/articleshow/76396137.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 16, 2020||Pune||PMPML eyes fare QR code-based fare system||Pune: PMPML authorities are planning a contactless payment option for commuters by ensuring scanning of quick response (QR) codes at bus stands and also on the vehicles. “It is going to be an easy system and we are fine-tuning the details. The QR codes will be pasted inside the buses, near the entrance of the vehicles and more importantly at the (bus) stands,” Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) joint managing director Ajay Charthankar said. “If a person has arrived at a stop and is waiting for a particular bus, s/he can check the fare of the destination from the route chart, scan the code and pay the fare. Once the bus arrives, the passenger will just have to show the conformation of payment to the conductor. The similar process can be followed while travelling on a bus,” he said. The PMPML has already started the system at the centres from were passes are distributed. “Anyone with a smartphone can scan the code and pay the charges. Though the service is not mandatory, we are encouraging people with smartphones to make payment by using the QR code and not in cash,” an official said. Charthankar said the PMPML was working on a system that would work in case the route of a bus changed. “There are instances when buses have to change a route. In such a situation, a passenger may have to pay additional fares. The conductors will guide the passengers on ways to pay the fares then. If any passenger cannot use the QR code system, s/he can pay in cash. We will start the plan in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-eyes-fare-qr-code-based-fare-system/articleshow/76395555.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Applications pile up as SC/ST commission without chairperson for seven months now||Lucknow: Responsible for taking up the cause of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, the Uttar Pradesh SC/ST Commission is without a head for the past seven months. This has led to to piling up of thousands of applications submitted by members of dalit community. Former director general of police Brij Lal, who heading the Commission, retired in November 2019. Since then the state government has not been able to find his successor. The SC/ ST Commission is the highest body to ensure that dalits are not deprived of their socio-economic rights. It also acts as a watchdog to prevent perpetration of atrocities upon dalits by the caste Hindus. One of the reasons for the vacant seat of the panel's head is lack of consensus between the government and the state BJP over candidates for the post, say highly placed sources. Though the state accounts for over 22% of the dalit population in the country, totalling over 23 crore, it has not been able to find a successor of Brij Lal so far. On an average, the commission receives 1,000 applications every month, a senior officer of the commission said adding in the past seven months around 7,000 applications have piled up. Though the commission has a vice-president, he is not in a position to clear all matters as he does not have the same powers which are enjoyed by chairman. The previus Samajwadi Party government had appointed an OBC as the chairman of the commission as the BSP government had passed an amendment, making it clear that persons of communities other than dalit could also head the SC/ST panel. During his tenure, Brij succeeded in creating awareness about the Centre’s pro-Dalit reforms. Just before the 2019 general elections, he had undertaken extensive tours just to promote the Central government's sponsored schemes launched for the welfare of dalits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/applications-pile-up-as-sc/st-commission-without-chairperson-for-seven-months-now/articleshow/76395554.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 16, 2020||Nashik||Farmer killed in leopard attack in Nashik village||Nashik: A 75-year-old farmer was killed on the spot when a leopard attacked him while he was sleeping outside his house in a farm in Donwade village, near Bhagur, about 20km from here, early on Monday morning. Jivram Govind Thube received serious injuries on the neck and died on the spot, said forest officials, who have set up three cages in the area to trap the animal. This is the second leopard-attack death in the same village and third in Nashik taluka in the past two months. On May 1, a four-year old was killed by a leopard while he was playing in front of his home in Donwade. In the incident on April 19, a 12-year boy was killed after a leopard attacked and dragged him into a sugar cane farm in the Hinganvedhe village. Four people have been injured in leopard attacks in the last fortnight in and around Nashik city. A four-year-old girl received minor injuries in such an attack while she was playing outside her home near Shinde-Palse village on the Nashik-Sinnar Road on June 10. A leopard attacked and injured a woman in the College Road area of the city on May 29. Two men were injured in a leopard attack in Indira Nagar area of the city the following day. Leopards have been spotted several times by people in Bhagur, Deolali Camp, Sinnar, Niphad and areas of Nashik district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmer-killed-in-leopard-attack-in-nashik-village/articleshow/76392837.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Cracking score for pani puri vendor’s son||Vadodara: Eighteen-year-old Dixit Modi on Monday made his parents proud. Dixit’s father Santosh sells ‘panipuri’ and ‘bhelpuri’ at a crossroad in Vadodara’s Chhani area while mother Ramila is a homemaker.For Santosh, who himself could not study beyond class ten, his younger son securing 99.68 percentile with 88 % marks is off course a big achievement.“I will join Bachelors of Commerce (BCom) and simultaneously start working to become chartered accountant,” said Dixit, a student of St Joseph school, who has bagged A2 grade.“I don’t want my sons to remain dependent on such uncertain source of income. I have always wished that they study in the stream of their choice but have a bright future,” said Santosh, 49, adding that there have been times when he had to struggle to make ends meet.“But I have managed it,” said Santosh, a resident of Tarunnagar society, who runs a ‘panipuri lari’ at Ding Dong chowkdi in TP 13 near Chhani jakatnaka. Santosh’s efforts are also not going in vein. His elder son Chirag, 20, is already in the final year of computer engineering at M S University’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering. “I had ranked fifth in Vadodara in class 12 (science) stream,” recollected Chirag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cracking-score-for-pani-puri-vendors-son/articleshow/76394122.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 16, 2020||Trichy||Man knocked down by min’s escort vehicle, dies||Trichy: A 70-year old man was killed when the police escort vehicle of minister for Khadi and village industries G Baskaran hit a two-wheeler near Panjappur on the Madurai-Trichy national highway in Trichy early on Monday. The deceased has been identified as T Abdul, an iron scrap vendor of Ramachandra Nagar at Edamalaipatti Pudhur in Trichy. The accident occurred at Panjappur at 6.20am. A police escort vehicle attached to Trichy rural police hit his bike when he was trying to cross the road. Traffic south investigation wing of Trichy city took up the investigation. Sub-inspector of police Rajendran said that Abdul came in the wrong direction and took a turn into the road to move to another side of the four way lane. The escort vehicle proceeding towards Trichy from Thuvarankurichi hit the bike. Abdul fell off the bike and sustained injuries on his head. Police also said that the car in which minister Baskaran was travelling was a few kilometres ahead of the escort vehicle at the time of the accident. The victim was rushed to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital but was declared brought dead. Postmortem was performed and the body was handed over to the family. A case was registered in this connection, but the driver of the escort vehicle was not booked as the accident took place due to the fault of the two-wheeler rider, police said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-knocked-down-by-mins-escort-vehicle-dies/articleshow/76394969.cms||---
June 16, 2020||India||Pool public & private resources, states told||NEW DELHI: In order to ensure availability of health infrastructure as the Covid-19 case count grows rapidly, the Centre has asked states to proactively engage with the private sector and consider pooling public and private healthcare facilities. States have also been asked to negotiate with local private healthcare providers and arrive at reasonable rates, while factoring in cost elements for personal safety equipment for healthcare providers. “It has been suggested that the rates, once fixed, must be widely publicised so that both the patients and service providers are fully aware and capacities are used optimally,” the government said in a statement. The move comes in the wake of reports indicating an emerging shortage of healthcare infrastructure, including hospitals with ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen supported beds, etc for management of Covid-19 patients. There have also been reports of overcharging by healthcare providers for Covid-19 treatment. Citing prices of critical care fixed under insurance schemes run by the central government, like the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY) and the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) which facilitate treatment in private facilities, the central government suggested that states also follow similar models.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pool-public-private-resources-states-told/articleshow/76396144.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Transporters welcome decision to extend validity of vehicle documents till September 30||PUNE: Transporters and private vehicle owners have welcomed the Centre's decision to extend the validity of motor vehicle documents such as driving licences, fitness certificates and permits till September 30, saying it was "much needed". "Motor vehicle documents whose validity could not be extended due to the lockdown and which expired after February 1 or will expire by June 30, will be treated valid till September 30," an RTO official said. Earlier on March 31, the government had extended the validity till June 30. Baba Shinde, president, Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said, "We had requested the government to extend the validity till December end. However the extension till September 30 will be a relief. In many of the RTO offices, only new vehicle registrations are taking place at the moment." The Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office is doing all work except issuing of driving licences. "Owners whose documents have expired before February 1 can approach the RTO office here. Care is being taken to ensure social distancing and the daily quota of such vehicles has been decreased from the earlier 250 to just 40 now. The owners are responsible for sanitisation of these vehicles," another RTO official said. The Pune RTO is in the red zone, so no work except vehicle registration is taking place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-welcome-decision-to-extend-validity-of-vehicle-documents-till-sept-30/articleshow/76395557.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Name: A bridge between legacy and conservation||CHENNAI: The state government needs to be complimented for its efforts to restore Tamil names of 1,018 places, many of which suffered from crude Anglicisation, depriving people of a sense of history, culture and civilization. While a large number of towns and villages are yet to be renamed, the focus should be on corrections that restore places to their roots and provide an opportunity to be promoted as part of the cultural tourism industry. Some of the present alterations have been superficial. Instead of naming on the basis of antiquity and historicity, in some cases, the committee seems to have been more keen on de-Anglicisation and de-Sanskritisation (Krishnagiri to Kuruttinagiri). What is the need to change names of Rama and Krishna and ‘Tamilise’ them? Some may argue what is to be gained by changing names of places? Apart from preserving one’s historical roots, cultural tourism can become a billion dollar industry. Promotion of historical and cultural places and a robust, modern marketing strategy can bring in tourists from across the globe. For instance, Sri Lanka is able to project Ramayana Tourism by taking tourists to various spots associated with Sita, Rama, Hanuman and Ravana. Tamil Nadu has strong links with Alwars and Shaivite Nayanamars, especially the Devaram composers whose songs bring out the greatness of Tamil language and music (besides promoting Bhakti). A search for Padi may take you on a journey of about 200 years. But a search for its ancient name of Thiruvalidhayam can lead one to a treasure house of information, stories, legends, songs of Nayanmars from 6th and 8th century. There is scarcely a city in the world that can boast of literature and songs that are 1,300 years old, linking names, places, deities, festivals and music. Here the Devaram songs of Thirugnanasambandar, Appar and Sundarar refer to places like Thiruvalidhayam (Padi), Tiruvottriyur, Mayilappur, Kundrathur, Ezhumboor (Egmore) dating back to the 7th century in some cases. This can be the foundation for a huge tourism bonanza if packaged properly. . In the past, towns and villages would have a ‘kaarana peyar’ (reason behind the name). There would be a legend, a story, a battle or a tale of valour, sacrifice or charity, that led to the name of the village. Restoration of such names will enable the people of that area at least to know the stories behind the formation of their village. This sense of history would lead to cultural affinity and greater community participation in promoting the town. Take the case of the ancient name of Triplicane -- Thiruvallikeni -- that has been restored. The name refers to ‘alli’ (lily) and ‘keni’ (tank) which once adorned the area. A proper understanding of ‘allikeni’ would lead to an exercise by the community and government to recreate the lily tank which would be a thing of beauty, strengthen cultural roots as well as recharge the groundwater in the area. For history enthusiasts, Thiruvallikeni would also stimulate search for the contribution of the three Alwars — Pey Alwars, Thirumazhisai Alwar and Thirumangai Alwar -- who refer to the beauty of the spot right from the 6th century, which would draw Tamils from all over the world. Similarly, a search for Poovinrudhavalli, instead of Poonamallee, would throw up many stories of the place and inscriptions that go back nearly 1,000 years ago. The new list has not taken into account the claims and demands to restore the ancient names of many other towns and villages. For example, Pallikaranai has been changed with the mere addition of a ‘k’ to make it Pallikkaranai. The name should have been changed to Palliyaakaaranai, which was the ancient name as found in two inscriptions in its Adupurishwarar temple, one dated 1525 CE and the other also from the 16th century. Kaaranai refers to a water body relating to a wetland. This is an example of how the old names referred to the geography of the place -- a waterbody -- that gave it a distinct identity. Today, the right name could inspire the local community to be proactive in protecting the wetland. Since ancient Chennai had a tradition to name places after the flora and flora of the area, it gave a distinctive local flavor. Pelathope in Mylapore was derived from Pala Thoppu or jackfruit orchard, Teynampet from Thengai or coconut trees, Purasawalkam from the Purasai or the flame of the forest flower, Vepery from neem trees and Alandur was a Banyan village. Kodambakkam was earlier Kodalam-pakkam, reference to a distinctive flower which grew in these parts. The restoration of the ancient name could lead to revival of the flowers in these areas. Such historical and cultural bonding can promote greater interest not just in the past but also in the protection of the environment. Chennai was itself so named after the Chenni trees which adorned the city. Where are the Chenni trees now? What is needed is a combination of history, culture and tourism that can place the city and state on the global tourism map. We owe it to the state treasury, if not our forefathers. ( The writer is the president of Chennai 2000 Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/name-a-bridge-between-legacy-and-conservation/articleshow/76394999.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nashik||2 held for raping minor boys||Nashik: Two men have been arrested by Nashik police in two separate incidents of raping minor boys aged 10 and 7 in Gangapur and Indira Nagar, respectively. In the first incident, the 10-year-old boy, who is a resident of Trimbak Road, was taken to a public toilet by the 45-year-old suspect on the pretext of showing something on the latter’s mobile phone. Once there, the suspect sexually assaulted the boy and threatened him of dire consequences if he informed anyone about the heinous act. The incident took place at 7.45pm on Saturday when the boy was playing near his home. The matter came to light after 8.15 pm when the boy came home crying. After the boy narrated the entire ordeal, his father took him to Gangapur police station and lodged a complaint. In the second incident too the victim was taken to a public toilet by the 18-year-old suspect. A case in this regard was registered by the boy’s mother at Indira Nagar police station on Friday. In both the cases police have booked the suspects under sections 4 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Both the suspects were presented before the court and have been remanded in police custody till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-held-for-raping-minor-boys/articleshow/76392859.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||29 nurses move HC over salary deduction by govt||NAGPUR: Around 29 nurses knocked the doors of Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court after the Maharashtra government reduced their salaries. The Supreme Court on Friday last had flayed the Delhi civic body for reducing wages of doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The SC stated that the country can’t afford to have “dissatisfied soldiers” in the war against the pandemic, and asked authorities there to go extra mile to raise funds for them. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar issued notices to the state government and others, asking them to reply by August 4 when the petition would be taken for the final disposal. The other respondents are state public health department secretary, director of health services in Mumbai and deputy director in city. Additional government pleader Deepak Thakre accepted the notice on the state’s behalf. “The petitioners are already working on the nurses’ posts on a temporary basis. However, their salary has been reduced, which is their grievance,” the judges said. Komal Shinde and others through counsel Siddhant Shinde contended that they were serving as bonded nurse staff against vacant permanent posts in various government hospitals. Though their service is on a temporary basis, they were performing same duties as of permanent staff having same qualifications. In the orders of their recruitment, their pay grade is fixed without no condition on any reduction. On March 17, the government passed a resolution (GR) revising remuneration of temporary employees, including nurses. On April 29, another GR was issued for revising the salaries of temporary staff nurses to Rs25,000 per month, which according to them is half of what was promised in their appointment orders. They contended that the government move was demotivating as they too risk their lives while performing the duties. The government had included temporary doctors in the GRs ambit but later excluded them and limited it to other health care workers who are also fighting the deadly virus with the same spirit while facing same risk. According to petitioner, the GRs of March 17 and April 29 violated Articles 14, 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India, as those deny them equal opportunity in public employment. They prayed for quashing of both GRs or staying their effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/29-nurses-move-hc-over-salary-deduction-by-govt/articleshow/76395016.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records sharpest spike in 40 days||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in 40 days on Monday as 127 people were confirmed to have been infected by the virus, taking the state’s tally to 3,267. Four people also died of the virus, all in Amritsar, with which the death toll rose to 71. The state had recorded 215 cases on May 5. Of the new cases, 30 patients are contacts of positive cases, 14 have influenza-like illness (ILI)m and the source of in 14 cases is outside Punjab. Four police officials and two jail inmates also tested positive for the virus. Jalandhar reported 23, while Amritsar recorded 20 cases, which included 14 cases of ILI and four contacts of positive cases. Sangrur got 15 new patients, all contacts of positive cases. Also, 11 cases were reported from Mohali, 10 from Patiala, two each from Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Pathankot, and one each from Ropar, Moga, Faridkot and Tarn Taran. A total of 87 patients were discharged after they recovered. In Patiala, the new cases are from Samana, Patiala and Nabha blocks. Two of the new patients are employees of Samana municipal committee. A pregnant woman also tested positive. In Patiala city, a patient is a contact of an infected person, two had returned from Delhi, and one person had returned from Rajasthan. According to district officials in Jalandhar, 18 of 28 people who tested positive for Covid-19 over the past two days had no known sources of infection. Nine of them are police personnel. As five of them originally hail from other districts, they are not being counted in data pertaining to Jalandhar. According to health department officials, a patient who died on June 11 also tested positive for the virus. In Amritsar, an 85-year-old diabetic man was among those who died. District officials said 33 persons, including 16 personnel of Border Security Force (BSF), tested positive for the infection The BSF personnel had gone to Gujarat and tested positive upon their return. The state bulletin said the district had recorded 20 new cases. (With inputs from Patiala, Amritsar and Jalandhar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-sharpest-spike-in-40-days/articleshow/76395023.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Trichy||Youth held for sexually harassing minor girl||Trichy: The all-women police, Cantonment in the city, arrested a 19-year-old man for kidnapping, sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl in the city on Sunday. The arrested has been identified as P Raghu from Edamalaipatti Pudur. According to police, the girl who finished her Class 10 and Raghu were lovers. But, their parents opposed the affair. The youth stalked the girl and molested her recently, said police. The girl’s father in his complaint said that Raghu kidnapped the girl and married her at Murugan temple at Ramachandra Nagar early on Sunday. As she was missing, her parents lodged a complaint with the AWPS on Sunday. Police launched an investigation and caught them and rescued the girl. He was booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. He was produced before a court and was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youth-held-for-sexually-harassing-minor-girl/articleshow/76395004.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Pune||Suspects used rice puller bait: Police||Pune: The suspects arrested last week in connection with the seizure of Indian and US token currencies of Rs87 crore face value would target people for cheating by offering them rice pullers that would bring “good fortunes”, police said. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “One of the six arrested suspects is being probed for practising such cheating method, which came to the fore during interrogation. He was in touch with few others, who would scout victims for him.” Rice pullers are highly valuable antique objects with potential of pulling rice grains. Made of copper alloys or iridium element having electric or magnetic power, they are believed to bring good fortunes to the owners. In 2017, the Hyderabad police had busted a rice puller gang. All the six suspects were produced before a magisterial court on Monday following the end of their initial custodial remand. The court extended their remand by another five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/suspects-used-rice-puller-bait-police/articleshow/76395556.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Vadodara||Garment shop workers girl stitches success||Vadodara: She believes that it is smart work that delivers results. And she delivered spectacular results to spread happiness in her family by not only bagging 94.53 % but also 99.99 percentile with A1 grade.Aditi Zabak, a student of Sardar Vallabhbhai Vidyalaya, by her own admission, has not worked hard. “I just prepared smartly for the exams,” said Aditi, whose father Anil works at a ready-made garment shop while mother Anjana is a homemaker.A resident of Ajwa Road, Aditi now plans to make a career as a chartered accountant (CA). “I have already filled up form for foundation level. Now, I will be pursuing BCom from M S University and also concentrate on CA studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/garment-shop-workers-girl-stitches-success/articleshow/76394161.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nashik||With 206 patients cured, Nagar’s recovery rate is 82%||Nashik: Early detection and timely treatment have boosted the recovery rate of Covid-19 positive patients to over 80% in Ahmednagar, district collector Rahul Dwivedi said on Monday. According to official data, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the month of May was around 48%.  Due to the rise in recovery rate, the number of containment zones have also come down from 80 (in May) to 36. So far, thre have been 250 positive patients in the district. Of them, 206 have recovered. A total of 11 patients have died due to the contagion. “Our focus all along has been on detecting and starting treatment of confirmed patients early so that they can recover fast. We also made serious efforts to track and test high-risk contacts of confirmed Covid patients,” Dwivedi said. As many as 114 teams in rural blocks and 29 in city are working to trace suspected cases and carry out the tests. Despite being the largest district in the state, in terms of area, the number of positive cases in Ahmednagar is relatively low when compared to many other districts. Ahmednagar is also surrounded by red zone districts like Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad where the number of cases are much higher and there is movement of people from those districts to and from Ahmednagar. A district health official said that the new discharge policy also helped in improving the recovery rate. “The district administration has remained focused on ensuring proper lockdown. The district collector himself was out on the roads to check the enforcement of the lockdown that kept officials on their toes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/with-206-patients-cured-nagars-recovery-rate-is-82/articleshow/76392881.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Trichy||110 samples taken after trader’s rep tests +ve in Trichy||Trichy: After a senior functionary of a traders’ organisation tested positive for Covid-19, the Trichy Corporation on Monday collected samples from 110 people who had attended a meeting in the corporation office last week in which the trader participated.The traders’ representative was vocal about reopening the Gandhi Market that was closed since March 30 and had attended the peace talk with revenue and corporation officials on June 7, in which around 100 traders and officials participated. Prior to the talks, the trader had travelled to Chennai, officials said. After the meeting, as he developed fever, he got himself admitted at a private hospital where his test result came positive. A special screening was held to trace his contacts and around 110 people, including journalists who covered the meeting gave their samples. “We expect the results to be out by Wednesday. We have disinfected the area around the trader’s house near TVS tollgate,” a corporation official said.A similar mass screening was conducted at the private onion market near Palpannai in which samples from 122 traders and workers were collected. The move comes after a relative of an onion trader tested positive.The mass screenings were the third such process in Trichy city. Previously, 213 samples were collected from vegetable traders in G corner and Chathiram bus stand markets. All of them tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/110-samples-taken-after-traders-rep-tests-ve-in-trichy/articleshow/76395020.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 16, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corpn may consider random sampling in hotspots||Trichy: Random sampling is on the cards by Trichy Corporation to identify Covid-19 cases in the city. Through field workers, the urban local body plans to map hotspots which include hospitals and mobile service centres that attract a sizeable crowd.In the last week, at least three people, including two sanitary workers tested positive. The other case was a shopkeeper in Thiruverumbur who used to commute only between his shop and house located within a kilometre radius. Later, his wife also tested positive. All of them were asymptomatic. Civic body sources said they are considering random sampling in hotspots that attract significant public movement. Maintaining that another Koyambedu cluster should not arise, officials said that plans are on a war-footing. “Hotspot mapping is underway. We are focussing on hospitals and commercial establishments where asymptomatic patients might have visited,” a corporation official said. As textile and vessels shops are attracting crowds for the wedding season, they are likely to be focussed in hotspot mapping. “Based on the results for the 200+ samples collected from vegetable market traders, we will decide about random sampling. If the incidences of positive cases are high, random sampling will be considered,” the official added. The civic body also added that it is cautiously using the expensive test kits. On an average, it conducts 400 tests per day. Around 200 tests per day are planned for the random sampling. Conducting random sampling was one of the predominant demands by the residents as asymptomatic cases with no travel history are testing positive. So far, Trichy Corporation was collecting samples for tests only from primary and secondary contacts. The frontline workers and pregnant women were separately covered in the mass screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-may-consider-random-sampling-in-hotspots/articleshow/76395009.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: English names changed, but caste tags remain a blot||The state government’s initiative to alter the English names in the state to match their phonetics was made possible in two years. But it has failed to address the deep-rooted caste oppression that nomenclature perpetuates. Three decades ago, residents of a village in Dharmapuri unofficially changed the casteist name of their village — Sakkilipatti (refers to the Scheduled Caste, Sakkiliyar). The derogatory title was a way of discrimination that reduced the identities of the people to their caste. Despite the stand of the villagers to reclaim their equal standing, the government is yet to officially acknowledge the change in name. While the left-leaning members in the village rallied for the name to be changed to ‘Stalinpuram’, Sakkilipatti has stayed on in government records. The name board at the village entrance reads S Patti, but the villagers widely use the changed name, Stalinpuram, on wedding invitations and political rallies. "We also gave official representation to the district administration, but no action taken was taken. While we have not actively followed up on our demand, it is high time the government takes the effort to change caste names in villages across Tamil Nadu," said S P Maran of the Revolutionary Farmers and Labourers’ Front. Though Dharmapuri may have attained notoriety for caste riots, this village in Harur taluk has made gradual changes to reclaim their rights. Since the 1960s, it has been known as a haven for inter-caste love, with more than 50 inter-caste couples among its 3,000 residents. "A school teacher, Appadurai instilled ideologies of Marx and Periyar among the villagers before Independence and the tradition continues," said R Sugadev, a former member of the Communist Party (M-L). Some of the other villages with caste names in Dharmapuri district are Parayapatti, Goundampatti and Irulapatti and such casteist names dot the entire state. Petitions have been before the government and the Madras high court against these names. In October 2018, a division bench of the Madras high court had observed that the state follow the mandate in the government order passed in 1978, which is clear that wherever there is a reference to a caste in the names of roads and streets, the same should be removed. But the order is yet to be implemented. Professor T Dharmaraj, head of department, folklore and cultural studies, Madurai Kamaraj University said such calls for change should be supported as society moves towards modernity.. "Duraisamypuram in Tenkasi district was known as Gurumaarcheri 100 years ago. In the late 1950s, villagers rallied and got the name changed as it was derogatory and it was eventually changed in the gazette too," Dharmaraj said. These changes that will transform attitudes is what is required not just alteration for the sake of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/english-names-changed-but-caste-tags-remain-a-blot/articleshow/76395028.cms||Srikkanth D
June 16, 2020||Goa||Only highways extensively damaged last year: Goa minister||PANAJI: High quality repair work has been carried out on damaged roads last year and it will ensure that citizens do not face difficulties in commuting on the roads this monsoon like they faced in 2019, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said on Monday. He said that it was mainly national highway roads which saw extensive damage to them during the 2019 monsoon, while village roads hardly saw any damage to them. “Last year, most of the roads damaged were national highways and not village roads. We have completed hotmix carpet for most village roads. The rest will be done from October. Citizens will get to travel on good roads, we have ensured that. Goa receives heavy rainfall, due to which the soil softens and damages roads. This time, the works have been quality works, and this year the damage will not be like last year,” he said. The minister also said that the austerity measures implemented by the chief minister did not mean it put a stop to all works. Pauskar said that only because of the Covid-19 situation, ministers were given a budget limit for spending upto October 2020. “It does not mean work won’t be done. When it comes to new works, only essential work will be taken up. I admit that payment of money to the contractors is pending. But it is not pending from recent time, but since 2012 when mining stopped in Goa and earnings dropped. There is some shortage of funds, but our CM has planned to provide us funds gradually. He has set a limit, and hasn’t told us not to take up work,” said Pauskar. He said that work on all roads, water supply and sewerage works for which contracts were allotted by the PWD in 2019 will continue in the state. “For the national highways, we have allotted a contract for Rs 150 crore. Its payment has been made by the central government. The work has started from May. The entire stretch of national highway will be taken care of by this contractor for a period three years. By November, all the remaining national highways will also be patched up wherever there is damage,” said Pauskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-highways-extensively-damaged-last-year-pauskar/articleshow/76395566.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Satyendar Jain tests negative for Covid-19, health stable||New Delhi: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Though the test results came negative, Jain will undergo another test on Wednesday, sources said.Jain, 55, has high-grade fever and breathing difficulty. He had suffered a sudden drop in oxygen level on Monday, after which the minister was rushed to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in east Delhi, a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the state government.“Due to high-grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night, I have been admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. Will keep everyone updated,” the state health minister tweeted on Tuesday.Since his oxygen level remained low, Jain is being kept under observation, sources said.Taking to Twitter, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hoped that Jain recovered soon. “Without worrying about your health, you were dedicated in service of people round-the-clock. Please take care and get well soon,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan also called Jain to enquire about his condition. Dr Vardhan also spoke to the medical director of the hospital to know more about his treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/satyendar-jain-tests-negative-for-covid-19-health-stable/articleshow/76413401.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Drunk man makes hoax call to blow up India Gate||NEW DELHI: Cops went on a wild goose chase on Monday afternoon after receiving a call from a drunk man threatening to bomb India Gate. After 12 hours of raids at multiple places, the hoax caller was nabbed from Faridabad. He has been identified as Rakesh Mehta (40). The call was received at 1.47pm at Tilak Marg police station mentioning that an explosion would take place at India Gate within the next five minutes. Subsequently, all police units, bomb disposal team, water bowser and fire tenders were summoned by the control room to the spot. India Gate and its surroundings were thoroughly checked and sanitised. In the meanwhile, several attempts were made to contact the caller, but in vain. Details of the number from which the call was made revealed that it was registered at an address in Govindpuri. A team from Tilak Marg police station assisted by the local cops reached the address, but it was found that the person had shifted out 5-6 months ago. When the current location of the caller was accessed, it was found to be Vinay Nagar, Faridabad. However, the caller wasn’t found there too. Finally, Special Cell tracked him to Deepali Enclave based on his mobile communication and he was brought to Delhi for interrogation. Mehta told police that he was a migrant labourer from Bihar living in Faridabad with his two brothers and mother. He made the call after getting drunk on Monday. He said he had personal issues and was frustrated at not being married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drunk-man-makes-hoax-call-to-blow-up-india-gate/articleshow/76414266.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Trichy||Chennai returnees push cases up in Karur, P’kottai||Trichy: There has been a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Karur and Pudukottai districts after people from Chennai started moving to these areas. After Chennai become a Covid-19 hotspot in the state, people from other districts staying in the state capital have desperately started moving to their native places. But in most cases, they turn out to be carriers of Covid-19. Going by the data, Pudukottai district has recorded positive cases in double digits for the first time since the outbreak as most cases were from Chennai. As many as 11 people tested positive in Pudukottai district on Sunday out of which eight were Chennai returnees. Further, 37 out of the total 40 cases in the last 10 days are Chennai returnees. Even though there are check-posts in district borders, people enter the district through alternative routes, said senior health officials in Pudukottai. People coming from Chennai pose a threat as most of them turned out to be positive cases. If they manage to reach their respective places escaping health officials, they tend to spread the infection, said the officials. In Karur district, during the initial days of Covid-19 outbreak, more cases had emerged from the Tablighi cluster. Later, cases from other states, especially from Maharashtra came in large numbers adding up to the tally. Over the last few days, the number of positive cases is on the rise because of people entering the district from Chennai. A 62-year-old woman, who is a resident of Chennai for more than four decades, and came to Karur district a few days ago, tested positive. Health officials are now busy tracking her contacts. Now that the lockdown norms are eased, health officials say that people are entering the district in vehicles escaping district borders. This is unlike a few weeks ago when most cases were intercepted on the district borders and taken directly to the hospital. “We are considering people coming from Chennai as Covid-19 positive. They are asked to self-quarantine at home after test,” said a senior health official from Karur. Locals in the villages inform health officials about people entering their village from outside over the fear of Covid-19. But in urban areas tracing people has been a challenge, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/chennai-returnees-push-cases-up-in-karur-pkottai/articleshow/76395030.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Restart charity offices: Lawyers’ SOS to CM||NAGPUR: Deprived of income for last the two-and-half months due to nationwide lockdown, the Charity Bar Association lawyers have rushed a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to restart the official working at Charity Commissioner’s office in the city. According to them, they haven’t earned anything due to lockdown and even the litigants have stopped approaching them as charity offices are closed. The letter signed by president Anand Gode and secretary Shreeganesh Abhyankar stated that though the government paid full salary to officials and employees working with the charity offices, lawyers were completely dependent on litigants. “We’re not paid a penny by the government and we don’t want it either. We only want you to restart the offices as early as possible, so that the litigants would start coming here. If the offices aren’t opened, our only source of income would be completely dried up. We’ve already exhausted all our savings in this period of lockdown,” the letter mentioned. The CBA lawyers warned that if same situation continued for another couple of months, the city would witness suicides of men in black coats like of farmers. They requested the CM to restart the charity office at least on partial basis by allowing filing of cases, draftings, issuance of summons, hearings of small matters and other paper formalities, so that the aggrieved lawyers would get some amount to feed their families. They assure that they would strictly follow all social distancing norms at the workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restart-charity-offices-lawyers-sos-to-cm/articleshow/76395041.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Health department plans to set up 3 more FLTCs in Ernakulam||KOCHI: As more Covid-19 cases are being reported in the district following the arrival of people from abroad and other states, health authorities have planned to open more first line treatment centres (FLTC) in Ernakulam. As part of this initiative, the convention centre and Haj house in Cochin international airport limited (Cial) and Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium in Kadavanthra will be converted into FLTCs. Patients, who would be admitted at these centres will most likely be those coming from abroad since most number of cases are reported among them. The centres will house asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms. Currently, the first FLTC in Ernakulam functions at the exhibition hall of the Adlux Convention Centre in Angamaly. “Once the number of patients at Adlux touches 100, we will open the convention centre at Cial. Currently, 40 patients are under observation in Angamaly. These centres will focus mainly on people, who tested positive after returning from other states and abroad. These centres can accommodate more people and have better toilet facilities. If a situation similar to Chennai arises and local residents get infected, we will open FLTCs at block levels. As of now, there is no local transmission of the disease since the district reported only two cases infected through contact in the second wave of Covid-19. Rest of the cases are imported ones either from abroad or from other states,” said a district health official. The convention centre and Haj house in Cial can accommodate 200 people each while the indoor stadium in Kadavanthra can lodge around 150 people. Facilities, similar to the ones arranged at the Adlux, will be made available at these centres too. FLTCs are centres where asymptomatic people and those with mild symptoms are placed under observation to bring down the burden on health workers at the tertiary care centre in Ernakulam which is the government medical college in Kalamassery. In the first wave of Covid-19, six people, including three family members of the first fatality in the state, were infected through contact in the district in March and April. However, there were only two positive cases infected through contact between May 4 and June 14 in Ernakulam, shows the data of the health department. The rest of the cases reported during this period were were those who returned from abroad and other states. A total of 101 people, including foreign nationals and natives of other states and districts, were given treatment after being tested positive for Covid-19 in Ernakulam since February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-plans-to-set-up-3-more-fltcs-in-ernakulam/articleshow/76392945.cms||T C Sreemol
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||JVVN revenue officer, lineman held for bribery||JAISALMER: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Monday arrested a revenue officer and lineman of Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam taking bribe of Rs 20,000 for rectifying the electricity bill in the district’s Nachna area on Monday. A team led by ACB deputy SP Anil Purohit arrested the accused. Purohit said that Aaskandra resident Narpat Singh approached ACB Jaisalmer stating that he met Nachna JEN Sunil Kumar and revenue officer Uma Shankar Meena over correction in the bill of an agriculture electricity connection, which is in the name of his father Amar Singh. However, Meena allegedly demanded Rs 20,000 to reduce the bill amount. After the confirmation of the complaint, a plan was made to nab the accused on Monday. The complainant gave Rs 20,000 to Meena and the ACB caught him red-handed. The involvement of lineman Manoj Kumar was also established and he was arrested too. Both are being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jvvn-revenue-officer-lineman-held-for-bribery/articleshow/76395039.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Trichy||Swab test sought for train passengers from red zones||Trichy: The state government should conduct swab tests for all passengers travelling by special trains operated from red zone areas to other destinations. Pointing at the trains operated between Trichy and Chengalpattu, former state president of the consumer protection council, N Jamaludhin has insisted that mere screening is not sufficient as several Covid-19 positive cases are emerging from Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kanchipuram districts.Southern Railway is operating special trains between Chengalpattu and Trichy (train number 06795/06796). However, no screening has been done for passengers arriving at the Trichy Junction from Chengalpattu. There was no confirmed information that the passengers are screened at the time of boarding.In a petition to the Union health ministry, Tamil Nadu government and ministry of railways, Jamaludhin said that passengers’ swabs were not tested. As the virus is emerging again in cities such as Trichy, he appealed to the state to conduct tests for the passengers at the time of boarding.As per protocol, screening test must be done at Chengalpattu. Screening tests were not sufficient due to a lot of cases in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur districts.So, the state government should take act immediately to avoid the virus spread from red zones, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/swab-test-sought-for-train-passengers-from-red-zones/articleshow/76395037.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Trichy||Water flows through Mukkombu barrage, to reach Kallanai today||Trichy: Water released from Mettur reservoir reached Mukkombu barrage in Trichy on Monday morning bringing joy to the farmers. They welcomed the water release by showering flowers. The water released from Mettur dam on June 12 reached Mayanur barrage in Karur district on Sunday night and reached Mukkombu (Upper Anaicut), situated on the outskirts of the city, at around 11am on Monday. This will help farmers preparing to take up kuruvai cultivation. Farmers from various associations headed by district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Ayilai Sivasuriyan and secretary of Tamil Manila Congress farmers’ wing, Puliyur A Nagarajan showered flowers into the water. According to sources from the public works department (PWD), 3,000 cusecs of water reached Mukkombu and officials said that they expect the flow to touch 7,000 cusecs by Monday night. Whatever quantum of water would reach the barrage, would be released in the Cauvery at Mukkombu for delta cultivation, they said. The residents were also overjoyed in seeing water flow in the Cauvery river after four months. The water is expected to reach Kallanai (Grand Anaicut) further downstream on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/water-flows-through-mukkombu-barrage-to-reach-kallanai-today/articleshow/76395035.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to conduct audit of samples collected, tested||CHANDIGARH: Facing a challenge of maintaining quality with substantial increase in collection of samples and testing for Covid-19, the Punjab government has decided to conduct quality audit of samples tested at both government and private laboratories. The state government has acted on recommendation of the state public health advisory group after instances of results of tests conducted in private laboratories had turned out to be false positive and negative. The move assumes significance as the state government has allowed all private health facilities to collect and test samples for Covid-19. Earlier, there were only two private approved laboratories. At present, there are four government-run institutes — GMCH Patiala (2,000 tests daily), GMC Amritsar (2,000 tests daily), GGMCH Faridkot (2,000 tests daily) and PGIMER Chandigarh (60 tests daily) — and two private laboratories, DMC Ludhiana (150 tests daily) and Core Labs (500 tests daily).These have a daily collective capacity of 6,810 tests. Over the last one week, cumulative samples collected and tested increased on average at daily rate of 6.2% and 5.5%, respectively. The numbers will increase substantially soon as private health facilities — hospitals and clinics — start collecting and testing samples. The quality audit will be done on monthly basis for which five positive and five negative stored samples for each of Government Medical College laboratories and private medical college laboratories will be sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh, while same number of positive and negative stored samples from each of private laboratories approved for testing will be sent to the nearest government laboratory. As per guidelines, the auditing laboratories have been asked to share the results only with the state health department and not with the concerned laboratory. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the number of samples collected and tested is going up and there is a need to ensure quality. “The audit will help the health authorities to ensure that samples are collected and tested as per laid down protocols,” said Dr Bhaskar. The health department has also framed guidelines for all private hospitals, clinics, laboratories in the state, which have been allowed to collect samples from patients visiting their institution for conducting Covid-19 tests. To ensure transparency, the private health centres will have to share all the details of samples collected and tested with the civil surgeon of their respective district. The interested private facilities will have to collect the samples for testing as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols. They will also have to register on the ICMR portal and update data and follow instructions issued by ICMR from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-conduct-audit-of-samples-collected-tested/articleshow/76395045.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 16, 2020||Jaipur||17-yr-old held captive, thrashed for alleged goat theft in Jhalawar||KOTA: Three youths tied the hands of a 17-year-old boy, removed his trousers, shaved his head, blackened his face and thrashed him severely for allegedly stealing a goat from their house in Balgarh near Raipur village under Jhalawar city police station on Friday night. The family members of the minor reached the spot on Saturday morning and took him to the SRG Hospital in Jhalawar, where he is undergoing treatment for head injury. Police have arrested the accused, who were produced before a court that sent them to judicial custody for 14 days. According to the statements of the minor, a resident of Balgarh village near Raipur, one of the three accused youths, identified as Ram Singh Bheel of the same village, on Friday night called him at his house where other two accused Durgalal and Bajrang Singh were also present, circle in charge (CI), Jhalawar city police station, Laxman Singh said. The victim said the three youths accused him of stealing their goat and started thrashing him. The three tied his hands behind on the back, removed his trousers and thrashed him throughout the night, the victim told police, adding they also blackened his face and shaved his head, the police official said. The victim also stated that the three accused demanded Rs 1 lakh from him for the goat that he had allegedly stole from their house, he added. “The minor victim suffered injuries on head and there are marks of beating over his body,” the CI said. On the report by the minor victim, police lodged a case against the three accused, identified as Ram Singh Bheel, his brother Durgalal and Bajrang Singh (all around 20-22 years old) under Sections 341, 342, 323, 387 of IPC, the CI said adding three accused were arrested on Saturday evening after they tested negative for Covid-19 test. The three accused, too, lodged a case of trespassing into their house and stealing the goat against the minor victim, he said, adding further investigation into the matter is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-yr-old-held-captive-thrashed-for-alleged-goat-theft-in-jhalawar/articleshow/76395046.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Delhi||Peak power demand at season’s high of 5,805MW||New Delhi: The capital on Monday night recorded a peak power demand of 5,805MW, the seasons highest so far, overtaking the previous high of 5,591 MW recorded on June 12. On their part, BSES Rajdhani Power Limited and BSES Yamuna Power Limited successfully met the peak power demand of 2,635MW and 1,311MW, respectively, while Tata Power recorded a high of 1,627MW. Last year, Delhi’s peak power demand had clocked 7,409MW. After the end of the lockdown 3.0 on May 17 and the subsequent ease in restrictions, Delhi’s peak power has started increasing. “Since the easing of restrictions, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 40%. However, if we compare the peak power demand of April 2020 with that of June 2020, the peak power demand has already increased by over 72%,” said a power official. While the peak power demand in April was 3,362MW, on June 15 it touched 5,805MW. According to the official, with the city’s peak power demand set to increase even further, it may surpass last year’s demand of 7,409 MWin July and it may even touch 7,500MW. According to BSES, arrangements have been firmed up by its two discoms to source adequate electricity to meet the power demand of over 44 lakhs consumers in the capital. “These arrangements include long term PPAs and banking arrangements of up to 800MW with other states. In case of unforeseen contingencies because of low generation and outages in power plants, the discoms will purchase short-term power from the exchange,” the official explained. Tata Power-DDL, too, is adequately prepared for the summer season by strengthening its power network and conducting preventive maintenance and condition-based maintenance of all critical electrical installations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/peak-power-demand-at-seasons-high-of-5805mw/articleshow/76414292.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Entrance coaching centres embrace online platforms||KOCHI: With the restrictions on the educational institutions continuing due to the Covid-19 situation, the entrance coaching centres are now going online for imparting education. Most of the centres have made additional investment amid the financial loss to ensure seamless online platforms to provide coaching. The management authorities of these centres said that the pandemic has brought a major change in the entrance coaching culture in Kerala, where people have never approved online classes, and has given a big blow to major centres that have invested in setting up infrastructure for classes and hostel facilities. Moreover, the uncertainty about when the centres can open and resume offline classes is apprehending management to initiate cost-cutting measures like stop leasing out buildings for classroom and also reduce the number of staff. While major centres with multiple branches, who already have their online division, are handling the situation without much fuss, the medium and small-scale centres are struggling to setup the online platform. “Our online division has stepped in from the very beginning of lockdown to ensure that the business won’t be affected much. But it is difficult for those centres that don’t have existing online support teams. Though parents and students were apprehensive about online classes initially and forced to enrol due to upcoming exams, now more than 50% of them are happy with it and wish to continue with it. Debates are still on regarding the effectiveness of online classes, but it is sure that the online mode is set to stay with more technological inventions,” said Arun Vishwanath, branch head of Akash Institute, Kochi. All those hostels which were exclusively built or leased out for the accommodation of students are lying vacant for three months, incurring heavy loss to owners. “All the hostels which had tie-ups with us are asking what they should do. Many have taken loans to expand hostels expecting business,” said a staff of Radiant Study Centre, Palarivattom. Many agree that online coaching is cost-effective compared to offline but most centres are still hoping that post Covid-19 everything will get back to normal. “Once the relaxations are implemented classes can be taken with 15 or 20 students in one classroom. If so number of sessions need to be increased. But we cannot think of expanding classroom infrastructure now,” said Vishwanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/entrance-coaching-centres-embrace-online-platforms/articleshow/76392951.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Govt silent on recovery of school fee||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra school education department, which issued a set of directives on Monday for reopening of schools, has allegedly not mentioned the issue of fees recovery from students, providing relief to the parents and upsetting the schools. While the government earlier had prohibited schools from insisting parents to pay fees during the lockdown, the alleged silence on the issue has irked private schools. On the other hand, the parents of the students are relieved to some extent with no official instructions coming from the government replacing the earlier orders. Sanjay Tayde Patil, the president of Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA) on Monday said that the government should take a rational approach while dealing with private educational institutions instead of adopting any ‘popular’ agenda. “The government should have shed light on the issue of collecting fees while announcing its strategy of reopening schools during the pandemic. Resorting to any popular agenda and appeasement tactics would create confusion and could cause adverse effects on students and parents,” Prashant Beedkar, a parent, said the private schools should not hastily collect fees amid the gradual relaxations of lockdown norms. “It is a welcome move by the government. Parents will have to pay the fees but it should be recovered once normalcy returns,” he said. The Aurangabad Zilla Parishad has recently issued separate communication addressed to schools, asking institutions concerned to not increase the fees due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and also warned action against them in case parents are forced to pay the fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-silent-on-recovery-of-school-fee/articleshow/76392946.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Patna||Election to nine state council seats on July 6||Patna: The biennial elections to the nine Bihar legislative council seats from the assembly constituency would be held on July 6, the Election Commission (EC) announced on Monday. As per the schedule, the filing of nomination papers would begin on June 18 with the last date for it being June 25. The scrutiny of papers is to be done the next day and the last date for the withdrawal of names by any candidate is June 29. The counting of votes would be done the same day (July 6), but the winners will be announced on July 8. However, if there is no extra candidate over the nine seats that have fallen vacant, the elections would be deemed to be over by consensus choice — the political parties winning the seats as per their existing strength in the state assembly. Though the nine seats fell vacant on May 6 — six from JD(U) and three from BJP — the EC had deferred the election on May 3 due to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. The six JD(U) MLCs whose terms expired are Ashok Choudhary, Mohammad Haroon Rashid, P K Shahi, Satish Kumar, Sonelal Mehta and Hira Prasad Bind. Similarly, the BJP MLCs concerned are Krishna Kumar Singh, Sanjay Prakash Mayukh and Radha Mohan Sharma. The state assembly has 242 members, excluding the post of Speaker. Any candidate would require 25 votes to be declared a winner. In the NDA camp, JD(U) has 70 MLAs, BJP 54 and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) two. In the opposition camp, RJD has 80 MLAs, followed by 26 of Congress and three of CPI(ML). Though in the opposition camp, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) head and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi has been making sharp turns and twists indicating his desire to go for the camp change, observers felt. JD(U) is set to win three seats (as it can easily muster required five votes from BJP), while BJP would win two seats. In the opposition camp, RJD would easily win three seats and Congress one. As to the possible candidates from these parties, JD(U) national chief Nitish Kumar is set to retain Ashok Choudhary, but might give the two other seats to one from the extremely backward castes (EBC) and the third to a Mahadalit. Similarly, BJP could field one candidate from the upper caste Bhumihar and another from the other backward castes (OBC). The biggest surprise might be thrown by RJD if it decides to field its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav. That would leave Tejashwi free to lead the assembly election campaign, observers said. It would not raise NDA’s hackles, as both CM Nitish and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi have been members of the Upper House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/election-to-nine-state-council-seats-on-july-6/articleshow/76393272.cms||Abhay Singh
June 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Minister B Sriramulu shows up without mask, flouts rules at wedding||HUBBALLI: Social distancing and other norms were blatantly flouted during the wedding of the son of an MLA in Ballari district, with health minister B Sriramulu, a guest at the function, being a prime violator. The government’s SOP on weddings states there can be a maximum 50 guests, who must adhere to norms such as maintaining physical distance and wearing masks besides others. But rules were flouted at the wedding of Avinash, son of PT Parameshwar Naik, a sitting Congress MLA from Ballari district, with Charani K, daughter of a businessman. Hundreds of people from surrounding villages besides VIPs and politicians attended the wedding at Laxmipur tanda, Harapanahalli. Sriramulu, who harps on use of masks, was seen greeting the couple without one and standing shoulder-to-shoulder with other guests, who included Siddaramaiah. The former CM did wear a mask, but flouted social distancing norms. Naik said, “I apologised to my well-wishers, supporters and friends through a WhatsApp message for not inviting them to my son’s wedding. Still, many of them turned up to bless my son. We stuck to norms including thermal screening and keeping hand sanitisers at entrance and other points.” When contacted, Sriramulu merely said people should maintain social distancing and wear a mask. Based on a complaint filed by Harapanahalli tahsildar, police inspector Kumar K, Harapanahalli police station, said an FIR has been filed. One PT Bharat, is the first accused, while Naik is the second accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/minister-sriramulu-shows-up-without-mask-flouts-rules-at-wedding/articleshow/76394210.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 16, 2020||Lucknow||Gautam Budh Nagar pips Agra to bag top slot in Covid cases tally||LUCKNOW: The covid-19 tally for Uttar Pradesh crossed the 14k-mark with 480 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. With 60 new cases on Monday, Gautam Budh Nagar not only crossed the 1000-mark, but also became the district with maximum viral load. GB Nagar's tally is now 1,057 surpassing Agra, which had 16 cases on Monday to take its total to 1,054. On a positive side, the state's recovery rate touched a new high of 61%. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said that as many as 342 persons were discharged, taking the total number recovered to 8,610 which is 61% of the total 14,095 cases. In terms of cases during the day, Lucknow recorded second highest - 46 - taking its total to 638. However, Ghaziabad moved up the ladder to fifth position with 15 news cases 646 overall. The third place was bagged by Sambhal which saw 32 cases. The state also recorded 18 deaths taking the total number of covid-19 casualties to 417. According to the bulletin, Agra, Meerut, Kanpur, Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr saw two deaths each while Jaunpur, Hapur, Pratapgarh, Hardoi, Maharajganj, Jalaun, Mainpuri and Etah recorded one death each. Prasad said that 13,388 tests were conducted in the state in the past 24 hours and that the surveillance activities were underway in both rural and urban areas. “The state government’s 1.21 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed over 92 lakh homes and covered 4.69 crore people,” he said, adding, “the Aarogya Setu mobile application is also being used to track suspected patients. Acting on alerts generated by the app, 81,339 people were called and given advice.” The other districts which saw double digit entries on Monday included Kanpur Nagar (19), Muzaffarnagar (16), Moradabad (14), Hamirpur (13), Aligarh (11), Bareilly (11), Saharanpur (10), Bulandshaher (10), Ayodhya (10), Mathura (10) and Hardoi (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gb-nagar-pips-agra-to-bag-top-slot-in-covid-cases-tally/articleshow/76395565.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 16, 2020||India||Covid-19 surge forces 12-day intense lockdown in Chennai, nearby areas||CHENNAI: The continuous surge in Covid-19 cases has forced the Tamil Nadu government to announce yet another intense lockdown in Chennai and adjoining parts of three neighbouring districts for 12 days, beginning June 19. Relaxations will be given only to vegetable and grocery shops and fuel pumps. However, people have also been advised not to use vehicles and get their essentials from establishments within 2km of their houses. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday announced the lockdown after a meeting with health experts and later with cabinet members. “Considering the spread of the virus and based on consultations with the medical and health experts and cabinet members, we have decided to enforce an intense lockdown from June 19 midnight until June 30 midnight,” he said in a statement. The CM also announced Rs 1,000 cash support to all ration card holders in areas under intense lockdown and to the members of unorganised welfare boards and other welfare boards. There will be full lockdown on June 21 and 28 (Sundays) with no relaxation. Barring milk supply, hospitals, pharmacies, ambulance, emergency and funeral hearse vans, no other activities will be permitted on Sundays. Private vehicles will be allowed only for emergency medical needs. With Chennai’s Covid cases crossing 33,000, a worried government took the lockdown decision against the advice of health experts. With Chennai’s Covid cases crossing 33,000 and that of Tamil Nadu surging past 46,000, a worried government took the lockdown decision against the advice of health experts. Facing flak from the opposition, the government on Friday brought back J Radhakrishnan as health secretary, replacing Beela Rajesh. On Monday, the cabinet unanimously agreed to the intense lockdown, requesting the administration to give time to people to stock up and to prevent panic buying. “The reason cited was the pace of the virus spread in Chennai and adjoining districts (Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet). This lockdown will give some space for the administration to focus on the infected streets, besides breaking the cycle,” chief secretary K Shanmugam said. The intense lockdown will be in effect in Greater Chennai Police limits, Tiruvallur municipality, Gummidipoondi, Ponneri and Minjur town panchayats, and all panchayats of Poonamallee, Ekkadu and Cholavaram panchayat unions. Chengalpet and Maraimalai Nagar municipalities, Nandivaram-Guduvanchery town panchayats and all panchayats of Kattankulathur panchayat unions in Chengalpet. Parts of Greater Chennai Police limits falling in Kancheepuram district too would be under intense lockdown. Based on the experience gained in the first total lockdown in April, the government has planned to effectively mobilise and strengthen security and containment measures. Special control rooms will be set up in each zone to manage the supply of essentials in containment zones and quarantined houses. Industrial workers in Greater Chennai Police limits will be permitted to stay and work in the units or adjoining places for 12 days after they undergo RT-PCR tests. Similarly, employees from Greater Chennai Police limits, who move to other areas for work, will be subjected to RT-PCR tests and will be allowed to stay and work in the industries or neighbouring places. They will not be allowed to travel every day. The continuous processing industries and industries manufacturing essential commodities will be permitted to operate with adequate precautions. Taking note of the surge in cases, the government decided to revert to 33% strength in state and Union government offices. Essential services like secretariat, health and family welfare, police, revenue and disaster management, electricity, treasuries, Aavin, local bodies, water supply, labour, cooperation, food and consumer protection departments will remain open with adequate staff. The staff from containment zones need not come for work and should get permission from officials in advance. Construction activities are permitted availing in-situ workers during the intense lockdown. The chief minister made a fervent appeal to the people to extend their cooperation. “Wearing a mask is mandatory for people stepping out. The disease can be contained only if people wash their hands frequently at home and workplaces, wear masks, maintain social distancing, avoid going out unnecessarily and support the government,” the chief minister said, while asking people to visit hospitals immediately if they show Covid symptoms and get medical assistance. The fifth phase of lockdown ends on June 30 across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-surge-forces-12-day-intense-lockdown-in-chennai-nearby-areas/articleshow/76396149.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Stuck in Malaysia, couple from Punjab seeks help||BATHINDA: A couple from Moga, stuck in Malaysia, has sent a video clip, appealing to the Indian government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Punjab government, and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to help them return safely to India. The couple’s five-year-old is with their relatives in Moga. Gurvinder Singh and Rajwinder Kaur said in the appeal that they had exhausted all the money they had and were not in the position to even pay rent for the room they were living in. Due to lockdown, they said, they had nothing to earn or eat. Rajwinder, they said, was not feeling well and they did not even have money to buy medicines. The couple said they had gone to Malaysia in search of greener pastures through some agent nearly a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stuck-in-malaysia-couple-seeks-help/articleshow/76395071.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Of 44,000 ILI patients, only 124 tested positive for Covid-19||BENGALURU: In what appears to be a heartening sign, the positivity rate among those with influenza like illness (ILI) is lower than the overall test-to-patient ratio, a survey conducted by the Karnataka government has shown. As part of its health watch programme, the government has been testing people with ILI, a section of the population that is considered vulnerable and at a high risk of contracting Covid-19. Until 14 June, 44,236 people were tested and only 124 or 0.3% of the group returned positive. Dr C Nagaraj, director, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, said: “The numbers surely are indicative of a positive trend. They also reiterate what public health experts have been pointing out all along — that ILI is not as severe as SARI (severe acute respiratory infection).” However, of the 124 who tested positive, 83 of the cases pertained to the 14 days in June, a fortnight during which 6,522 tests were conducted. While the overall positivity rate of ILI patients is only 0.3%, it has been higher — at 1.3% — in June, a month when, overall, cases have spiked. Further, the overall ILI positivity rate in Bengaluru Urban district has been more than double the state average. Of the 3,007 ILI patients tested in Bengaluru, 69 tested positive for an infection. Other than Bengaluru only two districts have a positivity rate of 1% or close to it. With four in 401 tests turning positive, Bagalkot has a positivity rate of 1%, while Davangere with seven out of 795 has a positivity rate of 0.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/of-44k-ili-patients-only-124-tested-positive-for-covid/articleshow/76394226.cms||---
June 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Rural figure goes past 100 cases, over 90% travellers, contacts||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 positive cases from Nagpur Rural increased to over 100 on Monday. Though it took 97 days, the cases increased in Nagpur Rural only after permission for inter-district and inter-state travel was granted by the central and state governments. The number of cases from the district increased to 1,063 on Monday. Of these, 928 cases are from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits, 102 from Nagpur Rural and 33 from other districts and states. Nagpur Rural accounts for only 9.59% of total district cases. There were only two cases in Nagpur Rural till end of April, one from Kamptee and other from Kanhan. Both were travellers and identified from digital footprint of Nizamuddin in New Delhi. On May 18, a family from Kondhali in Katol tehsil returned from the city to their hometown. One of the members tested positive on May 20. Since then, the cases have increased to 28 till end of May. In last 15 days, 74 persons tested positive in Nagpur Rural, with the maximum cases being travellers and their contacts. Among 13 tehsils, highest 40 cases are from Hingna, adjoining the city. It happened due to a big chain of 25 corona positive persons detected from Isasani and Nildoh. The original case was a Jalgaon returnee. Second big chain of 11 is from Digdoh, also on city’s outskirts. The first patient had returned from Bhusawal, and is the only death from Nagpur Rural so far. Remaining four cases from Hingna tehsil are from Wagdara (3) and Wanadongri (1). Kalmeshwar tehsil has second highest cases at 14 followed by Kamptee — 12. SRPF Camp and Colony situated on city’s outskirts registered 10 cases. It also falls in Hingna tehsil but is being counted separately as all personnel who tested positive were on duty in containment zones of city or other districts. Katol tehsil has registered eight cases followed by six each in Saoner and Nagpur tehsils, five in Narkhed tehsil and one in Parsheoni tehsil. The district had registered its first case on March 11. Since then five tehsils — Ramtek, Umred, Bhivapur, Mauda and Kuhi have had no case. Many of the cases were detected due to proactive measure of zilla parishad (ZP) and district administration. Testing of many travellers was done at households and in special camps. With rise in cases, ZP has prepared its own team at tehsil places to collect swab samples and send them to laboratories in the city. Earlier, team from either IGGMCH or GMCH used to go and collect swab samples. Nagpur Rural has very few restrictions in lockdown since the middle of May. Collector Ravindra Thakre, ZP chief executive officer Yogesh Kumbhejkar, civil surgeon VD Paturkar, district health officer Dr Dipak Selokar and additional DHO Asim Inamdar had prepared a team and conducted door-to-door survey of all houses in Nagpur Rural. The drive was completed on June 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-rural-figure-goes-past-100-cases-over-90-travellers-contacts/articleshow/76395064.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Schools ready for e-learning, but younger students miss out||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: Most schools have made all preparations to provide virtual lessons to their students, with some even contemplating the development of apps to help in learning. Some have laready started the classes for students of Classes V and above. But pre-primary section students, who were all excited to start e-learning from Monday, have been left disappointed as the state government has excluded classes upto Standard II from virtual learning. A Government Resolution (GR) to this effect was issued by the School Education Department. In Aurangabad, Pradnya Mule, whose two daughters study in the pre-primary section, said excluding younger students from virtual learning makes no sense. “It was the first day of school for my daughters and they enjoyed virtual interaction with their teacher,” she said. Kunal Babar, another parent, said, “Attending school virtually was the best engagement for children who can’t even go out to play.” Surekha Mane, principal of SBOA Public School, said educational institutions were duty-bound to follow government directives. “However, we feel there is no harm in offering e-learning up to Class II,” she said. Many city schools have already started virtual learning for students studying in other classes including those from Classes V to X without waiting for June 15, that marks the beginning of new academic year. “We have conducted virtual classes for students of Classes V to X from April 15 to May 5,” Savita Mulay, principal of a school run by Saraswati Bhuvan Education Society, said. In Kolhapur, various schools have started training their teachers to record videos chapter-wise and compile self-study booklets for students. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), which runs schools with total strength of around 9,000 students, has decided to train teachers to make 10-minute videos chapter-wise. “The lecture will be recorded and sent to the smartphones of students. We are also going to explore other sources such as the government’s Diksha app,” said Shankar Yadav, administrative officer of KMC’s school board. The private schools have already started recording videos of lectures. Instead of sending the videos directly, they are planning to develop mobile app through which videos will be provided to students. D J Wagh, teacher at Vasantrao Deshmukh Highschool, said, “We are adopting multiple approaches. We are preparing small booklets for self-study. We will also provide quality video content available on internet, but only after scrutinising the content. Teachers will be available for the students anytime they need. We are preparing the evaluation system and will ensure student learn by staying at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/schools-ready-for-e-learning-but-younger-students-miss-out/articleshow/76392956.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 16, 2020||Goa||Mayor, 11 CCP workers from Chimbel test -ve||PANAJI: All 41 workers of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), working in the municipal market, have tested negative for Covid-19. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar has also tested negative. Their samples were taken on Friday, a day after a person running a tavern at the Panaji municipal market tested positive and a Chimbel-based vegetable vendor at the market was suspected to be positive. Of the 70 CCP workers from Chimbel, 11 have been tested and their results have come back negative. However, the corporation has asked them to take a week off and report to work next week because the live in Shiren, Chimbel, which seen positive cases imported from Vasco. “They have been told not to come to work for one week as there are positive cases in their vicinity,” Madkaikar said. Around a dozen vendors in the Panaji market from other parts of Chimbel restarted their fruit and vegetable business after they produced their negative test results. The corporation has permitted the vendors from Chimbel to operate in the market only after they get themselves tested and bring proof of them having tested negative. Panaji market was thrown open with no timing restrictions on Monday following pressure from the traders association. It was shut on Friday following one positive case of the tavern operator and was kept open for five hours each day on Saturday and Sunday. The tavern operator continues to be absconding, Madkaikar said. When asked whether the corporation would take action against him for running a tavern business, Madkaikar said that was up to the excise department. “The main owner rented the tavern to a Nepali. He opened the tavern for some repairs and painting. Proof is required that he sold liquor. The excise department should look into that,” he said. The health secretary last week informed reporters that the tavern operator was listed as a missing person in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mayor-11-ccp-workers-from-chimbel-test-ve/articleshow/76395569.cms||---
